50 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 to other major corporate contracts, we apply our governance and Major contracts reporting processes to make sure we identify risks and mitigation We have a number of complex and high-value national and activities and report them to management.
The revenue and profitability of these contracts are affected by things like: variation in cost: How were mitigating the risks achieving cost savings anticipated in contract pricing both in At both group and line of business-level we have governance, terms of scale and time : delays in delivering or achieving agreed risk management and reporting processes in place.
Independent milestones owing to factors either in or out of our control: changes audits and the checks and balances in individual contracts in customers requirements, their budgets, strategies or businesses: provide assurance through an independent review programme.
Any of these factors could make To track progress, we monitor how were doing on these risks and a contract less profitable or even loss-making.
mitigation actions and report it to senior management.
A separate, dedicated team provides assurance for our BDUK projects.
The degree of risk varies with the scope and life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages.
Some customer contracts The BT Academy helps support skills development and learning need investment in the early stages, which we then expect to initiatives.
These help our Contract Management Profession to recover over the life of the contract.
better identify and manage risk.
We also update new training collateral whenever we learn something new.
The scope and Major contracts often involve implementing new systems and availability of training options continues to improve through BTcommunications networks, transforming legacy networks and wide learning and development initiatives.
Delays or missed milestones might have an impact on us recovering these upfront costs.
There is Supply chain substantial performance risk in some of these highly-complex Our supply market is global, and there are often several links in contracts.
So guaranteeing the integrity and continuity of Potential impact those links is critical to our operations and therefore a big risk If we dont manage and meet our commitments under to our business.
these contracts or if customers needs, budgets, strategies Global markets expose us to global risks, including climate change.
or businesses change then our expected future revenue, We weigh up and respond to any risks which crop up where geoprofitability and cash generation may go down.
Unexpectedly political and market forces could affect our suppliers ability to high costs associated with delivering particular transformational support us.
contracts could also hit profitability.
Contracts may even become loss-making through loss of revenue, changes A global supply market means better sourcing opportunities, but to customers businesses due to, for example, mergers or brings challenges if suppliers become more geographically and acquisitions, business failure or contract termination.
culturally diverse from our customers.
Were still delivering lots of contracts with local authorities through Our dealings with suppliers from the way we choose them, to regional fibre deployment programmes including the Broadband the contracts we sign, to how we pay them follow our trading Delivery UK programme BDUK.
As with our other major contracts, and ethical policies.
For more detail, see Our suppliers on page 39. if we failed to deliver these contracts successfully it might lead to Potential impact reduced future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
If something goes wrong in our supply chain the level of impact As well as carrying a higher reputational risk, these contracts present can vary.
But most of the time it means higher costs for us, and specific risks around deployment, delivery and our ability to recover potential damage to our customer service, investments and public funding.
We also have an obligation to potentially either reultimately our brand.
We could lose a lot of money if a big or invest or repay grant funding depending on lots of different factors important supplier went out of business, especially if that meant including how many customers take up a new service.
us having to change a technology or system.
And if we couldnt find an alternative supplier, it might compromise the commitments we make to our customers.
And that might lead to breach of contract, lost revenue or penalties.
Link to strategy and business model Deliver superior customer service Trend: If any link in our supply chain falls foul of the law, or fails to meet Transform our costs our ethical expectations, that could damage our reputation Invest for growth possibly leading to legal action and lost revenue.
Whats changed over the last year?
Link to strategy and business model Tough market conditions and competitive pressures continue in Deliver superior customer service Trend: many global regions, while in some were seeing bigger growth in Transform our costs volume of business because of our previous investments.
The risk landscape changes accordingly, as does our focus of risk support and review.
Of particular note for 2015 16 has been the way the BDUK Weve spent time assessing several emerging geo-political threats programme has helped UK broadband fibre implementation and the impact theyd have on our supply chain.
They include mature, cutting the associated delivery risks.
But these risks have Greeces position in the Eurozone and the UKs position in the EU.
partly been replaced by new challenges from the next tranche of smaller contracts with their associated geographic and technical risks.
While our broadband contracts carry a different risk profile 51 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Theres a continuing trend toward mergers and acquisitions in some of the global markets we source from.
It highlights the risk of us depending on single or monopolistic suppliers particularly those less constrained by regulation and who might charge us more than their domestic customers.
Theres generally an increasing and welcome focus on human rights.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 means we must examine the potential risk of both modern slavery and human trafficking in our supply chain.
Another ethical consideration is the risk of conflict minerals being in our supply chain, which would not only go against our ethical standard but could also harm our reputation.
How were mitigating the risks We have a few really critical suppliers.
We keep a close eye on their performance and ability to meet their obligations.
We tell the business when to prepare for the risk of a supplier failing.
And our senior leaders continually review how ready we are for those types of events.
We make sure we put in place the right due diligence when it comes to introducing new suppliers and to continuing business with existing ones.
That includes checks on company finances, business and quality management systems, accreditations, and ethical and sustainability practices.
We manage our top suppliers according to the contracts theyve signed.
We work with them to drive better ways of working every day, reducing our exposure to risks around poor supplier practices.
Case study: Early intervention to deliver major contracts If we dont establish strong contract and risk management at the start of a contract, it can have longer-term impacts on contract profitability and customer experience.
How we managed the risk Contracts are generally getting more complex.
To reduce contract risk, in 2015 we introduced a new team of contract mobilisation specialists.
Their aim is to make sure large and complex contracts get off to a good start.
The team works exclusively on new contracts.
They take a hands-on approach to improving and supplementing the way we manage contracts in their early stages.
That helps make sure the in-life contract team has the level of planning and implementation capability it needs.
The result, and what we learned Theres a strong link between contracts beginning well and us meeting our customers expectations.
So our mobilisation specialists job is to cut the service delivery risk and the likelihood of implementation delays.
Our contract leads dont begin new multi-year contracts that often, so theyre not always familiar with the huge volume of very detailed and time-critical actions unique to the first few weeks.
But given how many of those types of contract we sign each year, it helps having a team with the right expertise and skills solely focused on supporting this activity.
52 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Compliance risks We regularly weigh up our business integrity risks to make sure Business integrity and ethics weve got the right mitigation in place.
Speak Up our confidential Were proud of our high ethical standards.
We dont tolerate hotline is operated by a third party with all reports passed straight bribery.
We dont tolerate any forms of corruption.
We follow to our Director of Ethics and Compliance for investigation.
a wide range of local and international anti-corruption and bribery laws in particular the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
Both these pieces of legislation have External providers also assess areas we think are higher risk, to extraterritorial reach, so cover our global operations.
As we expand make sure people understand our policies and that controls are globally, were increasingly operating in countries seen as having working.
We do selective due diligence checks on third parties like a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
We also have to make sure suppliers, agents, resellers and distributors.
Procurement contracts we follow trade sanctions and import and export controls.
include anti-corruption and bribery clauses.
Potential impact Our policy helps us follow all sanctions and export controls that If BT people, or associated people like suppliers or agents break apply to us.
That policy means all bids involving a country with anti-corruption, bribery or sanctions legislation there could be sanctions imposed by the EU and or the US need approval.
The big penalties, criminal prosecution and significant brand damage.
policy also mandates everyone uses our internal shipping system to This could have a major or minor impact on future revenue and arrange international exports.
That system runs compliance checks cash flow depending on the nature of the breach, the legislation and flags any orders which need an export licence.
If we were accused of corruption or bribery or violating sanctions regulations that could lead to Processing our customers data reputational damage with investors, regulators and customers.
We control and process huge quantities of customer data around the world.
So sticking to data privacy laws is something we take extremely seriously.
Every day we process the personal data of millions of customers.
Its important that those individuals Link to strategy and business model and businesses feel they can trust us to do the right thing with Deliver superior customer service Trend: their data.
Transform our costs Being trusted with our customers data goes further than making sure its secure.
It means preserving the integrity of the personal Whats changed over the last year?
And only keeping the things we need to provide More and more countries are bringing in anti-corruption and customers with the services theyve signed up for.
It also means bribery legislation.
In the UK, the Serious Fraud Office is now able being transparent around how we use that data, making sure to bring in deferred prosecutions agreements for fraud, bribery and the way we process personal data is legal, fair and in line with other economic crime.
In terms of enforcement, there are yet to customers rights and wishes.
be any big cases stemming from the UK Bribery Act, but US FCPA As a communications provider we operate under a stringent generates a lot of enforcement actions.
24-hour reporting regime to tell the UK Information Commissioners Office ICO if we become aware of a personal data How were mitigating the risks security breach.
We must also tell any affected individuals Weve put a number of controls in place to address risk in this area.
These include an anti-corruption and bribery programme and The Way We Work our statement of business practice, available in 14 languages.
We ask all BT people to sign up to its principles and to our anti-corruption and bribery policy.
We have policies covering gifts, hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship.
We run training for people in higher-risk roles like procurement and sales.
53 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Different parts of the world approach privacy and data protection Supporting the third-line assurance of our Internal Audit team, differently.
Individuals fundamental right to privacy is reflected the Chief Privacy Officer and his team are a second line of defence.
in the fact that today data privacy laws are in force in over 100 They undertake an annual cycle of audit and monitoring.
More and more we and other multinationals have overseen by the BT Compliance Programme Panel, who track and to show that were handling personal data in line with a complex monitor everything until completion.
tangle of national data laws and societal ethical expectations.
Health & safety Potential impact Our business and in particular our vast engineering workforce Failing to stick to data protection and privacy laws could result in does a lot of work which is subject to health and safety regulation possible regulatory enforcement action, fines, class-action, prison and enforcement by national authorities.
sentences and the regulator telling us to stop processing data.
Potential impact On top of that, we could see huge reputational damage and If we failed to implement and keep up effective health and safety big financial losses.
Those losses could come from fines and management and governance, that could have a big impact on damages if we fail to meet our legal requirements, as well as our people and our finances.
It could lead to people getting costs resulting from having to close customer contracts and the injured, work-related sickness and service disruption for customers.
Companies whove had high profile data incidents have seen their share price hit hard, and suffered It could also lead to our people and third parties making ongoing costs from their non-compliance.
compensation claims against us, or fines or other sanctions if we didnt stick to health and safety regulation.
There could even be criminal prosecutions against us, our directors and our people all of which would harm our brand and business.
Link to strategy and business model And of course an unhappy or unhealthy workforce also leads Deliver superior customer service Trend: to higher work absence rates and lower performance levels.
National regulators are more aggressively protecting their citizens Link to strategy and business model privacy and data protection rights.
Theyre especially targeting Deliver superior customer service Trend: companies who fail to do due diligence, or who knowingly accept Transform our costs or ignore a related risk for too long.
This has been brought into sharp focus by the mushrooming of the data threat environment, with several big organisations suffering incidents.
Theres been a general trend toward bigger financial penalties The range and complexity of risks has gone up as weve offered and more frequent public shamings for organisations that break new services to our customers.
Those risks include us doing more global privacy and data protection laws.
The UK Information construction and electrical engineering work on our own network, Commissioner now issues more penalties than Ofcom.
and the fact that we have new contracts which need our people to work to maintain and extend the UKs mobile network.
Weve taken How were mitigating the risks a lot of steps to mitigate these risks especially around how our Weve introduced governance to clarify accountabilities and people work with electricity or high off the ground.
responsibilities for data activities across the whole business.
People, Were building a plan to further embed health and safety into processes and technology have been our core areas of focus.
In the past year, weve seen major legislative embedding this governance, were reinforcing our expectations change particularly with the UK introducing Construction, around personal data with our people, partners and third parties.
Design and Management Regulations which place new The cornerstone of our education and training programme is responsibilities on organisations around making construction making sure our people understand our data governance culture work safer.
Weve worked with the UK regulator and others in our and the impact of data risks on our business.
Our mandatory sector to respond pragmatically to these demands.
Weve faced data training focuses on individuals roles, with relevant scenarios, increased enforcement action against us this year, and also a few helping highlight the varying data risks of different BT job families.
prosecutions initiated for past incidents.
By educating our technical and commercial units weve made a step change in understanding data risks across the group.
How were mitigating the risks For the past five years weve busied ourselves implementing a We want to give our people the tools they need to make everyday Board-endorsed health, safety and wellbeing strategy.
And each risk-based decisions around privacy and data protection without it year, each line of business produces its own health and safety plan being a burden or making their job more complicated.
Because if with its own targets and programmes.
we do that, theres a much better chance of data compliance being Our people managers take responsibility for making sure their business as usual.
For example, using Privacy Impact Assessments teams know how to comply with health and safety standards.
when we develop new products and services makes sure everyone We monitor compliance using annual licensing, scheduled refresher understands privacy issues from the start and builds in the right training, competency assessments and accreditation processes controls, without any operational impact.
All BT people do training in basic health and safety.
54 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Wherever we do business around the world, we put in place policies Our strategy of delivering superior customer service, transforming and programmes to make sure we stick to our own standards and our cost base and investing for growth are all designed to support that those standards meet or exceed minimum legal requirements.
long term and sustainable cash flow growth.
Advice is provided to help management teams understand and We assess our prospects on a regular basis through our financial control health and safety risks and help everyone feel involved planning process.
Our three-year Medium Term Plan forecasts in health, safety and wellbeing.
Weve created interventions to the groups profitability, cash flows and funding requirements.
help promote good mental health and physical wellbeing.
We The Medium Term Plan is reviewed by the Board twice during also provide support and rehabilitation services for people who the year and the latest refresh includes forecasts related to our have mental or physical health issues.
And we complement these newly-acquired EE business.
The Medium Term Plan is built measures with strong attendance management processes.
from the bottom up forecasts of each of our lines of business, supplemented by items managed at a group level and assumptions such as macro-economic activity and exchange rates.
The Case study: Privacy by design performance of the group and our lines of business against these forecasts is monitored monthly and this is supplemented each Privacy by design is about building privacy into products and services.
quarter through a series of deep dive Business Unit Reviews It helps organisations understand their privacy and data protection performed by the Operating Committee.
It also indicates a positive data compliance culture.
The way we do privacy by design is through our Privacy Impact Assessment tool.
Viability statement How we managed the risk In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 revision of the This year, we took a phased approach to embedding Privacy Impact UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the Assessments within our various lines of business, starting with BT prospects and viability of the group.
Although the directors have no reason to believe that the group will At the heart of our process is an online tool which each new product or not be viable over a longer period, the Board has chosen to conduct service proposition must go through.
It identifies what the proposition this review for a period of three years to 31 March 2019.
The involves, what personal data is in scope and whether third parties will access that data.
It also asks other tailored questions around marketing, Board believes this is an appropriate timeframe as it aligns with the big data analytics and customer communications.
All that provides an groups financial planning processes.
initial insight into the risks.
In support of this statement, we have stress tested our forecast Our privacy team follow this with an extra one-to-one review for more cash flows by assessing the potential combined impact our most complex propositions.
They must formally sign them off before they can significant risks could have on these forecasts.
This assessment move forward and get further development funding.
This means our was informed by our judgements as to the potential financial Privacy Impact Assessment process must be quick to make sure we can move fast to exploit commercial opportunities.
impact of these risks if they materialise, together with their likelihood of occurrence.
The result, and what we learned From small system changes for example in marketing to large-scale Our stress testing confirmed that in many of the scenarios tested, projects like our SmartTalk app weve created Privacy Impact Assessments existing projected cashflows and cash management activities in line with industry best practice.
provide us with a buffer against the impact of these risks.
In the The Privacy team has had to learn to prioritise how they review Privacy most extreme scenarios we tested, where all of our principal Impact Assessments to meet launch timescales.
The tool itself has been risks are assumed to materialise over the three-year period, through various versions to make sure it meets the needs of people using we have considered the further actions we could take to mitigate it, with stage gates speeding up the flow of approval and sign off.
the negative cash flow impact and generate additional funding.
Its likely well need extra changes as we move to confirming the EU These actions could include, for example, sale of assets, limiting or General Data Protection Regulation and what thatll mean for our delaying discretionary capital expenditure and marketing activities, business.
But the Privacy Impact Assessment tools flexibility will let restricting share buy back programmes and reducing or ceasing us do that with minimal impact on the business.
In our viability assessment weve adopted a number of assumptions designed to stress test our resilience.
For example, in making our Our viability statement assessments of the impact and likelihood of our risks, weve only taken into account the control activities that we have in place today.
Assessment of prospects Weve not factored in any of the extensive future mitigation activity An understanding of the groups business model and strategy that were undertaking to address these risks, thereby assuming are central to assessing its prospects, and details can be found such activity proves ineffective.
Weve also assumed that existing on pages 21 to 30. debt facilities which mature over the three-year period will not be Our business model provides resilience that is relevant to any renewed.
While we dont expect this to happen, weve adopted consideration of our prospects and viability.
We have a broad these pessimistic assumptions to add greater stress to our viability spread of customers and suppliers across different geographic testing.
areas and market sectors, serving the needs of customers Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have a reasonable across 180 countries worldwide.
In the UK, we benefit from expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation diversification across a number of markets and products, which and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of has increased in recent years, most notably through the launch their assessment.
of BT Sport and the acquisition of EE.
55 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information operators, technology developments such as Voice over Internet EE acquisition risks Protocol VoIP, and the ability of other providers to bundle mobile phone services with different products and content such Our acquisition of EE has introduced additional risks as broadband and pay-TV.
In particular, technologies such as for BT beyond those captured in our principal risks and VoIP and so-called over-the-top platforms such as iMessage, uncertainties.
This year, given the acquisition has only Facetime, Blackberry Messenger, WhatsApp and Facebook recently completed, weve set out these risks separately.
Messenger could reduce voice and or text messaging traffic on As the EE risks become more embedded in our Enterprise mobile networks, which could lead to significant price and revenue Risk Management framework, well integrate the reductions.
reporting of these risks into our review of our principal Increased competition has led to a decline in the prices which EE risks and uncertainties.
charges for its mobile services and is expected to lead to further declines in pricing in the future.
Competition could also lead to Risks related to the acquisition a reduction in the rate at which we add new mobile customers, Although a number of the risks EE faces are similar in nature to a decrease in the size of our mobile market share and a decline those potentially impacting BT, there are also distinct risks that in the groups service revenue as customers choose to receive the group now faces that BT has not previously perceived to be telecommunications services or other competing services from significant threats.
Also, theres a risk of increased customer churn as This section outlines some of those new risks and uncertainties, a result of the transition away from the legacy T-Mobile and but it is not exhaustive.
Orange brands and any potential changes to the branding in future.
Churn could also increase as a result of potential Ofcom Realising acquisition synergies changes to the mobile switching regime in the UK.
An increase in We are targeting significant synergies from the acquisition, churn rates could adversely affect profitability because we would including operating cost savings and capital expenditure savings.
experience lower revenue and or additional selling costs to replace Integrating the respective businesses is also expected to give rise customers or recapture lost revenue.
These include fixed-mobile convergence, the ability to serve customers through a single, seamless platform Delays in the deployment of new technologies supported by a single IP network, and being able to offer BT Our operations will depend partly on the successful deployment of products to EE customers and EE products to BT customers.
continuously evolving telecommunications technologies, including handsets and network compatibility and components.
The groups success will depend, in part, on the effectiveness of the integration process and the ability to realise the anticipated EE uses technologies from a number of vendors and incurs benefits and synergies from combining the businesses.
Some of significant capital expenditure deploying these technologies.
There the potential challenges in integrating the businesses may not can be no assurance that common standards and specifications be known at this stage.
If these challenges cannot be overcome, will be achieved, that there will be interoperability across networks, for example because of unforeseen difficulties in implementing that technologies will be developed according to anticipated fixed-mobile convergence or a lack of customer demand for the schedules, that theyll perform according to expectations or that offerings, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition will not be they will achieve commercial acceptance.
The introduction of fully achieved.
software and other network components may also be delayed.
The failure of vendor performance or technology performance Realisation of synergies will depend partly on the rapid and to meet our expectations or the failure of a technology to efficient management and co-ordination of the activities of the achieve commercial acceptance could result in additional capital groups businesses.
We may experience difficulties in integrating EE expenditure, or a reduction in profitability.
with our existing businesses and may not realise, or it might take longer than expected to realise, certain or all of the perceived Technology change and market acceptance benefits of the acquisition.
Theres also a risk that synergy We may not succeed in making customers sufficiently aware of benefits and growth opportunities from the acquisition may existing and future services or in creating customer acceptance fail to materialise, or may be materially lower than have been of these services at the prices we would want to charge.
In addition, the costs of generating these synergies we may not identify trends correctly, or may not be able to bring may exceed expectations.
Further, we may not achieve the revenue new services to market as quickly or price-competitively as our or profitability that justify the original investment, which could competitors.
result in material, non-cash write-downs.
Failure to deliver the These risks exist in the mobile telecommunications area anticipated synergies and business opportunities could have a eg mobile data services and in non-mobile telecommunications material adverse effect on our businesses, financial conditions and areas eg mobile payment services based on contactless results of operations, including our ability to support our pension technology where there is a risk that differences in the regulatory deficit, service our debt or to pay dividends.
treatment of different operators, based on their choice of Competition in the mobile market technology, could put us at a competitive disadvantage.
Competition in the UK mobile telecommunications market is Further, as a result of rapid technological progress and the intense.
Competition results from, among other things, the trend towards technological convergence, new and established existence of established mobile network operators, market entry of information and telecommunications technologies or products alternative and lower cost carriers such as mobile virtual network 56 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 may not only fail to complement one another but in some cases, Network, licence and technology investment may even become a substitute for one another.
An example of EE as well as the rest of BT to a lesser extent, has made this is the risk that over-the-top services being those which substantial investments in the acquisition of licences and EE are provided by a third party to the end-user device develop has invested in its mobile networks, including modernising its substitutes for our own products and services.
Another example 2G network, the upgrade of its 3G network and the continued is VoIP, a technology that is already established in the business expansion of its 4G network.
We expect to continue to make customer market and which has now reached the consumer significant investments in our mobile networks due to increased market.
The availability of mobile handsets with VoIP functionality usage and the need to offer new services and greater functionality.
may adversely affect our pricing structures and market share in We may acquire new spectrum licences with licence conditions, our mobile voice telephony business.
If we dont appropriately which may include network coverage obligations or increased anticipate the demand for new technologies, and adapt our licence fees.
Accordingly, the rate of our capital expenditure and strategies, service offering and cost structures accordingly, we costs in future years could increase and exceed those expected may be unable to compete effectively, which may have an adverse or experienced to date.
effect on our business and operations.
There can be no assurance that new services will be introduced Supplier and joint venture failure according to anticipated schedules or that the level of demand for EE has a number of suppliers identified as critical.
EE is also party new services will justify the cost of setting them up in particular, to a complex and critical network-sharing arrangement with the cost of new spectrum licences and network infrastructure, Hutchison 3G UK Limited.
The failure of this joint operation to fully for example, for 4G services and subsequent evolutions.
Failure support our interests and goals, or any material disruption to the or a delay in completing networks and launching new services, or operation of the EE network sharing arrangement, could cause increases in the associated costs, could have an adverse effect on significant harm to our business.
our business and operations and could result in significant write downs of the value of network spectrum or other licences or other As demand for smartphone and tablet products increases around network-related investments.
the world, there could be shortages in the volume of devices produced as a result of insufficient manufacturing capacity, the If the current economic climate worsens, we may decide, or be lack of availability of internal components such as processors or required, to scale back capital expenditure.
A lasting reduction in major supply chain disruptions.
This may result in delays in the capital expenditure levels below certain thresholds could affect our supply chain which in turn may have an adverse effect on our ability to invest in mobile telecommunications networks including business and operations.
additional spectrum, new technology and other BT businesses and so could have an adverse effect on our future growth and the value Regulation and spectrum of radio spectrum.
Regulators, including Ofcom, set annual licence fees for spectrum bands used by EE for voice calls, and data services.
In future Transmission of radio waves from mobile telephones, spectrum auctions, the costs of acquiring spectrum could increase transmitters and associated equipment or we may be unsuccessful in our bids.
Any significant increases in Media reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions spectrum pricing which apply to us could have a material adverse from wireless mobile devices and mobile telecommunications effect on our business and results of operations.
sites may cause health issues, including cancer, and may interfere with some electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and EE has been found to have significant market power in some areas pacemakers.
Research and studies are ongoing.
According to the of wholesale call termination following market reviews and, as World Health Organisations Fact Sheet Number 193, last reviewed is the case for all MNOs, EEs wholesale mobile termination rates in October 2014, there are no known adverse effects on health are therefore regulated by Ofcom.
The scope and form of the from emissions at levels below internationally recognised health regulation is reviewed every three years.
However, we cannot provide assurance EE is also subject to UK and European Union consumer-focused that research in the future will not establish links between radio regulation in areas including: the international roaming services frequency emissions and health risks.
provided by EE: processes for consumer switching and nonWhether or not research or studies conclude that there is a geographic numbering call services.
This regulation may affect link between radio frequency emissions and health, popular the groups market share, competitive position, future profitability concerns about radio frequency emissions may discourage the and cash.
use of wireless devices, impairing our ability to retain customers As technology and market dynamics develop and as the mobile and attract new customers, and may result in restrictions on the business of EE is integrated into BT, a wider range of existing location and operation of mobile communications sites and the regulations will apply to us and a broader range of new and or usage of our wireless technology.
These concerns could also lead to modified regulations may be directed at us.
Any restrictions on use or litigation could have an adverse effect on our business and operations.
57 57 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our lines of business 58 How we are organised We have six customer-facing lines of business.
In this section we describe each of them, 59 BT Global Services the markets and customers they serve and 65 BT Business the products and services they sell.
We give 71 BT Consumer examples of what theyve been doing to 76 EE broaden and deepen relationships with their 80 BT Wholesale customers and we report on their operational 85 Openreach and financial performance in the year.
Looking 90 BT TSO ahead, we list their key priorities.
The lines of business are supported by BT TSO, our internal service unit.
We describe its role and responsibilities and provide case studies on two important work programmes.
The section starts with an overview of how were organised and summarises some changes weve made since the year-end.
Supporting our business model The following icons used in this section provide linkage to our business model on page 28.
Inputs Outputs Outcomes Financial strength Skills & expertise Group performance & KPIs Our people Products & services Line of business performance Networks & physical assets Innovation Our brand strength Research & development Waste & emissions Societal benefits Stakeholders & relationships Environmental benefits Natural resources 58 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 People overview Our lines of business Over 30% of our people work in Openreach.
Many of them are engineers, responsible for building, maintaining and upgrading Our business is structured to best serve our our networks.
Over 20% of our people are in BT TSO and group customers responding to their needs and functions, supporting all the customer-facing lines of business.
18% work in BT Global Services, with many supporting our customers worldwide.
How we are organised For most of the year we were organised around five customer-facing lines of business BT Global Services, b Employees by line of business BTBusiness, BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach As at 31 March 2016 which were supported by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations BT TSO.
Our acquisition 24,000 or 23% 18,500 or 18% BT TSO and other BT Global Services of EE in January added a sixth line of business.
Customers 7,900 or 8% BT Business BT Global BT Business BT Consumer Services 6,500 or 6% BT Consumer BT Wholesale Openreach EE 12,800 or 13% EE 31,500 or 31% 1,300 or 1% BT Technology, Service & Operations Openreach BT Wholesale b Management changes Full-time equivalent of full and part-time employees.
In February 2016 Clive Selley became CEO of Openreach, replacing Joe Garner who left the group.
Howard Watson, previously responsible for leading BTs global IT platforms, replaced Clive as Internal reorganisation CEO of BT TSO.
In addition, in March 2016 Gerry McQuade, who The acquisition of EE provided us with a chance to refresh our joined BT as part of the EE acquisition and was previously chief organisational structure and this took effect on 1 April 2016. sales and marketing officer for EE Business, replaced Nigel Stagg as CEO of BT Wholesale.
Marc Allera, previously chief commercial Customers officer for EE, was appointed the new CEO of EE on completion of the acquisition.
Business Global Services Consumer Financial overview and Public Sector BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, generating 34% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer Wholesale EE Openreach is the next largest, contributing 24%.
and Ventures Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other BT lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is Technology, Service & Operations the smallest, at 11%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to 27% of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, generating 40% of the total, reflecting the return We still have six lines of business.
Two will focus on businesses it earns on its extensive network assets.
But as a capital-intensive and the public sector one in the UK and the Republic of Ireland business, Openreach incurs costs relating to capital expenditure and and one globally two will serve consumers and two will provide depreciation, which are not reflected in this EBITDA contribution.
wholesale services to other industry players.
They will all be BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below those of the other supported by Technology, Service & Operations.
This change lines of business reflecting the type of business it does.
Thats will allow us to better serve our different types of customers: why, at 16%, its proportion of group EBITDA is below its overall revenue contribution.
EE and Consumer will address different parts of the consumer market: Business and Public Sector will be able to better align its a a Adjusted revenue by line of business Adjusted EBITDA by line of business resources to improve customer service and delivery, and will Year ended 31 March 2016 Year ended 31 March 2016 adopt a more regional and forensic approach to serving the 27% 11% 40% 16% Openreach Openreach Openreach BT Global UK public sector: and including internal Services large international and global organisations will benefit from the 34% sharper focus on their needs that Global Services will be better BT Global 11% 16% Services BT BT placed to provide.
Wholesale Business 5% In this Annual Report we are reporting against our organisational EE structure as of 31 March 2016.
We will report in line with the 16% BT Consumer new structure from the first quarter of 2016 17.
24% 15% 4% 8% BT Consumer BT Business EE BT Wholesale a Before specic items: includes EE from 29 January 2016.
59 Overview The Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Additional information BT Global Services Inputs, outputs and outcomes Were a leading global business communications provider.
Inputs We help around 6,200 corporate and public-sector We have 18,500 people worldwide providing global presence, together with local expertise and delivery.
63% of our people are based outside customers across 180 countries embrace the digital age, the UK, in nearly 60 countries.
innovate and work more efficiently.
We have over 2,000 professional services people and a further 2,500 We help our customers use communications to create new ways security practitioners to support our global customers.
We combine our global strengths in networks, Our network reaches 180 countries.
We combine this breadth with our IT and innovation with our local presence, expertise and delivery.
IT services capabilities to provide global availability for our customers.
During the year we were structured around four regional Outputs operations providing specific solutions and expertise to ten key We bring together a broad portfolio of products and services with industry sectors: industry-specific solutions and consulting expertise.
Our Cloud of Clouds strategy brings these together to give customers a great choice of cloud providers, easily and securely, with our network at the core.
UK Continental US and High-growth Europe Canada regions Innovation improves the products and services we develop and helps us serve our customers better.
We integrate our technologies with those of Asia Pacific our partners so that customers can use cloud services their own, BTs and Middle East third parties on a global basis.
and Africa Latin America Outcomes We generate 34% of the groups external revenue.
Financial Services Manufacturing Were recognised as a global leader in managed networked IT services.
Public Sector Media and Business Services Cloud of Clouds supports our brand.
It brings together our cloud services Automotive Retail and Consumer Goods in a coherent way and summarises what we can do for customers as a Energy and Resources Technology and Telecoms global cloud services integrator.
Healthcare and Life Sciences Travel, Transport and Logistics We work with our customers to cut their carbon emissions.
Weve opened two new data centres in the UK that will be some of the most a environmentally efficient in the country.
New organisational structure From April 2016, in line with the new BT organisational structure, well be able to focus more on our key areas of strength, serving Our top 1,000 customers generate around 90% of our revenue.
multinational companies and financial services organisations On average, our corporate customers typically spend less than headquartered in the UK and across the world.
As well as 10% of their total IT and communications expenditure with us.
continuing to serve the communications needs of major public So we see an opportunity to grow our share of their spending by and private-sector customers outside the UK.
broadening and deepening our relationship with them.
Markets and customers BT Global Services revenue by sector Customers Year ended 31 March 2016 We work for around 6,200 corporate and public-sector customers 5% 52% across 180 countries worldwide.
We have relationships with: Transit Corporate customers excluding financial 6% institutions 98% of FTSE100 companies: Other global carriers 84% of Fortune 500 companies: 19% 97% of Interbrands annual ranking of the 100 most valuable Public sector brands in the world: 95% of the worlds top banks: and public sector organisations in 29 countries around the world.
We generate over two-thirds of our revenue from corporate customers.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest segment, generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
18% The public sector generated 19% of our revenue.
As a key Financial institutions supplier to the UK Government, were helping drive its digital transformation.
Around 11% of our revenue comes from providing a range of services to other telecoms companies.
a With a power usage effectiveness PUE rating of 1.2 compared to an industry average of 1.7, according to the Uptime Institute.
60 BT Group plc Annual Report 2016 Regions The UK is our largest region by revenue.
Financial institutions and government and healthcare customers are particularly important Yearly growth of hybrid cloud over the next three years in this market.
32% We have a strong presence in Continental Europe, with national networks and metropolitan fibre rings in most major countries, including Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
The US and Canada region is important because of the large number of multinationals headquartered there.
However our Yearly growth of cyber security over the biggest challenge in the US continues to be ineffective regulation next three years of wholesale access to incumbent operator networks.
The US 14% regulator is currently analysing the market and were actively engaged in the process.
The high-growth regions of Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa AMEA and Latin America are increasingly important to our customers.
Were helping multinationals expand into these areas and supporting local companies as they grow internationally.
Yearly growth of unified communications We continue to invest in these markets by adding products and as a service between 2014 and 2018 services and improving our network and IT infrastructure.
46% BT Global Services revenue by region Year ended 31 March 2016 13% 42% High-growth regions UK a, b c Sources: Gartner and IDC 13% US and Canada Hybrid cloud, a mix of public and private cloud services, is fast becoming a key aspect of the market.
Gartner forecasts that cloud computing services will grow globally at a compound annual a growth rate of 32% from 20162019.
In this hybrid environment, cyber security is the major concern for organisations.
Managed security services are expected to grow at 32% a compound annual growth rate of 14% a year globally over the Continental Europe b same period.
And unified communications as a service UCaaS delivered via the Key market trends cloud by third-party providers is forecast to grow at a compound c Our main competitors are global telecoms companies such as annual growth rate of 46% between 2014 and 2018.
We also compete against IT and business process management companies, the latter particularly Cloud of Clouds in the UK public sector.
The markets we operate in are competitive and we continue to face pricing pressure.
We expect organisations to focus on improving operational efficiency by using next generation IT services to cut costs, while expecting more for a lower price.
But some parts of the market are growing.
Private and internet network traffic is increasing due to the number of applications This year we announced our Cloud of Clouds strategy and launched that are moving from in-house models to external cloud-based a new generation of cloud services to help customers address their services.
Were investing in a new generation of cloud services business challenges in a rapidly-changing digital world.
These cloud services rely on technology developed by ourselves and our partners and provide large organisations around the world with a greater choice of cloud services their own, BTs and third parties, using our network.
Sources: a Gartner, Forecast: IT Services, Worldwide, 2014-2020, 1Q16 Update March 2016. b Gartner, Forecast: Information Security, Worldwide, 2013-2019, 4Q15 Update February 2016. c IDC, Western Europe Unified Communications as a Service 2013 Market Analysis and 2014-2018 Forecast September 2014.
