Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties out a robust assessment of the principal Risk overview Bunzl has an extensive risks facing the Group, including those that The effective identification, management would threaten its business model, future and mitigation of risks and uncertainties risk management performance, solvency or liquidity.
across the Group are an integral part of framework designed successfully delivering the Groups strategic The risk profile objectives.
The Risk management and to identify and assess internal control section of the Corporate The Group operates in many business governance report on page 54 includes environments and across a number of the likelihood of risks further information on the specific geographies in which risks and procedures designed to identify, manage uncertainties exist, not all of which are arising, and the and mitigate risks which could have a necessarily within the Companys control.
material impact on the Groups business, The risks identified in the 2015 Annual consequences of financial condition or results of operations Report remain those of most concern to and for monitoring the Companys risk the business at the end of 2016. them doing so, and management and internal control systems.
Although the principal risks affecting the subsequently manage The Companys risk management Group are unchanged from the previous framework provides a consistent year, the Board is continuing to monitor the actions necessary methodology by which every business and the potential risks associated with the business area, the Executive Committee June 2016 referendum vote for the UK in order to mitigate their and ultimately the Board assess the risks to leave the European Union.
The position that the Group faces against a defined set of impact to acceptable is presently unclear and it is too early to probability and impact criteria.
In assessing understand properly the impact that the levels.
It also identifies impact, the following criteria are UK leaving the European Union will have considered: business continuity: health, on the Groups operations.
However these the assurance activities safety and the environment: regulatory: risks are most likely to relate to the impact reputational: and financial.
The probability of foreign exchange volatility, an economic relating to the relevant and impact of each risk is assessed on two slowdown in the UK and the imposition of bases.
The first, defined as Gross Risk, is trade tariffs.
Of these risks, the first two mitigating actions.
the probability and impact of a risk if none have already been identified as principal of the mitigating actions or internal controls risks for the Group, further details of which designed to reduce either the probability or are set out below under Foreign exchange the impact of a risk occurring were in place.
The risk The second, defined as Net Risk, is the relating to trade tariffs is considered to be residual probability and impact of a risk a Group risk but is not currently thought assuming that the mitigating actions and to be a principal risk.
internal controls operated as intended in an effective way.
In accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code, the directors Using this framework, every business have taken account of the Groups principal documents its key risks in a consistent risks in assessing the prospects of the reporting format which specifically Company when considering whether identifies the mitigating activities, relevant there is a reasonable expectation that the controls and related assurance activities Company will be able to continue operations for each significant risk.
Management then and meet its liabilities as they fall due consolidates the risk information at both over the period of their assessment.
a business area and Group level using The principal risks and uncertainties faced the same reporting format, culminating by the Group and the steps taken to in the Group risk assessment.
The Executive mitigate such risks and uncertainties are Committee then reviews the Group risk summarised below.
The risks identified assessment, the relevant controls and other do not comprise all of the risks that the steps taken to mitigate the risks identified Group may face and accordingly this and the assurance procedures in place over summary is not intended to be exhaustive such controls with a view to determining and is not presented in order of potential any further actions required in order to probability or impact.
reduce the levels of risk to acceptable levels.
The risk assessment is then submitted for review and approval by the Board.
The Audit Committee also reviews the process for the management of risk and the assurance procedures over controls designed to manage key risks.
Accordingly, the directors confirm that they have carried 35 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Principal risks and uncertainties Market risks Risk Description Mitigating factors The Group operates in highly competitive markets and faces The Group seeks to remain competitive by maintaining high Competitive competition from international companies as well as national, service levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that pressures regional and local companies in the countries in which it operates.
their needs and demands are being met satisfactorily, developing Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors a national presence in the markets in which the Group operates or customers could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder and maintaining strong relationships with a variety of different the Groups growth potential.
This could result from: customer suppliers, thereby enabling the Group to offer a broad range of pressure on sales volumes or margins: the loss of customers products to its customers, including own brand products, in a due to service or pricing issues: increased price competition: consolidated one-stop-shop offering.
The Group also regularly customers and suppliers dealing directly with one another: reviews the competitive environment in which it operates.
or unforeseen changes in the competitive landscape due to the introduction of disruptive technologies or changes in routes to market.
The purchase price of products distributed by the Group can The Group endeavours, whenever possible, to pass on price Product fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting the increases from its suppliers to its customers and to source its price results of operations.
There could be significant increases in the products from a number of different suppliers so that it is not changes cost of specific products leading to a diminution in margins if cost dependent on any one source of supply for any particular product.
increases cannot be passed on in full to customers or substitute Increased focus on the Groups own import programmes and products sourced from elsewhere.
Potential causes could include brands, together with the reinforcement of the Groups service and changes in the input costs of products purchased through product offering to customers, helps to minimise the impact of commodity price inflation.
In addition, a period of commodity price price deflation.
The Group also mitigates against the risk of holding deflation may lead to reductions in the price and value of the overvalued inventory in a deflationary environment by managing Groups products where sales prices are indexed or if competitors stock levels efficiently and ensuring they are kept to a minimum.
If this was to occur, the Groups The Group uses its considerable experience in sourcing and selling revenue and, as a result, its profits, could be reduced and the products to manage prices during periods of both inflation and value of inventory held in stock may not be fully recoverable.
deflation in order to minimise the impact on operating margins.
The Groups business is partially dependent on general economic The Groups operations and its customer base are diverse, with Economic conditions in the US, the UK, the Eurozone and other important a variable and flexible cost base, and many of the sectors in which environment markets.
A significant deterioration in these conditions could it competes are traditionally, by their nature, relatively resilient have an adverse effect on the Groups business and results to economic downturns.
Financial risks Risk Description Mitigating factors The majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned The Group believes that the benefits of its geographical spread Foreign in US dollars, euros and other foreign currencies.
The Group does outweigh the associated risks.
exchange not hedge the impact of exchange rate movements arising on The majority of the Groups transactions are carried out in the translation of earnings into sterling at average exchange rates.
functional currency of the Groups operations.
As a result, As a result, movements in exchange rates may have a material transaction exposures are usually limited and exchange rate translation impact on the Groups reported results.
fluctuations have minimal effect on the quality of earnings unless there is a sudden and significant adverse movement of a foreign The Group is also subject to transaction exposures where currency in which products are purchased which may lead to a products are purchased in one currency and sold in another.
delay in passing on to customers the resulting price increases.
As a result, movements in exchange rates may also adversely The Group undertakes some forward purchasing of foreign impact both operating margins and the value of the Groups currencies for identified exposures to reduce the impact of short net assets.
The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates and related hedging activity is regularly monitored by senior management.
The Groups approach to managing foreign exchange risk is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Group needs continuous access to funding in order to meet its The Group arranges a mixture of borrowings from different Financial trading obligations, to support investment in organic growth, to sources and continually monitors net debt and forecast cash flows liquidity make acquisitions when appropriate opportunities arise, and to to ensure that it will be able to meet its financial obligations as they and debt pay dividends to shareholders.
There is a risk that the Group may fall due and that sufficient facilities are in place to meet the Groups covenants be unable to obtain the necessary funds when required or that requirements in the short, medium and long term.
such funds will only be available on unfavourable terms.
Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenants is monitored on a monthly basis based on the management accounts.
Sensitivity The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement to comply analyses using various scenarios are applied to forecasts to assess with certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt their impact on covenants.
A breach of these covenants could result from a significant and rapid deterioration in the businesss The majority of the Groups borrowings are effectively denominated performance, foreign exchange rate fluctuations or the failure in US dollars, sterling and euros, aligning them to the respective to manage working capital levels.
Ultimately this could result in functional currencies of the component parts of the Groups EBITDA.
a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings becoming This currency composition minimises the impact of movements in repayable immediately.
foreign exchange rates on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
36 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Financial risks continued Risk Description Mitigating factors In an increasingly complex corporate tax environment, it is Oversight of the Groups tax strategy is within the remit of the Taxation possible that changes in tax law, including those that might arise Board.
The Group seeks to plan and manage its tax affairs from the OECDs current Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project, efficiently but also responsibly with a view to ensuring that it may lead to higher tax rates for many international businesses, complies fully with the relevant legal obligations in the countries thereby adversely affecting the Groups future cash flows.
in which the Group operates while endeavouring to manage its tax affairs to protect value for the Companys shareholders in line with Following the change in administration in the US, there is also an the Boards broader fiduciary duties.
increased likelihood that future tax reform there could affect the Groups results, either positively or negatively.
The Group manages and controls these risks through an internal tax department made up of experienced tax professionals who exercise judgement and seek appropriate advice from specialist professional firms.
At the same time the Group monitors international developments in tax law and practice, adapting its approach where necessary to do so.
Tax risks are assessed by the Audit Committee and are also incorporated within the Group risk assessment reviewed by the Board as part of the formal governance process relating to risk management.
Operational risks Risk Description Mitigating factors A significant portion of the Groups historical growth has been The Groups acquisition strategy is to focus on those businesses Acquisitions achieved through the acquisition of businesses and the Groups which operate in sectors where it has or can develop competitive growth strategy includes additional acquisitions.
Although the advantage and which have good growth opportunities.
The Group Group operates in a number of fragmented markets which provide continually reviews acquisition targets and has established future acquisition opportunities, there can be no assurance that processes and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition the Group will be able to make acquisitions in the future.
There is due diligence and post-acquisition integration.
also a risk that not all of the acquisitions made will be successful The Group endeavours to maximise the performance of an due to the loss of key people or customers after the acquisition, acquisition through the recruitment and retention of high quality deterioration in the economic environment of the acquired and appropriately incentivised management combined with business or the failure to perform adequate pre-acquisition due effective strategic planning, investment in resources and diligence or appropriately manage the post-acquisition integration infrastructure and regular reviews of performance by both of the business.
business area and Group management.
In the longer term, if an acquisition consistently underperforms compared to its original investment case, there is a risk that this will lead to a permanent impairment in the carrying value of the intangible assets arising on that acquisition.
The Group would be adversely affected if any of its major The Group seeks to reduce the impact of destruction of, or Business distribution facilities was destroyed or damaged or there was a damage to, facilities through the use of multi-site facilities continuity significant failure of its information systems resulting from either with products stocked in more than one location together with hardware failure or a cybersecurity breach.
The impact of information systems failure is mitigated through regular renewal of hardware, layered security measures and disaster recovery plans which are periodically tested and which would be implemented in the event of any such failure.
The international nature of the Groups operations exposes it to Although the Group does not operate in particularly litigious Laws and potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws market sectors, it has in place processes to report, manage and regulations and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
mitigate against third party litigation using external advisers where necessary.
In addition, the Group faces potential claims from customers in relation to the supply of defective products or breaches of The use of reputable suppliers and internal quality assurance and their contractual arrangements.
The sourcing of products from quality control procedures reduces the risks associated with lower cost countries increases the risk of the Group being defective products.
unable to recover any potential losses relating thereto from the relevant supplier.
Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information relating to the Groups risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
