Strategic Report Performance PRINCIPAL RISKs Effective management of risk is essential to the execution of the Groups strategies, the achievement of sustainable shareholder value, the protection of the brand and ensuring good governance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management information provided for the purposes of deciding and internal controls system and reviewing its effectiveness.
whether to approve those significant matters which The system is designed to identify and manage, rather than have been reserved for the Board: eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic Group risk assessments facilitated by the Groups objectives and to provide reasonable but not absolute Risk Function and the reports of the internal and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
More external auditors: and information on the Groups internal control and risk management systems can be found in the Corporate Risk appetite guidelines relating to the Groups Governance Report on pages 74 to 76. principal risks.
The Board has overall responsibility for determining the The risks set out in the table on the following pages nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take represent the principal risks and uncertainties which in achieving its strategic objectives its risk appetite, and may adversely impact the performance of the Group for ensuring that risks are managed effectively.
The Board and the execution of its core strategies.
The Groups has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility core strategies are set out on pages 29 to 46. for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management methodology.
Within the table is a summary of how each risk is defined, its context, potential impact and mitigating activities and As part of this review, the Audit Committee considers the the Groups assessment of the change in risk during principal risks facing the Group and the nature and extent 2015 16.
This assessment is based on the external of these risks.
The Vice President Group Risk Officer environment in which the Group operates, its business facilitates a risk assessment process in each key business operations and the impact of the Groups internal controls area and global support function to review the significant on the severity of the risk in the period.
The Groups risk risks facing Group operations and to record the relevant exposure is continually reviewed by senior management controls and actions in place to mitigate these.
The detailed and is therefore subject to change as a result of internal assessments are then consolidated to provide input into and external factors, future events or otherwise.
It is not the overall Group risk assessment.
possible for the Group to implement controls to respond to all the risks it may face, and the steps the Group has The Board and the executive management team use taken to address certain risks including those listed a combination of different and complementary skills to may not manage these risks effectively.
assess the risks facing the business.
In determining its risk appetite the Board considers a variety of information when The principal risks are not listed in order of significance reviewing the Group operations and in approving key andeach of the risks should be considered independently.
matters reserved for its decision.
This information includes: If more than one of the events contemplated by the risks set out occur, it is possible that the combined overall updates provided by senior management on key strategic impact of such events may be compounded.
Other factors and operational matters: could also adversely affect Group performance and so the discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups risks set out should not be considered to be a complete set three-year strategic plan, budget and viability statement of all potential risks and uncertainties the Group may face.
see page 57 : 56 Strategic Report Performance The key changes in the principal risks during the The stress testing consisted of estimating the impact of year include the following: revenue sensitivities on the profitability and cash generation in the Groups strategic plan, together with reverse stress The outlook for the luxury sector remains uncertain.
testing to identify the theoretical revenue sensitivity that The risk of a successful cyber security breach the Group could absorb, without impacting its viability.
is reflected as a separate risk.
The sensitivities took account of the likely mitigating actions available to the Directors through adjustments The implementation of the Groups productivity to the operating plan in the normal course of business, and efficiency agenda.
together with resulting impacts on returns to shareholders.
As the Japan licence has expired during the year and the Group is directly operating in Japan, the previous The period considered for the assessment was three risk relating to the termination of the Japan licence years to March 2019.
This period was considered has been removed.
appropriate by the Directors on the basis of the following: It is the period for which the Groups strategic plan Longer-term viability statement was prepared.
During the year, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks of the Group set out in It is sufficient to encompass the completion of the almost the table below.
The Directors have also identified those all currently approved capital expenditure projects.
risks which they consider could potentially impact the As the Group has no contracted income, and as most viability of the Group.
current projects will be completed in the three-year period, any projections beyond March 2019 will only The Directors have assessed the potential impact of these vary as a result of estimates of sales growth and cost risks materialising and the impact on the ability of the growth assumptions.
Group to continue in operation and to meet its obligations.
This assessment consisted of an analysis of the potential In assessing the viability of the Group, the Directors impact of the net risks on the Groups viability and, where have also taken into account the Groups current liquidity appropriate, stress testing.
and available facilities set out in note 21 of the financial statements and financial risk management objectives The Groups annual corporate planning process consists of and hedging activities set out in note 25. the preparation of a three-year strategic plan, reforecasting of the current year business performance during the year On the basis of this assessment, the Directors have and preparation of a more detailed budget for the following a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able year.
The Directors have reviewed the plans, forecasts and to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they budget including assumptions regarding the Groups fall due over the period to March 2019. products and markets, expenditure commitments and expected cash flows.
In making this statement, the Directors have made the key assumption that there is no material long-term impairment to the Burberry brand.
57 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation A major breach in cyber, The Groups customer and employee data, Information systems and cyber security received substantial systems or information Burberry.
com business, digital strategy and Audit Committee focus during the year to ensure that the security could adversely operations mean that it is critical that the Groups response to this developing risk is appropriate.
impact the Groups Groups technology is robust, its systems are Investment in the ongoing cyber security programme including business operations and secure and data protected.
Sensitive data the recruitment of a Group Information Security Officer and or result in a major data faces the threat of misappropriation and strengthening of the IT security team.
loss adversely impacting a breach of cyber security on key business Ongoing activities to detect and investigate threats and the Groups reputation.
systems could also affect business operations.
incidents including with the support of key technology partners and suppliers.
Increased focus on employee awareness and training in relation to sensitive data and digital information.
Evaluation and testing of cyber security using specialist Change in level of risk Strategic link third parties and of the crisis management and wider New separate risk All core strategies business continuity plans.
The outlook for the luxury Changes and events in the external market With the outlook for demand in the luxury sector remaining sector remains uncertain.
or environment could impact the Groups uncertain and underlying cost pressures persisting for the performance and the delivery of its strategies.
sector, the Group is accelerating its work on its productivity These changes or events could include: and efficiency agenda particularly its ways of working, and i asustained economic slowdown which how to optimise future organic revenue growth opportunities.
adversely impacts the Groups customers, The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate local economic suppliers and operations: ii a change in and geopolitical risks.
consumer behaviour or other events which The Group focuses on inspiring consumers through the Brand adversely impact consumer demand and realising its opportunities among key consumer groups particularly in relation to key consumer groups and geographic markets.
who make a significant contribution to Group revenues: and iii increasing global economic The Groups financial reporting and review processes are uncertainty including matters such as Brexit designed to highlight any change in ongoing sales performance the potential withdrawal of Britain from the to enable action planning to address underperformance.
European Union which could have an impact Counterparty credit checks are in place for all key customers on economic growth and adversely impact and suppliers, and flexible payment terms are used to assist the Group or give rise to additional costs suppliers as required.
Group Treasury monitors the credit ratings relating to movements of inventory within of financial institutions which hold Group deposits to enable the the supply chain.
Group to take appropriate action should there be a downgrade in their credit ratings.
The Group would seek to mitigate any adverse cost impacts, Change in level of risk Strategic link arising as a result of Brexit, through optimisation of operations Increased risk Optimise Channels, Unlock Market Opportunity within the supply chain.
Inability of the The productivity and efficiency agenda is Experienced management leaders are accountable for the organisation to being implemented to optimise future organic conduct of this agenda and the delivery of the outcomes in successfully deliver revenue growth opportunities and to deliver accordance with the plan approved by the Board.
the productivity and productivity and efficiencies particularly Dedicated resources will be put in place to manage change.
efficiency agenda through ways of working.
Regular Senior Leadership Team review of the programme without compromising The failure to effectively manage this implementation to allow for open discussion of emerging business as usual.
programme could adversely impact the risks and control requirements.
delivery of the Groups strategies, the Progress of the delivery of the programme will be subject anticipated productivity and efficiency to regular review by the Board.
The Board also approves improvements, its operations and return the Groups strategies, its three-year plan and annual budget.
The Groups systems of internal control will need to be maintained.
Change in level of risk Strategic link Increased risk All core strategies 58 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation Failure to realign the The implementation of the productivity There will be a particular focus on people throughout the organisational resource and efficiency agenda means that attracting programme, recognising the need for appropriate capability capability to deliver and retaining the right skills to meet evolving to be built across the organisation.
the productivity and priorities is critical.
Insufficient capability Clearly defined people strategy, based on organisational efficiency agenda.
and capacity in senior management and capability requirements, culture and engagement, equality insufficient employees with the right skills and wellbeing, talent development, training and reward will limit the Groups ability to execute and recognition.
the Groups strategies and other changes The Nomination Committee and the Senior Leadership as planned.
Team regularly review key talent and resource risks.
The period of change may result in a loss of Clear and open engagement with employees to promote key individuals or the inability to recruit and an environment of trust and honesty.
retain individuals with the relevant talent and experience could disrupt the operation of the Competitive incentive arrangements currently exist, with business and adversely impact the Groups specific initiatives in place designed to retain key individuals.
ability to deliver its strategies.
Recruitment is ongoing and talent review and succession planning programmes are in place and are regularly reviewed Change in level of risk Strategic link and updated.
Increased risk All Core Strategies Sustained breaches of Trade marks and other intellectual property The Groups global Brand Protection team is responsible for the Groups intellectual IP rights are fundamentally important to the the Groups brand protection efforts globally, including in the property rights and Groups reputation, success and competitive digital environment.
Given the Groups emphasis on digital unauthorised sale of position.
Unauthorised use of these, as innovation the team places a particular focus on this area.
well as the unauthorised sale of Burberry Where infringements are identified these are addressed products and distribution of counterfeit through a mixture of criminal and civil legal action and negotiated products, damages the Burberry brand settlement.
IP rights are driven largely by national laws which image and profits.
afford varying degrees of protection and enforcement priorities depending on the country.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Inspire with the Brand, Realise Product Potential, Optimise Channels, Unlock Market Opportunity Chinese consumer A significant proportion of the Groups The global reach of the Group helps to mitigate reliance on spending patterns sales are to Chinese consumers globally.
In addition, the Group continues to focus significantly change Consequently, any change to Chinese on engaging with the Chinese luxury consumer, both in China adversely impacting consumer tastes or the economic, regulatory, and while travelling abroad.
The Group has commenced its the Groups revenues.
social and or political environment in China transition of its global business in Japan.
could adversely impact this consumers disposable income, confidence and travel, which could impact the Groups revenue and profits.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Inspire with the Brand, Optimise Channels, Unlock Market Opportunity, Pursue Operational Excellence Volatility in foreign The Group operates on a global basis and The Group seeks to hedge anticipated foreign currency exchange rates could earns revenues, incurs costs and makes transactional cash flows using financial instruments.
These are have a significant investments in a number of currencies.
mainly in the Groups centralised supply chain and wholesale impact on the Groups The Groups financial results are reported in and Beauty businesses.
The Group does not hedge intra-group reported results.
The majority of reported revenues foreign currency transactions at present.
The Group monitors the are earned in non-Sterling currencies, with desirability of hedging the net assets of non-Sterling subsidiaries a significant proportion of costs in Sterling.
when translated into Sterling for reporting purposes, but the Therefore, changes in exchange rates can Group has not entered into any material transactions for this impact the Groups revenues, margins, purpose in the current or previous year.
Change in level of risk Strategic link Increased risk All Core Strategies 59 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation Major incidents such A major incident at a key location could Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate operational as natural catastrophes, significantly impact business operations, risks, but cannot ensure the uninterrupted operation of the global pandemics or with the impact clearly varying depending business, particularly in the short term.
The regional spread terrorist attacks affecting on the location and its nature.
The impact of the Groups key distribution hubs also helps to mitigate risk.
one or more of the of the loss of a distribution hub would clearly There is a Group incident management framework in place that Groups key locations differ from a global pandemic, but both addresses the reporting and management of major incidents, could significantly would impact revenue and profits.
and this is tested each year using third-party specialists in this impact its operations.
Tailored plans have also been produced for a number of high-impact events.
These plans are regularly reviewed Change in level of risk Strategic link and updated.
No material change All Core Strategies The Groups operations Failure to comply with these requirements The Group monitors and seeks to continuously improve are subject to a broad could leave the Group open to civil and or its processes to gain assurance that its licensees, suppliers, spectrum of regulatory criminal legal challenge, significant penalties franchisees, distributors and agents comply with the Groups requirements in the and reputational damage.
contractual terms and conditions, its ethical and business various jurisdictions policies and relevant legislation.
in which the Group Specialist teams at corporate and regional level, supported operates.
The pace by third-party specialists where required, are responsible of change and for ensuring employees are aware of regulations relevant the consistency of to their roles.
application of legislation Assurance processes are in place to monitor compliance in can vary significantly a number of key risk areas, with results being reported to the across these management Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee.
jurisdictions, particularly in an environment where public sector debt is often high and tax revenues are falling.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All Core Strategies Failure by the Group or A failure to act appropriately could result A number of initiatives are in place, led by the Corporate associated third parties in penalties, adverse press coverage and Responsibility function.
These include the continuing to act in accordance reputational damage with a resulting drop activities set out in the Build our Culture section on pages with ethical and in sales and profit.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Inspire with the Brand Over-reliance The Group relies on a number of vendors The Group continues to evolve its supply chain organisational on key vendors.
Failure of these design to develop its manufacturing base to reduce businesses to deliver products or services dependence on key vendors.
would have a significant impact on business operations.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Inspire with the Brand, Realise Product Potential 60 Strategic Report Performance Risk Business impact Mitigation The Groups IT A failure in these systems or a denial of The Groups IT systems and infrastructure received substantial systems and operational service could have a significant impact Audit Committee focus during the year.
infrastructure are critical on the Groups operations and reputation.
A number of controls to maintain the integrity and efficiency to its operation and The Group also relies on a small number of of the Groups IT systems are in place, including recovery plans the delivery of products vendors of specialist digital and IT services.
which would be implemented in the event of a major failure.
and services to its The IT disaster recovery plans are tested on a regular basis.
Increasingly, IT security is continually reviewed and updated and third-party technology is evolving to IT security specialists are used to regularly test these controls.
stream major events and The Group has continued to strengthen its internal digital and to communicate through IT teams and continues to facilitate knowledge transfer to social media.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change All Core Strategies The Group operates in Seizure of assets or staff.
Business associate The Group uses the services of professional consultants to a number of emerging practice that is inconsistent with the Groups advise on legal and regulatory issues when entering new markets, markets which are ethical standards and the UK regulatory to undertake due diligence and to monitor ongoing developments.
Increased operational costs Where appropriate, the Group seeks to work with franchisees than developed markets, due to country-specific processes driven or partners who compensate for its relative lack of experience and are subject to by the operating or regulatory environment.
in a number of these markets.
changing economic, regulatory, social and political developments that are beyond the Groups control.
Infrastructure and services also tend to be less developed.
Change in level of risk Strategic link No material change Inspire with the Brand, Optimise Channels, Unlock Market Opportunity, Pursue Operational Excellence 61 Board and Governance 64 Board of Directors 83 Directors Remuneration Report 68 Corporate Governance Report 106 Directors Report
