How We Manage Risk Managing business risks Risk governance The Board has overall responsibility for Managing risks and opportunities is a key The Groups framework for risk management ensuring the Groups risk management and consideration in both determining and promotes a bottom-up approach to risk internal control frameworks are appropriate delivering the strategy.
This approach to risk management with top-down support and and embedded throughout the organisation.
management is not intended to eliminate challenge.
The risk register is central to the Principal risks are reviewed at each Board risk entirely, but provide a means to identify, risk management process and forms the meeting and, at least once a year, the Board prioritise and manage risks and opportunities basis for capturing and discussing risk undertakes a risk workshop to complete a and enable the Group to effectively deliver throughout the organisation.
Risks and robust assessment of the principal risks.
This its strategic objectives in line with the Groups opportunities are identified, assessed includes determining and setting the Groups appetite for risk.
and managed at an asset e. g. Catcher, risk appetite and associated tolerance levels project e. g. new ventures opportunity and which are considered acceptable in the Strategic objectives in the form of KPIs are functional level e. g. information systems pursuit of strategic objectives.
Determining the level of risk the team.
Reporting of these risks within the approach to risk management has been and Group is willing to accept in the pursuit of organisation is structured so that risks continues to be critical to the delivery of these objectives and then identifying and are escalated through various internal strategic objectives.
managing these risks and opportunities management and Board committees to an acceptable level is a fundamental and, when appropriately material, to the component of the Groups risk management Boarditself.
As outlined below, the management of risk and opportunity plays a key role in the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
Groups risk management Risk governance framework framework Top-down: Oversight, accountability, monitoring and assurance Outline the strategy Set a sustainable strategy to achieve Cairns short and long-term goals.
The Board Overall Set strategic Set the tone Completes responsibility for objectives and and influences the robust assessment Define strategic objectives the Groups risk defines risk culture of risk of principal Set clear strategic objectives in the management and appetite management risks form of KPIs.
internal control systems Define risk appetite Determine the level of risk the Group is Risk Management Audit Management willing to accept in the pursuit of the Committee Committee Team strategic objectives and document this in the Group Risk Appetite Statement.
Chaired by CEO in 2016 Chaired by Iain McLaren in 2016 Chaired by COO in 2016 Responsibility for setting the Monitors and reviews the scope Performs a quarterly deep-dive direction for risk management and effectiveness of the review of the Group risk register Companys systems of risk and Facilitates continual internal control Identify key risks improvement of the risk management system Reviews output from the Identify key risks and opportunities to the RMC meetings achievement of strategic objectives through discussions at a Board, Risk Management Committee, Management Team, Regional and functional level.
Asset Project Function level Apply risk assessment Risk identification, Risk management Risk culture influencing process assessment and system embedded and all business activities Apply the Group risk assessment process to mitigation completed at integrated throughout ensure the ongoing management of key asset, project and the Group risks to our objectives.
functional level Deliver strategic objectives Delivery of strategic objectives through informed risk based decision making.
Bottom-up: Identification of risks and mitigating actions for assets, projects and functions 39 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Responding to the changing risk the Groups risk management policy and the Group undertook a review of potential environment in 2016 procedure were revised and updated risk management software suppliers with As part of the Groups commitment to to ensure risks are being managed in the remit of assessing the benefits of ensuring risk continues to be managed a consistent manner across the Group, implementing a software application effectively, it seeks to continually improve our regardless of geography.
The procedure across the Group.
The purpose of the risk management system.
As part of this, the was rolled out in Q1 2016: application is to make the process more following activities were completed in 2016. the Groups three regions Senegal, UK & systematic and structured and further Norway and International held monthly enhance the Groups bottom-up approach the Board, as it has in previous years, risk review meetings to consider risks, to risk management: and completed a risk workshop to undertake mitigations and actions: EY, the Groups internal auditor, delivered a robust assessment of the principal risks a more rigorous and standardised the annual internal audit plan which and opportunities impacting the delivery approach to managing risks was adopted consisted of a number of risk areas of the Groups strategic objectives.
As part across the Group with a focus on identified from the risk register.
The Group of the workshop, the Board confirmed performing more detailed reviews on has been working through the year to that the risk appetite and supplementary those risks requiring further treatment.
risk tolerance levels remained appropriate: This review focused on ensuring actions were being implemented and tracked: Viability Statement Strategy, business model and context Key assumptions which underpin the projected operating cash flows The Groups strategy and business model annual business planning process include assume oil and gas prices in line are described on page 4 of this report.
forecast oil and gas prices, forecast cost with the current forward curve: levels for oil & gas services and capital whilst the resolution of the Cairn India Following the significant oil discovery projects, production profiles of the UK dispute remains a strategic priority, offshore Senegal in 2014 the group is North Sea development projects and the funding plan does not include focused on appraising this significant the availability of debt under the Groups monetisation of the Groups shares resource base and from 2018 onwards, lending facilities.
in Cairn India Limited: and Cairn plans to submit the exploitation lack of exploration or appraisal plan.
This exploitation plan will set out a The Board recognises that a significant success would impact on the delivery proposed development scheme for the part of the anticipated work programme of Cairns strategy but would not be Senegal discovery and an anticipated is dependent on the results of future expected to impact on the Groups timeline to firstproduction.
exploration or appraisal activity and ability to fund its committed work also that it is the Groups strategy to programme.
The Group also holds interests in two actively manage its licence portfolio to UK North Sea developments where optimise its planned capital allocation.
The Board also considers further production is forecast to commence in Consequently, reflecting this inherent scenarios around the base plan.
This production will generate variability in the longer term work primarily reflect a more severe impact significant operating cash flows which programme, the Board has determined of the principal risks, both individually will be deployed, in the near term, on that three years is the appropriate and in aggregate, as well as the additional the continued appraisal of Senegal and period over which to assess the capital requirements that would result across the Groups wider exploration Groups prospects.
from future exploration or appraisal and appraisal portfolio.
success or the acquisition of newassets.
Viability Assessment process and The Principal risks and uncertainties that The directors consider the impact that key assumptions affect the boards assessment of the these Principal risks could, in certain The Groups prospects are assessed Groups viability in this period are: circumstances, have on the companys primarily through its annual business development project schedule and prospects within the assessment period, planning process.
This process includes budget risk: and accordingly assess the opportunities a Board strategy session, led by the the effect of sustained lower oil prices to actively manage its licence portfolio Senior Leadership Team, at which the on the business and on our partners and planned capital allocation as well as performance and prospects of the financial position: to bring in additional sources of funding business are examined and capital restriction on ability to sell Cairn India at key milestones in assetdevelopment.
The shareholding: and outputs from the business planning lack of exploration or appraisal Based on the actions available to include a set of Key Performance success.
them, the directors have a reasonable Objectives, the group risk matrix, the expectation that the Group will be able anticipated future work programme and The base plan incorporates assumptions to continue in operation and meet its a set of financial forecasts that consider that reflect the impact of these Principal liabilities as they fall due over the three the sources of funding available to the risks asfollows: year period of theirassessment.
Group against the capital requirements material budget contingencies of the anticipated future work and allowances are included for programme the base plan.
development projects as well as appropriate delay assumptions: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2016 2017 Principal risks & uncertainties key risks and movements in risks, at each The Board confirm that a robust assessment During 2016, through a number of internal Board meeting.
The tables below provide a of the principal risks facing the Company, forums such as the Group Risk Management summary overview of the principal risks to including those that would threaten the Committee and Management Team, the the Group at the end of 2016, the potential business model, future performance, Group regularly reviewed the risks which impacts, the mitigation measures, the risk solvency or liquidity was completed in 2016. could adversely impact on the achievement appetite and the KPIs or strategic objectives of strategic objectives.
The Board also the risks may impact on.
receive a risk report, highlighting the Strategic objective: Deliver exploration and appraisal success Principal risk: Exploration and appraisal Owner: Director of Exploration 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite High Exposure to exploration and appraisal failure is inherent in accessing the significant upside potential of a successful discovery and this has been, and remains, a core value driver for Cairn.
The Group invests in data and exploits the strong experience of Cairns technical teams to mitigate this risk.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Loss of investor Active programme for high-grading Completion of four successful Maximise value in Senegal confidence new areas through licence rounds, appraisal and exploration wells in Achieve exploration success through farm-ins and other transactions.
the SNE field in H1 2016 which led Limited or no discovery or addition of commercial to an increase in the estimated value creation Inventory of prospects and leads that hydrocarbons in 2017 gross recoverable oil resource.
offer opportunities with a balance of Failure of the geological and technical risks.
Exploration and appraisal wells balanced portfolio completed in the UK North Sea business model Highly competent team applying Greater Catcher Area and the a thorough review process of Barents Sea.
prospects and development opportunities and a team of The Group will continue to assess geoscientists with a track record and rank opportunities for future of delivering exploration success.
Establishment of Exploration Leadership Team to undertake peer reviews and assurance.
Principal risk: Sustained low oil and gas price Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Medium Exposure to commodity prices is fundamental to the Groups activities.
However, the Group manages its investment programme to ensure that a threshold economic return is delivered and the business model is funded even in sustained downside price scenarios.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Reduction in Sensitivity analysis conducted to The low oil price has driven down Manage balance sheet strength future cash flow assess robustness of projects and industry costs for both development Portfolio optimisation development decisions.
Value impairment of and replenishment development projects Operators cost initiatives delivering Debt available under the Groups material cost reductions on RBL facility remains at a level JV partner capital development projects.
consistent with the end of 2015. constraints Exploit the low service cost Cairn increased its working interest environment for E&A activities.
Cairn acquired the increased interest from First Oil plc for a nominal amount and assumed working capital liabilities of US$16m.
41 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2016 2017 continued Strategic objective: Portfolio management Principal risk: Securing new venture opportunities Owner: Director of Exploration 2015-2016 movement Increased Risk appetite Medium Building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of current and future exploration, development and production assets is core to the Groups strategy.
New opportunities must first meet the Groups strict investment criteria and successfully securing them will be dependent on the prevailing competitive environment.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Loss of investor Geoscience, new ventures and Pre-qualified as an Operator in Portfolio optimisation confidence commercial teams work closely Norway in late 2015 and were and replenishment to review and identify prospects.
awarded the Groups first Loss of competitive operated licence in H1 2016. edge Experience and knowledge throughout the organisation Awarded seven blocks, including Failure to replenish in recognising prospective two as Operator, in the 2016 APA the portfolio opportunities.
and one licence option in the 2015 Atlantic Margin Oil and Gas Risk assessments and due diligence Exploration Licensing Round.
process undertaken on all potential new country entries.
Several new prospects and leads have been matured in Development of discretionary existing acreage in Senegal.
capital allocation and opportunity ranking system.
Despite the low oil price environment, acquiring quality new venture opportunities has been competitive and it is anticipated that this will remain the same for 2017.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 42 Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate Principal risk: Health, safety, environment and security Owner: Chief Executive 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Low The Group continuously strives to reduce risks that could lead to an HSSE incident to as low as reasonably practicable.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Serious injury or death Effectively managing health, safety, The Groups safety performance has Deliver activities with a focus security and environmental risk been effective overall in 2016 and on the safety of people and Environmental impacts exposure is the first priority for the achieved Total Recordable Injury the environment Board, Senior Leadership Team Rate TRIR of 1.05.
The Groups Reputational damage and Management Team.
target was less than 2.0 per million Regulatory penalties hours.
The rate in 2015 was 0 per HSE training is included as part of and clean-up costs million hours.
all staff and contractor inductions.
Approximately 1 bbl of oil was Detailed training on the Groups released to the environment during Corporate Responsibility testing of appraisal wells.
Management System CRMS has been provided to key stakeholders With ongoing operations in a number to ensure processes and procedures of countries in 2017, the Group will are embedded throughout the continue to work responsibly as part organisation and all operations.
of our strategy to deliver value for all stakeholders.
Process in place for assessing an operators overall operating and HSE capabilities, including undertaking audits to determine the level of oversight required.
Emergency and oil spill response procedures and equipment are maintained and regularly tested to ensure the Group is able to respond to an emergency quickly, safely and effectively.
Third party specialists in place to assist with security arrangements and travel risk assessments.
HSE Leading Performance Indicators and targets developed in line with industry guidelines.
Findings from Lessons learned reviews are implemented from otherprojects.
43 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2016 2017 continued Strategic objective: Maintain licence to operate continued Principal risk: Stakeholder reaction to operations Owner: Director of Corporate Affairs 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Medium The Groups strong reputation and licence to operate are core assets for the Group.
However, where stakeholder objectives are not aligned, the Group seeks to balance these conflicting objectives when considering investment decisions in line with the Groups strategy.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Reputational damage Cairns aim is to operate with integrity Norge Bank divested their interest Deliver activities with a focus at all times, recognising that in doing in Cairn as a result of the Groups on the safety of people and Loss of investor so the Company will maintain the operations in Western Sahara.
the environment confidence trust of investors, governments, The Group continues to engage local communities, JV partners with all stakeholders to address Loss of licence and other stakeholders.
to operate Comprehensive stakeholder Delays in work management and communication programmes plans have been developed and executed for all operations.
Work closely with JV partners to ensure transparency and social responsibility.
Actively monitor steps being taken by regulators and industry through participation in industry bodies such as the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers and Oil & Gas UK.
Principal risk: Fraud, bribery and corruption Owner: Chief Executive 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Low Cairn is committed to maintaining integrity and high ethical standards in all of the Groups business dealings.
The Group has no tolerance for conduct which may compromise its reputation for integrity.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Legal fines Business Code of Ethics and Group Code of Business Ethics and Deliver activities with a focus bribery and corruption policies ABC procedures updated in 2016. on the safety of people and Criminal prosecution and procedures.
the environment Bribery and corruption e-learning Reputational damage Due diligence process and training module rolled out across questionnaire developed for the Group and bespoke bribery and assessing potential third parties.
corruption training delivered to the Board in 2016.
Annual training programme for all employees, contractors and The Groups Code of Business Ethics selected service providers.
will continue to be applied to all operations across the Group.
Extensive financial procedures in place to mitigate against fraud.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence Principal risk: Delay in Catcher and Kraken production start-up schedule Owner: Regional Director, UK & Norway 2015-2016 movement Decreased Risk appetite Low Operating cash flow from Kraken and Catcher will provide the Group with funding to sustain future exploration and development activity.
The Group works closely with all JV partners to mitigate the risk and impact of any operational delay.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Delay or reduction Actively engage with all our JV Kraken development remains on Successfully complete in future cash flow partners early to ensure highly schedule with first oil anticipated in operated and non-operated effective working relationships.
Key milestones on Kraken 2017 work programme Increased costs set for 2016 have been accomplished Actively participate in technical including the completion of four Portfolio meetings to challenge, apply producer and four injector wells: replenishment influence and or support our full subsea installation: safety case partners to establish a cohesive Reduction in approval: and the FPSO sail-away JV view and ensure operational debt capacity from the shipyard in Singapore for activity is executed in a safe and UK waters.
Catcher is targeting first oil in H2 2017.
Frequent site visits to key contractor sites to increase focus on quality Significant progress has been assurance performance.
made on Catcher and several key milestones have been achieved.
Work closely with the Kraken and Catcher operators to monitor and review progress of key milestones.
Principal risk: Operational and project performance Owner: Chief Operating Officer 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Low Delivering operational excellence in all the Groups activities is a strategic objective for the Group.
The Group has a low appetite for operational risks which may lead to delays and or increased costs.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Increased well costs Comprehensive set of criteria that Significant operational milestones Successfully complete must be met before contracting achieved in the Groups development operated and non-operated Project delays and accepting any rig.
2017 work programme HSE incident Work closely with the rig contractors Seismic processing successfully Deliver activities with a focus to exert influence and impose our completed in Senegal Sangomaron the safety of people and Reputational damage performance expectations.
Rufisque, Western Sahara Boujdour the environment Maritime, Norway Horda and the Management and influence of UK Kraken West.
drilling contractors to ensure Cairn management systems are fully There are potential operational embedded in operations.
threats in 2017 due to the level of the Groups operations and Positive and regular engagement the number of rigs on hire Stena with JV operators and partners to Drillmax in Senegal, Transocean share knowledge and offer support.
Leader in Kraken and the Ensco-100 in Catcher.
45 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks to the Group in 2016 2017 continued Strategic objective: Deliver operational excellence continued Principal risk: Reliance on JV operators for asset performance Owner: Chief Operating Officer 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Medium The Group seeks to operate assets which align with the Groups core areas of expertise but recognise that a balanced portfolio will also include non-operated ventures.
The Group accepts that there are risks associated with a non-operator role and will seek to mitigate against these risks by working with partners of high integrity and experience and maintaining close working relationships with all JV partners.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Cost schedule Actively engage with all JV partners The sustained low oil price Successfully complete overruns early to establish good, trusting continues to have a financial operated and non-operated working relationships.
impact across the industry and 2017 work programme Poor performance the risk remains that the Groups of assets Actively participate in technical Deliver activities with a focus JV partners may not be able to meetings to challenge, apply on the safety of people and fund work programme expenditures HSE performance influence and or support partners the environment and or reprioritise projects.
to establish a cohesive JV view.
Delay in first oil from The Groups two development development projects Application of the Group risk projects and several exploration management processes and nonImpact on asset value projects are operated by joint operated ventures procedure.
venture partners and the ability to influence can sometimes be limited.
Active engagement with supply The Group continues to work closely chain providers to monitor with a number of partners in the UK performance and delivery.
& Norway, Senegal and International regions.
Strategic objective: Deliver a sustainable business Principal risk: Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Medium The Group faces an uncertain macroeconomic and regulatory environment in some countries of operation.
The Group is willing to invest in countries where political and or fiscal risks may occur provided such risks can be adequately managed to minimise the impact where possible.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Restriction in the Committed work programme is Restriction on monetising assets Manage balance sheet strength funding capacity fully funded from existing sources in India remains in place.
of the Group of funding, principally Group cash Arbitration proceedings have and committed debt facilities.
commenced to resolve the Indian tax Continued engagement with the dispute and a number of milestones Indian Government.
have been achieved including the appointment of an arbitration panel: Initiation of arbitration proceedings.
the filing of the statement of claim: and Indias filing of its statement of defence.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Principal risk: Political and fiscal uncertainties Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Medium The Group faces an uncertain macroeconomic and regulatory environment in some countries of operation.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Loss of value Operate to the highest industry Cairn has not entered into any new Manage balance sheet strength standards with regulators and territories in 2016 so the risk has Uncertain financial monitor compliance with the remained static.
The Group will outcomes Groups licence, Production Sharing continue to monitor changes in fiscal Contract and taxation requirements.
regimes in the areas of operation.
External specialist advice consulted on legal and tax issues as required.
Maintain positive relationships with governments and key stakeholders.
Ongoing monitoring of the political and regulatory environments in which we operate.
Principal risk: Access to internal or external funding Owner: Chief Financial Officer 2015-2016 movement No change Risk appetite Low The Group seeks to develop and implement a funding strategy that allows a value generative plan to be executed and ensures a minimum headroom cushion from existing sources of funding is maintained.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Work programme Committed work programme is Non-core E&A expenditure has been Manage balance sheet strength restricted by reduced fully funded from existing sources deferred, development costs for capital availability of funding, principally Group cash future production base have been and debt funding.
reduced and Cairn has secured Loss of value significantly lower costs for ongoing Disciplined allocation of capital exploration activity.
Continued to rationalise the portfolio Continue to assess other forms with the disposal of non-core assets.
of financing and pursue release of Indian assets.
Debt available under the Groups RBL facility remains at a level consistent with the end of 2015.
Principal risk: Staff recruitment and retention Owner: Group HR Manager 2015-2016 movement Decreased Risk appetite Low The Group relies on motivated and high quality employees to deliver the Groups strategic objectives and is committed to developing and supporting all employees.
Impact Mitigation Risk information 2017 KPI objectives Inadequate resource Regional Directors and Departmental Staff retention remains strong, Successfully complete to deliver work Heads agree resource requirements providing stability and consistency operated and non-operated programme as part of the annual work in the delivery of current and 2017 work programme programme and budget processes.
Loss of key knowledge and experience As an accredited Investor in People, Prevailing market conditions have we support continuous professional allowed the Group to attract a development through technical, number of highly experienced professional, management and personnel for key positions in behavioural skills courses as well the Group.
as mentoring and educational assistance schemes.
Succession planning is in place for all areas of the business.
Rewarding performance process and benefits programme.
