Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management Caledonia risk governance and structure Effective risk management is Risk management and its governance is the responsibility of the a key component of the companys board, with the executive given the task of ensuring an effective and transparent process to ensure risks are identified, documented, investment model and assists in assessed and, where appropriate, mitigated.
The board sets the risk ensuring that the different parts of appetite within the business model and this is communicated through the executive to all those with managerial responsibilities.
the group operate within strategic Risks emanate from all parts of the business and are considered by risk parameters.
The board has all executives as part of their work, from origination of investments to ongoing monitoring and portfolio management.
overall responsibility for setting The Audit Committee assesses and monitors the risk management and monitoring the companys processes and structure and specifically reviews the controls assurance programme.
This programme identifies key mitigating risk appetite.
controls, tests their operation and reports on compliance and effective operation.
This, together with reports arising from the external audit, provides input to the board as a whole on the status of the risk management process.
Board of directors Risk management leadership Audit Committee Review and monitor the risk management process Finance Director Risk reporting and running the controls assurance programme Investment executives Risk management as part of the investment process Investee management teams Risk identication and mitigation Risk management reporting Caledonia manages and reports risk through two primary areas of focus an overall business risk report and a portfolio investment risk report.
The business risk report considers the wider business environment of the group, including business continuity planning, IT and cyber security risks, regulatory risks and financial control risks.
Caledonia manages business risk through a number of integrated processes and procedures operating throughout the year to provide risk visibility to both the executive team and the wider board.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 21 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk management continued Caledonia risk management process Risk level Risks are identified and assessed through a risk dashboard, Principal risks Mitigation Key developments change capturing the most significant business risks facing Caledonia and The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia reviews its investment strategy annually, taking Strategic documenting the actions required to achieve an acceptable level of periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
into consideration the current and potential future Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business model to risk.
The business risk dashboard is reported to the board half yearly.
investing environment and discussions with executives.
deliver long term growth in capital and income and the effective The performance of the company and its key risks are The portfolio investment risk report specifically focuses on the more The investment strategy is reviewed and approved by communication and delivery of the business model.
monitored regularly by management and the board.
technical areas of investment portfolio risk in relation to Caledonias the board.
Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of capital in relation investment strategy.
This includes such risks as investment volatility, to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
value at risk, diversification, liquidity and concentration.
Pool managers have well-developed networks through Caledonia has continued actively to recruit new members Investment which they attract proprietary deal flow.
to its investment teams and has expanded the range of tools Risks in respect of specific investment and realisation decisions.
used in the investment assessment process.
Set risk Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous and Investment risks include the appropriate research and due diligence appetite disciplined investment appraisals and multi-stage approval of new investments and the timely execution of both investments consistent with processes.
Target entry and exit events and prices are and realisations for optimising shareholder value.
approved monitored and updated regularly, in relation to market strategy conditions and strategic aims.
Market risks and sensitivities are reviewed on a weekly basis An active year has seen Caledonia reinvest much of the asset Market and actions taken to balance appropriately risk and return.
value taken out of markets in 2015, taking opportunities that Risk of losses in value of investments arising from sudden and Report Identify and short term volatility and uncertainty provides to invest in significant movements in market prices, particularly in highly and feedback document A regular review of market and investment volatility and value strong long term businesses.
at risk is conducted by the board and the portfolio is realigned Caledonia invests primarily in listed equities, private companies and with strategic aims where appropriate.
Reviews also consider equity funds.
Its principal market risks are therefore equity price investment concentration, currency and liquidity exposures.
volatility, foreign exchange rate movements and interest rate volatility.
An explanation of these risks, along with sensitivities, is included in note 22 to these accounts.
Detailed cash forecasting for six months ahead is updated We have continued to manage our investment process to Liquidity and reviewed weekly, including the expected drawdown ensure we minimise the need to access our available facilities.
Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made due to Monitor Score impact of capital commitments.
Such risk can arise from not being able to sell an and improve and likelihood At 31 March 2016, we had net cash of 22.9m and undrawn investment due to lack of a market or from not holding cash or being Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate committed borrowing facilities of 175m, which are in place able to raise debt.
The liquidity of the portfolio is reviewed regularly.
Systems and control procedures are developed and reviewed A temporary relocation of offices from Cayzer House to Set target Operational and mitigate regularly.
They are tested, as part of the annual programme Stratton House was achieved, with no interruption to Risks arising from inadequate or failed processes, people and of controls assurance, to ensure effective operation.
systems or from external factors.
Appropriate remuneration and other policies are in place to The board has reviewed and approved our business Operational risks arise from the recruitment, development and encourage the retention of key staff.
Business continuity plans continuity plans during the year.
retention of staff, systems and procedures and business disruption.
are maintained, using an offsite facility.
There have been no significant additional regulatory Regulatory and legal Caledonia has internal resources to consider all regulatory requirements in the year.
Risk arising from exposure to litigation or fraud and adherence to and tax matters as they arise.
Use is made of advisers and the the tax and regulatory environment.
Caledonia operates across Association of Investment Companies, of which Caledonia is a number of jurisdictions and in an industry that has been subject a member and on whose self-managed investment company to increasing regulatory oversight.
22 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Risk level Principal risks Mitigation Key developments change The companys business model and strategy are reviewed Caledonia reviews its investment strategy annually, taking Strategic periodically, against market conditions and target returns.
into consideration the current and potential future Risks in relation to the appropriateness of the business model to investing environment and discussions with executives.
deliver long term growth in capital and income and the effective The performance of the company and its key risks are The investment strategy is reviewed and approved by communication and delivery of the business model.
Strategic risks include the appropriate allocation of capital in relation to geographic, sector and currency exposures.
Investment opportunities are subject to rigorous and Investment risks include the appropriate research and due diligence disciplined investment appraisals and multi-stage approval of new investments and the timely execution of both investments processes.
monitored and updated regularly, in relation to market conditions and strategic aims.
value taken out of markets in 2015, taking opportunities that Risk of losses in value of investments arising from sudden and short term volatility and uncertainty provides to invest in significant movements in market prices, particularly in highly A regular review of market and investment volatility and value strong long term businesses.
Risk that liabilities cannot be met or new investments made due to of capital commitments.
Such risk can arise from not being able to sell an At 31 March 2016, we had net cash of 22.9m and undrawn investment due to lack of a market or from not holding cash or being Loan facilities are maintained to provide appropriate committed borrowing facilities of 175m, which are in place able to raise debt.
Systems and control procedures are developed and reviewed A temporary relocation of offices from Cayzer House to Operational regularly.
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc 23 PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016 Text v2TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
