L C A N O O M I P T L A I A R E N P C O E 50 Capita plc Strategic report Governance Accounts RISK MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Tackling cyber risks CURRENT ASSESSMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Information security attacks capture the headlines with an increasing frequency.
We recognise the material threat that the evolving cyber threat landscape presents.
Those threats are various and differ across 1 the diverse set of Capita businesses.
3 We believe it is important to recognise, for 6 example, that the threats to our financial 9 services businesses will differ from those 7 to our employment businesses and to our 8 call centre businesses.
10 12 11 During 2016, cyber threat assessment workshops have commenced for Capita management teams to help them better 4 2 understand and mitigate cyber risk in their individual businesses.
We have 5 also adopted greater use of Threat Intelligence to allow us to be better warned as well as completing the refresh of our Information Security Policies.
We have strengthened the Security Residual risk rating Management in the businesses and Critical unied our central Security Team and Uncomfortable make use of the increasing cyber security Tolerance and resilience services within the Group.
The Board has taken a keen interest CURRENT PRINCIPAL RISK CATEGORIES in this area and continues to challenge 1 significant failures in internal 8 Adverse changes in national, our control functions and business systems of control international political landscape management to keep up their focus on this area.
2 Lack of corporate financial stability 9 Operational issues leading to reputational risk 3 Failures in information security controls Principal risk categories 10 Operational IT risk Corporate risks to the objectives 4 Legal Regulatory risk of Capita plc 11 Failure to effectively manage Groups 5 Adverse financial We operate a total of 22 risk categories talent and human resources business performance within the risk management framework 12 Weaknesses in acquisition and which are kept under regular review.
6 Failure to innovate contracting life cycle In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the 7 Increased internal business complexity 2014 revised Code, the Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board also operates 12 corporate risks which represent the principal risks to the objectives of Capita plc our top down risks.
Our risk governance process maps the output of the 22 categories bottom up risks against these corporate risks and thus ensures these are monitored on an ongoing basis across all levels of the business.
