S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Principal Risks and Uncertainties Good risk management is an integral and fundamental part of planning and achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board and the senior management team are collectively responsible for managing risks and uncertainties across the Group.
In determining the Groups risk appetite and how risks are managed, the Board, Audit and Risk Committee and the senior management team look to ensure an appropriate balance is achieved which enables the Group to achieve its strategic and operational objectives and facilitates the long-term success of the Group.
The Groups Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups risk management framework and ensuring that it enables the Committee and the Board to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board reviews the Groups most significant risks at least twice a year, in addition to periodically challenging the Executive Directors in relation to any specific concerns and as to what they consider to be the risks which would keep them awake at night.
Further details of our risk management framework are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out below, together with details of how these are currently mitigated: Risk Type Description Mitigation The Group generates almost all of Regular consumer surveys and market research.
Market its revenue from the sale of greeting Continuous investment in our in-house design and buying teams.
cards, dressings and gifts, which may Designs continuously refreshed through key trading seasons.
be subject to changing customer Detailed sales analysis guides design and purchasing decisions.
Additionally, Vertically integrated model helps the Group position itself there is a risk that the Group may to respond to changes in its markets.
not be able to effectively predict and respond to changing consumer demands and market trends.
Our sector is highly competitive, with In-house design and print operations help maintain and improve the Competition competition on product choice and quality and value of our offering.
quality, store location and design, Strong focus on innovation and product development helps refresh inventory, price and customer service.
and strengthen our proposition each year.
We compete with a wide range of All key elements of competitor activity, including new store retailers including new entrants and openings and market entrants, closely monitored with selective some of our competitors, particularly localised pricing strategies used to protect the Groups supermarkets, general merchandise competitive position.
discounters and stationery retailers, Continuous review of individual store performance and may have greater market presence, customer trends.
name recognition, financial resources Regular consumer surveys and market research.
and purchasing economies of scale, Sustained investment in the assets, systems and people any of which could give them a supporting our vertically integrated model which underpins our competitive advantage.
The Card Factory and Getting Regular reviews of customer trends and competitor activity.
Our Brands Personal brands are important Consumer surveys address brand perception.
If we are unable to protect our Development of our dedicated quality control function that works brands, our reputation is damaged with our design, purchasing and print teams and third-party or we fail to sustain our appeal to suppliers to ensure product quality andsafety.
our customers, our sales and future Rigorous protection of our intellectual property.
Our strategy has been developed Implementation of and performance against strategy are regularly Business with the aim of achieving long-term reviewed at Board and senior management team level.
Strategy value for our shareholders.
The Business objectives set in the context of our four pillar strategy in Board recognises that if the strategy communications with key personnel.
and vision for the business are not Competitor analysis, consumer research and sales data used to bring properly developed, communicated or focus to the development of our retail proposition.
delivered there could be an adverse impact on the Group.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 21 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Type Description Mitigation Sales and profits growth depend on Established database of new store opportunities updated regularly.
Store our ability to find good locations for Formalised appraisal process for new location opportunities.
Competition for store sites Commercial analysis conducted on new stores to assess potential Expansion and acquiring them on acceptable sales and profitability taking into account the number of other Card terms are key to us achieving our Factory and competitor stores in close proximity.
Supporting this growing Commercial developments monitored in the real estate market and portfolio through our operational our strategy is adjusted where a change may adversely affect a infrastructure, financial systems and stores potential profitability.
managerial controls and procedures Groups operational capabilities support the current portfolio is critical to the Groups success.
expansion strategy in the UK.
Third-parties, including many in the Strong relationships with key suppliers.
Sourcing Far East, supply nearly all of our Continuously developing and broadening supplier base providing Supply non-card products, our handcrafted greater flexibility and reducing reliance on particular suppliers.
Chain greeting cards and certain raw Periodic inspections and third-party facilitated technical audits of materials.
If they fail to satisfy orders factories operated by major suppliers with clear actions where it may affect the business or result weaknesses are identified.
in us having to seek alternative Sedex membership the Supplier Ethics Data Exchange combined suppliers, who may not be able to with a programme of standalone ethical audits of key suppliers fulfil our needs.
We are also exposed initiated during the year.
to changes in supplier dynamics and Dedicated product quality control function.
increases in raw material prices.
Our During 2015, both Sportswift Limited which trades as Card supplier profile means we are subject Factory and Printcraft Limited, obtained Forest Stewardship to the risks of manufacturing and Council FSC certification.
importing of goods from overseas including freight costs and duty as well as supply interruption and reputational risk arising from supplier labour practices.
The Groups strategy and long-term Remuneration policy set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Key success depend on our ability to: on pages 51 to 59 designed to incentivise senior management and Personnel manage the succession of our CEO promote the long-term success of the Group.
and support the CEO Designate, Delivery of the Groups strategic objectives and business sustain and develop our senior performance are central to the policy with remuneration structured management team and employees: to align the interests of the senior management team and to build our teams where this supports shareholders.
our growth: and to plan for, support CEO succession plan implemented with senior management and manage senior management succession plans to be developed.
Comprehensive tailored induction and handover programme in place for CEO Designate with support from the CEO, CFO and the rest of the Board and senior management team.
Our funding arrangements and the Current financing arrangements and Group cash generation continue Finance and fact that we source the majority of to provide the Group with appropriate financial support and cash Treasury our non-card merchandise, as well resources for the delivery of its strategy.
as handmade cards and certain raw Treasury management processes and policy in place to govern cash materials, from suppliers in the Far management and manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest East mean that a lack of appropriate rate fluctuations.
levels of covenant headroom and Foreign exchange and interest rate hedging contracts pre-approved or cash resources in the Group, or directly by the CFO and communicated to the Board monthly.
significant variations in interest or Further details of the Groups financial position are described in exchange rates, could have an impact the CFOs Review on pages 19 and 20 and the Groups viability on our operations and performance.
statement is on page 71 of the Directors Report.
The CFOs Review on page 18 sets out in further detail the risk to the Group of recent exchange rate fluctuations.
22 22 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 S St tr ra ate teg giic R c Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fin ina an nc cia ialls s Risk Type Description Mitigation Any major disruption to any of the Business Continuity Plan BCP continues to be developed.
Business parts of our vertically integrated BCP development to be supplemented by periodic review and Continuity business model, in particular to our scenario testing which will allow the plan to evolve ensuring it meets printing facility, Printcraft, and our the continuing needs of the business.
design studio, could severely affect Stock held across multiple locations to mitigate the risk of a our ability to supply our stores.
catastrophic event at any one of our storage facilities.
The Group also maintains appropriate business interruption Disruption to any of these functions insurance cover.
could also force us to use third-party providers which could be expensive and on onerous terms.
The Group is subject to legislation and Policies and procedures are in place governing behaviours in all key Compliance regulations in areas including areas, some which address mandatory requirements and others corporate governance, the listing and adopted voluntarily.
trading of our shares, employment Senior management team members manage compliance of the including that relating to the Groups key operational teams with escalation and disciplinary introduction of the new National action where needed.
Living Wage, product quality, trading, Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary oversees and the environment, health and safety, co-ordinates compliance in the Group with the support of external bribery and data protection.
Senior management team members liaise with him to ensure issues are identified and managed.
Any failure to comply with these could Impact of new legislation on the Group is monitored with changes lead to penalties, fines, damages, implemented where required, eg Consumer Rights 2015. claims or reputational damage Further details of the estimated impact of the new National Living which could impact the financial Wage on the Group and the proposed mitigation of this are set out in performance of the business.
Reliable and efficient IT systems, Continuing investment in people and systems.
Information including those supporting our retail Deloitte LLP have been appointed to provide internal audit services Technology operations both physical and online, with their main focus during the first two years of their appointment our head office function and our inbeing on the Groups use of technology and the structure and house design and printing operations, capability of its IT team.
are important to the Group.
Failure Deloittes consultancy division supporting the Group with the to adequately develop and maintain implementation of specific technology projects.
these or any prolonged system IT strategy and governance form part of the Audit and Risk performance problems could seriously Committees remit for review.
affect our ability to implement the Principal IT risks are documented and agreed service levels for Groups strategy and to carry on the recovery of key business systems are in place.
The Groups online presence, via our Continued investment in offering via in-house web development team.
Online Getting Personal and Card Factory Card Factory transactional website www.
co. uk was transactional websites, remains relaunched in April 2015 on a new platform.
relatively new to the business.
Our A Marketing Director has joined the Group and will focus on the websites operate in a very competitive development and promotion of our online proposition.
market with relatively low barriers to entry.
If they do not evolve to account for changing customer tastes and the different devices being used by customers to make online purchases, they may not deliver the anticipated revenue growth.
This may also affect our reputation and customer perception of our brands.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23 23
