Operational risk management Our risk management framework Rigorous risk management is The Groups policy is to ensure that all risks are identified, critical to the attainment of our evaluated and an appropriate response determined prior to any commitment being made to any other party.
This policy is supported by clear guidance on process and procedures, risks that are unacceptable strategic objectives and it to the Group and practical guidance for the management of risk at all levels throughout the business.
The diagram below sets out an overview of our continues to remain a key part risk management framework.
The Board continues to be responsible for determining the Groups risk appetite in pursuit of its strategic objectives and for maintaining a robust system of risk management including regular reviews of principal risks to mitigate any potential impacts associated with these risks.
Board Responsible for setting risk appetite and overall management and review of risk.
Board sub-committees Responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of policies relevant to their areas of scope, identication of emerging risks and for monitoring the ongoing effectiveness of our procedures.
Business Integrity Sustainability Audit Committee Major Projects Oversees Committee Committee Committee effectiveness of Management of ethics Management of Reviews and approves internal controls and and compliance risks sustainability issues submission of bids for risk management on associated with our relating to our major projects, capital Assurance behalf of the Board.
expenditure and mergers and acquisitions.
Assurance is provided by internal audit, external audit Corporate oversight and direction and through our Chief Executives Group Risk Management Other Functional Heads participation in The Group Head of Risk chairs The Group Health and Safety Leadership Team various external the Group Risk forum on a Director, Chief Information Reviews the Groups operating quarterly basis and reports key Officer, Chief Sustainability and financial performance, benchmarking risks to the Board.
The Group Officer and the Group including key risk initiatives organised Head of Risk also undertakes a Compliance Manager are developments on a monthly six-monthly review of the responsible for the basis, with material issues by external bodies, effectiveness of the Groups development and reported to the Board.
e. g. Business in the internal controls and risk implementation of the detailed Emerging risks, including those management procedures and policies and procedures associated with major Community and reports findings to the Audit relevant to their areas of contracts, are also covered Investing in Committee for its review.
responsibility and for the during regular performance monitoring of ongoing review meetings by the Integrity.
compliance with these policies Executive Directors.
and procedures by our business units.
Operations Business Unit Independent peer reviews Operational risk Business Unit Managing Independent peer reviews of management Directors and their senior contracts are conducted by Operational risks are management teams are experienced colleagues from monitored and managed responsible for embedding other parts of the business through local performance the Groups policies and with outputs reported to the reviews and project risk and procedures into our day-to-day Audit Committee.
activities and for reporting performance against these on a regular basis.
30 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information | The Board also monitors the level of risk taken on individual major projects Our risk management process using a model known as the Risk Management Matrix.
Following their The Group has a long-established process and methodology for the reviews, the Board and the Audit Committee concluded that the level of risk identification, quantification, monitoring and management of the principal associated with the Groups principal risks is currently consistent with the risks associated with its operations.
The Group Head of Risk is responsible Groups overall appetite in relation to these risks.
The heat map on page for advising on strategic risk issues and for the maintenance of a consistent 32 sets out the positioning of our principal risks by impact and likelihood approach to risk management across the Group.
Each of our business units both before any mitigation measures are taken into account and after the has appointed a Business Group Risk Manager who is a member of the impacts of mitigation measures are taken into account.
Group Risk Forum, which meets on a quarterly basis and is chaired by the The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of Group Head of Risk.
Business Unit Managing Directors are responsible for the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its the day-to-day management of risks relating to their businesses and for the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
regular reporting of these to the Group Head of Risk.
In order to ensure that risk management is addressed at the front end of Viability statement our operations, individual projects are required to appoint Project Risk Managers who are responsible for escalating risk issues to Business Unit In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Risk Managers.
The Group Head of Risk identifies the Groups principal Directors have assessed the prospect of the Company over a longer period risks based on the output from strategic risk lists submitted by the business than the 12 months required under provision C. 1.3 of the Code in relation to units.
These risks are then reviewed by the key functional heads and by the the adoption of the going concern basis.
The Board conducted this review risk forum as a further check prior to their submission to the Board for for a period of three years, which was selected for the following reasons: approval.
The Groups assessment of principal risks is taken into account in The Groups strategic business plan covers a three-year period.
the development of internal audit plans and as part of its evaluation of any The construction programmes associated with a majority of the Groups new strategic initiatives.
more significant projects often do not exceed a period of more than The potential impact arising from each risk is assessed by taking into three years.
account the potential cost and the likelihood associated with the Given its business model and the nature of its markets, the degree of crystallisation of each risk.
Assessment of cost takes into account both the confidence that can be placed on the Groups future revenues diminishes potential financial and reputational costs.
Business Units are required to significantly for periods beyond the next three years.
assess the gross impact associated with each risk and then identify The three-year business plan includes information in relation to the potential mitigation measures, which are taken into account before arriving Groups revenues, profits, cash flows, dividends, net debt, and other key at a net impact assessment.
Both the gross and the net impact assessment financial and non-financial metrics.
The business plan includes a level of relating to each risk is reported to the Group Head of Risk.
Assessments cover to provide against trading risks and the resulting metrics are subject of the impact and likelihood for each risk are categorised into high, medium to sensitivity analysis to illustrate the impact of future deviations in the and low based on standard definitions, which are applied across the Groups liquidity position.
The Board has tested the outputs from this plan Group.
against the potential impacts from the Groups key strategic risks both During 2016 the Audit Committee reviewed and reported to the Board on individually and in unison.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management On the basis of both reasonably probable and more extreme downside systems in February and August.
In addition, the Groups principal risks scenarios, the Directors believe that they have a reasonable expectation were reviewed by the Board in March and August.
These reviews included that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its an assessment of the Groups overall appetite for risk relative to its current liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
assessment of the likelihood and impacts associated with its principal risks.
Changes to the Groups principal risks during 2016 include the addition of the potential impact of Brexit and the removal of the potential impact of low oil prices on future demand for our services.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31
