STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Managing our risks and uncertaintiesis key to achieving ourpriorities.
LINKS TO STRATEGY In line with our strategy we are concentrating more investment on our customer-facing businesses organised into the two global customer-facing divisions of Centrica Consumer and Centrica Business.
We are focused on delivering high levels of customer service, improving customer engagement and loyalty, and developing innovative products, offers and solutions for both residential and business customers, underpinned by investment in technology.
Our asset businesses of Exploration and Production and Centrica Storage continue to play an important role in our portfolio providing cash flow diversity and balance sheet strength.
Our activities for near-term implementation and delivery of our strategy are framed around the five priorities below.
These priorities are a lens through which we assessour risks and discussions around risk appetite.
Each priority has associated risks, which are managed as part of our overall system of risk management and internalcontrol.
Our five priorities Safety, compliance and conduct Customer satisfaction and  Cash flow growth and strategic momentum Cost efficiency andsimplification People and buildingcapability 56 MANAGING THE RISKS The Groups strategic review in 2015 and ASSESSING OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS TOTHEDELIVERY OF itsimplementation in 2016 highlighted IN2016 OUR PRIORITIES emerging risks and provided an opportunity As in previous years we identified and to simplify and standardise how significant Risk management is fundamental to the assessed our risks within the categories risks are managed.
We have identified way the Group is governed and managed.
ofPrincipal Risk overleaf to ensure thediffering nature of our risks including: Our system of risk management and appropriate mitigating activities.
During internalcontrol comprises the following 2016 the risks that were prioritised for Risks that require standards where elements that are assessed for leadership attention, and those that had ourtolerance for error is generally very effectiveness annually: most significant impact in our assessment low.
This will include Health, Safety, ofthe future viability of the organisation, Environment and Security, Legal and Business Principles: sets our expected particularly related to: Regulatory Compliance, Financial behaviours across the organisation.
Processing and Reporting, Information ensuring we deliver a safe and compliant Enterprise Risk Framework: Systems and Data Security, and Ethical operating environment in all respects: incorporates the principal risks within the and Behavioural Standards.
For these Group Risk Universe, as outlined below.
our strategic transformation and its risks there will be management systems impact on our people: Board and Committees governance: providing clearly prescribed standards the changing political environment, committees are structured to be aligned with ring-fenced functional monitoring andthe potential for further intervention, with the Principal Risks identified, and assurance.
Risks where judgement is required Executive management oversight: the evolving regulatory requirements, withina range of acceptable outcomes establishing appropriate executive particularly the outcome of the inorder to deliver our priorities.
This processes to ensure appropriate Competition and Markets Authority includes areas where we need to take a planningand performance management.
CMA investigation: certain level of risk such as in commodity Operational management ongoing volatility in the commodity trading and our investment inthe growth accountability and certification: market with its impact on pricing: and areas of the business.
represents the first lineaccountability our commitment to our growth Risks resulting from external factors forthe risk and controlenvironment.
businesses and excellence in where we have limited influence over Delegations of Authority: structure customerservice.
theiroccurrence, but can influence withinwhich accountability is delegated theimpact on our business through We align our assessment of the extent through the organisation in accordance ouractions.
ofrisk we wish to take with our priorities with identified risk appetite.
and express our risk appetite in relation Management systems: the detailed tothese priorities.
For example, inrelation Policies, Standards and Procedures toensuring we have a safe andcompliant establishing the requirement for process operating environment ourappetite is level controls that are monitored verylow, whereas we areprepared to throughout the organisation.
takerisksin relation todelivering our Assurance providers: second and growthobjectives.
thirdline assurance provided to ensure The Principal Risks, and their related that Policies, Standards and Procedures components, are allocated oversight are being followed and that risks are through the Board and its Committees being mitigated in line with risk appetite.
The table also providesan indication of the risk mitigation strategy for each risk category, reflecting ourappetite for risk, and our view on changes in the risk climate compared with2015.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Board retains overall non-executive responsibility for risk Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties across the Group.
With the exception of certain risks that the Board reserves to itself, oversight of specific Principal Risks contained continued within the Group Risk Universe are delegated by the Board to oneormore of its Committees.
The table below summarises eachPrincipal Risk with reference to oversight by the Board oritsCommittee, itsrisk climate and the associated priority.
Description Potential impacts Mitigation Following the conclusion of the The Board approves the Group annual plan setting the 1 Strategy delivery strategic review, the delivery of strategic direction and confirming strategic choices that ourfuture strategy will involve are embedded in targets across thebusiness.
growthinanumber of business Quarterly performance reviews are held with all parts of Failure to deliver Centricastrategy.
areas, implementing substantial the business to monitor progress against these targets.
cost efficiencies and making certain We have a clear financial framework to ensure capital is disposals.
This is fundamental to allocated in line with strategy and prioritised to deliver ourfuture success and incorporates optimal business benefits.
Governance oversight bothcontrollable and uncontrollable We continue to strengthen our leadership team in order risk elements whichrequire Board todeliver in our growth areas, including the appointment carefulmonitoring.
during the year of a Chief Information Officer to support Risk climate our digital strategy.
We apprise ourselves constantly of developments that arecentral to achieving our strategy.
Priority Cash flow growth andstrategic momentum Customer behaviour and demand Events within the external market environment sit largely 2 External market can change due to improved outside of our direct control, but set the tone for our energyefficiency, climate change, futurebusiness.
government initiatives, long-term Regular analysis is undertaken on commodity price Changes and events in theexternal market weather patterns and the general fundamentals and their potential impact on business or environment that could impact delivery economic outlook.
In addition we plansand expectations.
face competition in our upstream We continue to pursue a range of investment options businesses in uncertain commodity across the energy chain and in different markets and Governance oversight marketsand we must respond geographies in response to external market opportunities.
Board We are increasing our investment in connected homes through smart meters, personalised customer energy Risk climate usage reports, smart and time-of-use tariffs, applications for remote heating control and US appliance rental programmes in order to respond to market disruption andposition us at theforefront of new technology.
Priority Cash flow growth andstrategic momentum We are subject to oversight from The Executive Committee members actively engage 3 Political and regulatory various political and regulatory indiscussions with all political parties, influencers intervention bodies in the UK, Republic of Ireland, andregulatory authorities.
These Following the decision to exit the European Union in Changes, intervention or afailure to bodies set and oversee the terms of Junewe have been active in contributing our views on influence change to the political or our licences and the conduct of our thedevelopment of the markets in which we operate.
In particular at present, We are committed to an open, transparent and as a consequence ofthe UKs competitive UK energy market that provides choice Governance oversight decision to exit the European Union forconsumers.
and widerpolitical changes in the Board We accept that we may be the subject of focused markets we operate in, risksrelating regulatory scrutiny, with informal investigations into one Risk climate to changing policies in relation ormore areas that could result in stakeholder concerns toenergy markets and carbon and take measures to react as quickly aspossible.
We work with regulators to seek the right approach Priority tointervention.
Cash flow growth andstrategic momentum 58 Risk climate Unchanged Increased Reduced in some parts of the Overall unchanged, business, but unchanged in others but differing drivers Description Potential impacts Mitigation Our primary focus is to serve During the year a review of our brand positioning has 4 Brand, trust andreputation ourcustomers and satisfy their been undertaken to ensure that this is aligned with changing needs in all of the markets ourpriorities.
We also actively The primary mechanism by which we review changes Competitive positioning and protection manage our brands and reputation, inour brand position is through NPS andother metrics ofthe Centrica and subsidiary brands.
inorder to protect and develop asdescribed on page 19. ourcompetitive position amongst We are focused on providing affordable energy and awide range ofstakeholders.
excellent service to deliver a fair, simplified and transparent Governance oversight offering to all of our consumers.
Board We engage with NGOs, consumer and customer groups, political parties, regulators, charities and other stakeholders Risk climate to identify solutions to help reduce bills andimprove trust in the industry.
Priority Customer satisfaction and  We prioritise how we use our 2016 was the first full year of planning using a refreshed 5 Business planning, forecasting resources based on our business approach designed to underpin the delivery of and performance plans and forecasts.
accurately plan and forecast Group functions have adopted standardised planning Business planning, forecasting, risk takinginto account the changing processes in support of the business priorities, driving management and achievement of business environment could result improved discussion and integration.
insuboptimal decisions and failure Quarterly performance review meetings involving the torealise anticipated benefits.
Executive Committee enable the discussion ofplans Governance oversight andforecasts with revisions identified asnecessary.
Board Constructive challenge is provided across each level ofthe business to ensure that the key assumptions Risk climate remainrobust and appropriate.
Priority Cash flow growth andstrategic momentum The delivery of high quality Great customer outcomes are at the heart of our 6 Customer service customerservice is central to our strategyand their requirements shape our processes business strategy.
ofnew competitors to the market, Our risk appetite reflects the need to be innovative Failure to provide good quality customer customers are increasingly likely andtoinvest appropriately to deliver new products service through the customer lifecycle.
toswitch supplier if they face an andserviceto our customers.
We are wholly focused on providing affordable energy Remaining at the forefront of digital andexcellent service, working to deliver afair, simplified Governance oversight developments and innovating to and transparent offering to consumers and protecting Board provide choice and control for themost vulnerable, fuel-poor households through ourcustomers is critical.
initiatives to improve energy efficiency or with financial Risk climate advice and aid.
We continue to invest in connected home solutions andthe development of digital platforms.
Priority We have a sustained programme of simplification including the use of mobile apps, online service and breakdown bookings, and electronic billing.
Customer satisfaction and Where we experience issues we invest to put them right,  including making substantial improvements inour UK Business environment during 2016.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description Potential impacts Mitigation The attraction, retention, development We have an established People Committee that has 7 People and motivation ofour people and overseen the people related challenges inherent in our leaders are critical factors in the transformation programme.
successful execution of our strategy.
We continue to evolve a clearly defined people strategy Attraction, retention, andsuccession of In addition, werequire the right based on culture and engagement, equality and wellbeing, theright people with the right skills in the behaviours from our leaders and talent development, training and reward and recognition.
right role at the right time.
employees to deliver our business Our Business Principles are currently under review strategy in accordance with our toensure they drive the right behaviours across our values and Business Principles.
Governance oversight organisation, with a view to launching our new Board and Safety, Health, Environment, CodeofConduct in 2017.
Security andEthics Committee We regularly review organisational capability incritical business areas, reward strategies for keyskills, talent Risk climate management, and learning anddevelopment programmes through externalbenchmarking.
We engage with trade unions on restructuring and issuesthat could impact terms and conditions with clear Priority and open processes to promote an environment of trust andhonesty.
Feedback from our annual employee engagement People and surveyis acted upon by leadership teams.
building capability The successful delivery of Fortnightly transformation Steering Group meetings 8 Change management businesschange is fundamental areattended by the Executive Committee.
toour future success, and Change activity is managed through a structured network , cultural of programme offices providing oversight and governance Execution of change programmes andtechnical transformation.
Atthesame time, wemust We have established a dedicated change capability at continueto focus on maintaining Group and business unit level to ensure benefits realisation, oursystems of internal control prioritisation of efforts and share bestpractice.
Board Our people capability has continued to be developed through 2016 to ensure we have the right skills to deliver Risk climate our future plans.
We have a clear controls transition framework underpinning our system of internal control.
Priority Cost efficiency andsimplification Failure to invest in the maintenance Capital allocation and investment decisions governed 9 Asset development, and development of our assets could through the Investment Committee withthe decision availability and performance result in underperformance, assets rightremaining with the Group Chief Executive.
being out of service or significant Group-wide minimum standards applied to all assets, Investment, development and integrity safety issues, particularly given whether operated or non-operated, in order to have ofoperated andnon-operated assets.
theaging nature of a number of our confidence in their integrity.
Operational integrity is critical Issues related to the integrity of our assets are responded to be able to deliver performance in to quickly, resulting in a number of unplanned shut downs Governance oversight line with the strategic objectives.
during 2016 to ensure that appropriate investigations Board could be undertaken andremediation performed.
Risk climate The leadership teams in our asset-based businesses havebeen refreshed to ensure that there is appropriate experience to provide oversightof thiscritical area.
Priority Customer satisfaction and  60 Description Potential impacts Mitigation Our business operations rely on All suppliers are required to sign up to our 10 Sourcing andsupplier products and services provided EthicalProcurement policies and procedures.
management through third parties, including Financial health, risk and anti-bribery and corruption outsourced activities, infrastructure duediligence and monitoring is implemented in supplier Dependency on, and management of, and operating responsibility for some selection and contract renewal processes.
thirdparties to deliver the products and assets.
We rely on these parties to Joint venture audits are conducted in relation tothird services for which they are contracted comply with not only contractual partyoperation of critical assets.
tothe agreed time, cost and quality.
terms, but also legal, regulatory We review the ethical conduct of our suppliers andare andethical business requirements.
currently implementing a programme ofsupplier visits to Governance oversight provide additional assurance over practices employed.
Board and Safety, Health, Environment, We appointed a new Chief Procurement Officer in2016 Security andEthics Committee and are implementing a programme of activities to ensure consistent Group-wide practices are implemented in line Risk climate with our policies.
Priority Customer satisfaction and operational excellence Our operations have the potential HSES remains our highest priority with a continued 11 Health, safety, environment toresult in personal orenvironmental focusacross all our assets and operations.
andsecurity HSES harm, or operational loss.
Significant We undertake regular reviews and have thorough HSES events could also have assurance processes in place in relation to these risks, HSES hazards and regulations regulatory, legal, financial and with reporting to the HSES Committee on amonthly  operations.
reputational impacts that would basisand full discussion of all issuesarising.
adversely affect someorall of Third line of defence responsibility for HSES has been ourbrands and businesses.
transferred into Internal Audit to ensure appropriate Governance oversight objectivity and reinforce our assuranceprovision.
Board and Safety, Health, Environment, Security andEthics Committee We have strengthened our controls through the development of the HSES management system, Risk climate focusingon areas including process safety, driving andworking at heights.
We continue to invest in training to ensure we maintain safe operating practices, including HSESleadership Priority programmes.
Security intelligence and operating procedures, aswell ascrisis management and business continuity plans are Safety, compliance andconduct regularly evaluated and tested.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description Potential impacts Mitigation Our substantial customer base Our information security strategy seeks to integrate 12 Information systems andstrategic requirement to be information systems, personnel and physical aspects andsecurity atthe forefront of technology inorder to prevent, detect and investigate threats development, means that it is andincidents.
Effectiveness, availability, integrity criticalour technology is robust, We engage with key technology partners and suppliers, andsecurity of IT systems and data oursystems aresecure and our toensure potentially vulnerable systems are identified.
Sensitive data faces We regularly evaluate the adequacy of our infrastructure thethreat of misappropriation from and IT security controls, undertake employee awareness hackers, viruses and other sources, Governance oversight and training, and test our contingency and recovery including disaffected employees.
Board, Audit Committee andSafety, processes.
Health, Environment, Security and We test our cyber security crisis management and EthicsCommittee business continuity plans recognising the evolving natureand pace of the threat landscape.
Risk climate The appointment of a new Group Chief Information Officerduring 2016 has provided additional focus on ensuring that all information systems and security risksaremanaged appropriately.
Priority Safety, compliance andconduct Our operations are the subject Following the completion of the CMA investigation into 13 Legal, regulatory and ofintense regulatory focusand ourUK ES&S business we have established a programme ethicalstandards compliance weseek to deliver the highest toimplement its recommendations in full.
This is We have similarly responded to changing regulatory Compliance with legal regulatory partof our operating commitment requirements in a number of our NA ES&S markets andethicalstandards requirements.
toconduct our business in an during2016.
We have moved our regulatory compliance monitoring Werecognise anyreal or perceived activities to a single function to drive Group-wide Governance oversight failure to followour Business consistency and quality.
Board and Safety, Health, Environment, Principles or comply with legal or Security andEthics Committee We have a programme of improvement activities inplace regulatory obligations would toalign our practices in areas including ourBusiness undermine trust inour business.
Risk climate Principles, financial crime and SpeakUp with our Non-compliance could also result operating model.
Our Business Principles and Values have been subject toreview in 2016 with the involvement of many of Priority ouremployees.
Safety, compliance andconduct 62 Description Potential impacts Mitigation Our financial performance and The Audit Committee regularly assesses the effectiveness 14 Financial market pricecompetitiveness isdependent of control mechanisms within EM&T.
upon our ability to manage exposure Following a review undertaken during the year, weekly to wholesale commodity prices meetings have been introduced within EM&T involving our Exposure to market movements, including forgas, oil, coal, carbon andpower, specialist financial risk team andoperational management.
commodity prices andvolumes, inflation, interest rates for our long term The Group Financial Risk Management Committee meets interestrates and currencyfluctuations.
borrowing, fluctuations in various monthly to review Group financial exposures and assess foreign currencies, and environmental compliance with risk limits.
Governance oversight We have an active hedging programme to mitigate Board and Audit Committee exposure to commodity and financial market volatility, whichhas enabled British Gas to freeze prices on the Risk climate standard tariff until August 2017.
As we move into new trading arrangements, including expanding our LNG business and as a result of the acquisition of Neas Energy, we are focused on ensuring Priority that ourfinancial risk policies remain appropriate to theriskswe face.
We are investing in our systems to further automate Cash flow growth andstrategic momentum ourcontrol environment.
Certain events and activities have We assess available resources on a monthly basis and 15 Balance sheet strength adirect impact on ourcredit ratings this analysis underpins our going concern assumption andcredit position and liquidity which could increase and viability analysis as described on page 64. thecost of, and access to, financing.
Significant committed facilities are maintained with Group balance sheet management In a changing external environmental sufficient cash held on deposit to meet fluctuations as andcreditposition.
we need to be able to respond they arise.
tomacro-economic or political Our private placement, see note 25, hasstrengthened Governance oversight influences.
In particular, the lower our balance sheet.
interest rate adversely impacts our Board and Audit Committee Counterparty exposures are restricted by setting credit pensionliabilities.
limits for each counterparty, where possible with reference Risk climate to published credit ratings.
Wholesale credit risks associated with commodity trading and treasury positions are managed in accordance with Priority Group policy.
We continue to seek to repair the pension deficit and have responded with a number of actions implemented during Cash flow growth andstrategic momentum 2016 see note 22.
We consider accounting assumptions impacting onour balance sheet carefully, including decommissioning and impairment, as described onpage 76.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Description Potential impacts Mitigation We must be able to maintain robust The Audit Committee reviews carefully our compliance 16 Financial processing financial systems toproduce accurate with our internal policies and externalrequirements.
andreporting financial statements underpinned by As described above, we maintain a robust control appropriate accounting judgements framework with a focus on our financial controls and Accuracy and completeness of internal and the right information to support management self-assessment compliance.
Our dedicated Group Controls function monitors our critical Ourobligation includes maintaining financial risks and mitigating controls and reports to the processes to avoid misstatement Financial Risk, Assurance andControls Committee quarterly.
Governance oversight through fraud or error so that We maintain an effective working relationship theconfidence of our customers, Board and Audit Committee withourexternal auditors, listening to their advice and investors and regulators is not recommendations, and they rely on our internalassurance undermined and they can rely Risk climate and monitoring activities whereappropriate.
Priority Safety, compliance andconduct The Directors carry out a robust risk risks associated with keeping our people VIABILITY STATEMENT assessment of the Principal Risks and our customers safe, incorporating In accordance with provisions C. 2.1 and outlinedon pages 58 to 64.
In making this potential adverse consequences of C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance assessment consideration of the potential breaches in regulatory compliance Code, the Directors have assessed the severe, but plausible, impact has been obligations: prospects for the Group over a longer time made where therealisation of those risks is challenges relating to the security of period than that required in adopting the considered more than remote, taking into oursystems and keeping our data safe, going concern basis of accounting.
account theeffectiveness of our systems including cyber-security: In making this assessment the Directors ofrisk management and internal control.
the impact of a loss of containment have taken into account: the liquidity The potential impact is based on known inourupstream assets: and analysis performed in relation to the Groups consequences, historical evidence and a sustained significant adverse net debt and available credit facilities: similar events observed in the market.
thecurrent business performance, Group Theconsequences have been combined annual plan for 2017 and strategic plan In making this assessment we have taken into anumber of scenarios and events that forthe years beyond this: consideration the worst case assumptions, including all havebeen compared with the available ofpotential risks and uncertainties in the significant adverse events on the above headroom based on our liquidity analysis.
delivery of the strategic plan through a scenarios, and determined their potential We have considered available mitigating number of potential scenarios and events: impact on the available sources of liquidity actions such as the potential disposal of and available mitigating actions.
and net debt throughout the period.
assets, additional restrictions and limits on capital investment and further cost reduction The Board has reviewed the timeframe Based on the conclusions of this assessment, opportunities in making this assessment.
overwhich it makes this assessment and the Directors confirm that they have a considers three years to be the appropriate reasonable expectation that the Group will Whilst the Group has a strong position timeframe for consideration.
The factors continue to operate and meet its liabilities, initschosen markets, with strong brands, taken into account in determining the as they fall due, over a period of at least ahighly skilled customer-facing workforce timeperiod include: the alignment of this three years.
and reliable operations, there are a number assessment with the period over which we ofrisks that could have a significant impact perform liquidity analysis for the purpose on the financial performance of theGroup.
ofmonitoring credit metrics: the short term The risks that we considered, through nature of some of our more significant risks, anumber of scenarios, to be ofmost such as the potential for disruption in our significance in making the assessment customer-facing markets and volatility ofviability included: related to the current political and economic the potential for regulatory or political environment: and the increasing uncertainty intervention resulting in a significant inherent in estimations beyond this time impact on our customer margins period.
Three years balances the shorter andretention: term planning horizons in our customerour inability to respond to disruption in facing businesses, with the longer the market and grow our businesses termrequirements of our more asset asindicated in our strategic plan: basedbusinesses.
64 GOVERNANCE Governance The ultimate objective of corporate governance is to promote good decision-making and effective stewardship of the Company to ensureits sustainable success.
66 Board of Directors 68 Senior Executives 69 Directors and Corporate Governance Report 83 Remuneration Report 100 Independent Auditors Report Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
