30 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT The process for identifying and assessing risk is an integral and inseparable part of the groups performance culture and processes and is therefore at the core of our business.
The principal risks described in the construction and development of The groups employees are paramount to the success of the organisation and report can have a serious impact on mining operations is an activity that therefore the groups policies and our ability to deliver on our strategic involves a high degree of risk.
The procedures demand the lowest levels aims.
The management of risks group therefore can only manage, of risk appetite and risk tolerance for through identification, monitoring rather than eliminate risk completely.
employee and contractor health, safety and mitigation allows the group to In considering risk appetite, the board and wellbeing.
The group has a higher improve its decision making process, considered the level of acceptable risk risk appetite towards its strategic deliver on its objectives and improve tolerance, the attitude and culture objectives, such that risks are reduced its performance as a mining company.
towards risk and the ways in which to reasonably practicable levels, the board can influence risk appetite The report below covers the boards in the pursuit of mineral exploration, throughout the business.
assessment of its risk appetite to development and gold production.
key strategic decisions, our viability In considering risk appetite, the board Meeting environmental, regulatory statement and details of our was clear that Centamin had zero and legal obligations takes priority over principal risks.
tolerance to breaches in health and other business objectives.
In summary safety and environmental protection.
the principal risks, objectives and risk Risk appetite The board was clear about their appetite are summarised below: Centamin accepts that the exploration objectives and strategy which could for and development of metals and be managed and mitigated to an mineral resources, together with the acceptable level.
PRINCIPAL RISK STRATEGY MITIGATION RISK APPETITE Loss of revenue due to Maintain redundancies within the operating Risk appetite is at an acceptable level, with appropriate levels single project dependency cycle and develop a well-balanced of mitigation in place to reduce the likelihood of significant project pipeline.
loss of revenue due to single project dependency.
Sukari Gold Mine joint venture Maintaining good relations with EMRA Risk appetite is at an acceptable level, with appropriate levels risk and relationship with EMRA our joint venture partner in Egypt.
Gold price and The Company does not currently hedge against The strategy is aligned with the risk appetite currency exposure the price of gold or exposure to currencies.
Jurisdictional taxation To minimise the complexity of the corporate Simplification of the structure is ongoing, however, the exposure structure ensuring tax neutrality within the mitigation in place is at an acceptable level and therefore holding group entities.
operating within the parameters of our current risk appetite.
Political risk Sukari Maintain a detailed understanding of the The Company operates within acceptable limits and the political environment in which we operate operation has continued to be unaffected despite a number as well as constructive relationships with of major political events occurring in Egypt.
supports Egypts development of a modern mining code.
Political risk West Africa Maintain a detailed understanding of the The Company operates within acceptable limits.
politcal environment and key relationships where we operate.
Exploration and To ensure a progressive pipeline of greenfield The Company operates its exploration programmes within development and advance stage exploration projects to serve acceptable risk appetite parameters.
the next stage of growth for the Company.
Reserve and resource To achieve reliable and consistent production, The Company operates within acceptable risk estimate or failure to achieve whilst optimising the potential of the operation.
production estimates Litigation To minimise exposure to litigation and reduce The Company is operating within its risk appetite parameters the impact of actions.
and the mitigation in place is at an acceptable level.
31 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The groups risks may change over The operation at Sukari has a low Although the business does prepare time, as will the groups risk appetite cost-per-ounce of production plans over a longer time horizon, statement, as the external environment compared with other operating mines, notably in the Sukari life of mine changes and as operations are which contributes to the Companys models, the Company chose five years expanded into new geographical longer term viability.
for its viability statement and carried areas.
The risk management and out the review in December 2016 Integral to the long term viability review process requires regular based on this time horizon.
of the Company is the Companys monitoring of the Companys existing resource and reserves R&R and In preparing budgetary information risks and the identification of any details of Sukaris R&R can be found and forecasts, the group considers new and emerging risks facing the on the Companys website.
The R&R the principal risks and wider corporate Company, including financial and statements are supported by technical and operational risks.
Of the principal non-financial matters.
It also requires reports including the published risks identified on pages 32 to 35, the ongoing management of the TSX compliant NI 43-101 which are those with the most potential to appropriateness of the risk mitigation developed in consultation with external impact negatively upon the Companys in place.
experts and combine geological, ongoing viability include the gold Viability statement metallurgical and economic data.
price, the relationship with its joint venture partner, political risk and the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 The budget process, which pulls ongoing litigation in Egypt.
A sensitivity of the Code, the directors have heavily on the R&R data, include key analysis was carried out on the key assessed the Companys prospects assumptions related directly to our inputs to the financial and operational over the longer term, addressing a significant risks, our strategy and risk forecasts, including sensitivity analysis period of five years.
A key part of appetite and are summarised below: on the average gold price.
the directors assessment was the budget and forecast carried out in gold price assumptions: The investor presentation, together December 2016 which reviewed the management time and focus with the latest presentations can be longer term viability of the Company.
is applied to ensure a low cost viewed on the Companys website The review assessed the Companys operation, which helps Sukari remain which contain the latest up-to-date position and progress against its profitable, even in a relatively operational and financial information.
four strategic focus areas including low gold price environment.
generating free cash flow, shareholder The strategic decision to remain The management team also considers return, growth and social responsibility.
un-hedged means the Company strategic, operational and compliance The strategic focus areas are set out benefits fully in a strong gold price risks throughout the year and produces on page 20.
In addition, the Company environment.
In a weaker gold price the following reports and documents considered the potential impact on environment, the commitment for the board and audit and risk its principal risks, and also considered to cost control helps ensure committee review to support it in how its appetite for risk might affect business continuity: making the formal viability statement: the assessment.
The review includes commodity assumptions: based operational risk assessment register the Companys strategic objectives, on forecast prices, fuel represents and corporate risk matrix: business model and its prospects approximately 20% of our annual impairment review: over the coming five years to operational costs and is therefore a going concern review: December 2021. significant commodity assumption life of mine model: in both the budget process and The review, which included the development of the R&R.
This can business continuity planning: and presentation and approval of the therefore materially affect the cost monthly and annual budgets.
budget, received board approval base of the business: and and formed the basis of an investor On the basis of all the procedures production assumptions: Sukari is presentation which was released outlined above, the directors confirmed a 24-hour-a-day, seven-days-a-week on 1 February 2017.
The financial on the date of this report that they operation with an estimated plant forecasts used in the review included have a reasonable expectation that the throughput capacity is 11.75Mtpa key assumptions about gold price, Company will be able to continue in 12Mtpa from 2018.
The process future production levels, operating operation and meet its liabilities as they plant recovery rates are estimated and capital costs, cash flows and the fall due over the five-year period of to average at 89.7% in 2017. groups balance sheet and shareholder their assessment.
The operational forecasts productivity is fundamental to our included mining and process plant business and long term strategy.
throughput levels, grades and metallurgical recovery rates.
32 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued Principal risks Centamin takes a number of measures to mitigate risks associated with its underlying operational and exploration activity which are monitored and evaluated regularly.
Due to the nature of these inherent risks, it is not possible to give absolute assurance that mitigating actions will be wholly effective.
RISK CATEGORY TREND NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE STRATEGY OWNER Neutral STRATEGIC RISK The Sukari Gold Mine currently constitutes Centamins main mineral resource and Sukari Gold Mine: the project at Sukari has two distinct ore To develop a well-balanced project pipeline, Executive: sole mineral reserve and near term production and revenue.
The resource in Burkina sources open pit and underground, the processing plant has with potential to add incremental shareholder CEO Single project dependency Faso is not currently of a sufficient size to convert into a reserve.
two separate flotation circuits and two separate power stations.
value by increasing production across the group.
Whilst one project, the nature of the design of the plant provides The regional exploration of the licence portfolio Until further production growth beyond Sukari is identified the potential impact adequate mitigation and reduces the relative likelihood of in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire continues.
remains high and safeguarding the project is paramount to the Company.
dependence compared to a single layer plant design.
The second circuit of the process plant has been fully operational for over twelve months which shows the resilience of the project.
In addition, the plant is fed by both the open pit and underground operation, providing high and lower grade ore to the processing plant.
Operational activity and production is expected to continue at above nameplate capacity.
Other mitigating factors, outside the single project at Sukari, include the continued focus on longer term growth and expansion through exploration and acquisition targets both inside and outside of Egypt.
Neutral INTERNAL STRATEGIC RISK Whilst Centamin retains control over the project, the joint venture holding Maintaining relations: a key milestone was achieved this Maintaining good relations with EMRA is a key Executive: company, Sukari Gold Mines SGM, is jointly owned with EMRA with equal board year, with the commencement of profit sharing with EMRA.
objective of the Company which is achieved Chairman Sukari Gold Mine joint venture risk representation from both parties.
The board of SGM operates by way of simple Managing timing and quantum of payment of regular profit share through co-operation, regular meetings and CEO and relationship with EMRA majority.
As such, should the board of SGM be unable to reach consensus on a payments, as well as applying and interpreting certain provisions correspondence with EMRA, as well as making CFO matter requiring board level approval or in the event of any dispute that may arise of the Concession Agreement, is important in ensuring a good sure that the terms and conditions of the Operational: which cant otherwise be amicably resolved, arbitration or other proceedings may relationship with EMRA.
Future expenditure and recovery of Concession Agreement governing the mine GM need to be employed to resolve any disputes.
qualifying capital expenditure will also need to be managed, to be are fully complied with.
appropriately cost recovered by the Company.
The successful management of the Sukari Gold Mine is in part dependent on maintaining a good working relationship with EMRA.
The group has regular meetings with officials from EMRA and invests time in liaising with relevant ministry and other governmental representatives.
EXTERNAL STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The extent of the Companys financial performance is due in part to the price of The group is 100% exposed to the gold price, however, the cash The Company does not currently hedge against Executive: gold, which the Company has no influence over.
Revenues from gold sales are costs of the Sukari gold project remain low compared with the the price of gold or exposure to currencies.
CEO Gold price and currency exposure in US dollars and Centamin has exposure to costs in other currencies including industry norm.
Natural hedges against currency fluctuations CFO Egyptian pounds, Australian dollars and sterling.
are utilised wherever possible to offset foreign currency liabilities.
Centamin manages its exposure to gold price by keeping operating costs as low as possible.
Neutral INTERNAL STRATEGIC RISK The groups corporate structure includes operational activity in Egypt and West Tax exposure: the group engages tax advisers to provide local To minimise the complexity of the corporate Executive: Africa held through holding companies in Australia and the United Kingdom.
advice at an operational level as well as corporate and structuring structure ensuring tax neutrality within the CEO Jurisdictional taxation exposure Exposure to changing cross jurisdictional tax legislation could have an adverse effect advice at a corporate level.
CFO of the Companys ability to repatriate revenues.
EXTERNAL STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The Companys operational activities are primarily in Egypt a country which has been The Concession Agreement with EMRA and the Egyptian Maintain a detailed understanding of the political Executive: subject to civil and military disturbance.
Future political and economic conditions government, was declared into Egyptian Law no.
222 of 1994 environment in which we operate as well as a Chairman Political risk Sukari in Egypt could change with future governments adopting different policies that which further protects the Companys licence rights and sets the constructive relationships with government.
CEO may impact the development and ownership of mineral resources.
Policy changes applicable tax regime for a number of years.
This law received full The Company undertakes to abide by the spirit General Counsel and licensing may also impact the use of explosives, tenure of mineral concessions, parliamentary approval as required by Egyptian law.
and letter of the Concession Agreement as well taxation, royalties, exchange rates, environmental protection, labour relations, as local laws and regulations.
repatriation of income and capital.
Changes may also impact the ability to import key supplies and export gold.
The potential for serious impact should be balanced against the Egyptian governments support of Centamins investment and contribution to both revenue and development of the mining industry.
New laws have been introduced to protect and therefore encourage foreign investment which is a positive step for the country.
32 has been confirmed by Parliament, although it remains subject to a challenge in the Supreme Court.
33 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT The descriptions below describe the current status of the principal risks affecting Centamin and its operational and exploration activities together with the measures to mitigate risk.
34 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued Principal risks continued RISK CATEGORY TREND NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE STRATEGY OWNER EXTERNAL STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The Company operates in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
There are no assurances Policies have developed over many years to encourage foreign Maintain relationships with all key stakeholders, Executive: that future political and economic conditions in these countries will not result in the investment and the development of mining operations, which including regional governments, land owners CEO Political risk West Africa governments adopting different policies in respect to foreign development and continues to be the focus of governments in these regions.
The Company meets its General Counsel ownership of exploration and exploitation licences.
Centamin actively monitors legal and political developments, environmental and operational commitments engaging in dialogue with relevant government and legal policy set out in the permits grants and local laws Operational: makers to discuss all key legal and regulatory developments.
GM Neutral INTERNAL OPERATIONAL RISK Mineral resource and reserve figures are prepared by Centamin personnel and Management has implemented processes to continuously monitor To achieve reliable and consistent production, Executive: reviewed by externally appointed independent geologists.
By their nature, mineral and evaluate the current life of the Sukari Gold Mine, mine whilst optimising the potential of the operation.
CEO Reserve and resource estimate resources and reserves are estimates based on a range of assumptions, including plans and production targets.
The most recent technical update The Company provides timely and accurate Operational: geological, metallurgical technical and economic factors.
Other variables include was completed in Form 43-101 dated 23 October 2015 and is information to the market on production levels GM expected costs, inflation rates, gold price and production outputs.
There can be no available at www.
guarantee that the anticipated tonnages or grades expected by Centamin will be achieved both from the underground operation or open pit.
INTERNAL OPERATIONAL RISK Neutral Time and costs of exploration activity are recognised as exploration and evaluation The exploration for precious metal may not be successful To ensure a progressive pipeline of greenfield Executive: assets E&E assets on the balance sheet.
E&E assets continue to be carried on and are highly speculative in nature.
Before undertaking any and advance stage exploration projects to serve CEO Exploration development the balance sheet where there is ongoing planned activity and the right of tenure exploration projects a full risk assessment in undertaken covering the next stage of growth for the Company.
country risk, industry risks as well as a detailed technical review Ensure systematic exploration programmes are Operational: of the underlying geological data available.
Management There can be no guarantee that an exploration project progresses to an economic carried out with costs attributed to licence areas GM implements systematic drilling programmes across its exploration resource and therefore there remains a risk that E&E assets are partially or fully and prospects so that they can be assessed projects, with costs aggregated appropriately to licence areas impaired during a financial period where either a decision is made to discontinue for impairment.
a project or no further activity is scheduled.
Improved INTERNAL OPERATIONAL RISK Centamin prepares annual estimates for future gold production from the Sukari Gold The realisation of production estimates are dependent on, To achieve reliable and consistent production, Executive: Mine.
There can be no assurance that Centamin will achieve its production estimates amongst other things: the accuracy of mineral reserve and whilst optimising the potential of the operation.
CEO Failure to achieve and such failure could have a material and adverse effect on Centamins future resource estimates: the accuracy of assumptions regarding The Company provides timely and accurate production estimates Operational: cash flows, profitability, results of operations and financial condition.
It should be ore grades and recovery rates: the ore tonnes and grade information to the market on production levels GM specifically noted that the potential quantity and grade from the Sukari underground mined from the underground operation which are outside the and forecasts.
mine is conceptual in nature, that there has been insufficient exploration to define a current reserve base: ground conditions, skilled and motivated mineral resource and that it is uncertain if further exploration will result in the target labour force, processing capacity and maintenance policies being delineated as a mineral resource.
and logistics for consumables and parts.
Whilst there can be no certainties, production to date has provided confidence in managements estimation and mine planning methods and with the fully operational expanded processing plant, the prospect of improvements in reliable forecasting is increased.
Neutral EXTERNAL OPERATIONAL RISK Centamins finances, and its ability to operate in Egypt, may be severely adversely In order to mitigate this risk Centamin has a taken appropriate To minimise exposure to litigation and reduce Executive: affected by current and any future litigation proceedings and it is possible that legal advice and continues actively to pursue its legal rights with the impact of actions by complying with all Chairman Litigation further litigation could be initiated against Centamin at any time.
Centamin is respect to its existing cases its legal advisers believe that Centamin relevant laws and regulations and to defend CEO currently involved in litigation that relates both to a the validity of its exploitation will ultimately be successful in both of these cases : and b actively and or bring any actions necessary to protect General Counsel lease at Sukari and b the price at which it can purchase Diesel Fuel Oil.
monitors activity in both court and local media for signs of any the Companys assets, rights and reputation.
legislative or similar developments that may threaten its operations, finances or prospects.
The potential for serious impact should be balanced against Centamins adherence to local laws and agreements: the Egyptian governments support of Centamins investment: Law no.
32 of 2014 that should protect Centamin against litigation by third parties: and the fact that Egypt and Australia PGMs place of incorporation have in place a bilateral investment treaty.
35 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK CATEGORY TREND NATURE OF RISK MITIGATION COMPANY OBJECTIVE STRATEGY OWNER EXTERNAL STRATEGIC RISK Neutral The Company operates in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
