106 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT The committee was encouraged by the work carried out in 2016 by management to improve the control environment through upgrades in IT systems and streamlining policies and procedures.
Dear shareholders In accordance with the Ontario Securities Commission requirements, This report provides a summary all members of the committee are of the activities undertaken by our considered financially literate pursuant independent audit and risk committee to section 1.5 of the Multilateral during 2016.
The report looks at the Instrument 52-110 and in compliance involvement of the committee in with the Code, I am the member respect of the work carried out by the with the required relevant financial external auditor, the appointment and experience as a professionally scope of the internal audit function qualified accountant.
and the development of the control environment in compliance with the The committee meetings are regularly 2014 Corporate Governance Code attended, by invitation, by the the Code.
chairman, CEO and CFO along with the company secretary and general Audit committee composition counsel.
PwC is also invited to and effectiveness attend relevant committee meetings.
Mark Arnesen The audit and risk committee has Audit and risk committee chairman Separate discussions outside of formal three independent non-executive committee meetings are regularly held directors, Mark Bankes, Edward Haslam between the external audit partner, and me as chairman.
Biographies the committee chairman and the CFO.
of the members of the committee In addition to the scheduled quarterly can be found on pages 72 and 73. meetings, the committee also meet, by All committee members attended all way of conference calls, at least once eight scheduled meetings during 2016. a quarter to review the draft quarterly and annual financial statements.
107 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT A summary of the committees responsibilities and activities carried out during 2016 are set out below: TOPICS COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES External auditor Approval of the external audit plan and assess the effectiveness of the external auditor.
Internal audit Approval of the scope of the internal audit function and review of work carried out in 2016.
New appointment Ensuring an effective hand over of responsibility to the newly appointed CFO.
Financial reporting Making recommendations to the board for the approval to the quarterly, half-year and annual results.
Reporting Review of the accelerated timetable for the production of the annual report and financial statements which were timeframes supported by improvements in monthly financial reporting and quarterly and half-yearly results.
Risk reporting Review and monitoring of the risk management processes including periodic reviews of the corporate, strategic and operational risks.
Internal controls Review of the internal control environment, to include controls over financial reporting, budgeting and reporting obligations.
Accounting for Review of the cost recovery model together with the timing and mechanism for profit sharing.
transactions Dividends Ensure the dividend proposals are in-line with the group policy and making recommendations to the board.
General Oversight for the preparation of major subsidiary accounts, the repatriation of funds through the corporate structure, the treasury policy and the re-organisation of the West African holding structure.
During the year, the committee The committee considered the action carried out an evaluation of its own plan for 2017 which included but not performance, taking into consideration limited to the following areas: the contribution to the quarterly a review of the scope of the internal and annual accounts and the risk audit function to ensure the tasks review and risk assessment process.
are aligned with the business needs: The committee also considered the support and development of its composition, the competency, the risk reporting to assist further availability and contribution of its defining the Companys risk members and did not recommend appetite: and any further changes to the board.
assisting the dissemination of key The committee considered the results messages about the Companys and noted that there were no proposed culture, attitude to risk and changes to the composition.
The board risk tolerances throughout the also conducted an evaluation of the organisation see risk management committee, its composition, experience report in the strategic report for and activities during the year and there more details.
were no proposed changes to the composition of the committee.
108 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued Significant issues highlighted during the year by the committee The following significant issues were considered by the committee during the year full details and analysis are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
TOPIC SIGNIFICANT ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS Cost recovery Accounting treatment A full analysis has been performed by Committee actions and profit management on the cost recovery model Approval of CRM.
share CRM, the timing and mechanism for Agreement on timing and mechanism of profit profit share.
sharing going forward in compliance with the CA.
The committee reviewed the approach taken in reconciling the CRM, the requirements Agreement to residual cost recovery payments under the concession agreement and the eligible for recovery in accordance with the correspondence with government EMRA concession agreement.
on the timing, payment process and allocation Management actions between the parties.
Profit share payments to EMRA and repayment of advance distributions commenced in October 2016.
Accounting for profit sharing and residual cost recovery payments.
Valuation of Accounting for Inventory is required to be carried at the lower Committee actions stores and transactions of cost or net realisable value.
For inventory Review of management accounting papers.
consumables of this nature, a write down to net realisable Monitoring the cost and timing of the planned inventory value will generally occur when the inventory system improvements.
The committee Management actions considered managements proposals in A review of inventory holding periods, respect to the valuation of inventory.
The identification of slow moving and obsolete committee agreed with management that stock was implemented by management there was no requirement for a write off if during the year.
inventory, however, in respect of inventory Inventory software systems were upgraded obsolescence, a provision of US$2.5 million in 2016 to help further identify and had been applied.
Impairment Accounting for Management has concluded that there is no Committee actions of assets transactions indication that an impairment exists, nor have The committee reviewed the papers presented other than any indicators arisen after the reporting period by management in respect to IAS 6 and IAS 36 financial and are therefore not required to perform a full and were in agreement with the conclusions assets impairment review under IAS 36. set out above.
Management actions In making the assessment as to the possibility Preparation of the impairment review for of whether impairment losses have arisen, presentation to the committee, to include the committee reviewed: the key assumptions such as: exploration and evaluation assets and forecast gold prices: activity for indicators of impairment: discount rates: managements assessment of the factors production volumes: in IFRS 6 and IAS 36 as they apply to E&E assets for Sukari, Burkina Faso and reserves and resources report: and Cte dIvoire.
Accounting Going concern The directors performed an assessment of the entitys ability to continue as a going concern at the basis of end of each reporting period.
The period of the assessment covered at least twelve months from preparation date of signing the financial statements.
In addition to the twelve month going concern consideration the directors assessed the Companys prospects over the longer term, specifically addressing a period of five years as part of the overall viability statement.
Details of the viability statement and review assessment can be found in the strategic report on page 31.
Under guidelines set out by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC the directors of UK listed companies are required to consider whether the going concern basis is the appropriate basis of preparation of financial statements.
Based on a detailed cash flow forecast prepared by management, in which any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which cash flow forecast is based, the directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.
Key assumptions underpinning this forecast include: litigation as discussed in note 21 to the financial statements: forecast gold price: production volumes: and costs and recovery rates.
These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis, which contemplate the realisation of assets and liquidation of liabilities during the normal course of operations, in preparing the financial statements.
109 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT TOPIC SIGNIFICANT ISSUE SUMMARY OF THE SIGNIFICANT ISSUE KEY ACTION POINTS Dividend Company policy Due to the strong financial position of Committee actions policy the Company and the ongoing cash flow The committee reviewed the papers presented generation from the Sukari Gold Mine, by management and recommended to the committee and the board considered the board the review and approval of the the Companys dividend policy and full year proposed interim and final dividend proposals.
The board approved Management actions an update to the Companys dividend policy Preparation of the dividend proposal whereby the board will aim to approve papers and associated cash flow projections an annual dividend of at least 30% of the and forecasts.
Companys net cash flow after sustaining capital costs and following the payment of profit share due to the government of Egypt.
Fair, balanced and understandable The committee considered these A further review of the report was questions and more and as an carried out to remove repetition The committee was satisfied that example, the committee considered where possible to further streamline the controls over the accuracy and the reporting of both the positive and the report.
consistency of the information in the less favourable outcomes this year.
2016 annual report were sufficiently The committee concluded that the For example, the increase in ounces robust.
The committee reviews the annual report was fair, balanced and of gold produced during the year control environment and is in receipt understandable having considered were sufficiently weighted against of monthly, quarterly and annual the activity of the Company during longer term growth expectations, financial and budgetary information.
the period and that users of the report as Sukaris production is optimised.
The committee is also involved in the would be able to understand our In addition, the expectations around review of all key accounting policies position, strategy, business model the exploration projects in Burkina and matters requiring judgment and overall performance which were Faso and Cte dIvoire were balanced and estimation.
presented consistently throughout the against the expected time horizon annual report.
The committee has, at the request of for advanced exploration projects to the board, also considered whether reach production.
External auditor the annual report is fair, balanced and During 2016, the Companys external is the annual report clear and understandable.
In arriving at that auditor,  understandable?
decision, the committee has been LLP PwC attended committee involved in reviewing, at an early stage, do we clearly show our business meetings to present its detailed the content of both the financial model and strategy to the audit plan and final audit review and statements and the strategic report reasonably informed reader recommendations.
The committee including the business model, the of the report?
agreed with the audit approach at the performance review and governance have we identified the key planning stage and agreed with the reporting throughout the report metrics and explained the materiality thresholds and key audit risk including the directors report.
The assessment of each component have we reflected the link by the committee can be summarised During the year the Financial Reporting between our strategy, as follows: Councils Audit Quality Review Team performance and financials?
FRC Review Team carried out a are our risk and governance is the annual report fair and review of the external audit file for the presented clearly?
There was one have the groups activities been The committee recommended that the minor recommendation and the review presented fairly in all respects?
key strategic priorities be integrated by the FRC Review Team has now does the narrative reporting fairly throughout the report to help investors been closed.
understand the linkages between risk, have we disclosed key indicators strategy and performance.
consideration was given to include narrative in the front half of the report have we applied the to ensure the key items drawn from the appropriate emphasis on the financial statements were appropriately material matters?
addressed in both the strategic and do the chairman and CEO directors reports.
reports reflect the full story?
110 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued External auditor continued The audit team visited Sukari regularly Audit rotation to carry out inventory, controls and External auditor effectiveness There has been no rotation of audit substantive testing.
PwC also visited partner since PwCs appointment The group has an established control our legal advisers in Cairo and carried in 2014, allowing for a further two environment which ensures regular out audit work at our administrative years before rotation is required.
reporting by its operating mine and offices in Egypt and Jersey.
The Companys policy is to tender exploration projects through to the the external audit every ten years.
Having carried out the evaluation, Progress was made in 2016 to improve the committee is satisfied that the Auditor objectivity and independence our stock handling and inventory audit engagement for the financial The committee continues to systems onsite, to help improve our year ended 2016 was both effective monitor the auditors objectivity and reporting and inventory management.
and added value to the group.
independence and are satisfied that PwC and the group have appropriate The committee undertakes a review of Nonaudit fees policies and procedures in place to the effectiveness of the external auditor There was no significant non-audit ensure that these requirements are at the half-year review and annual work carried out by PwC during the not compromised.
This review compares year, with the majority of the tax the original audit plan against the advisory services continuing to be Appointment of the internal auditor delivery of the audit.
The committee provided by the Deloitte LLP tax teams BDO LLP, the groups externally also reviews the process, taking in the UK and Australia.
The groups appointed internal auditor, carried account of the views of the senior policy for non-audit services sets out out a detailed review of the IT systems members of the finance team and the categories which the external throughout the group, focusing in the CFO.
A detailed questionnaire auditor will and will not be allowed detail on the IT environment.
The audit is completed by the audit committee to provide to the group and those team spent time in Egypt to evaluate to help with the evaluation process.
engagements that need pre-approval the IT infrastructure and compile Following the evaluation process, key of the group.
Fees for audit services their report.
findings are relayed to the audit partner incurred during the year amounted to and where applicable an action plan BDO LLP provided a list of US$626k, there were non-audit services and control sheet is set up to ensure recommendations to the committee carried out by PwC during the year recommendations are addressed.
which included proposals to enhance of US$15k.
Full details are set out in the IT environment and make better note 23 to the financial statements.
There has been open communication use of the existing infrastructure and Our policy on non-audit services and between the committee and the audit the system in place.
The action plan auditor independence can be found partner throughout the statutory audit and progress updates, following on our website.
and management has also worked the initial internal audit review, will directly with the audit team.
PwC has be monitored by the committee also had open access to the board throughout 2017. of directors.
IT STRATEGY IT INFRASTRUCTURE IT SECURITY IT development and resource consideration Enterprise architecture planning IT security policies Availability, capacity, and performance Logical security forecasting Administrators IT asset management Remote access Application access controls Physical security Mobile devices Data back-ups The scope of work for 2017, which was developed after consultation with the management team, the committee and BDO LLP, will develop the initial IT review and put in place an action plan to include penetration testing, which will help identify any weaknesses in cyber security.
111 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT 2017 AUDIT PLANNING Follow-up audit BDO LLP will carry out follow-up work on the reports prepared in 2015 which related to: core financial controls: and risk management.
Tendering and BDO LLP will undertake a review of tendering, contract management and payments, with the primary focus being procurement, contract at SGM.
The scope will cover: management, tendering and procurement focus on large contracts commenting on the design of, and adherence to, payments audit the overall process : contract management procedures: testing of contract payments focus on accuracy and pricing : and cash management insofar as payments are concerned.
IT penetration testing BDO LLP will undertake penetration testing in order to provide assurance over the security of Centamins IT systems.
This will cover: search for network vulnerabilities: search for web infrastructure vulnerabilities: attempt to penetrate systems using vulnerabilities: and follow-up testing to confirm fixes to issues identified.
Key financial processes A review of controls within specified key financial processes including: financial close processes: and gold book and sales cycle controls.
The committee will also monitor the Risk assessment obtain reasonable assurance that the auditors progress this year and ensure Companys assets are safeguarded The board has overall responsibility they have access to the required and that reliable financial records are for establishing risk across Centamin resources and information to complete maintained.
The committee assists through a robust risk management their scope in 2017. in developing the risk environment, system that allows for the assessment making suggestions on ways in and management of material strategic The internal auditor will make an which the business can improve its and operational risks.
In addition, the assessment each year of any significant internal reporting.
The committee board is responsible for articulating changes to the risk profile of the receives comprehensive monthly the groups risk appetite against the organisation and consider any areas of reporting information from the groups principal risks.
focus for the provision of internal audit operations and enhanced reporting in services.
The committee will ultimately The audit and risk committee monitors the event of an incident.
be seeking an independent viewpoint the risk management and internal and assurance over the internal control The following diagram illustrates the control structure implemented by environment from BDO LLP.
structure for risk review and reporting management.
It advises on significant across the organisation: changes to that structure so as to BOARD OVERALL RESPONSIBILITY FOR RISK EXECUTIVE AND MANAGEMENT AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE WORKING GROUP Review risk structure Detailed assessment of operational and effectiveness EXTERNAL AUDIT and corporate risks Review of control environment and risk statements MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES OTHER Responsibility for managing Consider risks impacting the risk framework committee objectives OPERATIONS INTERNAL AUDIT HODs to identify risks and Assess effectiveness of controls, perform risk assessment risk mitigation, risk reporting SECONDARY RISK REVIEW THIRD RISK REVIEW PRIMARY RISK REVIEW EVALUATION ASSURANCE 112 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT AUDIT AND RISK REPORT continued Risk assessment continued The assessment carried out during the Having considered the risks in detail, year, which also took note of the work the principal risks have been identified During the year, the audit and risk carried out by the internal auditor, and are set out on pages 32 to 35. committee and the board evaluated concluded that there were adequate The risks reflected in the matrix and their risk management processes and procedures, polices and controls in the mitigating actions reflect the reporting.
In evaluating the current place at an operational level and principal risks to the Company and its processes and taking advice and that the risks at a corporate level, stakeholders.
guidance from both the external taking into account the Companys and internal auditors, they have Control environment strategic objectives, had been prepared a revised and updated Full details of the risk management and adequately identified.
control environment are set out in the Targets in 2017 The updated framework will assist the strategic report.
The risk management Company to enhance reporting and The board and the audit and risk report concludes by identifying the information flows to the board and committee will use the risk framework principal risks for the business and the assist the board, aided by the audit agreement to influence the type and Companys statements on risk appetite and risk committee, in assessing the form of risk information that is currently and long term viability.
effectiveness of the Companys systems reported to management and the While the board has overall for management of material strategic board.
The board will also consider the responsibility for risk management and operational risks.
In addition, the approach taken to, and effectiveness and internal controls, the board has following reports were prepared for in, influencing the Companys risk delegated certain responsibilities the audit and risk committees review: appetite and risk culture throughout to this committee.
Activities that will comprehensive control responsibility over the adequacy be taking place during 2017 include: environment memorandum and of the internal control policies and recommendations for further embedding the risk management procedures and the effectiveness of improvement prepared by the framework within the organisation: internal financial controls and risk management team: management systems.
enhancing the reporting to monthly and quarterly reporting the board at a strategic and The key features of the control on the operational activity, operational level: environment are to ensure compliance including enhanced reporting on considering further our risk appetite with laws, regulations and other any significant operational and towards strategic risks and strategic requirements relating to external corporate issues: objectives: and reporting by the Company of financial internal audit work on IT systems continuing with its work to and non-financial information.
at Sukari and Alexandria, Egypt: improve the control environment The purpose of the risk management external audit work culminating and updating the control framework is to understand the risks in the annual and half-yearly environment memorandum.
the group faces and to manage audit report: them appropriately to enhance the The audit and risk committee and quarterly risk reporting to Companys ability to improve its the board are pleased to confirm that include analysis on corporate decision making process, deliver on its the Company remains in compliance and operational risks, mitigation objectives and subsequently improve with best practice guidelines and with including insurance cover, its performance as a mining company.
the UK Corporate Governance Code operational level 4 5 incident and relevant Canadian requirements.
During the year, the committee reporting and corrective action: and The Code contained a number of reviewed the overall control policy updates and review.
changes including an increased focus environment, including specific on how risk is governed and managed, The assessment identifies the risks financial controls and procedures.
with new provisions on the robust facing the business and we consider The committee also recommended assessment of solvency and liquidity, the annual assessment to be suitably the adoption of a new risk framework continuous monitoring of systems of robust, covering strategic and agreement to formalise the existing internal control and a statement on operational risks at a corporate level information and reporting flows business viability.
Details of our viability and risks identified at our operations in between the operation, the executive statement can be found on page 31 Egypt, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
management team and the committees and our going concern statement can and board.
113 Centamin plc Annual report 2016 DIRECTORS REPORT The committee was encouraged by the Controls over financial reports The committee recommends to the developments during the year, which and financial statements board the appointment of PwC as included the following: auditor at the forthcoming annual The consolidated financial statements general meeting.
PwC has expressed and annual report are prepared at upgrade of Mainpac, an accounting its willingness to continue in office the Companys head office in Jersey, system for managing the as auditor.
where the group financial controller supply chain: and chief financial officer are based.
Overview update of the 2016 The accounting information from accounting manual: As a result of its work during the year, the groups operations is provided the committee has concluded that comprehensive review of the to the head office where the ledgers it has acted in accordance with its existing board and committee are consolidated.
Appropriate terms of reference and has ensured charters and key corporate policies: reconciliations and reviews are the independence and objectivity of review of the existing supply manual performed at the level of the operation the external auditor.
A member of and a delegated authorities manual: and at the groups head office by the committee will be available at the and way of the performance of monthly, annual general meeting along with the development of a standard quarterly and annual reconciliations.
the CFO to answer any questions in template for all contracts to include Going concern and long term viability relation to this report.
The directors considered it appropriate For and on behalf of the audit and As part of the review process, it was to continue to adopt the going concern risk committee of Centamin plc.
necessary to update the existing basis of accounting in preparing corporate policy on risk and the board the financial statements.
The going adopted a revised and updated risk concern statement is detailed in full Mark Arnesen management framework agreement.
in note 3 to the financial statements.
1 February 2017 The risk management framework The statements in relation to the includes additional detail about the groups viability, over the longer term, scope and structure of an executive risk are set out in the risk management management working group, which report on page 31 and the directors will be preparing quarterly reports on report on page 114. an ongoing basis to help implement External auditor the suggested improvements following So far as each current director of the last review and internal audit the Company is aware, the auditor recommendations.
has had full access to all relevant The appointment of the internal auditor information and the committee has BDO LLP, in 2015, was an important answered any questions raised by the step in the Companys evolution, auditor allowing the auditor to carry and will help the Company and the out its duties.
committee identify any potential weaknesses in the control environment and recommend improvements for the future.
