S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Principal Risks and Uncertainties Operating as a cinema chain across nine different territories presents a number of risks and uncertainties that continue to be the focus of the Boards ongoing attention.
Cineworlds approach to risk management and internal Principal Risks Summary Strategic Risk control is designed to manage risk at all levels, of the Relevance Trend business, recognising that although we can take mitigating 1.
Technology and Data 1 2 3 4 5 actions on all risks the mitigation is not guaranteed to address the full impact of any risk.
Availability and Performance 1 4 5 possible, the Group has implements appropriate mitigation of Film Content strategies to reduce the overall risk exposure in line with 3.
Expansion and Growth of 2 3 4 5 the Boards risk appetite.
OurCinema Estate During the year the Group further strengthened the 4.
Viewer Experience and 1 3 4 5 components of the Risk Management Framework through Competition its programme of ongoing monitoring and reporting.
Revenue from Retail 1 5 ensured that the risk profile remained up-to-date and Concession Offerings accurately reflected the Groups risk exposure.
Cinema Operations 1 5 The Board undertook a formal annual review of risk 7.
Regulatory Breach 1 2 3 5 appetite, ensuring that the view it has established for each 8.
Strategy and Performance 1 2 3 4 5 of the principal risks reflects its current perspective and its willingness to accept risk in pursuit of the strategic 9.
Retention and Attraction of 1 2 3 4 5 objectives of the Group.
Full details of the Group approach Senior Management and Key to risk management are set out on page 45.
Governance and Internal 1 2 3 4 5 In addition, the Directors viability assessment has taken into Control consideration the potential impact of the principal risks in the business model, future performance, solvency and 11.
Terrorism and Civil Unrest 1 5 liquidity over the period, including principal mitigating Key actions such as reducing capital expenditure.
More details Increase about the viability assessment may be found on pages 49 Decrease to50.
No significant change The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the The Groups principal risks are set out on the following principal risks facing the Group during the year, including pages together with: those that would threaten its business model, future a description of the risk and its potential impact: performance, solvency and liquidity.
The time-frame horizon examples of the current controls and mitigation: for consideration of the principal risks is aligned to the three a summary of developments in the year: year period used when considering the future viability of an indication of the direction of travel of the risk the Group please see the Groups viability statement on exposure: and page 38. an indication of the link to the Groups strategic objectives as set out on pages 12 and 13.
The specific impact of Brexit on our principal risks has been considered by the Board and Senior Management.
Whilst we remain vigilant, we do not believe the result of the EU referendum will have a significant impact on the underlying trading performance of the Group going forward based on our business, which has a proven consumer appeal through all economic cycles.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 22 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Risk Trend Technology and Data Control 1 Owner: Deputy CEO Strategic Relevance: 1 2 3 4 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend The Group continues to grow its The Group IT function monitors, The continual increase in global criminal reliance on IT systems and data.
manages and optimises our systems, cyber activity and the ongoing From online ticket sales to managing including ensuring their resilience implementation of a number of new IT financial information and everything through regular back-ups and the systems in the Group has necessitated in between, the Group is reliant on its implementation of security measures.
that the Board specifically focus on this IT systems remaining operational and Additional external experts are area continues to remain high.
Therefore, any critical system employed where necessary to oversee, enhancement in the resilience of Group interruption for a sustained period and help manage, major projects systems has occurred during the year.
could have a significant impact on the involving the upgrading or replacement All IT systems and Data have now been Groups performance.
In addition, any of key systems.
The Group continually transitioned to an outsourced data breach cyber or otherwise of data reviews its approach to information centre that is then backed up by a protection rules or security measures security, specifically controlling the secondary centre at a different location.
surrounding the storage of confidential sensitive data it holds through and proprietary information including restricted access.
movie content could result in unauthorised access, loss or disclosure of this information.
This could lead to claims, regulatory penalties, disruption of operations of the Group and ultimately reputational damage.
Risk Trend Availability and Performance of FilmContent 2 Owner: CCO Strategic Relevance: 1 4 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Underpinning the overall success of We work closely with film distributors In part due to significant global sporting the Group is the quality of the film to acquaint ourselves, as early as events, there were fewer blockbusters slate, the timeliness of release and the possible, with the upcoming film released in 2016 compared to 2015. appeal of such films to our customers.
slate in order to forecast likely film However, the level of admissions Where the film studios do not produce performance.
Although access to demonstrated there remains an sufficiently attractive films, or films the latest film slate is reliant on our undiminished appetite for cinema underperform, this has a direct impact relationship with the film distributors, attendance, especially for family titles in on cinema attendance and, therefore, the Cineworld Group strategy is to the ROW territories.
In addition, locally the principal box office revenue for the show a wide range of films over and produced movies continue to be popular, Group may decline.
above the traditional Hollywood with the top three films in Poland for blockbusters.
This allows us to reduce 2016 all being produced locally.
For the exposure to reduced attendance further information see Market Overview by meeting specific local area demand on page 8 and 9.
There is a strong film for type and content of films shown.
release programme for 2017 and, The operating flexibility of having therefore, we expect these to drive digital projection technology available continued growth in admissions.
in all our cinemas has enhanced the capacity utilisation of the Group, as digital film content can be easily moved to and from auditoriums to maximise admissions.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 23 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Trend Expansion and Growth of Our Cinema Estate 3 Owner: CEO Strategic Relevance: 2 3 4 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Growth in the estate is dependent The Group devotes a considerable The Group grew the state as a further on the development of new sites or amount of time to assessing new site eight new cinemas four in the UK and the acquisition of existing cinemas.
opportunities and this, along with four in ROW opened during the year.
Planning laws, the economic further acquisitions, is a key part of A further 441 screens are scheduled to environment, availability of capital for our future growth strategy.
We also open across the next four years, with 132 developers and location choice are maintain good relationships with scheduled to open in 2017.
For further some of the factors that may impact potential key development partners.
details see CEOs statement on pages 6 the Groups development and growth This allows us to be aware of and 7. plans.
the availability of space in new developments and to ensure factors such as local planning laws and demographic changes are understood and monitored.
Board approval is obtained for all new sites and significant refurbishments.
Risk Trend Viewer Experience and Competition 4 Owner: COO Strategic Relevance: 1 3 4 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Although cinema admissions are Our strategy is focused on continually As many as six different formats predominantly driven by the quality improving the quality of services we regularscreens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, and availability of films, ensuring that offer to customers.
This includes Superscreen and VIP auditoriums are the Group continually enhances the increasing the efficiency of online available, to give our customers the viewer experience is crucial.
Any booking, removing clutter from the widest viewing choice.
decrease in the quality of the services foyers, investing in technical we offer, from the ease of booking, innovation and premium offerings We reinforced our market-leading the technology we use, to a friendly 4DX and other large screen formats, position in technology by introducing farewell on departure, could result upgrading seating options further 4DX into a further 13 sites and IMAX into in loss of customers to competitors roll-out of the VIP offering and a further five sites for further details see and or other leisure entertainment improving retail offers.
Customer CEOs statement on pages 6 and 7. attractions.
Furthermore, the interaction with the Group outside of development of existing and new the cinema environment is also technology such as 3D television important.
We have enhanced and internet streaming has also subscription and membership introduced competitive forces as they programmes to offer added value offer alternative ways to view films.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 24 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Risk Trend Revenue from Retail Concession Offerings 5 Owner: CCO Strategic Relevance: 1 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Retail concession sales generally A key strategy for the Group is to The retail spend per customer increased fluctuate in line with admissions and maintain a strong relationship with the with a 5.1% rise in 2016.
The retail the type of film on show.
Therefore, if principal retail suppliers.
We run offering continued to expand and admissions were to fall, revenue from targeted promotions, as well as bring diversify with a further seven Starbucks retail sales could decrease.
Retail in different ranges of products to meet outlets opened during the year, taking spend may also decrease due to changing customer demand.
The the total circuit to 24 at 31 December changes in customer preferences, introduction of franchising models for 2016, with a number of further openings decreased disposable income or other some of the key suppliers has also scheduled for 2017.
The second UK VIP economic and cultural factors.
In been an important way of enhancing site was opened in the UK Glasgow addition, the price of items such as the range of offerings.
Renfrew Street and there are plans to energy and foodstuffs has a direct open additional sites where there is the impact on costs.
The ability of the appropriate market opportunity for Group to understand and react quickly further details see CEOs statement on to the changing customer need is a pages 6 and 7 and Financial Review on key part to maintaining and increasing pages 28 to 32. revenue.
Risk Trend Cinema Operations 6 Owner: COO Strategic Relevance: 1 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Operating cinemas well is pivotal to Cinema management continually There is continual improvement in the the overall success of the Group.
Key monitor their staffing requirements, operational and financial performance to this is to ensure that management making adjustments to scheduling of the Cinemas in the Group driven by understand the local market film based on customer demand, forecasts a combination of ongoing process scheduling, pricing and retail offerings, and film scheduling.
On a monthly evolution and underpinned by continual effectively manage their employees, basis, detailed operational and investment in learning and development maintain service standards, and are financial reviews are undertaken by programmes please see Resources and able to react to incidents should they cinema management teams to ensure Relationships on pages 18 to 21.
A reduction in performance in performance matches expected focus in the later part of 2016 was, any area can have a direct effect on the targets.
and continues to be, the alignment of overall viewer experience, reputation of operational processes and procedures the cinemas and ultimately the Groups of the five cinemas acquired from Empire financial performance.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 25 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Trend Regulatory Breach 7 Owner: Deputy CEO Strategic Relevance: 1 2 3 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend The Groups business and operations Management operates an ongoing The results of our cinema compliance are affected by regulations covering cinema compliance programme, programmes, health and safety such matters as planning, the supplemented by independent assessments, and wider assurance environment, health and safety compliance assurance reviews by activity continue to indicate no cinemas and construction sites, external advisers where appropriate.
significant increase in risk exposure, licensing, food and drink retailing, data Group support functions use a with standards of compliance protection and the minimum wage.
combination of ongoing staff in all areas remaining high for Failure to ensure ongoing compliance development as well as updates from further details see Resources and with regulation legislation could result professional advisers to ensure Relationships on pages 18 to 21. in fines and or suspension of activity.
management are aware of the latest regulations in key areas.
Risk Trend Strategy and Performance 8 Owner: Deputy CEO Strategic Relevance: 1 2 3 4 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Delivery of our long-term objectives A structure is in place to support The 2016 annual management requires the effective setting, effective strategy development, as conference provided the platform communicating, monitoring and well as ongoing reporting and to reconfirm the Groups strategy executing of a clear strategy.
monitoring of business performance with Senior Management and ensure on a daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly a clear understanding of execution and annual basis.
There have been changes Management performance against at a Senior Executive level with Nisan their agreed personal objectives is an Cohen CFO, Renana Teperberg CCO ongoing exercise.
and Matt Eyre COO all now holding Group-wide roles and joining the CEO There are various communication and Deputy CEO for an expanded strategies e-mails, meetings and Executive Management Team.
They are conferences used to ensure the supported by Senior Vice Presidents strategic goals of the Group are clearly who lead on specific functional areas understood and executed by Senior and support them in monitoring Management.
current business performance and looking at future strategic direction.
Risk Trend Retention and Attraction of Senior 9 Management and Key Employees Strategic Relevance: 1 2 3 4 5 Owner: Deputy CEO Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend The Groups performance and its To ensure the long-term success of the Nurturing talent across the Group ability to mitigate significant risks Group, it uses a variety of techniques is a key part of our strategy and, in within its control depends on its to attract, retain and motivate its staff, support of that, internal succession employees and senior management with particular attention to those in plays a key part with more than 50% of teams.
Therefore, reliance is placed on key roles.
These techniques include cinema management positions filled by the Groups ability to recruit, develop the regular review of remuneration internal applicants.
This success rate is and retain Senior Management and packages, share incentive schemes, underpinned by regularly-held talent other key employees.
If the Group training, regular communication with development reviews which directly loses key people this could have an staff and an annual performance link to the learning and development impact on its ability to deliver business review process.
As an overall approach programmes please see Resources objectives.
internal promotion is preferred where and Relationships on pages 18 to 21. possible.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 26 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC R C RE EP PO OR RT T uu Risk Trend Governance and Internal Control 10 Owner: CFO Strategic Relevance: 1 2 3 4 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Maintaining corporate governance The Group uses various mechanisms Continued evolution of the Groups standards and an effective and to support the implementation and risk management programme, and the efficient risk management and internal effectiveness of controls.
These delivery of supporting assurance activity, control system proportionate to the include: is providing ongoing improvements to needs of the Group is a key part of Implementation of the Group Risk the overall system of internal control short and long-term success.
Any Management Framework: please see Corporate Governance failure and or weakness in this area Ongoing self-assessment process report pages 46 to 47.
The creation financial and non-financial could for monitoring cinema compliance of a new role within the Group of have an impact on the efficient and and financial control standards: Head of Risk and Assurance in August effective operations of the Group.
Work of Internal Auditors: 2016 is a further step by the Group to Regular consultation and advice ensure ongoing compliance with its from external advisers: governance standards, risk management A risk based cinema compliance assessment and internal controls.
and financial control audit programme: The delivery of targeted risk based internal audit reviews: and The use of technology for live forensic monitoring.
Risk Trend Terrorism and Civil Unrest 11 Owner: CEO Strategic Relevance: 1 5 Description and Impact Controls and Mitigation Activity Commentary and Rationale for Trend Cinema businesses could be affected We receive communications from Incidents of terrorism across the globe by civil unrest or terrorist acts threats, relevant government authorities and means the Group continues to focus on resulting in the public avoiding going law enforcement agencies which keep this as part of its ongoing cinema to the cinemas.
This could be due to us informed and allow us, when operations.
incidents in the locations in which the needed, to monitor any potential Group operates that increase general impact external events could have on unease.
The Group may be subject to the security of our cinema estate.
an increased risk of boycott, targeted Business continuity and disaster civil unrest or terrorist action threat as recovery plans are in place to ensure a result of operating in and being that management can react linked to certain countries or types of appropriately should an incident occur film.
This could adversely impact the at a Group site.
Appropriate insurance financial performance of the Group.
is in place to mitigate the financial consequences.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 27
