Strategic report Risk management Managing our risks effectively As with all businesses, Clarksons faces a number of Carrying out an annual review of the effectiveness risks and uncertainties in the course of its day-to-day of the system of internal control and risk operations.
The balance of identifying and managing management and confirming that the ongoing risks and embracing opportunities enables us to deliver process for identifying, evaluating and managing the our strategic objective: enhancing shareholder value by Groups principal risks has operated throughout the maintaining and extending our industry leadership.
The Board performs this role with advice from the audit committee.
As the worlds leading provider of integrated shipping services, Clarksons brand underpins the successful The audit committee is responsible for: delivery of our strategy.
It is imperative that the integrity Undertaking an annual review of the Groups and reputation of the Clarksons brand is preserved internal controls, including financial, operational, through effective risk management.
The breadth of compliance and risk management controls and products and services that we offer to our global clients procedures and reviewing the external Auditors report span the shipping, offshore, broking, banking, research in relation to internal control observations: and support markets and has the potential to expose us Reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the to a number of business specific risks.
Groups risk management systems and processes: Risk governance Overseeing the development of internal control The principle of individual accountability and procedures which provide assurance that the controls responsibility for risk awareness, monitoring and which are operating in the Group are effective and management is a key feature of our culture.
Overall sufficient to counteract the risks to which the responsibility for ensuring risk is effectively managed Company is exposed: and across the Group lies with the Board.
The audit Reviewing the need for an internal audit function.
committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management process on behalf of the Board.
Risk appetite The Board is responsible for the amount and type of risk The Board is responsible for: the Group is willing to accept to achieve our strategic Managing risk to deliver opportunities as a key and operational objectives.
It performs this function by element of the Companys business activities, which setting the business strategy and approving the Groups is undertaken using a practical and flexible framework, policies and procedures, enabling, where possible, providing a consistent approach to risk evaluation: a reduction in risks to the tolerance levels set by the Establishing risk management policies, key Board.
The Board further considers the inherent risk controls and procedures, which are reviewed in attributes of our business when identifying its appetite accordance with applicable regulations and best and tolerances for risk and opportunities.
practice guidelines, to ensure that they protect the Companys stakeholders and continue to be effective: and Top-down Board Oversight, Overall responsibility for the Sets strategic objectives Monitors the nature and Provides direction on the identification, Groups risk management and defines risk appetite extent of risk exposure importance of risk assessment and and internal control against risk appetite for our management mitigation of risk systems principal risks at corporate level Audit committee Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure Reviews the effectiveness against risk appetite of our risk management and internal controls systems Bottom-up Operational management Identification, assessment and Risk management process and Risk identification, assessment and Risk awareness and safety culture mitigation of risk internal controls embedded across mitigation performed across the embedded across the business at entity and divisions and functional areas business divisional level 38 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Inherent risk attributes of Clarksons business include model.
This is, of course, an ongoing process and we the following principles: continue to work hard to improve risk awareness and embed controls and procedures to mitigate risks.
We act as agents in the provision of services for The Board and senior management take a forwardand on behalf of our clients: looking approach to risk to ensure early identification, We do not own physical assets of material value: timely assessment and, where necessary, mitigation of We do not hold principal positions, other than in new and emerging risks, such that they can be exceptional circumstances with the financial division, evaluated alongside known and continuing risks.
should there be a failure of a client to meet its In addition to our regular risk management activities, the obligations during the settlement period: priority for 2017 is to continue promoting a monitoring Aside from cash held in regulated entities, we are not environment which consists of validating, monitoring required to commit material amounts of capital in the and reviewing the effectiveness of our current controls in conduct of our day-to-day business: and order to support the Board in its responsibilities.
In November 2016, the audit committee carried out its Risk appetite is at the heart of our risk management annual formal assessment of risk which was processes, since it is integral both to our consideration communicated in full to the Board, which subsequently of strategy and to our medium-term planning process.
agreed the key risks, risk appetite, controls and risk Risk appetite is a key consideration in decision-making management processes in place within the Group.
across the Group and helps us define the criteria for assessing the potential impact of risks and Viability statement their mitigation.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the revised The Groups risk appetite is formally reviewed and 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board approved by the Board annually.
has assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Risk management framework going concern provision.
Our risk management and internal control framework defines the procedures that manage and mitigate risks In carrying out their assessment, the Directors facing the business.
This framework cannot eliminate have considered the resilience of the Group with risk entirely, and can only provide reasonable, not reference to its current position, prospects and absolute, assurance against material misstatement strategy, the Boards risk appetite, the Groups or loss.
principal risks and the effectiveness of mitigating actions.
This robust assessment considers the Our risk assessment is formed in stages: potential impact of the Groups principal risks on its Identify the risks facing the Group by business sector: strategy, business model, future operational and Document risks on a centrally-managed risk register: financial performance, solvency and liquidity over the period.
Assess the likelihood of occurrence of each risk: In determining the period over which to provide its Evaluate the potential impact of each risk on the Group: viability statement, the Board took into consideration Determine the strength and adequacy of the controls revenues, cash flows, funding requirements, profits, operating over each risk: long-term time charters, the average construction Assess the effect of any mitigating procedures or period of newbuilding contracts, triennial valuations processes: of pension schemes and the duration of the majority Plot the above factors on a risk matrix: and of the forward order book.
The Board concluded that a period of three years was appropriate.
Monitor the above on a regular basis.
Based on their assessment of prospects and viability, The Board recognises that whilst it has limited control the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable over many of the external risks it faces, including, expectation that the Group will be able to continue for example, the macro-economic environment, in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due it nevertheless reviews the potential impact of such over the three year period ending 31 December risks on the business and actively considers them in 2019.
In doing so, it is recognised that such future its decision-making.
The Board also actively monitors assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that internal risks and ensures that appropriate controls increases with time and, therefore, future outcomes are in place to manage them.
cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Every year, through an integration of culture and compliance, we make further progress embedding Going concern statement our risk management approach with all employees.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to Our objectives and values are clearly communicated and prepare the financial statements on the going our training, systems, processes and internal controls concern basis, as explained in note 2.1. are developed in accordance with our risk management 39 www.
com Strategic report Risk management continued Change in risk level Slight increase in risk No change in risk Relevance to strategy S factor since 2015 factor since 2015 Principal risks The principal risks which may impact the Groups ability to execute its business strategy have not fundamentally changed since 2015, however, the likelihood of the risk occurring and mitigation in place have evolved.
The following risks, whilst not exhaustive, are a summary of the principal risks which we believe could have the greatest impact on our business.
These risks have been the subject of debate at Board and audit committee meetings.
The Board regularly reviews these risks in the knowledge that currently unknown, non-existent or immaterial risks could turn out to be significant in the future.
Risk description Mitigation Progress in 2016 Strategic our priority is to ensure that strategic decisions achieve or exceed our objectives Failure to achieve strategic objectives Frequent communication between Executive Directors, We continue to focus on delivery Due to the size and international coverage of the global Managing Directors and staff.
of our strategy through best in Group, there is a risk that our objectives are not class service in extremely The Chief Executive Officer hosts an annual meeting of communicated effectively.
There is also the risk challenged markets.
all global Managing Directors which lasts a week and that our strategy does not deliver the required and considers controls, strategy and general management.
We closely and continuously monitor expected outcomes for stakeholders.
Quarterly reviews of risks, operating and financial Growth performance of each division with divisional Managing We continuously engage with our S Directors.
clients to ensure we understand their needs and priorities and deliver See our strategy on pages Daily review of real-time financial information.
18 and 19 Reputational we remain focused on constantly strengthening our relationships with stakeholders Negative perception of the Group as a result Strict procedures over leavers to ensure no We continue our commitment of employee misuse of confidential data is removed.
to training and an ethical work information environment to promote high Employment contracts include confidentiality and Accidental or deliberate disclosure of confidential standards, consistency and a non-compete clauses.
information could have a significant reputational unified approach.
Investment in compliance, quality assurance and legal and financial impact.
functions to ensure best practices are applied People throughout the Group.
S Operational we are a value-added service provider aiming to go beyond client expectations Cyber and data security IT processes include penetration testing, use of We have had a number of Financial loss, reputational damage or operational anti-virus and firewall software, regular password instances of unsuccessful disruption from a major breach in cyber, system or changes, installation of email authentication and strict attempted cyber attacks.
procedures on granting and removing access.
Continued investment in physical External threat of hackers or viruses and sensitive Operational processes include segregation of duties, and IT controls and increased data being intercepted without authorisation.
business continuity planning and regular training.
awareness through regular internal communications has enabled us Trust S to identify and avoid actual cyber events.
Economic factors Our operations and clients are located in all major Our results show the effectiveness World trade, global GDP and other general maritime and trade centres globally and consequently of our strategy and business model economic fluctuations impact the demand for we are not dependent on any one economy.
against a backdrop of volatility in our ships.
The actions of owners and financiers also markets, particularly those affected Our business model is built on the ability to deal with have a direct impact on the supply side.
Our variable A supply demand imbalance causes fluctuations in remuneration schemes, being profit-related, mean freight rates, specifically an over-supply causes that overheads react to swings in asset values and lower freight rates and asset values.
freight rates, volumes or asset prices results in a Our activities are diversified across many productfall in the commission that the Group receives.
Consequently, as shipping and offshore are multi-cyclical markets, we benefit from any Growth S market recovery, irrespective of sector, to find opportunities in volatile market conditions and are also See economics of maritime able to take advantage of market turnarounds.
markets on pages 6 and 7 We review the performance of each office and product line on a monthly basis.
40 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Risk description Mitigation Progress in 2016 People our people are the assets of our business and are essential to our success Loss of key personnel We offer competitive remuneration and an excellent We have not lost a key team Our success depends on the experience and working environment to help us to retain staff.
during 2016. performance of our specialist teams, which in Our employment contracts include restrictive We continue to make turn maintains our excellent reputation.
covenants, appropriate notice periods and gardening significant hires.
Losing key personnel may impair our coverage leave provisions to prevent the loss of key information.
We monitor staff turnover and of a particular line of business.
We encourage teamwork across the Group, which is absenteeism and strive to also reflected in our remuneration schemes.
understand the reasons behind People S such activity.
We invest in our teams through training and promote further learning through lectures and A number of employees have encouraging personal study.
transferred locations within the Clarksons Group: accommodating Succession-planning and documentation of both the employees and the key procedures help to minimise any impact of Groups needs.
We have hired a dedicated We provide career development throughout the Group, recruitment resource in London.
Financial we target the strengthening of our balance sheet and improvement of our results Adverse movements in foreign exchange The Group hedges currency exposure through We continue to apply our hedging The Groups revenue is mainly denominated in forward sales of US dollar revenues.
We also sell US policy consistently and we have US dollars and the majority of expenses are dollars on the spot market to meet local currency forward sold a proportion of US denominated in local currencies.
The Group can therefore be exposed to adverse We continually assess rates of exchange, non-sterling movements in foreign exchange.
balances and asset exposures by currency.
Following the Brexit vote, sterling declined significantly.
If sustained, Growth S the fair value of existing hedges will decline, although sterling weakness See note 26 for financial risk would still be a net favourable movement for the Group.
management Adverse financial commitments relating All defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
Triennial valuations carried out in to pensions 2015 2016 and recently finalised by We have in-house and outsourced global pension The Group operates three defined benefit schemes independent actuaries show one experts to manage the schemes in place, including which are funded by the payment of contributions scheme had a surplus of 3.6m and monitoring fund manager performance.
There are the other two schemes had deficits Diversification of the investment funds which hold our circumstances under which a pension obligation of 1.2m and 2.1m.
Contributions can crystallise and a principal employer be forced schemes assets reduces the impact of fund into the three schemes have to settle the scheme, thereby creating a substantial performance volatility and investment risk.
reduced from 2.2m per annum to financial obligation.
Regular review of pension fund liabilities ensures future 1.2m per annum.
funding requirements can be planned.
Growth S See note 22 for employee benefits Financial loss arising from failure of a client We regularly monitor both local and global client debt Two major far eastern operations to meet its obligations levels using information from a range of sources.
have filed for court protection during the year.
Provisions are based on ageing of balances, disputes Understanding S or doubts over recoverability.
We continue to provide for doubtful debts on a prudent basis.
See note 14 for trade and other There were no unexpected losses receivables arising from a client failure during the year.
