Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The group faces a number of risks in the normal course of This summary should not be regarded as a complete and business providing a range of financial services to small comprehensive statement of all potential risks and businesses and individuals.
The group seeks to manage uncertainties faced by the group but rather those risks which these risks by: the group currently believes may have a significant impact on Adhering to our established and proven business model its performance and future prospects.
outlined on pages 8 to 11: Implementing an integrated risk management approach UK Referendum on EU Membership based on the concept of three lines of defence which is Following the outcome of the UK referendum there is likely to outlined in detail on pages 51 and 52: and be an extended period of uncertainty as the UK negotiates Setting clearly defined risk appetites monitored with clearly its exit from the EU.
defined metrics within set limits.
As a predominantly UK lender we expect the direct impact A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties which on the group to be relatively limited.
However the overall may impact the groups ability to deliver its strategy, how we impact on the group and its customers of the expected seek to mitigate these risks and the change in the perceived prolonged period of uncertainty is difficult to predict.
level of risk over the year is set out below.
The list of risks and Therefore while the outcome of the referendum vote is not uncertainties is unchanged from the prior year reflecting the considered a principal risk for the group in itself, we believe groups consistent strategy and approach.
a number of the principal risks and uncertainties have increased relative to the prior year as outlined below.
Key: No change Risk decreased Risk increased Risk Mitigation Change We seek to minimise our exposure to Credit losses credit losses from our lending by: At 31 July 2016 the group had Applying strict lending criteria when loans and advances to testing the credit quality and covenant of The loan impairment rate has customers totalling 6.4 the borrower: remained low reflecting our billion.
The group is exposed Maintaining consistent and conservative lending discipline as well as to credit losses if customers loan to value ratios with low average loan favourable market conditions.
are unable to repay loans and size and short-term tenor: outstanding interest and fees.
Lending on a predominantly secured The groups other counterparty basis against identifiable and accessible exposures are broadly unchanged In addition the group has exposure assets: with the majority of our liquidity to counterparties with which it Maintaining rigorous and timely requirements and surplus funding places deposits or trades, and also collections and arrears management placed with the Bank of England.
has a small number of derivative processes: and contracts to hedge interest rate Operating strong control and However, we believe the and foreign exchange exposures.
governance both within our lending heightened uncertainty for the UK businesses and with oversight by a economy following the referendum central credit risk team.
vote has increased the potential risk of higher credit losses.
Our exposures to counterparties are mitigated by: Further commentary on the Conservative management of our credit quality of our loan book liquidity requirements and surplus is outlined on pages 21 to 23. funding with 0.8 billion placed with the Further details on loans and Bank of England: advances to customers and debt Continuous monitoring of credit quality securities held are in notes 11 of our counterparties within approved and 12 on pages 106 and 107 set limits: and of the Financial Statements.
Winterfloods trading relating to exchange traded cash securities and Our approach to credit risk being settled on a delivery against management and monitoring is payment basis.
Counterparty exposure outlined in more detail in note 28 and settlement failure monitoring on page 128. controls are also in place.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 29 Risk Mitigation Change The majority of the groups activities are Economic environment in specialist areas where our people have Any downturn in economic significant experience and expertise.
Our conditions may impact the long-standing commitment to our proven While the performance of the UK groups performance through: business model and strong financial economy has been resilient, a Lower demand for the groups position has enabled us to support period of prolonged uncertainty products and services: our clients in all economic conditions.
is likely following the UK Lower investor risk appetite as a This assists us in our aim of developing referendum vote.
result of financial markets long-term relationships with our clients.
instability: Further commentary on the Higher bad debts as a result of The group carries out regular stress attributes and resilience of customers inability to service testing on its performance and financial the groups business model debt and lower asset values on positions to test resilience in the event is shown on pages 8 to 11. which loans are secured: and of adverse economic conditions.
Increased volatility in funding markets.
The group seeks to manage these risks by: Legal and regulatory Commitment to provide straightforward Changes to the existing legal, and transparent products and services While financial services businesses regulatory and tax environments to our clients: remain subject to significant and failure to comply with Governance and control processes to scrutiny, we believe the risks are existing requirements may review and approve new products and unchanged from the prior year.
services: Significant investment in both staff and Further information on our Failing to treat customers fairly, operating systems to ensure the group is approach to conduct risk can to safeguard client assets or to well placed to respond to changes in be found in the Sustainability provide advice and products which regulation: Report on page 35. are in clients best interests has the Investment in training for all staff potential to damage our reputation including anti-money laundering, bribery and may lead to legal or regulatory and corruption, data protection and sanctions including litigation and information security.
This applies to training for relevant employees is current, past and future business.
provided in key areas such as complaint handling: Similarly changes to regulation Continuous monitoring of key legal, and taxation can impact our regulatory and tax developments to performance, capital and anticipate their potential impact: and liquidity and the markets Maintaining constructive and positive in which we operate.
relationships and dialogue with regulatory bodies and tax authorities.
The group has a long track record Competition of trading successfully in all types The group operates in highly of competitive environment.
We continue to experience high competitive markets and we levels of competition across expect to see continued high We value our clients and build each of our business areas.
levels of competition particularly long-term relationships offering a in the Banking division.
differentiated proposition based on: Further commentary on the Speed and flexibility of service: market environment for the Local presence: Banking division is outlined on Experienced and expert people: and page 21.
Our business model Tailored, client driven product offerings.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Change The group continues to invest in its IT Technology infrastructure, information security and Maintaining robust and secure software as well as our technology teams IT infrastructure, systems and The group continues to invest to ensure we maximise the benefits of software is fundamental to allow and upgrade its IT infrastructure our investment across the group.
We the group to operate effectively, to simplify our technology also continue to invest strategically in respond to new technology, protect architecture and reduce exposure cyber defence processes and tools, client and company data and to cyber attack.
However, the customer experience improvements and counter the evolving cyber threat.
risk of cyber threats or new further strengthening of core systems.
technology impacting our Failure to keep up with changing business model remains.
The group has strong governance in customer expectations or place to oversee its major projects.
manage upgrades to existing For further information on our technology has the potential to response to cyber threats We have in place business continuity, impact group performance.
see page 54 of the Corporate crisis management and disaster recovery Governance report.
plans which are regularly tested.
The group seeks to attract, retain and Employees develop staff by: The calibre, quality and expertise Operating remuneration structures of employees is critical to the Our highly skilled people are likely which are competitive and recognise success of the group.
The loss to be targeted but we are and reward performance: of key individuals or teams confident we are able to retain Implementing succession planning for may have an adverse impact key employees.
key roles: on the groups operations and Improving our talent pipeline via our ability to deliver its strategy.
Further detail on the employee graduate and school leavers survey and our investment in programmes, and training academy in our people is outlined in the asset finance: Sustainability Report on pages Investing in training and development for 33 to 35. all staff: and Delivering leadership development programmes to develop current and future leaders for the group.
At 31 July 2016 the groups funding Funding position was strong with total available The Banking divisions access funding equal to 127% of the loan to stable funding remains key to We have further diversified our book.
This provides a prudent level of support its lending activities and the funding during the year with liquidity to support our lending activities.
liquidity requirements of the group.
The groups funding and liquidity The diversity of funding positions were prudently positioned combined with relatively long ahead of the UK referendum vote.
tenor when compared to the average duration of our lending Our funding is well diversified means we are well placed.
both by source, type and tenor.
Liquidity in our Banking division is While economic uncertainty has assessed on a daily basis to ensure the potential to impact funding adequate liquidity is held and readily markets, overall the group remains accessible in stressed conditions.
well funded and continues to have good access to a wider Our funding approach is conservative range of funding sources.
based on the principle of borrow long, lend short.
Over half of our total Further commentary on funding funding is repayable after more than and liquidity is provided on one year with an average duration of 31 pages 18 and 19.
This compares to our weighted financial analysis of our funding average loan maturity of 14 months.
is shown in note 19 on page 113 of the Financial Statements.
Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2016 31 Risk Mitigation Change Winterflood primarily acts as a marketMarket exposure maker in a broad range of exchange Market volatility and or changes traded cash securities reducing exposure in interest and exchange rates The groups approach and the to market volatility.
In addition trading have the potential to impact underlying risks are unchanged.
positions are monitored on a real time the groups performance.
basis and both individual and trading Further detail on the groups book limits are set to control exposure.
Although the majority of the groups exposure to market risk is outlined activities are carried out in the in note 28 on pages 131 and 132 The group matches fixed and variable UK, there is foreign exchange of the Financial Statements.
interest rate assets and liabilities both exposure on deposits, lending naturally, and using swaps where and funding balances as part of appropriate.
The sensitivity analysis on our banking activities as well as interest rate exposures shown in note 28 trading in foreign securities.
on page 131 shows the expected impact of interest rate changes.
The groups capital and reserves are not hedged.
Foreign exchange exposures in the Banking division are hedged using foreign exchange forwards or currency swaps with exposures monitored daily against approved limits.
Trading exposures on foreign securities are also hedged and monitored against limits.
The group does not speculate on foreign currency movements.
Stress tests are regularly performed on market risks to ensure we maintain adequate liquidity and capital even under extreme downside scenarios.
