PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THERE ARE A NUMBER OF POTENTIAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE AND COULD CAUSE THE RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM EXPECTED OR HISTORICAL RESULTS: THE MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION OF THESE RISKS ARE THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD Risk Areas of impact Mitigation Change in risk in year PROPERTY INVESTMENT RISK Underperformance of investment portfolio Cash flow  portfolio with due to: 40% of the Groups properties being outside Profitability Increased the UK.
Cyclical downturn in property market Net asset value Banking covenants Changes in supply of space and or Rental income 51% of London and rest of UK income is occupier demand derived from Government tenants.
Minimal Cash flow Increased exposure to the type of tenant who may Vacancy rate want to relocate from the UK to elsewhere Void running costs in Europe.
In-house asset management Property values enables management to highlight and address tenant disquiet.
Net asset value Poor asset management Rental income Asset management is not outsourced, property teams proactively manage Unchanged Cash flow customers to ensure changing needs are Vacancy rate met, and review the current status of all Void running costs properties weekly.
Written reports are Property values submitted monthly to senior management on, inter alia, vacancies, lease expiry profiles Net asset value and progress on rent reviews.
OTHER INVESTMENT RISK Corporate bond investments: Net asset value In advance of the referendum, the Group sold 47 million of bonds.
Underperformance of bond portfolio Liquid resources Increased DEVELOPMENT RISK Failure to secure planning permission Abortive costs Planning permission is sought only after Reputation engaging in depth with all stakeholders.
Unchanged Contractor solvency and availability Reduced Only leading contractors are engaged.
development Prior to appointment, contractors are Unchanged returns the subject of a due diligence check and assessed for financial viability.
Cost overruns Loss of rental revenue Downturn in investment or occupational Net asset value Developments are undertaken only after an markets appropriate level of pre-lets have been sought.
Unchanged Cash flow Profitability Increased construction costs Net asset value All development appraisals contain contingencies, and are subject to sensitivity Reduced Reduced analysis.
Monthly cost reports are produced development for the Executive Directors to identify and returns address potential issues at an early stage.
Cost overruns TAXATION RISK Increases in tax rates or changes to the Cash flow The Group monitors legislative proposals and basis of taxation consults external advisors to understand and Profitability Reduced mitigate the effects of any such change.
Net asset value 28 STRATEGIC REPORT Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Risk Areas of impact Mitigation Change in risk in year SUSTAINABILITY RISK Increasing building regulation Rental income Continual assessment of all properties against and obsolescence emerging regulatory changes.
Fit-out and Unchanged Cash flow refurbishment projects benchmarked against Vacancy rate third party schemes.
Net asset value Profitability Liquid resources Increasing energy costs and regulation Net asset value Investment in energy efficient plant and building mounted renewable energy systems.
Unchanged Profitability Liquid resources FUNDING RISK Unavailability of financing at Cost of borrowing The Group has a dedicated treasury team acceptable prices and relationships are maintained with some Unchanged Ability to invest 24 banks, thus reducing credit and liquidity risk.
or develop The exposure on refinancing debt is mitigated by the lack of concentration in maturities.
Adverse interest rate movements Cost of borrowing 63% of borrowings are at fixed rates and 5% are subject to interest rate caps Cost of hedging Increased Breach of borrowing covenants Cost of borrowing Borrowing agreements contain cure clauses to rectify LTV breaches through part repayment Increased of the loan or the depositing of cash.
Foreign currency exposure Net asset value Property investments are partially funded in matching currency.
The difference between the Profitability Reduced value of the property and the amount of financing is generally unhedged and monitored on an ongoing basis.
Financial counterparty credit risk Loss of deposits The Group has a dedicated treasury team and relationships are maintained with some Unchanged Cost of rearranging 24 banks, thus reducing credit and liquidity risk.
facilities The exposure on refinancing debt is mitigated by Incremental cost the lack of concentration in maturities.
of borrowing POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISK Break-up of the Euro Net asset value Euro-denominated liquid resources are kept to a minimum.
Euro property assets are largely financed Unchanged Profitability with euro borrowings in the countries in which they are situated.
Impact of UK exit from the EU Net asset value 51% of rents in London and the rest of the UK are derived from central government departments.
Profitability Increased On a macro level, the Group operates in the three Availability of funding largest and most stable economies in Europe.
OTHER CORPORATE RISKS Failure to recruit and retain Net Asset Value The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews key personnel and sets individual Executive Directors Unchanged Profitability remuneration packages.
Annual reviews are performed to assess competency, training requirements, as well as employee satisfaction.
Cyber attacks Net Asset Value The Groups IT systems are protected by anti-virus software and firewalls that are regularly tested Profitability Increased and updated.
Data is periodically backed up and Reputation stored offsite.
Major health & safety incidents Profitability The Health and Safety Committee meets regularly to ensure ongoing compliance with health and safety Unchanged Reputation legislation as well as undertaking periodic risk assessments across the business.
TERRORISM Security threat attack Net Asset Value The Group adopts appropriate security measures across the portfolio based on our experienced Unchanged Profitability Property Managers risk assessment, and takes out insurance to cover losses of rent and service charge from acts of terrorism where appropriate.
The Group has also developed a disaster recovery plan to ensure business continuity.
