I n t e r n 3 a r l d & L E i x n t e e r n a l A u d i t t n e m e g a e n a n i M L Principal Risks How we manage risk How we manage risk Building a more effective risk management The Board sets the policy for managing risk in the business.
It recognises the importance of having process will be an important contributor effective processes and procedures for identifying, actively monitoring, mitigating and managing the to the recovery of the Group financial and non-financial risks facing the Group.
By regularly reviewing the principal risks reported across the Group by businesses and functions, and satisfying itself that these risks are managed within the Groups stated risk appetite, the Board ensures that the Groups risk exposure remains appropriate Issues experienced during 2016 The risk management process described in the and that this links to the effective delivery of its The Board recognises that its risk management following section, together with the statements of strategic objectives.
process was not fully effective during 2016, as Group Principal Risks, their impact and mitigations, is multiple independent execution, contract and presented to provide details of the intended controls.
The Board has ultimate accountability for the market related risks crystallised during an exceptional It is recognised that the process in operation in execution of risk management systems and internal period.
Whilst a full review has not been undertaken, 2016 was insufficient to effectively manage risk controls, with the Risk Committee, comprising it is obvious that the implementation of certain in the Group.
members of the Group Executive, responsible controls requires strengthening.
The Board takes this for overseeing execution of risk management issue very seriously, and corrective actions are being throughout the Group.
From 2017 a new Risk developed to ensure that adequate controls are in Committee, as a formal Board sub-committee operation throughout the Group.
will be created, further strengthening the process.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the detailed monitoring and reviewing of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems to the Audit Committee.
Assurance over the effectiveness of these systems is provided by a combination of regular management reporting to the Audit Committee.
For the Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector, which holds classified US Defence programs and so operates under a US DoD Special Security Arrangement SSA, specific assurances and authorised assurance reports are given by representatives of the SSA Board.
The Groups CEO and CFO both sit on the Board of the SSA, as described on page 51.
Improvements to the effectiveness of governance and assurance procedures between the Monitoring Risks & Group and the SSA are regularly reviewed.
& Reporting Actions The process for monitoring and controlling risk, illustrated in the diagram on the left, emphasises ERM ongoing evaluation and monitoring by the management teams at each appropriate entity level: Business unit, Sector, specialist function and at Group level.
The Groups Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework is structured to ensure that risks are identified promptly by management teams, to support the achievement of their strategic Policy & objectives and to ensure that they are mitigated Controls and managed appropriately in support of the delivery of the Groups strategic plan.
Risks are categorised in terms of inherent risk before mitigation and current risk after existing mitigation.
This allows the Group to identify risks that are heavily dependent on internal mitigating controls and to allocate resources appropriately.
com Cobham plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 l t a s n 1 o i t a r e p O F 2 u n n d c t L i i o n n s e STRATEGIC REPORT The risks identified are documented and measured, There is a more assertive appetite for areas of In addition, in making their assessment, the including the ownership of individual risks.
Data Strategic risk including the promotion of growth, Board has taken into account the potential impacts from this process has been aggregated and themed, for example in business and product portfolios, all of the matters referred to in the announcement reviewed under the Governance structure outlined and in the strategic planning processes.
There is on 16 February and also of the principal risk events above and has been used as the basis for the Groups a conservative appetite for Compliance risk.
identified in the latest semi-annual risk review principal risk disclosure on pages 36 to 39. to consider whether these could prevent the The Groups controls, mitigation activities and Group from achieving its strategic objectives.
The Group manages risk by operating a three lines associated assurance measures implemented These principal risks are described in detail in the of assurance risk and control model.
The first line reflect the risk appetite for each position.
Principal Risks section of this report on pages consists of operational management implementing 36 to 39.
Sensitivity analyses were run to model and maintaining effective internal controls and Viability Statement the financial and operational impact of plausible risk management procedures.
They are supported The Board consider viability as part of their downside scenarios of these risk events occurring by a number of Group functions which, together continuing programme of monitoring and managing individually or in combination.
These included with performance management procedures, form risk.
The Board has concluded that the most the impacts of a further deterioration in the the second line.
Internal audit, which is part of relevant time period for this review should be three macroeconomic environment, underperformance the third line in conjunction with external audit, is years, taking account of the diversity in demand in executing the Groups strategy to return to organic empowered to provide an independent assessment characteristics of its end markets.
These range from revenue growth, failure to derive targeted benefits of the effectiveness of internal controls guided by relatively long cycle businesses, such as Cobhams from the Groups operational and cash generation the risk appetite and risk management processes Aviation Services and US defence related businesses improvement initiatives, underperformance on major and procedures, as well as identifying areas for which both contain predominantly multi-year contract cost estimates and associated programme improvement.
These lines of assurance include the contracts, to the less predictable, largely commercial, management controls, the impact of a significant Groups ethics reporting system, enabling employees shorter cycle businesses, such as Cobhams SATCOM business interruption event, material movements in to raise concerns over ethics and compliance and Wireless businesses, which typically operate with foreign exchange rates and a change in regulations matters.
The internal audit function reports directly an order backlog of a few months or less.
impacting the Groups internal financing structure.
to the Audit Committee to ensure its independence Consideration was also given to the plausibility of and objectivity.
In addition, the Audit Committee On 16 February 2017, the Group provided a market the occurrence of other individual events that in takes account of the views of the external auditors.
update on a number of matters including an early their own right could have a material impact on view of 2017 guidance.
Within that statement, it the Groups viability.
Risk appetite was acknowledged that the balance sheet is not The Group has established a risk appetite baseline strong enough to properly support the operations of Based on the consolidated financial impact of the through which Cobhams risks can be managed the Group, given the important role it plays in many sensitivity analyses and associated mitigating internal with appropriate controls and assurance measures.
In light of this and following controls and risk management actions that are either Risk events can be categorised under four main the extensive balance sheet review that has been now in place, or could be implemented, the Board headings: Strategic, Operational, Reporting Financial previously referred to, the Board has updated the has been able to conclude that the Group will be and Compliance.
The Group has broken down these 2017 budget and reviewed its three year outlook to able to maintain sufficient bank facilities to meet its risk categories into a number of subcategories and assess the preferred capital structure for the Group funding needs over the three-year period provided defined its risk appetite for each.
The risk appetite the equity raise is successful.
is articulated as conservative, balanced or assertive Assessing viability across the various elements of the risk framework, The main assumption is that the Group can complete Confirmation of longer term viability with a principles based approach defining what each the equity raise of 500m as described in note 31.
If Based upon the assessment of the principal risks means for a given risk subcategory.
it is not possible to raise this level of equity, it is likely facing the company and robust downside sensitivity that the Group would seek an amendment to its key analysis, all of which are described above and on pages 36 to 39, the Board have a reasonable As shown on the risk appetite diagram below, lending covenant, net debt EBITDA and therefore the expectation that the Group will be able to continue typically there is a balanced appetite for taking risk assumption that equity can be raised is an important in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due across the Operational and Financial Reporting risk consideration in assessing the viability of the Group.
over the period to December 2019, assuming the subcategories the cost of taking the risk is weighed equity raise referred to in note 31 is successful.
This assumption is referred to in the note on page 92 in respect of the basis of preparation of these financial statements The Groups Going Concern statement is detailed on page 33.
Current risk appetite Conservative Balanced Assertive Strategic Risk Operational Risk Financial Reporting Risk Compliance Risk www.
com Cobham plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal Risks continued Risk Risk status Element Risks & Impact Mitigation appetite indicator 1.
V olatile Cobhams revenue is derived from global defence security and A review of near and long term market trends Assertive macroeconomic commercial markets.
The Groups revenues and costs are dependent will be conducted as part of the Groups annual Increasing Risk environment on a complex mix of macroeconomic, fiscal, commercial and strategic strategic planning process to ensure that actual In 2016, the defence & security imperatives.
Variations in the following factors could and anticipated impacts from macroeconomic volatility in global result in an adverse effect on the Groups results: risks are minimised and managed effectively.
Links to KPIs macroeconomic Organic revenue growth Customer demand levels: conditions had an Periodic reviews of externally sourced market Underlying Market growth rates: adverse impact on demand data, with the re-forecasting and operating profit Increased competition for new and existing business: the Groups results.
adjustment of internal planning in line with Underlying EPS growth Programme contract terminations or delays: The risk remains, and market demand.
Free cash flow Foreign exchange rates and interest rates in the various jurisdictions the impact of recent Cash conversion The Group has diversified its portfolio towards within which the Group operates: political events will Return on invested capital commercial markets, with the aim to achieve Inflation rates: increase the level of sustainable growth through economic cycles.
Global commodity prices, particularly oil & gas, iron & steel and uncertainty in the precious metals.
A culture of continuous improvement will enable Cobham to develop market leading operating The Brexit vote may lead to uncertainty in future trade arrangements performance, while reducing costs.
This will between the Groups UK businesses and the various end markets which enable Cobham to grow market share they serve.
The 2016 US Election result may lead to uncertainty in US and remain competitive in the face of volume defence spending and US relations with its principal trading partners.
declines or price pressures, whilst retaining flexibility to adjust the cost base appropriately If the Group does not anticipate changes in the various end markets to changing market conditions.
which it serves including deterioration in demand or a fundamental shift in how customers procure products and services, changes in input The Group uses financial instruments where costs, and changes in other macroeconomic factors, its business, results applicable to assist in the management of of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.
foreign exchange and interest rate risks, principally forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
Emerging issues and opportunities arising as a result of the UK decision to leave the EU and the 2016 US Election result will be monitored.
Market The various end markets served by Cobham are highly competitive.
The Group seeks to focus on areas within Balanced characteristics The Group relies on its ability to win business ahead of its competitors those markets in which its deep customer Increasing Risk and contracting through a combination of differentiated technology, contractual terms understanding and technical expertise provide In 2016, the Group environment and price.
There is no assurance that the Group will be able to maintain it with an advantage in bidding, to reduce was adversely its current market share with respect to its products or services due to the likelihood of an emergent technology or affected in a number Links to KPIs the development of competing technologies, the periodic retender and competitor affecting the competitive position.
of areas, in particular Organic revenue growth renewal of existing contracts, the inability to develop existing products Fixed price bids and projects are reviewed for with regard to fixed Underlying due to resource constraints or the emergence of new competitors.
operating profit early detection and management of issues price development Underlying EPS growth Some of the Groups revenue is derived from contracts that have a fixed which may result in cost over-run or excessive contracts.
The Free cash flow price, which generates a risk that the costs required for the delivery of a delivery risk.
Groups markets Cash conversion contract could be higher than those agreed in the contract, as a result of and the resultant The Group seeks to mitigate risks associated Return on invested capital the performance of new or developed products, schedule over-runs or contracting with the complex characteristics of its markets other external factors.
Any significant increase in costs that cannot be environment through the establishment of a Contract Policy passed on to a customer may reduce the profitability of a contract, or continue to increase which is intended to ensure that the Group even result in a contract becoming loss making.
enters into contracts with an appropriate The timing of order receipt from customers could have a material impact balance of risk and reward.
The Contract Policy on the Groups performance in a given reporting period, as the amounts ensures that contract terms are subject to payable under such contracts can be individually substantial.
Some of the Groups contracts have terms which are customary in The Groups bid and approval process and the Groups markets, that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group contract policy is applied to all bids, contracts or termination rights for the customer.
Many of the Groups contracts and development programmes to ensure that are also across international borders, leading to increased complexity a consistent approach is followed.
Appropriate trained personnel are embedded The Group is reliant on third party manufacturers and key suppliers, within the business to ensure that the to whom certain manufacturing and engineering functions are contract policy is adhered to, and that outsourced.
This results in a reduction in control over capacity delays to negotiating and agreeing contracts allocation and quality and may result in disputes regarding the are minimised.
Training is conducted for key staff with The occurrence of any or all of these factors may result in the financial responsibility for negotiating contracts.
performance of the Group being impaired, through reductions in revenue, increased costs or the emergence of unexpected liabilities.
com Cobham plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Risk status Element Risks & Impact Mitigation appetite indicator 3.
Group strategy Cobhams ability to generate profitable organic revenue growth is Carry out effective strategic planning to ensure Balanced is not executed a key strategic objective and driver of value creation.
the Group is exposed to growth markets and Increasing Risk creates value through business cycles.
The Group may fail to define and execute its strategy effectively The Group Links to KPIs and in accordance with its strategic framework, in areas such as the Continued appropriate investment in future experienced issues Organic revenue growth development of innovative products to counter disruptive technologies, technologies with alignment to identified market with strategy Underlying ensuring alignment with market, customer and investor expectations growth areas and customer needs.
execution in 2016, operating profit and the successful execution of programmes designed to integrate the and continues to face Continued focus on and investment in Underlying EPS growth Groups operations and more closely align them with market trends.
challenging market Cash conversion programme management to ensure customer conditions which Return on invested capital Key to achieving the Groups strategic objective of delivering sustainable expectations are met and that integration may impact its Voluntary staff turnover organic growth will be the ability of the business to recover from its poor programmes are successfully managed to ability to produce performance in 2016 and deliver a turnaround in 2017 and beyond.
There completion, which underpins the Groups ability improved financial is a risk that the issues which impacted the Groups performance in 2016 to grow.
performance in 2017. cannot be quickly resolved.
A cycle of budgets and forecasts together with The Group will also experience impacts on employee recruitment and tracking of actual performance including reasons retention, potential reputational damage and a reduced ability to invest for variances against plans.
Project and The Group designs, develops and delivers products and services that Lifecycle Management LCM and programme Balanced Programme are often customised, utilising complex technologies, under fixed price management procedures are intended to ensure Increasing Risk Management is contracts that can be long term in nature.
This gives rise to the risks that the Groups key contract and programme The Group continues not effective of failure to execute contracts profitably, the supply of defective or management policies and procedures are to be in a significant delayed product, the occurrence of other contractually related liabilities, applied consistently and appropriately across all phase of engineering or damage to reputation and commercial relationships.
These procedures also Links to KPIs and development provide increased focus on improvements to its Organic revenue growth Failure by the Group to execute or deliver a project or programme gives activity on various LCM and programme management capabilities.
Underlying rise to the risk of increased programme costs, damages, product liability programmes and operating profit claims, litigation and other financial liabilities, reduced future profitability platforms, in Underlying EPS growth and reputational risk.
particular the KC-46 Free cash flow development Cash conversion Poor operational performance could also lead to customers withholding programme, which Return on invested capital new and existing business from the Group.
adversely impacted the Group in 2016.
Engineering and development activity will continue in 2017.
Borrowing The Group has a capital structure that is partially funded through Cash performance and cash flow forecasts Conservative agreements borrowings from banks and other financial institutions, which incorporate across the Group should be closely monitored Increasing Risk contain covenants financial covenants that are measured on a bi-annual basis.
Delivery and regularly reviewed and reported to the The Group conducted that may not be of below target business performance and cash generation will lead to Board on a monthly basis.
a rights issue in complied with and higher than anticipated debt and gearing, ultimately leading to breaches 2016 which partially Controls and processes covering the Groups may not generate in bank covenants.
resolved the risk of treasury activities include cash policy, credit sufficient liquidity a covenant breach.
Breaches of bank covenants would lead to potential defaults under the collection policies, working capital metrics However, the Groups banking agreements, costs associated with obtaining temporary and other performance targets.
Links to KPIs business issues covenant waivers, the requirement to reduce debt through divestments Underlying EPS growth experienced during or further capital raising and ultimately the ability for the Groups lenders Free cash flow 2016 have put to assume control of the Group.
Cash conversion heightened pressure Higher debt and gearing would also lead to reduced capacity on the Groups to fund organic investment in research and development and borrowing facilities.
other critical capabilities and undermine customers and suppliers confidence in the Group.
Shortage of Key to execution of the Groups strategic plan is the recruitment, The Group undertakes workforce planning to Balanced appropriate development and retention of sufficient quality personnel to meet the ensure that skill gaps are identified and plans are Increasing Risk skills and talent needs of the business, in engineering, technical and managerial roles.
This includes ensuring A shortage of In addition, a lack of diversity particularly with regard to age within that the Groups compensation planning and suitably skilled the Groups workforce creates a risk of future skills shortage.
Insufficient review process takes into account any key Links to KPIs and experienced availability of personnel will generate a resource gap that will impair shortages and that succession planning is Voluntary staff turnover personnel, combined the Groups ability to deliver against its strategic plan.
carried out to ensure that a pipeline of suitable with the Groups candidates for key roles is maintained.
The resulting talent gap will lead to a reduced ability to execute on poor financial growth plans and key programmes, resulting in reduced customer Development programmes are undertaken to performance is confidence and an adverse impact on the Groups financial position ensure that internal candidates develop the skills affecting its ability and financial outlook.
and experience necessary to undertake more to attract and retain senior roles within the organisation.
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for information on talent management actions.
com Cobham plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal Risks continued Risk Risk status Element Risks & Impact Mitigation appetite indicator 7.
Continuous Failure to embed Continuous Improvement principles and practices within CI benefits are built into budgets with Balanced Improvement CI Business Units will reduce the Groups ability to deliver growth and progress monitored at quarterly business Unchanged and Business improvements in operational performance that are sustainable.
In 2016, the number Transformation If CI and transformation programmes are not successfully implemented, CI sustainment training has been delivered and complexity of programmes are customer expectations of improvements in operational performance will to business management teams.
business change not successfully not be achieved, leading to deteriorations in financial performance, loss of initiatives adversely executed Assessment and accreditation processes have customer confidence and reduced success in winning new business from impacted the Groups been developed to assess sites with respect existing customers.
operations and Links to KPIs to CI and to identify areas for improvement.
Organic revenue growth This will be addressed Underlying operating profit during 2017 through Underlying EPS growth reducing the number Free cash flow of centrally driven Cash conversion programmes.
V alue creating Cobham does not have capacity for any acquisition activity.
This may Focus on operational execution to pay down Balanced Mergers, result in the Group not being in a position to compete for suitable value debt and create scope for future M&A activity Unchanged Acquisitions creating M&A targets.
In addition, portfolio management activities in the medium term.
The Groups M&A and may require divestments to be executed in a subdued market and in Conducting divestments through competitive portfolio is being Divestment timescales that do not allow optimum valuations to be realised.
processes rather than through the identification managed to activity is not This will result in a reduced ability to capitalise on time sensitive of single buyers should optimise sale proceeds.
optimise the total identified and or opportunities and effectively maintain a robust M&A pipeline.
This could performance executed cause a failure to meet strategic targets, as well as reputational damage in continued which could affect the success of future acquisitions.
Links to KPIs Return on invested capital Divestments that are conducted within confined timescales may result in optimum valuations not being achieved.
Occurrence of Cobhams businesses could be impacted by natural disasters or other For the Groups larger manufacturing locations, Balanced an event leading external events affecting its operational locations or suppliers, by programmes have been implemented that seek Increasing Risk to a significant other significant events in the supply chain or by IT systems failures to meet or exceed best practice loss prevention IT security threats business including from cyber-attack, rendering critical systems or manufacturing guidance, and for its smaller locations effective continue to escalate.
interruption locations unable to function.
loss prevention programmes and incident The Group has management plans have been put in place.
The increased exposure Unscheduled interruption to business activities would result in the inability Links to KPIs Group also maintains major incident IT failure to site specific IT to deliver products to customers in accordance with their expectations.
Organic revenue growth business continuity plans.
Employees are trained risks through the This would result in reduced profits, loss of customer satisfaction, potential Underlying in relevant procedures.
additional sites that cost outlays, and reputational impact.
operating profit were acquired as Underlying EPS growth IT security and capability are monitored and part of the Aeroflex Free cash flow strengthened when needed.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance Return on invested capital cover and works with insurers and other On time delivery third party experts to ensure operating infrastructure and processes include robust risk improvement activities.
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for further details on mitigating actions against business interruption risk arising from environmental factors.
The integration Following the acquisition of Aeroflex in 2014, Cobham has focused The integration programme is subject to the Assertive benefits arising on integrating the acquired businesses into the Group.
The integration Groups comprehensive LCM review process.
Increasing Risk from the Aeroflex process is complex, costly and time consuming and the Group may To date, the full acquisition are not be able to capture all of the anticipated synergies, cost savings integration benefits not realised and other benefits in the time frame anticipated.
The integration have not been process could also cause disruptions in the Groups other businesses, delivered.
Links to KPIs including potential adverse reactions from customers or other changes Underlying to business relationships.
operating profit Failure to deliver the planned synergies and growth from the Aeroflex Underlying EPS growth Free cash flow acquisition will have a detrimental impact on the Groups financial Cash conversion performance and returns.
It could also generate a lack of investor Return on invested capital confidence, reputational damage, impairments to existing customer Voluntary staff turnover relationships and potentially in the longer term a loss of market competitiveness due to the inability to maintain investment in research and development.
com Cobham plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 C STR ORA PTE ORG A ITE C R G EO PV OR ER TNANCE Risk Risk status Element Risks & Impact Mitigation appetite indicator 11.
F ailure to comply Cobham operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject Cobham employs procedures to ensure Conservative with laws and to the laws, regulations and restrictions of many jurisdictions, notably it remains in compliance with all legal Increasing Risk regulations including those of the US and the UK as well as many other countries requirements and regulations, and continues The regulatory in which it operates.
to drive a culture that ensures that ethical, landscape in many Links to KPIs environmental, and health and safety These include anti-bribery provisions, import and export controls, tax, areas, continues Underlying operating considerations are embodied in all that it does.
government contracting rules, human rights, environmental, and health to develop.
A lack of understanding of legal and regulatory Policies and procedures are included in the Underlying EPS growth Return on invested capital restrictions in force in the jurisdictions in which it operates could lead Groups corporate framework to ensure all of to the Group being in contravention of applicable laws or regulations.
the Groups compliance requirements are met.
This is regularly reviewed and audited, including Cobhams US defence business is managed through a Special Security procedures related to the use of sales and Agreement SSA, the terms of which are agreed with the US Government.
marketing representatives, anti-bribery and The SSA is intended to ensure that the US defence business is not subject anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, to the effects of FOCI Foreign Ownership, Control or Influence.
Further whistleblowing, and investigation of ethics details of the SSA can be found on page 51.
The terms of the SSA may and compliance concerns, along with reduce the ability for the Group to effectively manage its US defence Cobhams Code of Business Conduct.
business due to reduced visibility into the business and its performance.
Mandatory training is undertaken by all Sanctions for failure by the Group, its sales intermediaries, or others acting employees on a variety of compliance related on its behalf to comply with laws, regulations and restrictions could subjects including US Government contracting include fines, penalties, legal claims, suspension or debarment of the and anti-bribery and corruption.
Group from future government contracts for a period of time, as well as having a potentially significant impact on the Groups reputation.
See the CR&S section on pages 40 to 43 for Such sanctions could also have an impact on the Groups financial position information on human rights, environmental, and future operations.
and health and safety actions.
Gov ernance Cobham is implementing an enhanced governance framework, through The ongoing review of governance is being Balanced framework determination of the Groups risk appetite and identification of the conducted in accordance with established Increasing Risk is poorly appropriate governance in each risk area to control the identified risks principles to ensure that it delivers a streamlined The business issues constructed and in accordance with the stated risk appetite.
governance framework, facilitates appropriate experienced during implemented risk taking, and drive improvements in The revised governance framework could misalign the level of constraint 2016 have performance through application of effective with the levels of risk appetite in different aspects of the Groups highlighted areas in Links to KPIs governance principles.
operations, leading to the over and under control of risks in different which improvements Underlying operating profit areas of the business.
are required in the Underlying EPS growth Groups governance This would lead to exposure to unacceptable risks in areas requiring Free cash flow framework.
During conservatism, potentially damaging shareholder value.
Conversely, Cash conversion 2017, the existing it may also prevent the acceptance of risks required in order to grow Return on invested capital review process will be the Groups business, hindering the ability to deliver an acceptable amended to ensure return on shareholder investment.
that a governance framework that is appropriate to the needs of the business is implemented.
Inf ormation Cobham relies upon its IT systems to store and process its data securely.
IT policy compliance is assessed on a quarterly Balanced assurance security If consistent data control standards are not maintained across the Group basis to ensure that processes and procedures Increasing Risk measures are in response to a growing level of cyber threats, the security of intellectual in place are reflective of all legal and regulatory Information security insufficient to property as well as customer and employee data could be compromised.
Vulnerability to data compromise measures continue to prevent data loss Corruption of embedded product data and data for external services is reviewed monthly by both internal and be strengthened to would also become more likely.
external specialists with annual audits to meet the increasing verify compliance.
Links to KPIs level of threats being Significant data breaches or losses could lead to litigation and fines Underlying operating experienced.
for breaking data privacy law and other regulations.
This would The Group is also in the process of profit result in reputational damage and potentially the loss of new and implementing enhanced IT security.
Underlying EPS growth existing contracts.
Free cash flow Cash conversion 14.
T axation liabilities Cobham is subject to corporate and other tax rules in the jurisdictions in All major transactions are reviewed by Group Balanced may be larger which it conducts its business operations.
Due to changes in tax laws and and external advisors.
Unchanged than anticipated regulations, changes in interpretation of taxation regulations, an increase Known risk areas are monitored by the Group.
Tax authorities in tax audits and challenges and the testing of interpretations through continue to assess Links to KPIs litigation, tax liabilities are being challenged and may ultimately be deemed Significant tax computations are reviewed by and challenge Underlying EPS growth inaccurate.
Tax authorities may also pursue additional taxes based on external advisors prior to submission.
significant taxation Free cash flow retroactive changes to, and interpretations of tax laws.
This could lead to increased tax liabilities in excess of those provided in the balance sheet, worsening the financial outlook of the company and result in a substantial tax payment becoming necessary, and may also result in potential damage to the groups reputation.
The deficit within The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan.
The plan is closed to The trustees of the Cobham Pension Plan seek Balanced the Cobham new entrants and future accrual, but the scheme contains a deficit which to ensure that the schemes assets and liabilities Unchanged Pension Plan is being closed through additional deficit funding.
The deficit may change remain matched, the most significant element The pension scheme may change as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, interest rates and other of which involves the acquisition of insurance deficit increased external factors.
policies that match existing liabilities.
Links to KPIs Any increase in the deficit may require additional funding to be made Underlying operating available to the pension scheme.
profit Underlying EPS growth Free cash flow Return on invested capital www.
com Cobham plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
