STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISK The Board continues to take a proactive approach to recognising, assessing and mitigating risk with the aim of protecting its employees and consumers and safeguarding the interests of the Company and its shareholders in the constantly changing environment in which it operates.
As set out in the Corporate Governance section within the it is too early to properly understand the impact on the Annual Report, the Group has policies and procedures in place business.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate to ensure that risks are properly identified, evaluated and Governance Code, the Board has taken into consideration the managed at the appropriate level within the business.
principal risks in the context of determining whether to adopt the going concern basis of accounting and when assessing the The identification of risks and opportunities, the development prospects of the Company for the purpose of preparing the of action plans to manage the risks and maximise the Viability Statement.
The Going Concern and Viability Statement opportunities, and the continual monitoring of progress against can be found on pages 25 and 26 of the Strategic Report.
agreed key performance indicators KPIs are integral parts of the business process and core activities throughout the Group.
The Group faces a number of operational risks on an ongoing basis such as litigation and financial including liquidity and The table on pages 28 and 29 sets out the principal risks and credit risk and some wider risks, for example, environmental uncertainties facing the business at the date of this Report.
Additionally, there are risks such as those These have been subject to robust assessment and review.
relating to the eurozone economy, pensions, and acquisitions They do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and investments which vary in importance depending on and are not listed in any order of priority.
Additional risks and changing conditions.
All risks disclosed in previous years uncertainties not presently known to management, or deemed can be found in the annual reports available on our website to be less material at the date of this Report, may also have an at www.
We recognise that these risks adverse effect on the Group.
These include risks resulting from remain important to the business and they are kept under the UKs recent EU referendum which could adversely affect review.
However, we have focused the disclosures on pages the risks noted under the economic and political environment 28 and 29 on those risks that are currently considered to section of the table on the following pages as well as affecting be more significant to the Group.
financial risks such as liquidity and credit.
Although the risks related to the EU referendum have been discussed by the Board, Risk Management should be read in conjunction with the Strategy and KPIsections.
See pages 8 and 9 and 12 and 13 respectively Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS CHANGE IN RISK Increased risk Consistent risk RISKS DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION HEALTH AND SAFETY HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety is our number one operational All management meetings throughout the Group priority.
We are focused on protecting peoples feature a health and safety update as their first 2015 wellbeing, as well as avoiding serious business agendaitem.
2016 interruption and potential damage to our Health and safety improvement KPIs are included reputation.
Compass feeds millions of consumers in the annual bonus plans for each of the business and employs thousands of people around the world managementteams.
Therefore, setting the highest standards The Group has policies, procedures and standards for food hygiene and safety isparamount.
in place to ensure compliance with legal obligations and industrystandards.
The safety and quality of our global supply chain are assured through compliance against a robust set of standards which are regularly reviewed, audited and upgraded as necessary to improve supply chain visibility and productintegrity.
CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS CLIENT AND CONSUMER Our business relies on securing and retaining a We have strategies which strengthen our long term SALES AND RETENTION diverse range ofclients.
relationships with our clients and consumers based on quality, value andinnovation.
2015 Our business model is structured so that we are 2016 not reliant on one particular sector, geography or group ofclients.
BIDDING Each year, the Group could bid for a large number A rigorous tender review process is in place, of opportunities.
which includes a critical assessment of contracts 2015 to identify potential risks including social and 2016 ethical risks and rewards, prior to approval at an appropriate level in theorganisation.
SERVICE DELIVERY The Groups operating companies contract with a Processes are in place to ensure that the services AND CONTRACTUAL large number of clients.
Failure to comply with the delivered to clients are of an appropriate standard terms of these contracts, including proper delivery and comply with the required contract terms COMPLIANCE of services, could lead to loss ofbusiness.
2015 2016 COMPETITION We operate in a highly competitive marketplace.
We aim to minimise this by continuing to promote The levels of concentration and outsource our differentiated propositions and by focusing on 2015 penetration vary by country and by sector.
Some our points of strength, such as flexibility in our cost 2016 markets are relatively concentrated with two or base, quality and value of service andinnovation.
Others are highly fragmented and offer significant opportunities for consolidation and penetration of the self-operated market.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors could cause a reduction in our revenues andmargins.
PEOPLE RECRUITMENT Failure to attract and recruit people with the right The Group aims to mitigate this risk by efficient, skills at all levels could limit the success of the time critical resource management, mobilisation 2015 Group.
The Group faces resourcing challenges of existing, experienced employees within the 2016 in some of its businesses due to a lack of industry organisation and through offering training and experience amongst candidates and appropriately .
qualified people, and the seasonal nature of some of ourbusiness.
RETENTION AND Retaining and motivating the best people with the The Group has established training, development, right skills, at all levels of the organisation, is key performance management and reward MOTIVATION to the long term success of theGroup.
programmes to retain, develop and motivate 2015 our bestpeople.
2016 The Group has a well established employee engagement initiative, Your Voice, which helps us to monitor, understand and respond to our employeesneeds.
28 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS DESCRIPTION EXAMPLES OF MITIGATION ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY Some sectors of our business could be susceptible With the variable and flexible nature of our cost to adverse changes in economic conditions and base, it is generally possible to contain the impact 2015 employmentlevels.
2016 COST INFLATION Our objective is always to deliver the right level of As part of our MAP framework, we seek service in the most efficient way.
An increase in the to manage inflation by continuing to drive 2015 cost of labour, for example, minimum wages in the greater efficiencies through menu management, 2016 USA and UK, or food, especially in countries such supplier rationalisation, labour scheduling and as Brazil, could constitute a risk to our ability to productivity.
Cost indexation in our contracts also dothis.
gives us the contractual right to review pricing with ourclients.
POLITICAL STABILITY We are a global business operating in countries The Group remains vigilant to future changes and regions with diverse economic and political presented by emerging markets or fledgling 2015 conditions.
Our operations and earnings may administrations and we try to anticipate and 2016 be adversely affected by political or economic contribute to important changes in publicpolicy.
instability caused, for example, by the UKs EU referendum.
COMPLIANCE AND FRAUD COMPLIANCE AND Ineffective compliance management with The Groups zero tolerance based Codes increasingly complex laws and regulations, or of Business Conduct and Ethics continue to FRAUD evidence of fraud, could have an adverse effect govern all aspects of our relationships with our 2015 on the Groups reputation and could result in an stakeholders.
All alleged breaches of the Codes, 2016 adverse impact on the Groups performance if including any allegations of fraud, areinvestigated.
significant financial penalties are levied or a The Groups procedures include regular operating criminal action is brought against the Company or reviews, underpinned by a continual focus on itsdirectors.
ensuring the effectiveness of internalcontrols.
Regulation and compliance risk is also considered as part of our annual business planningprocess.
TAX COMPLIANCE As a Group, we seek to plan and manage our tax We manage and control these risks in a proactive affairs efficiently in the jurisdictions in which we manner and in doing so exercise our judgement 2015 operate.
In doing so, we act in compliance with and seek appropriate advice from reputable 2016 the relevant laws and disclosure requirements.
Tax risks are assessed as part However, in an increasingly complex international of the Groups formal governance process and are corporate tax environment, a degree of uncertainty reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee is inevitable and we note in particular the policy on a regularbasis.
efforts being led by the EU and the OECD which may have a material impact on the taxation of all .
INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION SYSTEMS The digital world creates many risks for a global We seek to assess and manage the maturity of our AND TECHNOLOGY business including technology failures, loss of enterprise risk and security infrastructure and our confidential data and damage to brand reputation, ability to effectively defend against current and 2015 through, for example, the use of socialmedia.
future cyber risks by using analysis tools and 2016 experienced professionals to evaluate and mitigate potentialimpacts.
The Group relies on a variety of IT systems in order to manage and deliver services and communicate with our clients, consumers, suppliers andemployees.
We are focused on the need to maximise the effectiveness of our information systems and technology as a business enabler and to reduce both cost and exposure as aresult.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2016 29
