Principal risks and uncertainties Managing risks to protect value.
We have a clear plan to deliver value for all our stakeholders.
To ensure that we achieve our strategic goals and business objectives it is essential that we manage the risks that are inherent in our business and the markets where we operate.
Risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for Category of risk Risk parameters determining our risk appetite and Strategic We have a moderate to high risk appetite with regard to monitoring and reviewing the processes Moderate to high product innovation and exploring and adopting commercial and internal controls we operate to strategies that bring enhanced value to our customers and manage and mitigate the risks that could that contribute to the delivery of a higher quality of care to threaten our performance and patients around the world.
The Audit and Risk Committee supports the Board in Operational We maintain a moderate risk tolerance when assessing our monitoring and reviewing the adequacy Moderate suppliers and managing our overall production costs.
We and effectiveness of our risk strive to operate as efficiently as possible without management framework, which is compromising product quality or disturbing effective embedded in all our operations around inventory management processes.
Financial We have a low risk tolerance in respect of our financial The Board has undertaken a robust Low processes.
We maintain financial controls to help ensure that assessment of the principal risks facing our financial processes are well designed, controlled and the Company and a robust sensitivity support accurate reporting to management, the Board and analysis, as described in this section.
We also have a low risk tolerance with respect to safeguarding our assets.
Our Treasury policies Risk appetite explicitly focus on asset security as the principal concern in all The Board considers the level of risk that Treasury transactions.
We ensure that our Treasury policies is appropriate for us to accept to achieve are always supportive of underlying business activities while our strategic goals and business being prohibitive of speculation via financial instruments.
objectives on an ongoing basis.
Compliance We have an extremely low risk tolerance with respect to any Our risk appetite is summarised in the and Safety activities or conduct that are not compliant with all antitable on the right.
Extremely low corruption and anti-bribery laws.
We promote the highest ethical standards and impose such standards on all employees, agents and contractors.
Similarly, we have an extremely low risk tolerance with regard to conduct that may compromise product quality or patient and employee safety.
28ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 ConvaTec Risk management The Board has overall responsibility for The key responsibilities of Internal framework monitoring and reviewing risk exposure Audit are: The risk register, which is the basis for and for determining risk appetite.
Further To review and evaluate the efficiency the list of principal risks and information about the role and and effectiveness of all company uncertainties, was developed using both responsibilities of the Board is set out on operations and activities, including a bottom up and top down assessment pages 56 to 59.
The Board receives business practices, IT and systems of of business and strategic risks.
This risk reports from the Audit and Risk internal control.
management process was implemented Committee and monitors the risk To review operations and programmes in conjunction with the Groups initial management process.
to ascertain if results are consistent public offering in October 2016. with established objectives and goals Audit and Risk Committee and if the operations or programmes The bottom up exercise is conducted The Audit and Risk Committee has are being carried out as planned.
through discussions and interviews in responsibility for overseeing the financial To identify and recommend each of the Groups businesses.
The top reporting and internal financial controls opportunities for improvement and to down exercise includes meetings with of the Group, for reviewing the Groups monitor the implementation of senior executives.
The output from the internal control and risk management appropriate corrective action.
aggregated results of the top down and systems, and for maintaining an To report to the Audit and Risk bottom up exercises produces a list of appropriate relationship with the external Committee on a quarterly basis, principal risks that are reviewed and auditor of the Group and for reporting its provide a summary of audits agreed by the Audit and Risk Committee findings and recommendations to the completed, including any related and senior management team before Board.
Further information about the significant findings, and discuss audit being presented to, and discussed by, role and responsibilities of the Audit and directions, plans and priorities.
Risk Committee is set out on pages 63 to To conduct risk assessments 65. independently and in coordination with The risk register is reviewed and our corporate compliance department maintained on an ongoing basis by Legal and Compliance to develop annual and long range audit management, with the Board retaining Our legal and compliance function works plans.
oversight and responsibility over the risk with the Audit and Risk Committee and register and the risk management the Board to assist with compliance with Operating management process.
Depending on the nature of the laws and regulations and to ensure that Our operating management, within our risk involved, a variety of risk mitigation certain legal risks are identified on the franchises or business units, identifies measures have been implemented risk register.
In this capacity, its role is to: risks at an operational level, assesses including, for example, insurance, Evaluate alternative regulatory and those risks and, where necessary, standardised processes, delegation of non-regulatory responses to risk.
escalates them through the channels up authorities, auditing and monitoring, Provide legal awareness training or to the Board.
Management continually succession plans, diversification in training on legal aspects of the seeks to identify new risks to be included business and revenue streams.
business, including anti-bribery, money in the register.
Internal control Assess and monitor the Groups The key responsibilities of operating The Board recognises its responsibilities operations and processes to promote management are: to carry out a review of the Groups compliance with relevant laws and To carry out day-to-day risk internal controls, financial position and regulations and, where necessary, management activities.
The Board, including the Audit make recommendations for To identify risk and provide risk and Risk Committee, has accountability enhancements.
for reviewing and approving the Make reports to the Audit and Risk To implement strategy and actions to effectiveness of internal controls Committee on particular areas of legal address risk within a business area.
operated by the Group, including risk identified in the Group.
To assign risk owners to lead operational and compliance controls, risk mitigation actions.
management and compliance with the Internal Audit To assign risk owners to support UK Corporate Governance Code 2016.
Our Internal Audit function reports semi-annual risk register updates.
The risk management framework assists directly to the Audit and Risk Committee.
in the ongoing process of the Boards The Internal Audit function carries out identification, evaluation, and work across the Group acting as a third management of ConvaTecs principal line of defence following management risks.
controls and internal control measures first line of defence and the Group The Boards role in risk management internal risk management and involves: compliance functions the second line of Overseeing the Groups risk defence.
Regularly reviewing the principal risks of the Group.
Our strategy Overseeing risk management Page 24 processes.
Our markets Page 16 Our KPIs Page 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc29 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Set out below is an overview of the principal risks we believe could threaten our strategy, performance and reputation and the actions we are taking to respond and mitigate those risks.
As we listed on the London Stock Exchange on 31 October 2016, we do not report on any change in our current risk position against previous periods.
Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation Movements in exchange rates We maintain an operational Macroeconomic and Foreign between foreign currencies and the US presence in a diverse range of Exchange Risk dollar our reporting currency could geographic markets, reducing our have a negative effect on the results of economic exposure.
We could be exposed to negative our operations and financial conditions.
We have implemented economic global economic trends in certain of A negative economic climate in the key forecasting and management our geographic markets which could markets in which we sell our products reporting processes enabling us to negatively impact our strategic growth.
could contribute to reduced demand detect the development of for our products and negatively impact unfavourable trends and formulate revenue from those markets.
Negative market conditions may We have a robust strategic planning reduce the number of patients with process that provides a vehicle for access to care, resulting in decreased contemplating market and demand for our products.
regulatory developments in a Reductions in government spending manner allowing for the and or individual income could impact development of economic mitigation customers purchases of our products.
Disruptions in the financial markets We maintain a model that allows us could adversely affect our suppliers to run sensitivity analyses based on and vendors and negatively impact our foreign exchange FX movements operations through increased in order to provide management purchasing costs.
with estimates of the impact of FX The EU Referendum in the UK movements on our financial results.
Brexit has created a period of The Group has implemented economic uncertainty for the UK and appropriate oversight actions to wider economic environment which assess the potential impact of Brexit may lead to a reduction of economic and will establish mitigating actions activity.
30ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation Unforeseen reductions in We engage with governments to Governmental Social Health governmental budgets or other encourage continued government Care Policy Risk changes to government investment in government health reimbursement policy could adversely programmes.
Certain of our products, which are sold affect the demand for our products.
We continually monitor to governmental social health care Failure to monitor changes in governmental policy changes and services, could be negatively impacted government payment policies in the reimbursement guidelines in order by reductions in reimbursement countries in which we operate could to anticipate and minimise the spending, enhanced government result in financial losses.
impact of any policy revisions that audits and or unfavourable may affect us.
governmental reimbursement policies which could negatively impact our strategic growth or hinder our ability to innovate.
Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation Our competitors may secure We pursue appropriate patent Intellectual Property and intellectual property rights that disrupt protection for our intellectual Product Innovation Risk our ability to compete in certain property developments.
We deploy internal protections We are dependent on our intellectual Our proprietary intellectual property against the improper dissemination property and our continued could be subject to misappropriation of our confidential information, development of products and any by a competitor, thereby reducing our including IT protections and negative impact on this development competitive advantage.
could hinder our ability to innovate.
Governmental entities may require We deploy resources to limit the disclosure of our intellectual property scope of any mandatory disclosure which may reduce our competitive of our proprietary information to advantage or otherwise negatively governmental organisations.
We conduct global IP assessments We may be subject to litigation prior to product launches to reduce involving our intellectual property the risk of intellectual property rights which results in a negative litigation.
impact to our financial condition.
We monitor market activity to Insufficient investment in R&D, or determine whether violations of our inadequate innovation, may adversely intellectual property rights have impact our ability to compete.
taken place and to assess whether to assert our intellectual property rights.
We continue to invest in new product launches and product development drives to cultivate an adequate product pipeline.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc31 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation Regulatory approval processes could We coordinate regulatory approvals Regulatory Risk delay, or otherwise negatively impact, on an ongoing basis, including the marketing and sale of our scheduling appropriate review We operate in intensive and diverse products.
periods with regulatory bodies in regulatory regimes which are subject Failure to obtain appropriate advance of certification to change which could negatively regulatory clearances upon a change requirements.
impact our strategic growth and to a product may result in negative We maintain processes to ensure efficiency.
regulatory action impacting our ability that all regulatory and clinical trial to market and sell products.
requirements are considered and We are subject to increasing regulatory addressed prior to the launch of a scrutiny around the globe which may new product.
delay product launches or otherwise Relevant employees are trained on negatively disrupt our operations.
processes related to regulatory clearances, marketing claims related to products and regulatory inspections.
We have implemented a process to ensure marketing collateral receives thorough and adequate review prior to launch in relevant jurisdictions.
Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation Defects related to the design or We have processes throughout each Product Quality manufacture of our products may phase of product development to and Safety Risk impact the quality of goods sold and monitor product manufacturing and harm our results of operations or to implement timely corrective Defects, failures or safety or quality reputation.
issues associated with our products Failure to manage adverse events Relevant employees are trained on could adversely impact our results of appropriately could result in policies and procedures related to operations or financial condition and reputational harm, regulatory manufacturing and adverse event which could negatively impact our enforcement and or financial loss.
Defects in our products may result in We have processes in place for recalls, safety alerts, product liability managing product complaints.
We maintain records for all products containing evidence of development, testing, product and process qualification and market clearance.
32ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview01 Strategic report10 Governance53 Financial review87 Financial statements96 Other information150 Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation The health care industry is heavily We maintain top down leadership of Ethics, Bribery and scrutinised by governmental bodies compliance initiatives through a Corruption Risk around the globe and bribery, or other Compliance Steering Committee violations of anti-corruption laws, may that is comprised of senior Violations of anti-corruption laws could result in enforcement actions that may leadership.
significantly impact our financial negatively impact our financial position We operate ongoing training for all position and reputation.
employees, including an annual Enforcement actions related to bribery attestation and annual live training could result in an inability to participate for customer-facing employees.
in tenders or sell products to entities We operate a global risk assessment that are directly or indirectly team and an annual monitoring reimbursed by a governmental body.
Violations of anti-bribery laws could We perform due diligence of third result in criminal exposure for our parties, require training modules for employees and cause material distributors, audit select distributors disruption to our operations.
in high risk markets and undertake internal audit reviews of relationships with certain third parties and employee adherence to our policies and procedures relating to ethics.
Risk: Potential impact Response mitigation Inadequate protections related to the We operate an IT Steering Data Loss transfer of data stored on internal Committee deployed to assess Mistreatment Risk systems may result in our loss or theft requirements and prioritisations of sensitive or confidential data.
relating to data privacy and security.
Failure to comply with privacy and data An intentional attack on our IT systems All relevant employees are trained protection laws and regulations could may cause the loss of sensitive data.
on the maintenance and handling of impact our reputation and negatively Failure to adhere to laws and sensitive personal data.
impact our strategic growth and regulations relating to the protection We deploy processes in relevant efficiency.
of patient and or employee data may segments of the business to result in financial loss and or safeguard the security of employee reputational damage.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 ConvaTec Group Plc33
