com RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS ANDUNCERTAINTIES Countryside has policies and procedures in place for the timely identification, assessment and prioritisation of the Groups material risks and uncertainties.
This section describes how these risks are identified, managed and mitigated appropriately in order to deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
HOW WE MANAGE RISK BOARD AND AUDIT COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITY Risk identification and management is built into every aspect of Countrysides The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups risk register and the assessment daily operations, ranging from the appraisal of new sites, assessment of the of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties prepared bythe Risk Management prospects of planning success, building safely and selling effectively to achieve Committee at its meetings in February and July 2016.
TheAudit Committee long-term success through the property market cycle.
Risk management is built also considered the effectiveness of the Groups systems, and has taken into standardised processes for each part of the business at every stage of this into account in preparing the Viability Statement on the next page.
Financial risk is managed centrally through The Audit Committee reported on its findings to the Board at the Boards maintenance of a strong balance sheet, forward selling new homes and the July and September meetings, in order to support it in making its confirmation careful allocation of funds to the right projects, at the right time and in the that it had carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks.
Risk management also includes the internal controls described on pages 38 to 39 of the report sets out the Groups principal risks and within the Corporate Governance Report on page 48. uncertainties, mitigation and any change during the period.
The Risk Management Committee normally meets every quarter to review the Groups risk register.
Given the uncertainty leading up to the outcome of the EU Referendum on 23 June 2016, on the UKs continuing membership of the European Union, additional meetings were held by members of the The Board Risk Management Committee to agree appropriate mitigating actions should determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the procedures they be required.
thatare put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
More detail on the Risk Management Committees assessment oftheimpact of the EU Referendum vote is on the next page.
Audit Committee The Groups risk register is maintained to record all principal risks and has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk management and uncertainties identified in each part of the business and an appropriate internal controls: riskowner for each risk.
The risk owners conduct an analysis of each risk, according to a defined setof assessment criteria which includes: reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management andinternal control procedures: and How does the risk relate to the Groups business model and or strategy?
monitors the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and What is the likelihood of the risk occurring?
theindependence of the external audit.
What is the potential impact were the risk to occur?
Would the consequences be short, medium or long term?
Risk Management Committee Internal Audit What mitigating actions are available and which are cost effective?
is responsible for the effective undertakes independent reviews maintenance of the Groups of effectiveness of internal What is the degree of residual risk and is it within the Groups risk riskregister: control procedures: appetite parameters?
oversees the management of risk: reports on effectiveness of Has the risk assessment changed and what is expected to change management actions: and goingforward?
monitors risk mitigation and controls: and provides assurance to the The Risk Management Committee reviews the assessments made, AuditCommittee.
monitors the effective compares it to the Groups appetite for each risk, reviews the current implementation of action plans.
level of preparedness and determines whether further actions or resource are required.
In reviewing and agreeing the mitigating actions, the Risk Management Committee considers the impact of risks individually and Executive Management incombination, in both the short and the longer term.
is responsible for identification of operational and strategic risks: is responsible for ownership and control of specific risks: and is responsible for establishing and managing the implementation of appropriate action plans.
36 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT The following statement is made in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Code provision C. 2.2.
After considering the current position of the Company, the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Company over a three-year period to September 2019.
In making this statement, the Board has performed arobust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those risks that would threaten Countrysides business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks facing Countryside and how the Company addresses such risks are described in the Strategic Report and the keyrisks are summarised on pages 38 to 39 Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Although longer-term forecasts are prepared to support the strategic planning process, the nature of the risks and opportunities faced by the Group limits the Directors ability to reliably predict the longer term.
Accordingly, a three-year horizon is used to allow for a greater degree of certainty in our assumptions.
The Directors assessment includes a financial review, which is derived from the Groups annual strategic forecasts and identifies divisional business performance, expected cash flows, net debt headroom and funding covenant compliance throughout the three years under review.
These forecasts also incorporate severe but plausible downside case scenarios, illustrating the potential impact upon viability of one or more of the Groups principal risks crystallising during the period, both individually and in combination.
As disclosed in the financial statements, Countryside recently entered into a new debt facility with its funding banks, which is available throughout the three-year period under review.
A number of reasonable assumptions are included within these assessments, including: the assumption that funding facilities will continue to be available or renewed on the same or similar basis throughout the period underreview: the assumption that, following a material event, the Group would adjust its strategy accordingly to preserve cash.
This would include, inter alia, REFERENDUM ON 23 JUNE 2016 ON THE UKS suspending the purchase of land, changing the build profile of existing CONTINUING MEMBERSHIP OF THE developments or adjusting Group dividend policy: EUROPEANUNION the assumption that counterparties including local authorities and Given the considerable uncertainty in the lead up to the EU Referendum housing associations honoured the phased viability terms and conditions vote, members of the Risk Management Committee metwith the contained in a number of the Groups Partnerships contracts: and senior management of all business divisions to ensure that appropriate mitigation plans were agreed, and ready forimplementation if required, the assumption that the Group will be able to effectively mitigate risks to mitigate the full range ofpossible Brexit vote outcomes foreseen through enacted or available actions, as described in the Principal Risks by some commentators.
and Uncertainties section of this report.
The uncertainty in the market leading up to the EU Referendum The sensitivity analysis is performed based on assumptions modelled on vote lasted for two to three weeks after the vote.
This impacted the 2007 to 2009 period, adjusted for changes in Countrysides business customer confidence and, while visitor levels and gross reservations divisions, during which the housebuilding sector saw significant reductions remained largely unchanged, we did experience higher levels of in sales rates and average selling prices and illiquidity in the land market cancellations and some price renegotiation.
However, this period during a prolonged economic recession.
It considers all of our principal was relatively short-lived and we have experienced good trading risks, although our assumption that we will be able to effectively mitigate conditions from August onwards.
some of our risks leads to a greater emphasis on those risks that are beyond our control such as external macroeconomic factors.
The wider economic impacts of the EU Referendum vote may also be felt by the housebuilding industry in future, such as a slowdown Having had due regard to the sensitivity analysis, the Directors have ineconomic growth, higher imported material costs and possible concluded that we do not face a risk to our viability except in the event restrictions on foreign labour.
However, all of these risks are of highly improbable combinations of material events within the monitored and will be mitigated where possible by the Risk three-yearwindow.
Management and Executive Committees with the appropriate Based on this conclusion, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that action being taken inatimely manner.
the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment.
Ian Sutcliffe Group Chief Executive 28 November 2016 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC 37 .
com RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING THE GROUP The Groups principal risks are monitored by the Risk Management Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The table below sets out the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
Principal risks Risk mitigation Change over year Adverse macroeconomic conditions A decline in macroeconomic conditions, or conditions in the Funds are allocated between the Housebuilding and UK residential property market, can reduce the propensity Partnerships divisions.
In Housebuilding, land is purchased to buy homes.
Higher unemployment and or interest rates based on planning prospects, forecast demand and market Increase affect consumer confidence and can reduce demand for new resilience.
In Partnerships, contracts are phased and, where homes.
Constraints on mortgage availability, or higher costs possible, subject to viability testing.
In all cases, forward sales, of mortgage funding, may make it more difficult to sell homes.
cash flow and work in progress are carefully monitored to give the Group time to react to changing market conditions.
1 2 3 Adverse changes to Government policy and regulation Adverse changes to Government policy in areas such as tax, The potential impact of changes in Government policy and housing and the environment may result in increased costs new laws and regulations are monitored and communicated and or delays.
The discontinuation of Government-backed throughout the business.
No change purchase assistance programmes may adversely affect the Groups sales.
1 2 Build cost inflation Build costs may increase beyond budget due to the Use of standard house types is optimised and designed reducedavailability of skilled labour, increases in to maximise buying power.
Use of strategic suppliers to sub-contractor or material costs, errors, omissions leverage volume price reductions and minimise unforeseen No change orunforeseen technical conditions.
Robust contract terms to control costs.
2 Programme delay including rising project complexity Poor project forecasting, unforeseen operational delays due The budgeted programme for each site is approved by to technical issues, disputes with third party contractors or thedivisional board before acquisition.
Sites are managed suppliers, bad weather or changes in purchaser requirements asa portfolio to control overall Group delivery risk.
No change may cause delay or potentially termination of a project.
Weeklymonitoring at both divisional and Group level.
1 2 Inability to source and develop suitable land Competition or poor planning may result in a failure to A robust land appraisal process ensures each project is procure land in the right location, at the right price and financially viable and consistent with the Groups strategy.
No change 1 2 Our strategic priorities GROWTH RETURNS RESILIENCE 1 2 3 38 COUNTRYSIDE PROPERTIES PLC STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks Risk mitigation Change over year Poor sales performance Poor forecasting of market demand, or inability to react Market demand for design, product type and price is assessed quickly enough to changes in market demand, in terms of for each potential site prior to acquisition.
Forward sales are product, location, time and price will impact the Groups monitored closely to react to changing market conditions.
No change competitiveness and reduce sales or sales prices.
1 2 Product quality declines Failure to deliver high quality product and customer service Standard house types and strategic suppliers are used to may reduce sales, adversely affect the Groups brand and maximise maintenance of Group standards.
Regular quality reputation and potentially lead to third party liabilities.
reviews are performed at each stage of construction.
No change Customer surveys are conducted on handover of homes and results are analysed to improve product quality.
1 2 Inability to attract and retain talented employees Inability to attract and retain highly skilled, competent Remuneration packages are regularly benchmarked against people at all levels could adversely affect the Groups industry standards to ensure competitiveness.
Succession results, prospects and financialcondition.
plans are in place for all key roles within the Group.
Exit No change interviews are used to identify any areas for improvement.
1 2 3 Delays or refusals in planning Failure to secure timely planning permission on economically A planning and risk assessment is conducted prior to any viable terms is critical to the value of the Groups land bank.
Strong relations are maintained with local communities, thelocal authority and planning officers to No change best understand underlyingpolicy and planning prospects.
1 2 Inadequate health, safety and environmental procedures A deterioration in the Groups health, safety and Procedures, training and reporting are all carefully monitored environmental standards could put the Groups employees to ensure that high standards are maintained.
An environmental and contractors or the general public at risk of injury or risk assessment is carried out prior to any land acquisition.
No change death and could lead to litigation or penalties or damage Appropriate insurance is in place to cover the risks theGroups reputation.
