M I T I G A T I O N N O I T A C I F I T N P E R I D O I R I T STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES As a leading UK food producer operating in a highly competitive industry, it is critical that the Group identifies, assesses and prioritises its risks.
Following amendments to the UK The Group Risk Committee, comprising VIABILITY STATEMENT Corporate Governance Code, the Group senior management and chaired by the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK presents its Risk Management Framework Finance Director, meets four times a year, Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Board and Viability Statement in line with the and provides oversight and advice to the has assessed the viability of the Group over recommendations of the Code.
Audit Committee and Board in relation to a three year period, taking into account the current and future risk exposures and risk Groups current financial position, future RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK mitigation strategies.
prospects and the potential impact of the The Group has formal risk management principal risks outlined on pages 32 and 33 processes in place to support the RISK MONITORING PROCESS of the Annual Report.
identification and management of risks The Board formally reviews the Group risk across the business.
These are regularly register on at least an annual basis and in The Board has determined that a three year reviewed and updated for changes within addition receives a quarterly update report period to March 2019 is an appropriate period the Group, the industry and the wider on the risk profile facing the Group.
For the over which to provide its Viability Statement.
The Board is ultimately responsible year ended 31 March 2016 the risks facing This timeframe has been specifically chosen for the establishment and oversight of the the Group are broadly consistent with due to the current financial and operational Groups Risk Management Framework the previous year, with no significant planning cycles of the Group, and debt which is summarised below and discussed changes identified.
finance in place with the Groups banking further within the Corporate Governance syndicate being reviewed over a three Statement on pages 48 to 52.
After the year end the Group acquired CCL year timeframe.
Holdings Crown and its subsidiary Crown The Internal Audit function provides Chicken.
The specific risks and uncertainties The current 120 million revolving credit independent assurance to management, and facing this business will be formally assessed facility is committed until July 2018.
The the Audit Committee keeps under review the over the coming months, with any significant Group expects to agree a new extended effectiveness of mechanisms put in place to revisions to the Groups risk profile being facility well in advance of the expiry date.
This process recognises the report in the 2016 17 Interim Report.
The Directors are confident that refinancing close relationship between Internal Audit and will proceed as planned and this assumption the effective management of risk.
A Group PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES has been included within the three year risk register is in place which is generated The principal risks and uncertainties facing forecast and sensitivity analysis.
from site risk registers owned by operational the Group are summarised on pages 32 and management and also contains identified 33.
These have been considered during In making this assessment of viability, the overarching Group risks which could have a the production of the Viability Statement Board carried out a robust assessment of significant impact on the business as a whole.
However, these are not the principal risks and uncertainties facing intended to be an exhaustive analysis of the Group.
However, the Board specifically all risks currently facing the Group.
completed a detailed sensitivity analysis on risks assessed to have the highest likelihood of occurrence or the severest impact, crystallising both individually and in combination, which could affect both profitability and liquidity.
Board These are: a loss of a key customer: a RISK MANAGEMENT Responsible for the Groups system of risk significant decline in consumer demand: FRAMEWORK management and internal control and for and a reduction in overseas exports.
setting the Groups overall risk appetite.
Whilst historically the Group has achieved Audit Committee sustained annual revenue growth, the Reviews the systems of internal control Groups business model is structured so that are in place and provides assurance that there is no reliance on one particular BOARD to the Board that the processes of risk customer or revenue stream.
Specifically management and internal control are the Groups largest customer currently AUDIT COMMITTEE operating effectively.
constitutes 24 per cent of total Group GROUP RISK COMMITTEE revenue.
Also the Groups ability to flex Group Risk Committee its cost base protects its viability in the OPERATIONAL MANAGEMENT Provides oversight and advice to the face of unforeseen adverse trading or Audit Committee and Board in relation economic conditions.
to current and future risk exposures and risk mitigation strategies.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Operational Management Group will be able to continue in operation Operate site level risk management and meet its liabilities as they fall due over For more information see pages 48 to 52 processes to ensure that risks are the three year assessment period.
30 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 I S A T I O G N N I R O T I N O A M S S E S S M E N T Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 31 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board considers the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group to be as follows: Strategic Risk Risk Risk Area Pillar Description of Risk Mitigation Rating Trend STRATEGIC CONSUMER Deterioration in the UK economy may The Group offers a range of products adversely affect the activity levels of across premium, standard and value DEMAND consumers and the Groups immediate tiers which it is able to flex in response customers, leading to a fall in demand to customer and market demands.
Pork for the Groups products.
Consumer remains an extremely competitively budgets continue to remain tight.
priced and sought after product.
COMPETITOR The Group trades in highly competitive The Group maintains and develops strong markets which tend to operate without working relationships with its customers.
ACTIVITY long-term contracts being in place.
Product This is supported by delivering high levels innovation and changing consumer trends of service and quality products and by the provide a constant challenge to the future continued focus on product development success of the Group and its ability to and innovation.
COMMERCIAL RELIANCE ON A significant proportion of the Groups The Group continually looks for results are generated from a small number opportunities to expand its customer KEY CUSTOMERS of major customers and export sales.
Loss base across all product categories and & EXPORTS of all or part of the Groups business with works closely with UK and export customers one or more of these customers or loss of to ensure service, quality, food safety and export licence would adversely impact on new product developments are of the the Groups financial performance.
The Group is exposed to specific issues The Group has a trusted long PIG MEAT associated with the pricing and availability standing farming supply base which AVAILABILITY of pig meat.
An increase in pig prices, is complemented by supply from the & PRICE or a lack of availability of pig meat Groups own farms.
These arrangements would adversely impact on the help to mitigate the risks associated with Groups financial performance.
pig price volatility and supply.
FINANCIAL The Group is exposed to interest rate The Group deploys effective currency INTEREST RATE, risk on borrowings and to foreign currency hedging arrangements to mitigate CURRENCY, risk specifically on purchases of charcuterie risks associated with foreign currency LIQUIDITY & products from the European Union.
Specifically sites have access CREDIT RISK addition, the Group needs continued to the Groups overdraft facility and bank access to funding for both current balances are monitored on a daily basis.
All term debt is arranged centrally and appropriate headroom is maintained.
BUSINESS As the Group grows, businesses may Rigorous due diligence reviews are be acquired based on inaccurate carried out in advance of all new business ACQUISITIONS information, unachievable forecasts or acquisitions, using internal and specialised without appropriate consideration being external resources where required.
In given to the terms of the purchase.
addition, the existing senior management teams are generally retained to provide continuity and to facilitate integration of the business into the Group.
Considered in detail within Viability Statement 32 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC PILLAR NET RISK AFTER MITIGATION Quality Products Low risk Operational Efficiency Medium risk Sales Growth High risk Sustainability Strategic Risk Risk Risk Area Pillar Description of Risk Mitigation Rating Trend OPERATIONAL BUSINESS The Group faces the risk of significant Robust business continuity plans are incidents such as fire, flood or loss of key deployed across the Groups sites and CONTINUITY utilities, which could result in prolonged appropriate insurance arrangements are in disruption to site manufacturing processes.
place to mitigate any resulting financial loss.
Potential business disruption is minimised through multi-site operations across many of the Groups core product lines.
The success of the Group is dependent Across the Group strong recruitment RECRUITMENT & on attracting and retaining quality, processes, competitive remuneration RETENTION OF skilled and experienced labour, packages and ongoing training and WORKFORCE staff and senior management.
development plans are in place.
Specifically for senior management, robust succession planning is also in place.
HEALTH & SAFETY A breach of Health & Safety legislation The Group conforms to all relevant may lead to reputational damage and standards and regulations, and adopts regulatory penalties, including restrictions industry best practice across its sites.
on operations, damages or fines.
All sites are subject to frequent audits by internal teams, customers and regulatory authorities to ensure standards are being adhered to.
A significant infection or disease outbreak The Groups pig farming activities, and DISEASE & may result in the loss of supply of pig other farms from which third party pig INFECTION or poultry meat or the inability to move and poultry meat is ultimately sourced, WITHIN PIG HERD animals freely, impacting on the supply have a broad geographical spread to avoid POULTRY FLOCK of key raw materials into the Groups sites.
reliance on a single production area.
In addition, robust vaccination and pig herd operating procedures mitigate the risk of common diseases and infections.
The Group is subject to the risks of product The Group ensures that all raw materials FOOD SCARES and or raw material contamination and are traceable to original source and & PRODUCT potential health related industry-wide food that the manufacturing, storage and CONTAMINATION scares and similar issues.
Such incidents may distribution systems of our sites and lead to product recall costs, reputational those of our suppliers are continually damage and regulatory penalties.
monitored by experienced and well Regulation and technical guidance trained technical teams.
in this area continues to increase.
CYBER SECURITY The Group is mindful of emerging risks in The Group has a robust IT control this area specifically given the increasing framework in place, which is reviewed frequency and sophistication of cyber and tested on a frequent basis by attacks.
Various aspects of the Groups internal staff and specialist third parties.
day-to-day operations are underpinned Detailed internal financial control by a variety of IT systems.
In common procedures are also in place to reduce with other organisations the Group is the potential risk of fraudulent payment susceptible to cyber attacks and or requests being processed.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 33 STRATEGIC REPORT ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT WE CONTINUALLY EXPLORE NEW OPPORTUNITIES AND ENCOURAGE A CULTURE THAT ALLOWS INNOVATIVE, COMMERCIALLY FOCUSED IDEAS TO FLOURISH BENSON PARK WAS ESTABLISHED IN 2003 BY DAVID PARK MANAGING DIRECTOR, DAVID PARK AND COLLEAGUES TO PRODUCE BENSON PARK CHILLED COOKED POULTRY PRODUCTS.
THE BUSINESS IS LOCATED CLOSE TO OUR EXISTING FACILITIES IN HULL.
CRANSWICK ACQUIRED BENSON PARK IN OCTOBER 2014.
Predominantly supplying the food to go market, Benson Park also provides Cranswick with a strong and growing presence in the Quick Service Restaurant sector.
The investment by Cranswick has enabled us to extend the factory and make it one of the most modern cooking facilities in the UK.
World markets have been studied and new technology has been sourced to ensure we continue to operate at the forefront of the market.
The recent acquisition of Crown Chicken further highlights Cranswicks commitment to developing its profile in the poultry sector.
CHARGRILLED PREMIUM Significant investment has been made in BRITISH CHICKEN BREAST the facility over the last 18 months that has doubled capacity and improved efficiency.
Lean and healthy premium British chicken breast, flame seared for extra flavour.
34 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Highlights Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CAPITAL RETURN ON INVESTMENT M CAPITAL EMPLOYED % 34 18.5 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Cranswick plc 35
