Strategic Report Bottom up Top down Bottom up Our Risks Protecting value The effective management of our risks and opportunities, both financial andnon-financial, puts us in the best position to develop our Business whilst protecting our people, our local communities and our reputation, and hence delivering our strategic objectives.
Through regular review of risks, the Board We regularly consider the impact of global During 2016 we considered the implications ensures that our risk exposure is matched to emerging risks on our Business as well as of the result of the UK referendum to leave the EU Brexit on our strategy and this our strategy.
Overall responsibility for the risk internal emerging risks identified through was discussed with the Board.
Although framework and definition of risk appetite our bottom up risk review process.
not currently considered to be key, this rests with theBoard p44.
Our Executive The details of our key risks and how we developing risk will remain under regular Risk Management Committee ensures that respond to these are explained in more review during 2017 as the Brexit process themanagement of riskusing our common detail on pages 31 to 33.
We recognise that continues to evolve.
risk framework isembedded in we face wider risks and uncertainties that ourmanufacturing sites, market sectors, are captured and considered through One risk has been removed from the regions and functions, withallour employees ourrisk review process, some of which are keyrisks list since 2015, Identification having an important roleto play.
beyond our direct control, so we disclose andintegration of acquisitions.
Although those we consider to have the greatest remaining in the register, this is no longer impact on our Business at this moment.
considered to be key following the successful integration of Incotec.
Risk framework What we monitor How we manage it Risks that could affect our Business, customers, supply Board Audit Committee Our risk chain and communities and stop us achieving our strategic landscape Overall responsibility for the Reviews the effectiveness of the goals riskmanagement framework Group risk management process and definition of risk appetite Current risks Emerging risks Directs internal audit to Identified from those external to our Reviews keyrisks with an undertake annual assurance Business or internally which will opportunity for in depth reviews over controls for impact in the future discussion of specific key risks selectedkey risks and and mitigating controls twice a reviewsthe results p48 year p40 Risk Management Committee SHEQ Steering Committee Reviews key and emerging Reviews Safety, Health, Our risk risks quarterly Environmental and Quality categories Strategic People Process SHEQ risks quarterly Receives an in depth presentation on one key risk Considers the results andits mitigating controls ofassurance audits External environment from the Executive owner ateach over SHEQ controls meeting Monitors defined and agreedKPIs IT systems Financial and security Likelihood and impact Identify, own and manage risks What we financial, operational or regulatory involved in day-to-day operations assess Inherent risk before mitigating control activity is taken Market sectors Regions Residual risk after the effect of the mitigating control is taken into account Manufacturing sites Functions Executive Committee Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29 Strategic Report | Our Risks 2016 Key inherent risks before mitigating controls 1 Revenue generation in established and emerging markets 2 Talent development and retention 10 3 5 3 Product and technology innovation 11 6 4 Protect new intellectual property 1 5 Product liability claims 9 7 4 6 Major safety or environmental incident 8 2 7 Security of raw material supply 8 Major capital project management 12 9 Chemical regulatory compliance 10 Security of business information and networks 11 Ethics and compliance 12 Ineffective management of pension fund Low High Impact Increased risk Unchanged risk Decreased risk the Companys Business Model, Assessment of viability Long term viability statement setout on pages 06 and 07 of the The Companys financial and strategic Strategic Report, including the plansconsider key assumptions and Assessment of prospects diversification of the Companys financial metrics over the period to which In assessing the prospects of the products, operations and customer they relate.
These metrics are subject Company and determining the base, which reduces exposure to toa sensitivity analysis whichinvolves appropriate viability period, the Directors geographical and sector markets, varying a number of primary assumptions have taken account of: aswell as large customer product underlying the forecasts, and evaluating the Companys financial and combinations: and the potential monetary impact of severe strategic planning time horizons, but plausible risk combinations and likely which cover athree year period.
The the Companys strong cash generation degree of effectiveness of mitigating strategic planning process is led by and its ability to renew andraise debt actions available to the Company if such the CEO and all relevant functions facilities in most market conditions, risks did arise.
These scenarios are and sectors are involved.
The Board asset out in the Finance Report assessed relative to the financial participates fully in the process, as onpages 24 to 27. headroom available to the Company, set out on page 40 of the Directors The Directors have carried out a robust toconsider its ability to continue to report and they approved the assessment of the principal risks facing operate over the viability period.
strategic plan in November 2016: theCompany, including those that would Viability statement the strong innovation pipeline, which threaten the delivery of the Companys Based on their assessment of prospects supports the Companys business strategy, business model, future and viability, the Directors confirm that through development of new sales performance, solvancy or liquidity.
they have a reasonable expectation that growth opportunities, protection of Theserisks and how they are managed the Company will be able to continue in sales and margins, differentiates it and mitigated are described below.
operation and meet its liabilities as they from competitors and provides Theserisks are considered as part of the fall due over the next three years.
barriers to competitive entry: assessment of the Companys viability.
Croda International Plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Likelihood Low High Strategic Report Link to Strategy Key Delivering Growth Risk increase Driving Innovation No change Sustainable Solutions Risk decrease Key risk Potential impact How we respond What we have on our Business done in 2016 Failure to keep pace with our Through our global sector sales, Invested in faster growth Revenue generation customers as they follow consumers marketing and technology teams, technologies including Actives in established and into emerging markets, and increasing we identify consumer trends and inPersonal Care, crop delivery emerging markets competition from mainstream and respond swiftly to satisfy customer systems in Life Sciences and new other chemical companies looking needs through key technologies.
coating solutions in Performance tomove into our established markets Our direct selling model enables Technologies.
Developed in fast will adversely impact delivery of our usto get closer to our customers.
growth geographies, particularly strategic objective to deliver consistent Asia p09.
The vision and experience of our Reward programmes, a strong Developed a new people plan Talent development knowledgeable and specialist development culture and excellent approved by the Executive which and retention employees is critical to maintaining learning opportunities support the aligns people related activities to the Groups success.
Inability to retention and career development the business strategy and defines recruit and retain appropriately ofthe high quality teams we need.
actions to reinforce the Croda skilled people could adversely Global graduate and management culture.
Insupport of the plan impact our ability to deliver our development programmes include improved people metrics have strategic priorities.
stretching and high profile assignments been developed which are routinely and provide a pipeline of internal talent.
If these individuals were to leave, ADiversity and Inclusion plan itwould take time to replace them Annual global talent review process hasbeen approved by the Board ifno succession plans were in place.
supports review of resources and and isin the process of being succession plans for critical roles, implemented.
with actions monitored by the Executive and the Board.
Innovation plays a critical role across Our outstanding technical resources Continued to expand our Product and our operations: it differentiates us are fully integrated into our global innovation pipeline supported by technology from the competition, protects sales sector leadership teams to focus 250 open innovation partnerships innovation and improves our margins.
Failure innovation on customer requirements.
with universities, specialist research todrive New and Protected We build partnerships with customers laboratories and SMEs.
Our Products NPP through innovation and open innovation partners and acquisition of Inventiva opens up willimpact directly on growth.
invest in external acquisitions to anew delivery system for our remain at the cutting edge.
We have identified key technology platforms linked to the global mega trends p04] that will direct future innovation acquisition and development.
Failure to protect our Intellectual We have a specialist IP team who Filed patents in a number of key Protect new Property IP in both existing and participate inthe technical and areas, concentrating on recently intellectual newmarkets could undermine business planning and strategy acquired businesses and property ourcompetitive advantage.
meetings toidentify ways to protect technologies such as seed any new products and technologies.
coatings and anti-microbial They defend our IP andchallenge coatings.
third party IP where appropriate.
We sell into a number of highly Our sites are certified to demanding All sites achieved required levels Product liability claims regulated markets.
Non-compliance quality standards which are highly of Good Manufacturing Practice with our customers stringent quality valued by our customers.
A network requirements could expose us to with these is audited both internally was formed to review and liability and reputational damage by our specialist audit team and improve order picking accuracy especially in the light of our externally.
We work proactively with which has delivered commitment to sustainability.
relevant trade associations to shape improvements.
Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Strategic Report | Our Risks Key risk Potential impact How we respond What we have on our Business done in 2016 We rely on the continued sustainable Our global network of process safety Commissioned external specialists Major safety or operation of our manufacturing sites engineers and SHE specialists located to perform qualitative risk environmental at each site enforce compliance with around the world.
assessments on our Alkoxylation incident the policies and procedures defined plants, with incremental A major event causing loss of inthe Group SHE manual.
Assurance improvement actions being production, or violating safety, over mitigating controls is provided implemented.
healthor environmental regulations bythe dedicated Group SHE internal could limit our operations and In 2016 our well established Hazard audit team, whilst external audits expose theGroup to liability, cost Study Leaders Academy saw five assess compliance with OHSAS and reputational damage, especially of our process safety specialists 18001 and ISO14001 certifications.
in the light of our commitment to complete their first full year of a two Stretching sustainability targets sustainability and customer service.
year programme and a further five aresetby our SHEQ Steering starting the programme.
Committee who meet quarterly toreview progress p29.
We have business continuity plans inplace for each site and a Group crisis management plan which is tested at least annually.
An interruption in the supply of key Professional purchasing teams Introduced a global raw material Security of raw raw materials would significantly based in our regions monitor risk management policy.
All regions materialsupply affect our operations and financial supplyto identify potential future have reviewed risks associated position.
We look to develop with raw material interruption and arise from market shortages or from goodrelationships with our indepth studies of those with the restrictive legislation, for example suppliersand to agree long term highest impact have been that relating to the transport contracts.
To protect supply, we aim undertaken, with mitigating actions ofhazardous goods.
to source from multiple suppliers.
identified and progressed where Where this isnot possible, we build appropriate.
Current major strategic capital Specialist project management Audited previous capital projects Major capital expenditure programmes require teams are formed for all major against cost, schedule, quality and projectmanagement closely controlled project capital expenditure programmes financial expectations to identify management to avoid overspend with steering groups chaired by learnings which were shared with andlate delivery, both of which amember of the Executive.
the Board and other sites.
Internal wouldhave an impact on growth.
audit also undertook reviews ofcurrent capital projects.
Improvement opportunities identified have been incorporated into the capital programme.
As a global chemical producer, Global Regulatory expertise is Extended our activities in trade Chemical regulatory weoperate in highly regulated provided byour in house team association working groups compliance markets, which are subject ofspecialists, who have in depth developing guidance for new and toregularchange.
Violation, knowledge of the regional and emerging legislation.
Group-wide incomplete knowledge or change, market regulatory frameworks due diligence activities to ofthe appropriate regulations withinwhich we operate.
They work demonstrate compliance with the couldlimitthe markets into which proactively to influence regulation Nagoya Protocol.
wecansell, or expose the Group and they are an integral part ofour tofines or penalties.
We use the SAP EHS module to ensure that regulatory changes areapplied to existing products.
Croda International Plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Link to Strategy Key Delivering Growth Risk increase Driving Innovation No change Sustainable Solutions Risk decrease Key risk Potential impact How we respond What we have on our Business done in 2016 We rely heavily on IT systems for Our Information Security specialists Recognising the increasing risk Security of business effective and efficient operations and monitor our IT services and network, we provided regular awareness information and to communicate globally.
As cyber and oversee PC and mobile device training and communication to networks attacks on businesses are growing protection, in line with our established allemployees.
We strengthened more frequent, sophisticated and policies and processes.
Regular our email and internet filtering damaging, we recognise that penetration testing is undertaken and technologies.
The security of corporate knowledge is a valuable we run our key applications in ITinfrastructure at all recently asset whether held electronically distributed computing environments acquired businesses was fully ornot.
ISO27001 certifcation for key systems and locations.
Internal audit reviews the operation of system controls annually.
We are subject to UK legislation, Training and education programmes Formed an Executive Ethics Ethics and compliance including the Bribery Act, which is are rolled outglobally and results Committee and Ethics network, farreaching in terms of global scope.
to reinforce appropriate values Refresher training isrequired and culture and to promote Our increased presence in emerging periodically.
theimportance of ethics and economies and the introduction of compliance across our the Modern Slavery Act gives rise Completion of gift registers is Business, and third parties who toaheightened risk to our Business.
arequirement for gifts given work withus.
The Group maintains an open The pension fund investment strategy, We have undertaken a fide-risking Ineffective defined benefit pension scheme in developed by the Investment exercise to reduce future liabilities, management of the UK, which constitutes a higher sub-committee of theTrustee Board, introducing a career average pension fund risk thana defined contribution isdelivered with the support capped salary basis.
A change in market ofprofessional advisers.
Trained Trustees have begun to extend conditions could increase pension fund Trustee Directors take the liability driven investment futurefunding requirements professional advice and monitor component of the schemes andmayadversely affect andreview arrangements quarterly.
assets to better match assets ourfinancialposition.
The Company maintains close with liability movements and dialogue with the Trustee Board.
further diversified the schemes return seeking assets to reduce expected future volatility.
Note: The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with the Group and they are not in order of priority.
Our risk management programme can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that key risks are managed at an acceptable level.
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the Strategic Report on 28 February 2017.
Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33
