Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements IMPAIRMENT ANALYSIS LENDING AND PROVISIONS The Groups strategy to target selective areas for balance Retail asset quality remains strong with lower default rates 2016 2015 sheet growth particularly through mortgage origination has and impairment losses observed across the period.
The lower Impairment charge on credit exposures m influenced the low impairment charge.
High underwriting for longer interest rate environment has sustained customer SME lending including lease finance 31 45 standards and a controlled risk appetite have resulted in a confidence, supporting strong growth in the mortgage Retail lending 8 33 portfolio with strong asset quality which has, in turn, led to a portfolio and stable asset quality.
low impairment charge to average customer loans ratio 39 78 across all portfolios.
Most asset quality measures improved in The level of impairment losses on credit exposures has Of which the period as the influence of a strong customer focused reduced significantly in the period to September 2016 due to Specific charge for impairment losses 25 73 culture, prudent risk management and a stable UK economy the lower levels of specific provision required, reflective of the Collective charge for impairment losses 14 5 took effect.
Some economic pressure on the oil & gas and reduction in the levels of defaulted and impaired lending.
39 78 agriculture sectors has had a softening effect on the Stabilisation of asset values has also supported recoveries and portfolios, evidenced by an increased level of collective write backs from provisions previously recognised.
Impairment Provisions held on credit exposures m provision.
While the portfolio remains sensitive to economic SME lending including lease finance 157 168 shocks, broader based negative effects from Brexit have yet Detailed credit risk disclosures are included in the Risk Report Retail lending 58 62 to be observed and prolonged economic stability from page 148.
215 230 underpinned by low interest rates and higher employment has supported customer confidence.
Of which Specific provision 64 92 Collective provision 151 138 215 230 Credit risk adjustments held on loans at fair value m SME lending 24 38 Of which Individually assessed credit risk adjustments 8 11 Collectively assessed credit risk adjustments 16 27 24 38 Impairment charge credits on loans held at fair value 11 18 Past Due and impaired assets m 90 DPD 150 143 1 Impaired assets 233 263 Asset Quality measures % 90 DPD plus impaired assets to customer loans 1.27% 1.41% 2 Specific provisions to impaired assets 30.8% 39.2% 3 Net write-offs to customer loans 0.18% 0.35% 4 Total provision to customer loans 0.79% 0.93% 5 Total impairment charge to average customer loans 0.09% 0.21% 1 Impaired assets for September 2016 and September 2015 includes 19m and 25m of impaired fair value loans respectively.
2 Total specific provision includes the individually assessed credit risk adjustments on loans at fair value.
3 Net write-offs includes loans at fair value.
4 Total provision to customer loans includes the credit risk adjustments on loans at fair value through profit and loss.
5 Total impairment charge to average customer loans includes loans held at fair value through profit and loss.
56 57 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 G OV E R N A N C E Ribblehead Viaduct, Yorkshire Dales National Park GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS STANDING left to right SITTING left to right David Bennett David Browne Deputy Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director Fiona MacLeod David Duffy Independent Non-Executive Director Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Tim Wade Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Jim Pettigrew Richard Gregory OBE Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Clive Adamson Independent Non-Executive Director Not shown Debbie Crosbie Adrian Grace Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer Independent Non-Executive Director Paul Coby Independent Non-Executive Director Ian Smith Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer 60 61 CYBG AN N UAL REPORT & ACCOU NTS 2016 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BOARD OF D I R E C TO R S Chair Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Audit Committee Governance & Nomination Committee Re Ri A G Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director at Aberdeen Asset experience at Board level as an Executive, Joined the Group: September 2012 and Joined the Group: March 2000 Management PLC, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman.
He became Chairman in 2014 at AON UK Limited and Non-Executive was previously Chairman of Chesterfield Key areas of expertise: Risk, Retail Banking, Director at Hermes Fund Managers Limited.
Royal Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Key areas of expertise: Finance, Governance, SME Banking He is the immediate past President of the Science City York CLG: Imagesound PLC, M&A Institute of Chartered Accountants of Skills and experience: Richard has an Sheffield Hallam University, Yorkshire Skills and experience: Jim has over 30 years Scotland.
His breadth of experience, credibility extensive background in the banking, Innovation, Chairman of Yorkshire Initiative with key stakeholders and strong leadership experience in business and finance gained broadcasting, digital media, healthcare and International Business Convention Limited, from executive and senior positions principally qualities make him an effective Chairman.
He had a 22 year Deputy Chairman of Yorkshire Forward, and JIM PETTIGREW RICHARD GREGORY within financial services.
Jim was formerly executive career in TV programming and Chairman of the Yorkshire Bank Pension Chairman OBE Key external appointments: Chairman of The Chief Executive Officer at CMC Markets plc, broadcasting and retired as Managing Trust.
He was previously a Non-Executive Senior Independent Edinburgh Investment Trust plc: Senior Chief Operating Officer at Ashmore Group Director Broadcasting of Yorkshire TV in Director of Sheffield Childrens Hospital NHS Non-Executive Director G Re Independent Non-Executive Director of plc, Group Finance Director at ICAP plc and 2002.
He is a strong advocate of the Foundation Trust.
Crest Nicholson Holdings plc: Deputy Deputy Group Finance Director and Group Clydesdale and Yorkshire Bank brands and is Ri A G Chairman of RBC Europe Limited: Chairman Key external appointments: Interim Treasurer at Sedgwick Group plc.
He is a an ambassador for Yorkshire Bank in the of Scottish Financial Enterprise: and Deputy Chairman of the Derbyshire Healthcare NHS chartered accountant and has extensive business community and at customer events Chairman of the Financial Services Advisory Foundation Trust.
Non-Executive Director experience in a as Yorkshire Bank Chair.
He was previously Joined the Group: July 2016 Board of the FCA until May 2015.
His strong understanding of the UK and global banking Joined the Group: October 2015 experience of retail banking and involvement Key areas of expertise: Governance, Financial industry and related risks is invaluable to the in organisational, operational and structural Services Regulation, Risk Board.
Key areas of expertise: Finance, M&A, Retail change is invaluable as we execute our Group Banking strategy.
He has significant Non-Executive Skills and experience: Clive has considerable Key external appointments: Chairman at JP Director experience in a listed environment experience of UK and global economic, Morgan International Bank Limited: NonSkills and experience: David brings to the which has included Non-Executive Director of banking and regulatory matters gained from Executive Director of The Prudential Board significant experience in retail banking Bank of Ireland UK plc, Non-Executive an extensive career in banking and financial Assurance Company Limited: and Nongained from a career spanning more than 30 Director of easyJet plc, and Non-Executive CLIVE ADAMSON services regulation.
He held senior executive Executive Director at Ashmore Group plc.
years and including executive and senior roles Director of CMC Markets plc.
Independent NonDAVID BENNETT and advisory positions with the FCA, the in both the UK and internationally.
David was Executive Director Deputy Chairman former Financial Services Authority and the Group Finance Director of Alliance & Leicester Key external appointments: Non-Executive Bank of England.
He was previously Head of plc for six years before becoming its Group Director of Ashmore Group plc, PayPal A Ri Supervision and an Executive Director of the A G Re Ri Chief Executive.
Following the acquisition of Europe S. a. r. l et Cie, S. C. A, Chairman of Alliance & Leicester plc by Banco Santander he Homeserve Membership Ltd. and Nonwas appointed Executive Director on the Executive Director of various companies Board of Abbey National plc.
His in-depth within the Jerrold Holdings Limited group.
COM ANNUAL-RESULTS-2016 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BOARD OF D I R E C TO R S Non-Executive Directors Managing Director.
David is a founding Mercantile Credit, he became Managing Joined the Group: July 2012 Joined the Group: December 2014 partner of Pinnacle Partners Limited, a Director of the Small Business Division at treasury consulting firm.
He was Chief Executive at Key areas of expertise: Finance, Risk Key areas of expertise: Finance, Financial Services Regulation, Strategy Barclays Insurance and Managing Director of Key external appointments: Director of Skills and experience: David has over 30 Commercial Banking within the Corporate Pinnacle Partners Limited and Trustee and years experience in debt capital markets, Skills and experience: Adrian has extensive Division of HBOS.
Since 2011 Adrian has Director of London Youth Rowing Limited.
He was financial, business leadership and general been Chief Executive Officer at Aegon UK previously Head of Group Funding and management experience gained from a having joined Aegon in 2009 as Group External Relations at Man Group plc and career which has spanned a range of Business Development Director.
He was ADRIAN GRACE DAVID BROWNE spent a significant part of his career at JP consumer and commercial financial services previously on the boards of the Association Independent NonIndependent NonMorgan where he held the positions of sectors and involved a variety of senior roles.
of British Insurers and Scottish Financial Executive Director Executive Director Assistant Vice President, Vice President and Adrians experience of designing and Enterprise.
implementing substantial change Re A Re Ri Key external appointments: Director of programmes and delivering transformational various companies within the Aegon Group growth through simple customer focused and a member of the FCA Practitioner Panel visions and plans is aligned to the Groups representing the life and pensions sector.
Having started his career with the Leeds Permanent Building Society and then Joined the Group: June 2016 role, Paul was IT Director at John Lewis and previously CIO at British Airways for Key areas of expertise: Information 10 years.
Pauls previous roles include Technology, Strategy Non-Executive Chairman of the Socit Joined the Group: September 2016 USA & Latin America.
Fionas deep Internationale fide Tlcommunications experience of operational business Skills and experience: Paul is an accomplished Aronautiques SITA, the global provider Key areas of expertise: M&A, Marketing, leadership, of transforming businesses and in IT professional with significant e-commerce, of systems, solutions and Strategy understanding and managing the international and systems technology telecommunications to the air transport organisational design and people impacts of experience.
In particular his understanding of industry, Non-Executive Director at P&O Skills and experience: Fiona has over 28 business change are invaluable to the Group PAUL COBY how technology has changed consumer Ferries Limited, Chairman of the eSkills UK years international business experience in Independent Nonas we focus on building a high performing, behaviour, how advances in digital technology CIO Board and Chairman of the oneworld leading complex, large scale business Executive Director customer centric organisation and continue can impact customer outcomes and his CIO Group which co-ordinated IT links transformation and in managing the our cultural transformation.
appreciation of the end-to-end customer FIONA MACLEOD across the ten airline oneworld Alliance commercial, human resources and cultural Independent Nonjourney in an omni-channel context is partners.
A substantial Key external appointments: Senior Executive Director invaluable to the Group as we develop new part of her career was at BP Group plc Independent Director of SThree plc and products and digital capability.
Paul is the Key external appointments: CIO of the where she held various executive positions Non-Executive Director of Denholm Oilfield John Lewis Partnerships Chief Information John Lewis Partnership and NonA G Re Ri including latterly the role of President Retail, Services Limited.
Officer CIO, responsible for leading and Executive Director at Pets at Home coordinating IT across the John Lewis, Group plc.
Prior to his CIO 64 65 65 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements BOARD OF D I R E C TO R S Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Sears plc, Eagle Star Zurich Financial Services, Joined the Group: June 2015 Chief Executive Officer of Standard Bank Joined the Group: October 2014 Cable & Wireless, Reality & Accenture.
She International with responsibility for operations in Key areas of expertise: Banking, Finance, M&A, Key areas of expertise: Finance, Strategy joined HSBC Group in 2006 and from 2010 the UK, Europe, Latin America and Asia.
He was Strategy was Deputy Head, Direct Bank & First Direct.
also previously Head of Global Wholesale Skills and experience: Teresa brings to the Teresa also has strong board experience Banking Network with ING Group and Skills and experience: David has significant Board extensive financial, customer service gained as Chairman of ACS Clothing Group President & Chief Executive Officer of the ING international finance and banking experience and general management experience from Limited and from her Non-Executive wholesale franchises in the United States and gained from a career spanning almost three across a range of industries including Director roles, which have previously included Latin America.
David is a past President of the decades.
Davids proven ability to build and telecommunications, financial services and Towergate Insurance Limited and PowerPlace Banking and Payments Federation of Ireland DAVID DUFFY DR TERESA ROBSONtransform businesses and lead strong retail.
She is a chartered management Insurance Services Limited.
and a past Director of the European Banking Executive Director CAPPS management teams brings significant value to all accountant and has a Doctorate in Federation.
Davids broad-based skills, leadership, and Chief Executive Independent Nonof the Groups stakeholders.
Prior to joining the Accounting and Management Control.
Teresa Key external appointments: Non-Executive energy and strategic vision are invaluable to the Officer Executive Director Group, David was Chief Executive Officer at has a breadth of experience gained from Director of Hastings Group Holdings PLC.
Group as it continues its strategic journey and Allied Irish Banks plc, one of the largest retail and executive leadership roles with BT Mobile, cultural transformation.
He was a former Joined the Group: June 1997 Debbie has held a variety of positions including Joined the Group: September 2016 Limited, the mutual financial services group, Head of Technology Governance, Head of as Chief Taxation Counsel.
He became Key areas of expertise: Information Technology, Key areas of expertise: Finance, M&A, Retail Strategic Projects and Head of the Groups Group Chief Financial Officer in 1997 and Retail Banking, Strategy, Operations Banking, Risk Development Centre.
She was Chief Information Executive Director of State Bank of New Officer from 2008 to 2011, became Operations & South Wales.
Tim subsequently oversaw the Skills and experience: Debbie has broad Skills and experience: Tim brings to the IT Director in 2011, and was appointed Executive IPO of Colonial and was involved in Colonials experience and knowledge gained over 20 years Board over 20 years senior experience in Director in 2014 and Chief Operating Officer in subsequent acquisition by Commonwealth in the banking sector, particularly around retail financial services, including retail banking 2015.
Debbie was Acting Chief Executive Officer Bank at the time the largest acquisition in information technology, complex project delivery, in both the UK and internationally.
An from February 2015 to June 2015 and during this Australian corporate history.
His previous TIM WADE DEBBIE CROSBIE material outsourcing and strategy & planning.
She Australian national, he is an experienced Chief period led the preparation for the demerger and Non-Executive Director board experience Independent NonExecutive Director has significant experience at a senior Financial Officer, a chartered accountant and IPO and was part of the management team who includes Friends Life Group Limited.
Executive Director and Chief Operating management level and is a strong advocate for a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered completed the transaction.
She was previously a Officer customers and improving the customer Accountants of Australia.
Tim was Managing Key external appointments: Chairman at Non-Executive Director of the Scottish Court A Ri experience by driving a change and Director at AMP International, responsible for Macquarie Bank International Limited and Service and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute transformation journey which has the customer AMP Bank and the Virgin Direct now Virgin Non-Executive Director of Chubb Europe of Bankers.
Since joining the Group in 1997 Money joint venture.
He began his career at Group Limited, Monitise PLC and Access Arthur Andersen working in Melbourne and Bank UK Limited.
Singapore, and in 1994 he joined Colonial Joined the Group: November 2014 corporate transactions.
He joined the Group in November 2014 from Deloitte LLP where he Key areas of expertise: Banking, Finance, M&A, was a partner specialising in financial services.
Strategy Skills and experience: Ian has considerable experience in finance, audit and advising on bank strategy from a corporate transaction perspective gained from a career spanning more IAN SMITH than 20 years.
He has held senior finance roles in Executive Director HBOS plc and Lloyds Banking Group plc and has and Chief Financial provided advice to boards considering significant Officer 66 67 67 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements E X E C U T I V E LEADERSHIP TEAM DAVID DUFFY DEBBIE CROSBIE IAN SMITH Executive Executive Executive Director and Director and Director and Chief Executive Chief Operating Chief Financial Officer Officer Officer ENDA Joined the Group: September 2015 and member of the Executive Leadership GAVIN Joined the Group: November 2015 Head of Consumer Banking for Standard JOHNSON OPPERMAN was appointed Director of Corporate Team.
Enda previously worked in the Chartered PLC based in China and prior Key areas of expertise: Banking Director of Customer Development and Stakeholder banking unit of the Irish National to that held a number of senior positions operations and services Corporate Banking Director Engagement in June 2016 Treasury Management Agency NTMA in a career spanning 20 years with Development where he worked on the recapitalisation Barclays Group.
Skills and experience: Gavin has over 30 Key areas of expertise: Strategic and Stakeholder and restructure of Irish banks following years leadership experience in retail, projects, restructurings and capital Responsibilities: Leading the Groups Engagement the global financial crisis.
Before the commercial, corporate and investment markets transactions customer banking strategy.
NTMA he worked internationally with banking.
He was previously Regional Merrill Lynch in their investment banking Skills and experience: Enda has over 13 and capital markets divisions.
years experience in financial services.
Before joining the Group, he worked at Responsibilities: Leading the Groups HELEN PAGE Joined the Group: December 2012 Innovation with responsibility for all UK Allied Irish Banks plc as Head of strategic development and stakeholder Propositions and brands across the Retail, Commercial and Corporate Affairs and Strategy and was a engagement.
Key areas of expertise: Marketing, Marketing Corporate divisions.
Helen was previously customer experience and innovation, Director Head of Brand Marketing at Argos part research and consultancy of the Home Retail Group plc and prior KATE GUTHRIE Joined the Group: January 2016 sectors, including most recently a decade to Argos held a number of product and Skills and experience: Helen has over 20 Group Human with Lloyds Banking Group plc where marketing roles at Abbey National plc Key areas of expertise: Culture, years experience in marketing, Resources she was latterly the HR Director now Santander where she became capability and engagement consultancy, and customer and product Director responsible for leading the group culture, Head of Marketing.
innovation, principally within the financial capability and engagement.
Skills and experience: Kate has over 30 services industry.
Helen spent eight years Responsibilities: Leading the Groups years domestic and international HR Responsibilities: Developing and leading at Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc in a marketing and customer proposition experience, having worked in six different HR strategy.
number of roles and was latterly strategy.
blue chip organisations in four industrial Managing Director for Marketing & FERGUS Joined the Group: January 2016 redesigned the customer product MARK Joined the Group: September 2016 business across the UK, Europe, the MURPHY offering to better meet customers THUNDERCLIFFE Middle East and Africa.
Mark has also held Key areas of expertise: Products and Products needs and led the rebuilding of AIBs Key areas of expertise: Management Chief Risk Officer a number of senior international strategy Director operating model.
He is a former CEO of and oversight of risk and compliance positions in financial services firms up to Rabobank Asia and was responsible for CEO and Executive Director level.
Skills and experience: Fergus has over the overall strategy and performance of Skills and experience: Mark has over 28 20 years experience in financial services Rabobank in the region, and was also a years retail and business banking Responsibilities: Management of gained from Allied Irish Banks plc AIB, former Head of Global Treasury at experience with international board and significant risks and opportunities across Rabobank Group, BNP Paribas Group Rabobank International.
CEO experience in major banks.
Mark the Group including strategic, and KBC Bank Ireland plc.
At AIB, he held was previously Chief Risk Officer at reputational, operational, financial, credit, roles including Director of Products and Responsibilities: Delivery of the Groups HSBC responsible for management and regulatory and financial crime Capital Markets and latterly, Director of product suite including pricing, liability oversight of risk for HSBCs Retail compliance.
Banking and Wealth Management During his tenure with AIB, Fergus 68 69 69 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C O M PA N Y C OR P OR AT E O FFI C E R S GOVERNANCE REPORT JAMES PEIRSON Joined the Group: November 2014 capital and funding legal team in General Counsel Melbourne and London.
Prior to joining Key areas of expertise: Banking, NAB he worked in private legal practice treasury and corporate transactions at Hogan Lovells International LLP.
Skills and experience: James joined NAB Good corporate Responsibilities: Supporting the Board in 2005 where he led the NAB London and leading the Legal and Governance governance is critical to Branch legal team and held roles strategy.
supporting NAB and Clydesdale Bank the success of our PLC Treasury activities as part of NABs business and underpins the delivery of our strategy LORNA Joined the Group: September 1994 areas.
Lorna was appointed Company MCMILLAN Secretary in October 2014 and led the Key areas of expertise: Governance, risk Company corporate governance preparation for management Secretary the demerger and IPO.
Skills and experience: Lorna has over 20 Responsibilities: Supporting the Dear Shareholder, years experience gained from various Chairman and Board and leading the roles in the Group across retail and delivery of shareholder services.
I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report In preparation for listing, the Board reviewed the Groups corporate business banking, wholesale banking, risk governance framework to ensure that it aligned with the UK for 2016. management, and legal and governance Corporate Governance Code.
As Chairman of the Board I firmly believe that good corporate Engaging with shareholders governance is critical to the success of our business and underpins the delivery of our strategy.
The Board is committed to ensuring The Board recognises the need for a programme of engagement that good governance is embedded across our business.
This report which offers all shareholders the opportunity for open and sets out our approach to governance in practice, the work of the meaningful discussion with the Board, particularly with regard to Board during the year and includes reports from the Governance & strategy, governance and remuneration.
In the period since listing, Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Risk the Board and management have developed a programme of Committee.
Information about the work of the Remuneration shareholder engagement which will remain a key area of focus Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on going forward.
The Board and management have taken the pages 104 to 130. opportunity to meet with the largest institutional investors throughout the year, including active marketing to support the 2016 has been a significant year for the Group as it became demerger and IPO, and the Capital Markets Day held in September independent for the first time since the 1920s after our demerger 2016.
The Board receives regular reports on investor relations and IPO in February 2016 with listed securities on the LSE and activity, including shareholder sentiment and perspectives on our the ASX.
business, which helps inform our decision making.
At the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM both retail and Set out below are the key corporate governance matters institutional shareholders will have the opportunity to meet with considered in 2016.
Directors to discuss any issues they may have.
Demerger and IPO Board composition A Committee of the Board was established in early 2015 to During the year succession planning and the composition of the oversee matters relating to the demerger and IPO and to make Board and its Committees was a key focus for the Governance & recommendations to the Board on key decisions.
In addition to Nomination Committee, which led a programme to review and myself, members of the Committee were Richard Gregory, Chair of refresh Board and Committee composition.
the Risk Committee, David Allvey at the time, Chair of the Audit Committee Mr Allvey retired from the Board on 31 March 2016, David Browne an independent Non-Executive Director and the Executive Directors.
70 71 71 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board was further strengthened through the appointment of preparation for listing, the Board decided that there would be no In order to assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to Statement Of Compliance five new independent Non-Executive Directors complementing Board, Committee or individual Director including my role as ensure that there is independent oversight of financial The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code has the Boards existing knowledge, skills, experience, and increasing Chairman evaluation in 2016 but that a thorough evaluation would reporting, internal controls, risk management, governance and applied since 8 February 2016, the date of listing.
The Code is diversity, namely, Clive Adamson, David Bennett, Paul Coby, Fiona be conducted in 2017. remuneration matters, the Board delegates certain clearly publicly available at www.
The Board confirms that MacLeod and Tim Wade.
Their biographical details, skills and defined responsibilities to its four principal committees.
since the date of listing the Company has applied the main experience are described on pages 62 to 66.
Details of Committee Risk management Reports from the Governance & Nomination Committee, the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, with changes during the year are on pages 87, 91, 100 and 126.
Audit Committee, and the Risk Committee are contained in The Board has continued to strengthen its oversight of risk the exception of Code Provision B.
6 which recommends the this report.
A report from the Remuneration Committee is management practices and the risks we face with the support of Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual During the year David Allvey, Barbara Ridpath and Alex Shapland included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Risk Committee and the Audit Committee.
There has been evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees retired from the Board.
Richard Sawers, who represented NAB on rigorous challenge to management to gain assurance that robust and individual Directors.
The Board carried out an externally the Board, stepped down as Executive Director on 2 February controls are in place over key risks.
The Board promotes a culture of As required, the Board may also establish special purpose facilitated evaluation of its effectiveness in 2015 and has made 2016 prior to the demerger.
risk awareness and ethical conduct and has worked to encourage Committees to assist the Board in the oversight of specific significant progress on the resulting recommendations as and develop a strong risk culture that supports the delivery of the areas that may require more detailed attention.
Due to the detailed in the Chairmans Letter.
The Board decided that Remuneration Groups Strategic Plan and furtherance of new opportunities.
preparation for the demerger and IPO there was an there would be no formal Board, Committee or individual During the year the Board approved the Risk Management The Remuneration Committee dedicated significant time since its unusually high level of Board and Committee activity and a Director including the Chairman evaluation in 2016 but that a Framework, Risk Appetite Statement and Delegation of Authority formation to overseeing and implementing remuneration special purpose Committee was constituted that oversaw thorough evaluation compliant with the Code provision B.
6 Framework which support our risk culture.
arrangements appropriate for a listed company.
The Committee this process and met on a frequent, often weekly, basis.
The revised edition of the UK also spent significant time reviewing and developing an Additionally in May 2016, the Board established an IRB and Code was published by the Financial Reporting Council in April understanding of the remuneration reporting regime for public The Board remains focused on putting the customer at the heart of Credit IFRS 9 Board Committee to oversee the delivery of 2016 and applies to companies with a premium listing on the limited companies to ensure the Company was compliant with all everything we do and makes commercial decisions on the basis of transition from a standardised approach to calculating capital London Stock Exchange with accounting periods beginning on requirements post listing.
The Remuneration Committee has proactive consideration of risk and the impact on customers.
The requirements for credit risk to an IRB approach, and the or after 17 June 2016.
These provisions will apply to the sought to ensure that the forward looking remuneration policy and Board has approved a Conduct Framework with supporting target implementation of the credit element of the IFRS9 Company for the financial year ending 30 September 2017. practices detailed in the Directors Remuneration Policy on pages outcomes and principles which underpins the management of accounting standard.
106 to 115 and in the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration conduct risk and ensures that customers are treated fairly.
More The Group has also adopted the British Bankers Association on pages 116 to 125, each to be put to a shareholder vote at the information about our approach to risk management is in the Risk The chart on page 143 of the Risk Report illustrates the Board Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure, which is available at forthcoming AGM, are appropriate to supporting the delivery of Overview section of the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 39 and in and management structure as at 30 September 2016. www.
uk, and the financial statements have been the Groups desired culture, business strategy and objectives.
the Risk Committee Report on pages 99 to 103. prepared in compliance with its principles.
Matters Reserved to the Board and Delegated Authorities Board effectiveness Looking ahead In order to retain control of key decisions and ensure there is a The Board carried out an externally facilitated evaluation of its Becoming an independent Company is a catalyst for our ongoing clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company, Leadership effectiveness in 2015 prior to the IPO.
We progressed the resulting cultural and business transformation.
Going forward, sustainable the Board has identified certain reserved matters that only it recommendations leading to enhancements to the corporate growth, lower costs and capital efficiency supported by a strong and The Board is the principal decision making body of the Group can approve.
Other matters, responsibilities and authorities governance framework to ensure it was fully appropriate for a listed effective corporate governance framework will drive improved and is collectively responsible to shareholders for promoting have been delegated to its Committees and the Chief company.
This included strengthening Board composition through performance and enhanced returns for our shareholders.
I look the long term success of the Company.
forward to engaging with our shareholders during 2017. the appointment of five additional Non-Executive Directors complementing the Boards existing knowledge, skill, experience The Boards role is to provide leadership to the business as a The matters reserved to the Board are set out in the In closing I would like to thank each of the Directors for their and increasing diversity: improving the Director induction and whole within a framework of prudent and effective controls Charter for the Board and this, as well as the Charters for commitment during 2016 and their support during the demerger orientation programme: refreshing the responsibilities of each of which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It sets strategy each principal Board Committee, is available to view on the and IPO.
I am confident that the Company is well positioned to build the Committees and establishing a Remuneration Committee: and oversees its delivery and establishes its culture, values, Companys website http: www.
com about-us on the strong momentum in our business.
improvements in Board and Committee reporting including a ethics and standards.
It sets the Groups risk appetite, monitors corporate-governance.
The Charters are also available on greater focus on longer term, forward looking strategic risks and operational and financial performance and reporting, ensures request from the Company Secretary at the Companys issues, with the Board being fully engaged on the development of the Group is adequately resourced and has effective controls registered office.
During the year the Board and each of the the Strategic Plan and the supporting frameworks, including the and remuneration policies, and that there are appropriate Board Committees reviewed its Charter.
Risk Appetite Statement : and improving interaction between the succession planning arrangements.
In view of the timing of the IPO, the changes to Board and Board Jim Pettigrew Committee composition during the year, and enhancements Chairman already made to the corporate governance framework in 72 73 73 C CYB YBG G A AN N N N U UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T & & A AC CC CO OU U NT NTS S 2 20 01 16 6 C YB G. C O M A N N U A LR E S U LT S -2 0 16 Strategic Report Financial Results Governance Risk Report Financial Statements C OR P OR AT E GOVERNANCE REPORT The authorities delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive account the transformational change agenda, our strongly Board Roles and Responsibilities Officer are set out in the Delegation of Authority Framework customer focused business model and the regulatory and The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans and this was renewed and updated during the year.
priority is to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness and the Chief Executive Officers priority is to manage the day to day running of the Groups business.
The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other Directors are clearly defined so Board and Strategic Planning Areas which were discussed in detail included: evolving that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
Their key responsibilities are set out below.
customer expectations: digital transformation: the potential for During the year, the Board spent considerable time discussing interest rates to be lower for longer and the challenges this with management the business strategy for the next five years creates for income, margin and growth: the impact of the and took part in two strategic planning days.
The aim of the Chairman Jim Pettigrew Leading the Board and its effectiveness by organising its business and setting outcome of the EU Referendum on economic forecasts: the strategy is to leverage our capabilities in our existing core its agendas, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive cost profile: investment priorities including costs to do and markets, continue our successful national growth strategy in part, being forward looking, and primarily focused on strategy, performance expected benefits realisation: organisational capability: and risk selected products, deliver a superior performance for and key value creation issues.
Promoting the highest standards of corporate appetite.
customers by moving to an omni-channel model and deliver governance and ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and high enhanced shareholder returns.
This was the first strategic quality supporting information.
Ensuring properly constructed Board These issues were considered very carefully by the Board to planning exercise undertaken since the Group became an induction, evaluation and development, and effective communications with ensure that the business will be able to continue to drive independent business.
The Board remains committed to the Groups shareholders.
sustained performance for the benefit of all stakeholders.
continuing its strategy, which is underpinned by a cultural Deputy David Bennett Supporting the Chairman, and when required, acting as the Chairmans transformation of its business and the simplification and Chairman delegate and ensuring continuity of Chairmanship, supporting the Chairman Outcomes from discussions held by Board Committees were streamlining of operations and processes to enhance in representing the Board and acting as spokesperson.
Being available to the also taken into account.
For example, the Risk Committee productivity and customer journeys.
Board for consultation and advising and representing the Groups interests considered: the Risk Appetite Statement: the Individual at official enquiries and with review bodies.
Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP : and the A key objective of the strategic process was to produce an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
In Chief Executive David Duffy Leading the day to day management of the Groups business ensuring its integrated Strategic & Financial Plan within a framework of addition, the Governance & Nomination Committee and the Officer effective running.
Leading the Executive Leadership Team, being responsible capital and liquidity, risk appetite, conduct and operational risk Remuneration Committee provided oversight regarding for developing, coordinating and proposing to the Board all activities to considerations.
The Strategic & Financial Plan took into implement the Groups strategy and its overall objectives in accordance with organisational structure, capability and succession matters.
the Groups risk appetite, and maintaining a close working relationship with the Chairman.
Senior Independent Richard Gregory Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as a trusted Director intermediary between the Chairman and the other Directors when necessary, and ensuring that the views of all Directors are conveyed to the Chairman.
Being available to shareholders in the event of any matters which cannot be resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
Maintaining contact as required with major shareholders to understand their issues and concerns, maintaining stability and cohesion within the Board particularly during periods of stress.
Meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present at least annually and leading the Non-Executive Directors in the ongoing monitoring and annual evaluation of the Chairman.
Independent Clive Adamson, David Bringing an external perspective, knowledge, experience and insight from Non-Executive Bennett, David Browne, other industries and applying sound judgement and objectivity to the Directors Paul Coby, Adrian Grace, business of the Board.
Developing and setting the Groups strategy and Richard Gregory, Fiona monitoring its implementation, reviewing the Risk Management Framework, MacLeod, Dr Teresa and supporting and constructively challenging Executive Directors.
Robson-Capps, and Tim Satisfying themselves on the integrity of financial information, considering Wade and taking account of the views and concerns of the Companys shareholders and other stakeholders.
Having a principal role in appointing and, where necessary, removing Executive Directors.
Devising appropriate succession plans and approving appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee.
