PrinCiPAl riSKS AnD UnCerTAinTieS Commercial risks We manage risk to help us achieve reduced profitability ourstrategic objectives and protect risk area and potential impact ourreputation.
We operate in competitive markets.
If we fail to compete effectively or are subject to higher input prices that cannot be recovered by raising selling prices without losing volumes we could lose sales and profits.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the effective Mitigating controls management of risk across the Group.
It is supported by the We set ourselves the target of continually reducing our cost base and are able to invest Audit Committee which reviews the effectiveness of the Groups in our supply chain to help achieve this.
risk management processes and internal controls.
Responsibility Despite challenging trading conditions we continue to invest in marketing our for the day to day management of risk is delegated to the key brands.
Our innovation programme continues to generate new products that reinforce our appeal to customers.
We recognise the importance of strong customer Management Board, which generally meets weekly.
At each relationships and the executive team plays an active part in maintaining and developing meeting the Management Board conducts an update review these.
They are also involved in major customer negotiations.
We conduct customer surveys to benchmark our performance and we continuously monitor the service and of the business performance and the risks and threats being quality levels provided to our customers and consumers, and have procedures in managed.
Minutes of the Management Boards meetings are place to react quickly to any issues.
Our commitment to corporate responsibility is an important part of our overall proposition to some customers routinely reviewed by the Group Board at its meetings.
The Group operates as one centralised UK-based business with all reduced demand from consumers functions represented at Management Board meetings enabling risk area and potential impact the Management Board to manage the Groups risks on an Consumers could move away from dairy products for economic, health, ethical, or on-going basis.
The Board believes that the assumption of other reasons leading to lower sales and profits.
informed risks enables the delivery of long-term success.
The Mitigating controls Board determines the nature and extent of the significant risks Consumers are at the heart of our business and we regularly monitor consumer which the Company should take in order to achieve its strategic trends.
We continue to promote the health benefits provided by dairy products and objectives.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of develop healthier products.
We also continue to maintain our focus on developing the principal risks which the Company faces including those that a compelling new product development pipeline, enabling us to react to consumer trends, for example with more  packaging, and healthier would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency variants of our key brands.
We have a direct involvement with government to or liquidity.
Details of those principal risks and uncertainties are understand and influence future legislation that could affect future consumer demand.
set out on this page and on page 17 together with the mitigating input cost volatility controls used to help manage them and the trends associated risk area and potential impact with them.
Although the Group has an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and Volatile milk and non-milk costs vegetable oils, diesel, electricity, gas and packaging could reduce margins unless we can manage cost risk, find other cost efficiencies uncertainties facing the Group and the Company, additional risks elsewhere or increase selling prices.
which are not presently known to management could also have an Milk prices could remain volatile driven by global and European commodity market adverse effect on the Group and the Company.
pressures as well as local market and environmental factors.
Each key function in the Group is required to prepare a risk Mitigating controls register for its area of accountability.
Functional risk registers are Key input cost trends are continually monitored by our experienced procurement reviewed by the Management Board and from them the Group risk team and are regularly reviewed by the Management Board.
Milk and vegetable oil are critical inputs for the Group.
Milk price negotiations are conducted following register is compiled.
The Group risk register is formally reviewed careful review with the Management Board which provides the procurement team by the Board each April when the Group sets its budget.
The use of a balancing contract with direct milk suppliers Group risk register is reviewed at the start of each year by the introduced in the final quarter of the financial year enables better balancing of milk supply and demand thereby reducing the risk of milk oversupply resulting in lower Group Internal Audit function which uses the Group risk register recoveries.
The balancing contract helps to reduce our exposure to lower value as one of the key components of the compilation of its annual commodity markets thereby supporting the Groups strategy of focusing on branded and added value markets.
Vegetable oil is reviewed monthly by a risk committee audit plan.
All audit reports completed by the Group Internal which monitors and hedges forward vegetable oil purchases as appropriate.
We Audit function are provided to the Management Board and Audit seek to absorb short-term cost movements through supply chain efficiencies.
Our Committee and the Committee reviews Internal Audits reports purchasing and commercial teams have clear lines of communication between them to ensure customers are kept aware of changes to our cost base and requests for price and progress against its work plan.
The Committee reports to the increases can be fully justified.
Board after each of its meetings and through this process further assurance over management of the principal risks is derived entry into new product areas or territories as Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance to risk area and potential impact management and the Audit Committee as to the effectiveness of The dynamics of new categories may not be in line with our expectations resulting mechanisms put in place to mitigate risks.
This process explicitly in lower than anticipated margins, lower than anticipated volumes, longer than anticipated payback on investment and higher than expected costs to access markets.
recognises the relationship between Group Internal Audit and risk management.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the processes Mitigating controls are adequate and appropriate.
Further details are set out in the We work with established commercial partners who are already established in new categories and markets where the Group is not already operating or present.
We have decided to increase the Contractual relationships with established commercial partners for the sale and frequency with which the Group risk register is formally reviewed distribution of products in new categories and markets enable the Group to have certainty over minimum levels of returns and known costs of accessing new markets.
in future with the Management Board undertaking further formal reviews each quarter and the Board undertaking a further formal review at the half-year.
Further details of the Groups approach to risk management and internal control are set out in the Corporate Governance report at pages 34 to 35.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the facing table.
This is not intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks facing the Group.
16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 People risks operational risks inability to source milk recruitment and retention risk area and potential impact risk area and potential impact We need to attract and retain high quality employees to provide customers and Without milk we would not have a business.
Restricted milk supply could be caused by economic factors, weather, fuel availability or an epidemic which affects dairy cows.
consumers with safe, high quality products and services.
This could lead to lower sales and profits.
Consumer confidence in dairy products Mitigating controls could also be adversely affected.
We carry out rigorous selection procedures and benchmark pay and benefits to Mitigating controls ensure we can attract and retain the best people.
We have a wide bonus scheme and We invest significant resources in maintaining strong relationships with our milk a range of other incentives to reward good performance.
Our Long Term Alignment suppliers by attending forums and discussing current issues and pressures that affect Plan aligns the interest of management to shareholders and helps to retain key senior employees.
We use a performance review and talent management scheme to identify both the farms and our business.
Our milk comes directly from farms on contracts that include a notice period of between three months and one year.
Our experienced milk and develop our own people.
We undertake regular surveys to monitor our relationship procurement team understand milk production and are alert to changes in supply.
We with our employees and their engagement: communicate with them regularly and aim to pay a fair, market related milk price and closely monitor the milk price we pay encourage them to ask questions.
Significant effort is expended by our team of dedicated Farm Business Managers to make the Group an attractive purchaser of milk for our suppliers, including working closely with our direct supplying farmers providing valuable support to them Financial risks with their businesses.
We have contingency plans established for major incidents and Pension scheme work closely with DEFRA and industry bodies to ensure these are appropriate.
These plans are regularly tested and reviewed by the Management Board.
risk area and potential impact Despite the action we have taken to reduce the risks associated with our pension Failure of a key supplier scheme, including closing the scheme to future accrual in 2010 and buying insurance risk area and potential impact to meet the liabilities associated with many of our retired members in 2008 and 2009, the deficit could continue to increase and we may then have to increase our We are dependent on key suppliers and could lose sales and face financial penalties contributions.
The risk of a need for higher cash contributions to the scheme over from customers if suppliers failure leaves us unable to supply.
Failure of key a longer than anticipated period may be increased by a persisting low gilt yield information technology suppliers could adversely affect our financial systems.
Mitigating controls Mitigating controls Our purchasing team regularly monitors suppliers ability to supply and puts in place We continue to work closely with the Trustee of the Pension Fund to improve the alternative arrangements, including dual purchasing, if appropriate.
We have taken Funds financial position at an acceptable cash cost to the business.
We have reduced specific actions to reduce our dependency on information technology suppliers.
the schemes exposure to equities and other higher-risk asset classes and aim to further do so.
The strength of the Companys covenant and ability to continue to fund Disruption to production contributions has been improved by the sale of the Dairies business.
risk area and potential impact An accident, a fire, product contamination, the failure of equipment or systems or legal and compliance risks deliberate act could disrupt production, affect food safety, cause injury, and or cause reputational damage with adverse consequences.
We are also reliant on information Compliance with laws technology and are exposed to losses in the event that systems fail.
risk area and potential impact Mitigating controls Our sector is subject to a number of complex statutory requirements.
There is a risk of Plans are maintained to respond quickly to incidents and minimise any impact to fines or lawsuits and reputational damage if we fail to comply.
Our business is committed to the health and safety of all our employees Mitigating controls and maintains systems aimed at ensuring everyone is able to work safely.
All of our manufacturing sites have a trained engineering resource, are supported by our major We have a strong in-house legal function supported by external advisers.
We have equipment suppliers and hold appropriate stocks of spare parts.
They also all have undertaken Group-wide training in respect of competition law and actively monitor and fire protection systems and regular fire drills.
Our information technology systems are adjust to on-going legal and regulatory changes.
We have Business Conduct and Data regularly backed up and duplicated in the majority of areas.
We are also advised by Protection Policies and programmes designed to ensure that all relevant employees a reputable insurance broker and maintain insurance cover for public and product understand what is and is not permissible under the Bribery and Data Protection Acts.
liability, product recall and property damage and business interruption risks with reputable insurers.
regulatory change Major projects risk area and potential impact Food safety and product specification regulations affecting the UK and other risk area and potential impact jurisdictions where products are sold impact the products that we manufacture.
To remain competitive we periodically undertake major transformational projects Regulatory authorities regularly enact changes to food safety and product specification following strategic reviews or have to undertake major projects or works in response legislation.
Changes to legislation could result in restrictions on the movement and sale to the changing condition of our infrastructure.
Successful execution of these projects of the Groups products and raw materials between territories or require changes to is often key to delivering strategic objectives.
At the same time we have to ensure that the production processes or specification of our products.
major projects do not divert from the on-going day-to-day delivery of products and services to our customers.
Mitigating controls We have a strong technical function which routinely monitors planned and Mitigating controls implemented changes to food and ingredients legislation in the UK and other relevant We have a good track record of managing projects and use experienced and jurisdictions which might necessitate changes to our production processes or product appropriately skilled senior managers to lead these.
Our product development function works in tandem with the technical structures are also put in place to help successful delivery.
We are aware that too function and key supplier partners and customers to respond to anticipated or much change concentrated in too short a timescale can be detrimental and manage implemented legislative changes.
The Group has invested in its technical and product this by ensuring key project resource is full time with appropriate backfilling and use of development functions and has recently opened its new technical and innovation third parties.
centre at Harper Adams University with whom we have a cooperation agreement providing access to state of the art academic and technical expertise.
We are a Product quality member of recognised industry bodies who represent our interests, along with others in the food and dairy industries and advise and lobby on our behalf.
We have close risk area and potential impact links with UK government and government representatives to help represent our interests in jurisdictions outside the UK together with commercial partners already Failure to maintain product quality could lead to reputational damage and loss of sales established in other jurisdictions.
As we start to manufacture ingredients for infant formula this risk could increase.
Mitigating controls We have well-established supply chains and a close working relationship with our milk suppliers.
We have an independent quality team, including experienced cheese graders.
Customer and consumer complaints are monitored and acted upon.
Where possible we have liability caps in our contracts and using the advice of a reputable insurance broker we have product recall liability insurance in place with reputable insurers.
Our contractual relationship with Fonterra, who will sell the infant formula ingredients we will produce, allows us to utilise its experience in this field.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 17 Strategic report
