PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Economic A decline in sales on discretionary The board conducts strategic business reviews which ensure environment purchases leading to a reduction that management is focused on key priorities and cost control.
These reviews also focus on the four pillars of the Groups Continuing strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand adverse economic Whilst the gap between inflation and the operational effectiveness of the processes and systems conditions may and wage growth has started to which link the pillars of the strategy together.
have a material narrow, the consumer environment adverse effect remains volatile and we remain Debenhams exposure to a weakening sterling has been onDebenhams cautious about the outlook.
mitigated by the Groups hedging strategy, which will allow results ittomanage the effect of this during 2017.
This is an increasing risk due to the level of economic uncertainty and volatility that followed the UK vote to leave the European Union and this is being monitored carefully.
Currency & Hinder ability to adjust rapidly to Debenhams has a treasury policy in place which covers hedging changing market conditions and counterparty limits and hedging for interest rates, foreign impact earnings and cash flow.
There is also an internal treasury function Currency which is mandated by the board.
fluctuations and Affect available cash and liquidity hedging risks and could have material effect on Debenhams closely monitors all aspects of cash management could materially the business, results of operations to optimise balance sheet metrics.
Effectiveness is measured adversely affect and financial condition.
regularly by management through a series of KPIs.
Debenhams This is an increasing risk due to Debenhams continues to develop its supplier base to mitigate earnings and theweakening of sterling, and the the potential of cost price inflation without compromising the cashflow potential for further future volatility, quality of its products.
In addition, the sourcing division has following the UK decision to exit been strengthened to include additional expertise which assists theEuropean Union and is being with sourcing decisions, production consolidation and lead monitored carefully.
time reduction, amongst other things.
Please refer to the notes to the financial statements for more information on this risk.
Change in severity and or likelihood of risk during course of 2015 16.
Ranked based on overall risk to the business.
22 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Systems Risks associated with systems A robust systems infrastructure is required to support the availability & failure, external attack of systems, delivery of our strategic objectives which are outlined on cyber security or data inaccuracy may significantly pages9 to 17.
As such, information systems developments are damage ability to manage keyenablers and critical for accelerating the pace of change Failure in the information technology systems, necessary to compete effectively.
To support the efficient and stability, integrity such as our website or warehouse effective delivery of strategic and business critical projects, or availability of management systems, or could abusiness change roadmap has been developed and the information cause inappropriate decisions to governance framework has been enhanced, which includes systems could bemade using wrong, missing adata security committee that focuses on areas such as adversely affect orambiguous information.
dataprotection and payment card industry PCI compliance.
Debenhams Aseries ofprojects are also under way to strengthen business business Inability to continue operations continuity tomaintain and protect performance.
operations smoothly in the event of a major andresults incident may have an adverse A business continuity policy, describing roles and effecton inventory and responsibilities across the Group, ensures that an effective profitabilityand divert financial framework is in place to enable the recovery and continuation andmanagement resources of normal business operations as soon as possible in the event frommore beneficial uses.
Key business systems are managed and monitored by specialist teams, and a disaster recovery site This is an increasing risk given the is in place where associated systems are tested to ensure that rising levels of cybercrime globally the requirements for invocation are fully understood.
and the increasing reliance on information assets.
Competition for Sales will be lower, market share Delivering a compelling customer proposition is at the heart customers willbe reduced and the Company ofDebenhams strategy, which is outlined on pages9 to 17. may be forced to rely on additional Indeveloping product and brand strategy, the Group takes into Debenhams markdowns or promotional sales to consideration market, trend and customer research to help it business could dispose of excess or slow-moving predict likely demand for its products and services.
Debenhams suffer if it is inventory or may experience continues to invest in its product and brand strategy to ensure unableto predict inventory shortfalls on popular that it remains competitive and to give customers a unique, accurately or merchandise.
differentiated and exclusive choice of brands, products and fulfilcustomer categories.
An understanding of customers and their needs is preferences or Channel shifts away from stores developed by listening to their views, market intelligence and demand through toonline could lead to higher reviewing KPIs which ensures that pricing is competitive and competitive, operational costs within the online promotional activity is appropriate.
Debenhams customer economic and channel and lower profitability, or insight team provides valuable intelligence to keep the board profitable channels even impairment, of store assets.
alert to changes in customer priorities The UK exiting the European Union A number of specific actions are being taken to address the may also have an impact through issues of the channel shift.
These include: potential changes to foreign exchange rate volatility, trade Building a more competitive and economic multi-channel agreements, duty rates and access business to drive sales, increase the recovery of fulfilment to foreign markets, especially versus costs and reduce the cost per unit of fulfilment.
To this end, EU competitors.
arange of competitive delivery options has been introduced Driving a better return on UK store assets through the introduction of additional products, brands and services aswell as ensuring that stores are fully configured for multi-channel shopping.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Business strategy Could significantly delay or prevent Debenhams has developed a business change roadmap which & transformation the achievement of Debenhams includes a number of projects that support the delivery of the business plan and could have a key strategic priorities.
These include investment in systems A failure to deliver material adverse effect on capability across areas such as buying and merchandising Debenhams key Debenhams business, financial andsupply chain to achieve greater alignment across all strategic priorities condition or results of operations.
may adversely affect its business This is an increasing risk due to the Management supply detailed updates on progress within the volume and complexity of change transformational programme, which are closely reviewed by the being implemented, its importance board to ensure that management is focused on key priorities to the business plan, and our and cost control.
reliance on third party specialist resource to support delivery, alongside the fact that this risk could be exacerbated still further bythe potential loss of access to thefreedom of movement of goods, services, people and capitalfollowing the UK decision toexit the European Union.
Supply chain and Any of the risks associated with Debenhams fosters close and collaborative relationships key suppliers doing business in international withits suppliers.
Both parties work towards the objective of markets and or importing optimising sustainable fulfilment and costs, which is measured Any disruption merchandise from these regions regularly by management through KPIs.
You can read more orother adverse could place pressure on margins about how the Group builds relationships with our suppliers event influencing and profitability or require the onpages34 and 35. either the Group to divert financial and sustainability of Debenhams continues to develop its supplier base to mitigate management resources from more thesupply chain the potential of cost price inflation without compromising the beneficial uses.
Typical impacts orDebenhams quality of its products.
In addition, the sourcing division has include: costs associated with the relationship with been strengthened to include additional expertise which assists transfer of the operations from one any of its major with sourcing decisions, production consolidation and lead provider to another or the potential suppliers, service time reduction, amongst other things.
of extra operational cost from a new providers, provider: changes in exclusivity In order to minimise the impact of any major supplier, international arrangements with designers or any designeror concessionaire relationship or performance issues, partners, decline in their popularity: or the Debenhams objectives are to: maintain close and collaborative designers, or loss of a number of important relationships in order to ensure that strategies are aligned: to concessionaires concession partners.
ensure that appropriate, unambiguous contracts are in place: ensure that all major suppliers, designers or concessionaires are The uncertainty around future financially robust: and to have contingency plans in place in the tradeagreements and duty rates event of a failure.
following the UK decision to exit the European Union means this is an area of high management focus.
24 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Risk Impact Examples of mitigation Change Legal & Unfavourable publicity concerning Forums exist to focus on specific areas of legislation, and regulatory Debenhams may lead to a loss of specific business policies and procedures are in place to ensure stakeholder trust and confidence that roles and responsibilities are understood across the Group.
Any events that and could have a material adverse For example, the Sustainability Committee focuses on areas negatively impact effect on Debenhams ability to such as ethical sourcing, legislative change and corporate the reputation of, attract and retain third party responsibility matters: and the data security committee focuses or value associated brands, suppliers, designers, on areas such as data protection and payment card industry with, Debenhams concessions and franchisees, PCI compliance.
brand could andcould consequently impact adversely affect All suppliers are expected to adhere to Debenhams own Debenhams business, financial itsbusiness supplier code of conduct, which is underpinned by Debenhams condition or profitability.
robust policy on compliance that includes a focus on social and The UK decision to exit the ethical standards.
European Union is likely to result Debenhams has specialist accounting, taxation, information inchanges to selected laws which systems and legal and secretariat teams in place to monitor could increase the likelihood of this changes to legislation and standards and this is further risk manifesting, and this is being supported by membership of key industry bodies that monitored closely.
Key personnel Could significantly delay or prevent In order to attract and retain talent, both succession and the achievement of Debenhams personal development plans are in place throughout the Debenhams business plan and could have Group.
In addition, target-led, performance-related incentive depends upon key amaterial adverse effect on schemes exist.
management and Debenhams business, financial other personnel condition or results of operations.
and the departure of such The UK decision to exit the management or European Union could impact personnel could onthe availability of talent in the adversely affect jobmarket and the eligibility itsbusiness forindividuals to work in certainjurisdictions.
These risks are not new but are now reported as principal risks following the annual review of their ranking.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25
