S d r E a T o B How the Business Manages Risk Effective risk management and control is The SET is also responsible for embedding sound risk management in strategy, planning, key to the delivery of our business strategy budgeting, performance management, and operational processes within their respective and objectives.
Our risk management and Operating Segments and business units.
control processes are designed to identify, The Board and the SET together set the tone and decide the level of risk and control to be assess, mitigate and monitor significant taken in achieving the Groups objectives.
risks, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance that the Group will be successful in delivering its objectives.
Top Board Down The Board is responsible for overseeing how Overseeing of the Groups risk management and internal controls the Groups strategic, operational, financial Audit Committee and compliance risks are managed, and Annual validation of the risk reporting process for assessing the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.
Senior Executive Team Owners of the risk management process and responsible for embedding risk management into business units Our Senior Executive Team SET owns the risk management process and is responsible Bottom Business Units Up for managing specific Group risks.
Risk Management Process Our strategy informs the setting of the objectives across the business and is widely communicated.
Strategic risks and Identify opportunities are identified as an integral part of the strategy setting process.
The SET is responsible for evaluating and managing risk from both a bottom up and top down level and acts as a link between the Board and the business units to ensure management of operational risks is embedded in the business.
Each SET member owns one or more Internal Group risks and is responsible for identifying Control how the risks are currently controlled, what Monitor r Assess Framework additional mitigating actions are required, what monitoring and assurance mechanisms are in place, assessing the effectiveness of key control processes, and addressing any weaknesses identified.
The Board conducts a review of the risk management and internal control framework and SET members present their risks, controls and mitigation plans to the Board for review on a rolling programme throughout the year.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal financial controls Mitigate e annually.
54 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 54 05 09 2016 17:26:09 A u s d t i i t n U C o s s m e n m i i s t t u e B e 55Strategic Report Internal Control Framework Policies and Procedures Improvements in 2016 Our internal control framework is designed Our key financial, legal and compliance In September 2014, the Financial to ensure: policies that apply across the Group are: Reporting Council issued a revised UK Corporate Governance Code the Code proper financial records are maintained: Code of Business Conduct: which introduced additional disclosure requirements on risk management and the Companys assets are safeguarded: Delegation of Authorities: internal controls.
compliance with laws and regulations: Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption: The Groups existing risk management and and Whistleblowing: internal control processes met many of effective and efficient operation of the requirements of this revised Code.
The Sanctions: and business processes.
following changes have been implemented Charitable Donations.
to meet the requirements fully.
The Dechra Values are the foundation of the control framework and it is the Boards Operational Controls The key changes that have been aim that these values should drive the Our key operational control processes implemented are the: behaviours and actions of all employees.
are as follows: identification of material internal controls The key elements of the control framework Quality Assurance: All our and key monitoring processes in more are described below: manufacturing sites have an detail: established Quality Management assessment of the effectiveness of these System.
These systems are designed internal control processes: to ensure that our products are manufactured to a high standard introduction of a rolling programme of Management and in compliance with the relevant Structure risk control reviews by the Board with regulatory requirements.
each SET member: and Pharmacovigilance: Our regulatory stress testing of the Groups cashflow Policies and Procedures team operates a robust system with forecasts to assess the impact of a Business Planning a view to ensuring that any adverse number of downside risk scenarios in reactions related to the use of our order to support the viability statement, Operational Level Controls products are reported and dealt with which can be found on page 70.
Quality Information Financial Pharmacovigilance Assurance Technology Controls promptly.
In addition, an internal audit programme has Dechra Values Information Technology: Our business been established to provide independent units currently use a number of assurance on material financial, operational Management Structure different local financial, manufacturing and compliance controls over a three year Our management structure has clearly and warehouse management cycle.
defined reporting lines, accountabilities systems to support their and authority levels.
We are in the process We plan to continue to refine and strengthen of implementing Oracle across the The Group is organised as business units.
our internal control framework where Group.
Each business unit is led by a SET member required within our core business and in and has its own management team.
Financial Controls: Our controls recently acquired businesses.
are designed to prevent and detect Strategy and Business Planning The implementation of Oracle is expected financial misstatement or fraud and We have a five year strategic plan to deliver improvements in our control operate at three levels: which is updated and reviewed by the framework through standardisation of Board annually.
Business objectives Entity Level Controls performed business processes and greater automation and performance measures are defined by senior managers at Group and of transactional level and period end control annually together with budgets and business unit level: processes.
Monthly business performance Month-end and Year-end reviews are conducted at both Group procedures performed as part of and business unit levels.
our regular financial reporting and The product pipeline is reviewed management processes: and regularly to: Transactional Level Controls assess whether products in operated on a day-to-day basis.
development are progressing according to schedule: identify new product ideas and assess fit with our product portfolio: and assess the expected commercial return on new products.
Stock Code: DPH 55 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
