Understanding Our Key Risks Dechra is the only veterinary pharmaceuticals Diversified product portfolios: Pricing decisions are not influenced by company in the FTSE 350.
We therefore Animal pharmaceuticals businesses are government payors that are involved in believe it is important to summarise the key generally less reliant on a small number product and pricing decisions for human distinctions between the animal and human of blockbuster products.
pharmaceutical industries in order to provide products are sold across different Less price erosion by generic a better understanding of our risk profile.
regions which may have distinct product competition: Generic competition requirements.
As a result, animal health The business of developing and marketing in animal healthcare, whilst playing products often have a smaller market animal pharmaceuticals shares a number of an important role, has a lower impact size and the performance of any single characteristics with human pharmaceutical on prices compared to human product typically has less impact on businesses.
These similarities include pharmaceuticals because of the overall business performance.
the need to conduct clinical trials to smaller average market size of each prove product safety and efficacy, obtain Stronger customer relationships product opportunity, stronger customer regulatory approval for new products, and brand loyalty: The animal health relationships and brand loyalty.
complex and highly regulated product industry uses a combination of sales The SET has identified and agreed key manufacturing, and to market products representatives to promote their products risks with the Board.
Of these, a number based on approved clinical claims.
However, and technical veterinary specialists to are deemed to be generic risks facing there are also significant differences provide support and advice on animal every business including failure to comply between animal and human pharmaceutical health.
These relationships result in better with financial reporting regulation, foreign businesses, including: access to customers and sales visits are exchange, IT systems failure and typically longer and more meaningful.
Product development is generally non-compliance with legislation.
The table Companion Animal Products are often faster, cheaper and more predictable below therefore details the ten principal directly prescribed and dispensed by and sustainable: Development of risks that are specific to our business and veterinarians which contributes to brand animal medicines typically requires fewer provides information on: loyalty, which often continues after the clinical studies with fewer subjects and is loss of patent protection or regulatory how they link to Group strategy: conducted directly in the target species.
Decisions on product safety, efficacy and their potential impact on the business: likelihood of success can therefore be Lower pricing pressure: Livestock and made more quickly.
producers and pet owners generally what controls are in place to mitigate pay for animal healthcare themselves.
Key: No change Increased risk Decreased risk Link to Strategic Pillar and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Controls and Mitigating Actions Trend Competitor Risk: Revenues and margins We focus on lifecycle management a b c Competitor products may be adversely affected strategies for our key products to ensure launched against one of our should competitors launch they fulfil evolving customer requirements.
leading brands e. g. generics a novel or generic product Product patents are monitored and or a superior product profile.
that competes with one of defensive strategies are developed our unique products upon We depend on data exclusivity towards the end of the patent life or the the expiry or early loss of periods or patents to have data exclusivity period.
exclusive marketing rights for We monitor market activity prior to some of our products.
Costs may increase due competitor products being launched, and to defensive marketing Although we maintain a broad develop a marketing response strategy to activity.
portfolio of products, our mitigate competitor impact.
unique products like Vetoryl and Felimazole have built a market which may be attractive to competitors.
56 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 56 05 09 2016 17:26:11 57Strategic Report Link to Strategic Pillar and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Controls and Mitigating Actions Trend Market Risk: The emergence of We manage and monitor our national a b c The emergence of veterinary corporate customers and and European pricing policies to ensure buying groups, corporate buying groups represents equitable pricing for each customer group.
customers and internet an opportunity to increase Growth in Our relationships with larger customers pharmacies.
sales volumes and revenue buying groups, are managed by key account managers.
but may result in reduced corporate We sell and promote primarily margins.
Our marketing strategy is designed customers to veterinary practices and to support veterinarians in retaining and internet distribute our products through Our reputation and customers by promoting the benefits of pharmacies.
wholesaler and distributor relationships with veterinary our product portfolio in our major networks in most markets.
practices could also be therapeutic areas.
In a number of mature markets, veterinarians are establishing buying groups to consolidate their purchasing, and corporate and internet customers are also emerging.
Acquisition Risk: Failure to identify or secure We have defined criteria for screening Identification of acquisition suitable targets could slow acquisition targets and we conduct candidates and their potential the pace at which we can commercial, clinical, financial and legal integration.
expand into new markets due diligence.
Integration or grow our portfolio.
of three Identification of suitable The Board reviews acquisition plans acquisitions candidates and securing a Acquisitions could deliver and progress regularly and approves all made this year.
successful approach involves a lower profits than expected potential transactions.
or result in intangible The SET manages post-acquisition assets impairment.
integration and monitors the delivery of Acquired products or businesses benefits and returns.
may fail to deliver expected returns due to over-valuation or integration challenges.
Product Development Risk: A succession of clinical trial Potential new development candidates are Failure to deliver major failures could adversely assessed from a commercial, financial and products either due to pipeline affect our ability to deliver scientific perspective by a multi-functional delays or newly launched shareholder expectations team to allow senior management to make products not meeting revenue and could also damage our decisions on which ones to progress.
reputation and relationship The pipeline is discussed regularly by senior with veterinarians.
The development of management, including the Chief Executive pharmaceutical products is Our market position in key Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Regular a complex, risky and lengthy therapeutic areas could updates are also provided to the Board.
process involving significant be affected, resulting in Each development project is managed by financial, R&D and other reduced revenues and co-project leaders who chair project team resources.
Products that initially appear Where we are unable Before costly pivotal studies are initiated, promising may be delayed or to recoup the costs smaller proof of concept pilot studies are fail to meet expected clinical incurred in developing and conducted to assess the effects of the drug or commercial expectations launching a product this on target species and for the target indication.
or face delays in regulatory would result in impairment approval.
In respect of all new product launches a detailed marketing plan is established It can also be difficult to and progress against that plan is predict whether newly launched regularly monitored.
products will meet commercial expectations.
The Group ensures that it has a detailed market knowledge and retains close contact with customers through its management and sales teams which are trained to a high standard.
Stock Code: DPH 57 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 57 05 09 2016 17:26:11 Understanding Our Key Risks continued Link to Strategic Pillar and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Controls and Mitigating Actions Trend Regulatory Risk: Delays in regulatory The Group strives to exceed regulatory Failure to meet regulatory reviews and approvals requirements and ensures that its a b c requirements.
could impact the timing of a employees have detailed experience and product launch and have a knowledge of the regulations.
Ensuring new We conduct our business in a material effect on sales and acquisitions highly regulated environment, Manufacturing and Regulatory have margins.
meet relevant which is designed to ensure established quality systems and standard quality and the safety, efficacy, quality, Any changes made to the operating procedures in place.
regulatory and ethical promotion of manufacturing, distribution, Regular contact is maintained with all standards.
marketing and safety relevant regulatory bodies in order to build surveillance processes of Failure to adhere to regulatory and strengthen relationships and ensure our products may require standards or to implement good communication lines.
additional regulatory changes in those standards approvals, resulting in The regulatory and legal teams keep could affect our ability to additional costs and or updated in respect of changes with a view register, manufacture or delays.
to ensuring that the business is equipped promote our products.
to deal with, and adhere to, such changes.
Non-compliance with regulatory requirements Where changes are identified which may result in delays to could affect our ability to market and sell production or lost sales.
any of our products, a response team is created in order to mitigate the risk.
External consultants are used to audit our manufacturing quality systems.
Regulatory Risk: Reduction in sales of our Regular contact is maintained with relevant a b c Continuing pressure on reducing antimicrobial product range.
veterinary authorities to ensure that we antibiotic use.
have a comprehensive understanding of Our reputation could regulatory changes.
The issue of the potential transfer be adversely impacted of antibacterial resistance from if we do not respond We strive to develop new products and food producing animals to appropriately to government minimise antimicrobial resistance concerns.
humans is subject to regulatory recommendations.
In some countries this has led to government recommendations on reducing the use of antibiotics in food producing animals.
Reliance on Third Parties Raw material supply failures We monitor the performance of our key a b c Risk: may cause: suppliers and act promptly to source from A supply failure on a key alternative suppliers where potential issues increased product product may affect our ability are identified.
costs due to difficulties to develop, make, or sell our in obtaining scarce The top ten Group products are regularly products.
materials on commercially reviewed in order to identify the key We rely on third parties for the acceptable terms: suppliers of materials or finished products.
supply of all raw materials for product shortages due to We maintain buffer stocks and dual products that we manufacture manufacturing delays: sourcing arrangements for key products.
We also purchase many of our finished products delays in clinical trials All contracts with suppliers are reviewed from third party manufacturers.
due to shortage of trial from both a commercial and legal products.
perspective to try to ensure that assignment of the contract is allowed should there be Shortages in manufactured a change of control of either of the products and third party contracting parties.
supply failures on finished products may result in lost sales.
58 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
indd 58 05 09 2016 17:26:12 59Strategic Report Link to Strategic Pillar and Enabler Risk Potential Impact Controls and Mitigating Actions Trend Reliance on Third Parties Loss of a key customer The DPM Sales Manager maintains a b c Risk: can impact manufacturing relationships with key customers and we Loss of key third party revenues and lead to an have an experienced sales team which manufacturing customers from increase in the cost of focuses on bringing in new customers.
goods of the remaining Robust supply agreements are in place portfolio.
Other sales, relating to third with each of our key customers and are party manufacturing and other regularly reviewed.
non-core activities, represents Monthly customer service level approximately 14% of Group monitoring and reporting is in place.
People Risk: Loss of key skills and The Nomination Committee oversees a b c Failure to retain high calibre, experience could erode succession planning for the Board and talented senior managers and our competitive advantage the SET.
other key roles in the business.
and could have an adverse Succession plans are in place for the impact on results.
Our growth plans and future SET together with development plans for success are dependent on Inability to attract and retain key senior managers.
Key person insurance retaining knowledgeable and key personnel may weaken is in place where appropriate.
experienced senior managers succession planning.
Remuneration packages are reviewed on and key staff.
an annual basis in order to help ensure that the Group can continue to retain, incentivise and motivate its employees.
People Risk: Failure to recruit or develop The Group HR Director reviews the Failure to resource the business good quality people could organisational structure with the SET to achieve our strategic result in: twice a year to aim to ensure that the ambitions, particularly on organisation is fit for purpose and to capability gaps in new geographical expansion and assess the resourcing implications of markets: acquisition.
planned changes or strategic imperatives.
challenges in integrating As Dechra expands into new A development programme is in place to new acquisitions: or markets and acquires new identify opportunities to recruit new talent businesses or science we and develop existing potential.
overstretched resources recognise that we may need This could delay new people with different implementation of our skills, experience and cultural strategy and we may knowledge to execute our not meet shareholders strategy successfully in those expectations.
Key to Strategic Pillars: Key to Strategic Enablers: Read Delivering Our Strategy on pages 13 to 15.
Pipeline Delivery Manufacturing and Supply Chain a b c Portfolio Focus Technology Geographical Expansion People Acquisition Stock Code: DPH 59 slugline Dechra AR2016 Front.
indd 59 05 09 2016 17:26:12 60 60 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2016 www.
com Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 60 05 09 2016 17:26:41 Governance 62 Board of Directors 64 Corporate Governance 72 Audit Committee Report 77 Nomination Committee Report 79 Directors Remuneration Report 94 Directors Report Other Disclosures 97 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Stock Code: DPH 61 Dechra Annual Report Middle 2016. indd 61 05 09 2016 17:26:42
