Y F I T N E D I E V A L Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Managing risk The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties in both the development and day-to-day operations of its business.
Risk management framework Assessment of principal risks and uncertainties The Group has an established risk register which is coordinated The Directors confirm that they have made a robust assessment and analysed by the Groups Internal Audit function to facilitate of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, regular review of key risks by the Directors.
Each identified risk is including those that would threaten its business model, future allocated to a member of the Executive Board.
The Directors performance, solvency or liquidity.
maintain overall responsibility for risk management throughout the Group and oversee the implementation by the Executive These risks are discussed below, together with the Groups Board and operational management of processes to manage related mitigating activities.
Other risks which are currently either these risks.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups internal not known to the Group or are not considered material could risk register on a regular basis.
also impact the Groups reported performance or assets.
Risk management framework 16 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 16 12 10 2016 18:06 U A T E E T A G I T I M Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 RISK MITIGATION MOVEMENT The Group continues to make substantial investments in marketing Economy and consumer to maintain its leading brand status.
Marketing strategy is supported market conditions through econometric and customer insight analysis.
The retail market for upholstered furniture in Detailed sales information by product and store is reviewed daily, the UK is highly competitive.
The Groups enabling changes to product selection, incentive structures and success is therefore dependent on its ability advertising strategy to be made on a dynamic basis to optimise sales.
to compete effectively, particularly during peak The Groups interest free credit offer allows customers to spread the trading periods.
cost into affordable monthly payments.
The Groups products represent a significant discretionary spend for customers and demand is heavily influenced by factors affecting the economies in which the Group operates including but not limited to consumer confidence, income levels, interest rates, the availability of credit and the level of housing market activity.
1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Products and services are continually reviewed to ensure they suit Product and innovation customers needs, are competitively priced, offer good value and are Maintaining the reputation of, and value supported by excellent customer service, in order to enhance the associated with, the Groups brands and Groups market-leading position.
Our in-house design teams enable product offering is central to the success reaction to emerging trends and new entrants to the market.
design partners are also incentivised to generate new product concepts on a regular basis.
A failure to predict changes in customer tastes or the impact of changes in the competitor Quality Level Agreements are in place with all upholstery suppliers, environment could reduce the Groups revenues reinforced with internal quality control procedures to rapidly identify and market share.
and rectify product liability and recall issues.
Compliance with fire regulations and other quality standards is supported by independent 1 external testing.
The Group has a focus on offering outstanding customer care and service.
"This is underpinned by our established use of Net Promoter Score NPS"" at all touch points of the consumer journey to ensure our brand is growing, trusted and appealing."
The Group continuously reviews the location and format of its stores Expansion of retail store network and their contribution to overall results.
A detailed appraisal model The growth of the Group depends on its ability is applied to assess the payback period and expected profitability of to open and operate new stores on a timely each potential new store, including its impact on existing stores in the and cost-effective basis while continuing to area.
Appraisals are subject to thorough review and approval by the increase sales at existing stores.
This includes Board before any investment is made.
successfully achieving incremental sales from The Group has an established supporting infrastructure in place retail space released by roll out of Customer to recruit and train new employees and fit out and open stores Distribution Centres.
Competition for desirable retail sites has historically been significant, which may reduce the availability and or increase the rental costs of such sites.
Successful execution of any new store roll-out also depends upon a number of other factors, including the hiring, training and retention of qualified personnel and the capability of the Groups existing information technology and distribution systems to accommodate new stores.
1 2 2 3 3 4 1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Link to strategic priority Increased risk Decreased risk Stable 17 25579 DFS RA BOOK.
indb 17 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK MITIGATION MOVEMENT The Group continues to make substantial investment in both website Website and IT systems development and marketing to maintain its market-leading position.
The Groups websites are a key component of its An established team of experienced staff in this field are supported omnichannel proposition and a failure to review with ongoing relationships with external partners.
and innovate in this competitive area could The Group engages with independent third parties to actively monitor impact achievement of the Groups strategic both customer satisfaction with its digital services and the emergence growth plans.
Websites and other parts of the Groups Full back-up and business continuity procedures, comprising both operations depend upon the continued internal and third party resources, are in place and are regularly availability and integrity of its IT systems.
Technical security measures against data loss through a systems breach are in place and regularly 4 5 reviewed.
Third party penetration testing is carried routinely to check the resilience of the Groups systems to cyber-attack.
The Group has longstanding relationships with a number of finance Consumer finance houses, with long term contracts in place with two providers which The majority of the Groups sales are to more than cover the total requirement for customer finance.
These customers that utilise its interest free finance arrangements enable a redistribution of business in the event of offerings, which are provided by external finance withdrawal by one or more providers, and surety on acceptance rates houses that, in return for a fee, bear the risk of and fee levels.
These key metrics are continuously reviewed to ensure customer default.
Credit standards with respect that each provider remains competitive.
to customer finance offerings typically tighten An increase in LIBOR that affects the cost of providing credit may be during periods of economic downturn, which mitigated by revising the customer offer in line with maintaining market may limit the Groups ability to offer customer leader status.
finance on commercially acceptable terms and or may increase the amount of the fee payable to the external providers of customer finance.
1 The Group maintains flexible supply arrangements to facilitate Supply chain switching between suppliers where necessary and uses a variety of A large portion of the Groups products are freight forwarders to avoid reliance on any one transport link.
supplied by a core of manufacturers, with many Supplier performance is monitored against operational and quality produced in continental Europe and Asia.
targets and reviewed by senior management.
All external upholstered The Groups internal manufacturing operations furniture suppliers are frequently inspected by the Group to ensure also supply a significant proportion of goods working conditions and quality standards are maintained.
sold and may not wholly be able to compensate Fixed prices are negotiated for finished goods and the scale for the failure of any of the Groups key external of the Group enables it to achieve significant cost savings with suppliers to satisfy their delivery obligations.
The Groups in-house manufacturing capacity Increases in finished goods and underlying provides insight into production costs and the ability to create commodity prices may negatively impact the cost-efficient designs.
1 Employee remuneration is structured to be at attractive levels and Employees to incentivise employees towards results that are aligned with the The success of the Group depends significantly objectives of the Group.
In addition, senior management across the on its ability to attract and retain a workforce that business may participate in equity in the Group or in longer term includes experienced sales, product design and incentive plans operating over a three year cycle.
production personnel and to retain members Succession planning is operated throughout the business to identify of its senior management team, many of whom short and long term successors to key roles.
A high performance have significant experience in the Groups training programme is in place for individuals identified for key roles.
The physical nature of our The Group makes significant investment in training employees products and handcrafted production processes in health and safety requirements.
Dedicated internal teams are involves a number of manual activities, supported where needed by external advisors in specialist ares.
increasing the complexity of health and safety compliance.
indb 18 12 10 2016 18:06 Job: Proof Read by: Operator: update when worked on Proof: 00 Set-up: put your name here Date: First Read Revisions Strategic report Governance Financial statements DFS Annual report and accounts 2016 RISK MITIGATION MOVEMENT The Group remains highly cash generative and currently has sufficient Financial risk and liquidity medium and long term facilities in place, including a 30.0 million A downturn in the macroeconomic revolving credit facility in place until March 2020 which is as yet environment may impact the Groups unutilised.
Foreign exchange and interest rate risks are managed through the use An increase in interest rates could increase of appropriate hedging arrangements in accordance with its Boardthe Groups financing costs.
The Group is also approved treasury policy, with details reviewed by the Board on a exposed to foreign currency exchange risk on regular basis.
No financial instruments are entered into for speculative certain purchases sourced from overseas.
In response to the significant change in foreign currency exchange 1 2 2 4 3 5 rates following the EU Referendum, the Group has established detail plans to actively manage its cost base and supply chain to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
Comprehensive training and monitoring programmes are in place to Regulatory environment ensure that employees are appropriately skilled to deliver high levels of The Group is subject to increasing levels customer service and maintain regulatory compliance.
of compliance requirements in many A Reputational Risk Committee is in place to monitor management of its activities from regulatory and other information and review processes and procedures to ensure our authorities and is subject to regulatory risk customers are treated fairly.
This includes rigorous oversight and with potential for significant financial impact escalation processes to maintain the status of limited permission to or reputational damage.
offer consumer finance granted by the FCA.
Changes to the regulatory environment surrounding DFS product warranty insurance could impact the sales of these products.
Changes in other legislation which may have significant retrospective or future economic effects could also impact operating results.
1 1 2 2 3 3 4 4 5 Viability reporting In accordance with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, the This assessment included sensitivity and stress-testing analysis of the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period impact of reduced revenues and a decrease in gross margin both significantly longer than 12 months from the date of approval of the separately and collectively.
The analysis takes into account the high financial statements.
level of variable and discretionary spend in the Groups business model and the existence and effectiveness of other mitigating actions This assessment was based on the current position of the Group and the Group could take, including the restriction of dividend payments.
the key risks and uncertainties, as discussed on pages 16 to 19 of this Annual Report, and considered a period of four years from In developing the viability assessment it has been assumed that the 30 July 2016.
A period of four years was selected by the Directors Groups 200.0 million senior loan facility will be refinanced on its since it reflects the period over which the Groups various growth maturity in March 2020 on similar terms to the current arrangement.
initiatives are anticipated to have a key impact on the business profile and corresponds to the Groups normal planning cycle.
Based upon this assessment, the Directors have confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Those risks which could significantly affect the future viability of the in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four year Group were identified and their potential impacts on the financial assessment period.
performance and viability of the Group were assessed under a number of severe but plausible scenarios.
