S E V I h T C E J B O C I G E T A Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 R T S S E V I h T C E J B O Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 p1-49 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 14:43 Page 30 Dignity plc 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Risk governance Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and The effective assessment and for reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been designed to management of risk is key to the assist the Board in making more risk-informed, strategic delivery of the Groups strategy.
decisions with a view to creating and protecting shareholder value.
Risk management is embedded throughout the business The risk management framework with all employees aware of the role they play.
Risk appetite Our risk appetite remains broadly unchanged in 2016.
Accountability and Governance Communication Risk appetite is the level of risk the Group is willing to take ownership to achieve its strategic objectives and is set by the Board.
The Board looks at the Groups appetite to risk across a number of areas including market, financing, operations, strategy and execution, developments, cybersecurity and technology and brand.
IDENTIFY & ANALYSE The Groups risk appetite is set in the context of our focus on Risks and impact identified one sector funeral services.
As experts in this sector we are Risks mapped to controls currently in place Residual risks prioritised for mitigation able to mitigate the risk involved in growing the business by Confirmed with the Board acquisition, development and our active asset management strategy.
This focus on our core strengths is balanced by a more cautious approach to risk in other areas.
Our approach to risk management The Group has a well established governance structure with internal control and risk management systems.
The risk RISK ASSESSMENT management process: PROCESS ACTION IMPLEMENT Provides a framework to identify, assess and manage risks, Controls identified Existing control both positive and negative, to the Groups overall strategy and enforced and tested Suggested action plans agreed the contribution of its individual operations.
Remedial action plans Options for controls identified implemented and costed Allows the Board to fulfil its governance responsibilities by Board member Plans approved by making a balanced and understandable assessment of the accountable the Board operation of the risk management process and inputs.
Responsibilities and actions The Board The Board is responsible for monitoring the Groups risk and Review Assess Report Respond their mitigants.
Risk process Every six months the Audit Committee formally considers the risk register and approves it for adoption by the Board.
Risk assessment Executive Directors and senior management are responsible for identifying and assessing business risks.
Identify Risks are identified through discussion with senior management and incorporated in the risk register as appropriate.
Assess The potential impact and likelihood of occurrence of each risk is considered.
Mitigating activities Mitigants are identified against each risk where possible.
Review and internal audit The link between each risk and the Groups policies and procedures is identified.
Where relevant, appropriate work is performed by the Groups internal audit function to assist in ensuring the related procedures and policies are appropriately understood and operated where they serve to mitigate risks.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 C I G E T A R T S S E V I h T C E J B O C I G E T A R T S Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 31 Dignity plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk status summary and new risks Our principal risks and uncertainties The ongoing review of the Groups principal risks focuses on how these risks may evolve.
Since the publication of last years Outlined here are the principal risks facing the Group.
Annual Report, we consider the following key principal risks to In assessing which risks should be classified as principal, have an increased risk exposure.
we assess the probability of the risk materialising and the financial or strategic impact of the risk.
Increasing and emerging risk trends The focus of both the government and the media on the cost of Operational risk management funerals has increased which may affect the ability to increase average revenues per funeral or cremation.
In addition, there Significant reduction in the death rate appears to be increased competition in both the funeral and Nationwide adverse publicity pre-arranged funeral plan markets.
Ability to increase average revenues per funeral or cremation Regulation Significant reduction in market share The increased focus on the whole sector may increase the likelihood of regulation of funerals in the UK as a whole and not Demographic shifts in population just in Scotland.
In addition, this could lead to regulation of the Competition funeral plan sector with the Funeral Planning Authorities being Taxes re-constituted to be more of a regulatory body.
Regulation of pre-arranged funeral plans Reliance on technology Data governance Regulation of the funeral industry The increasing prevalence of cyber attack across the world, Changes in the funding of the pre-arranged funeral means that along with all large corporates, our business plan business systems are under increasing level of attack.
Over the last two years we have invested significantly in this area both in Financial risk management upgrading all aspects of our systems and our internal resources and also using external consultants to perform Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes regular external and internal penetration tests and using the results to drive a continuous improvement programme.
The principal risks we have identified We maintain a detailed register of principal risks and uncertainties covering strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks.
We rate them according to likelihood of occurrence and their potential impact.
In the tables on pages 29 to 31 we provide a summary of each risk, a description of the potential impact and a summary of mitigating actions.
Key: Risk trend measures Risk exposure increased Risk exposure decreased No significant change Links See Strategy and business model: p. 08 and p. 09 See Our KPIs: p. 10 to p. 12 See Governance: p. 37 to p. 65 PDF Page: 1-49 Dignity.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 32 Dignity plc 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Key and link to strategic objective Risks in the context of our strategic objectives Continue to prioritise excellent client service which we believe will The Group has a proactive approach to measuring performance 1 lead to organic growth.
and considers risk as an integral part of decision-making, both about current and future performance, with the Board being 2 Control our costs without compromising the quality of our service.
responsible for the level of risk that the Group is willing to 3 Expand our funeral and crematoria portfolios.
The Board manages this by linking risk appetite to its strategic objectives, being mapped against defined impact and Gain new clients through the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
4 likelihood scales, in order to define where the level of risk sits.
Increase our returns through efficient capital management.
5 Operational risk management Strategic Risk description and impact Mitigating activities 2016 Commentary Change objective link 1 3 5 Significant reduction in the death rate The profile of deaths has historically followed The number of deaths in 2016 There is a risk that the number of deaths in a similar profile to that predicted by the was higher than expected.
This would have ONS, giving the Group the ability to plan its See Market overview: a direct result on the financial performance of business accordingly.
The risk is mitigated p. 06 and p. 07 both the funeral and crematoria divisions.
by the geographical spread of locations, the ability to control costs and the ability to acquire funerals.
Nationwide adverse publicity This risk is addressed by ensuring appropriate There have been no such 1 3 4 5 Nationwide adverse publicity for Dignity could policies and procedures are in place, which events in the period.
result in a significant reduction in the number are designed to ensure excellent client service See The Client Survey of funerals or cremations performed in any and careful selection of reputable partners.
For pre-arranged funeral plans, adverse publicity for the Group or one of its partners could result in a reduction in the number of plans sold or an increase in the number of plans cancelled.
This would have a direct and significant impact on the financial performance of that division and the Group as a whole.
Average revenues increased 1 5 Ability to increase average revenues The Group believes that its focus on excellent in line with the Boards per funeral or cremation client service helps to mitigate this risk.
Operating profit growth is in part attributable to increases in the average revenue per funeral See Operating review: or cremation.
There can be no guarantee p. 16 to p. 22 that future average revenues per funeral or cremation will be maintained or increased.
Significant reduction in market share The Group believes that this risk is mitigated Market share was slightly lower 1 5 It is possible that other external factors, for funeral operations by reputation and than the Boards expectations.
such as new competitors, could result in a recommendation being a key driver to the However, this offsets 2015, significant reduction in market share within choice of funeral director being used.
For where the closing position was funeral or crematoria operations.
This would crematoria operations this is mitigated by slightly higher than expected.
have a direct result on the financial difficulties associated with building new See Operating review: performance of those divisions.
p. 16 to p. 22 Demographic shifts in population In such situations, Dignity would seek to follow There have been no material 1 3 5 There can be no assurance that demographic the population shift.
This is mitigated by the changes, with satellites being shifts in population will not lead to a reduced geographical spread of locations coupled with opened and businesses demand for funeral services in areas where the ability to acquire funeral locations in areas acquired in appropriate areas.
See Operating review: p. 16 to p. 22 Competition There are barriers to entry in the funeral No major changes noted.
1 3 4 5 The UK funeral services market and crematoria services market due to the importance of Denials of planning market is currently very fragmented.
established local reputation and in the applications for crematoria crematoria market due to the need to obtain demonstrate the barriers There can be no assurance that there will not to entry.
planning approval for new crematoria and be further consolidation in the industry or that the cost of developing new crematoria.
increased competition in the industry, whether See Operating review: in the form of intensified price competition, p. 16 to p. 22 service competition, over capacity or otherwise, would not lead to an erosion of the Groups market share, average revenues or costs and consequently a reduction in its profitability.
The retention of affinity partners who sell the There are a number of potential affinity Groups pre-arranged funeral plans is essential partners who could replace existing ones to the long-term development of the preor add to existing relationships.
The loss of an affinity partner could lead to a reduction in the amount of profit recognised in that division at the time of sale.
Failure to replenish or increase the bank of pre-arranged funeral plans could affect market share of the funeral division in the longer-term.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 33 Dignity plc 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk management continued Strategic Risk description and impact Mitigating activities 2016 Commentary Change objective link Taxes There are currently specific exemptions No significant changes noted 1 5 There can be no assurance that changes will under European legislation for the UK on in the period.
not be made to UK taxes, such as VAT.
VAT is the VAT treatment of funerals.
Any change not currently chargeable on the majority of the would apply to the industry as a whole and Groups services.
The introduction of such a not just the Group.
tax could therefore significantly increase the cost to clients of the Groups services.
Regulation of pre-arranged funeral plans Any changes would apply to the industry as No significant changes noted 4 5 Pre-arranged funeral plans are not a regulated a whole and not just the Group.
This risk is in the period.
product, but are subject to a specific financial also mitigated through the high standards See Market overview: services exemption.
Changes to the basis of selling and administration of pre-arranged p. 06 and p. 07 of any regulation could affect the Groups funeral plans operated by the Group.
opportunity to sell pre-arranged funeral plans in the future or could result in the Group not being able to draw down the current level of marketing allowances, which would have a direct impact on the profitability of the pre-arranged funeral plan division.
Regulation of the funeral industry The Group already operates at a very high We continue to seek regulation 1 2 3 5 Legislative changes by the Scottish standard, using facilities appropriate for the of our markets.
This dignified care of the deceased.
See Market overview: provides them with the powers to regulate p. 06 and p. 07 the funeral industry and they are currently recruiting an Inspector of Funerals.
Regulation could result in increased compliance costs for the industry as a whole.
Changes in the funding of the pre-arranged There is considerable regulation around The latest actuarial valuation 4 5 funeral plan business insurance companies which is designed, of the pre-arranged funeral The Group has given commitments to preamongst other things, to ensure that the plan trusts demonstrates a arranged funeral plan members to provide insurance companies meet their obligations.
certain funeral services in the future.
The Trusts hold assets with the objective However the average assets Funding for these plans is reliant on either of achieving returns slightly in excess of per plan are still robust.
insurance companies paying the amounts inflation.
owed or the pre-arranged funeral plan trusts See Note 29. having sufficient assets.
If this is not the case, then the Group may receive a lower amount per funeral than expected and thus generate lower profits.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan:  221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016 Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 36 Governance 37 65 Financial Statements 66 117 Other Information 118 120 Dignity AR FrontEnd Master 2016 Q9 tp Layout 1 30 03 2017 13:16 Page 34 Dignity plc 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2016 How the Group finances its operations The Group finances its operations by a mixture of shareholders funds, Secured Notes and bank borrowings.
This approach seeks to minimise financing costs and generate optimum shareholder value through efficient leveraging of the Groups balance sheet, which is made possible by the stable and predictable cash-generative nature of the business.
It is not the Groups policy to actively trade in derivatives.
Financial risk management Strategic 2016 Commentary Change Risk description and impact Mitigating activities objective link Financial Covenant under the Secured Notes The nature of the Groups debt means No significant changes noted 5 The Groups Secured Notes requires EBITDA that the denominator is now fixed unless in the period.
to total debt service to be above 1.5 times.
further Secured Notes are issued in the See Financial review: If this financial covenant which is applicable future.
This means that the covenant p. 23 to p. 26 to the securitised subgroup of Dignity is not headroom will change proportionately achieved, then this may lead to an Event of with changes in EBITDA generated by Default under the terms of the Secured Notes, the securitised subgroup.
which could result in the Security Trustee taking control of the securitisation group on behalf of the Secured Noteholders.
In addition, the Group is required to achieve a more stringent ratio of 1.85 times for the same test in order to be permitted to transfer excess cash from the securitisation group to Dignity plc.
If this stricter test is not achieved, then the Groups ability to pay dividends would be impacted.
Viability statement The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the subsequent three years to December 2019.
The key consideration of viability is the Groups ability to service its Secured Notes as and when those obligations fall due, twice a year.
The Directors have fully considered severe but reasonable scenarios, and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions, on the Groups ability to generate funds to meet those obligations.
Three years has been selected as the appropriate period as the Directors strategic reviews look three years ahead.
In making this statement the Directors have reviewed the overall resilience of the Group and have specifically considered: the Groups current position and trading prospects: the current and ongoing strategy: the Boards appetite for risk: and a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and how they are managed, as explained in this Strategic Report pages 27 to 31.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR Process Plan: BlackPANTONE 221 C Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
