Risk management Managing our risks Our business is risk.
So to ensure our strategys success, we must manage risk effectively and efficiently.
of Defence, providing an independent and objective Managing risk in line with our strategy view of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk Management, and ultimately the Board, are responsible management, governance and internal control framework.
Our strategic planning process aims to ensure we have developed clear objectives and The Groups governance structure is set out in more detail targets, and identified the actions needed to deliver them, in the corporate governance section.
including the management of risks.
These clear objectives are consistent with our overall long-term ambition of sustainable Risk appetite growth and at least a 15% RoTE delivered within our risk Our risk appetite statements define the opportunities and appetite.
To find out more about our strategy, see page 14. associated risks we are prepared to accept to achieve our business objectives.
The Group has recalibrated its risk Our risk governance structure appetite range relating to the Solvency II internal model The Board sets and monitors adherence to the risk strategy, see the table below.
To monitor whether the business remains risk appetite, and risk framework.
It has established a risk within risk appetite, we use key risk indicators KRIs.
management model that separates responsibilities into We derive the KRIs from the risk appetite statements which Three Lines of Defence.
are used to drive and monitor risk-aware decision-making.
Our First Line of Defence is responsible for owning and These KRIs are qualitative and quantitative, and forward and managing risks to achieve our business objectives on a backward looking.
We review our risk appetite statements and day-to-day basis.
The Second Line of Defence is responsible KRIs annually, using outputs from the Internal Economic Capital for providing proportionate oversight, and challenging risks, Model IECM.
Group Audit is the Third Line Our risk objectives and appetite Risk objective Risk appetite statement Overarching risk objective The Group recognises that its long-term sustainability depends on having sufficient economic capital to meet its liabilities as they fall due, thus protecting its reputation and the integrity of its relationship with policyholders and other stakeholders.
As part of this, the Groups appetite is for general insurance risk, focusing on personal lines retail and SME insurance in the UK.
The Group has appetite for non-insurance risks, as appropriate, to enable and assist it to undertake its primary activity of insurance.
Maintain capital adequacy The Group seeks to hold own funds in the range of 140% to 180% of the internal model SCR.
The Group also seeks to maintain sufficient economic capital consistent with its strategic aim of achieving a standalone credit rating in the A range.
Stable and efficient access The Group aims to meet planned and unexpected cash outflow requirements, including those to funding and liquidity requirements that arise following a one-in-200 years insurance, market or credit risk event.
Maintain stakeholder The Group has no appetite for material risks resulting in reputational damage, regulatory or confidence legal censure, fines or prosecutions, and other types of non-budgeted operational risk losses associated with Group conduct and activities.
The Group will maintain a robust and proportionate internal control environment.
26 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our Enterprise Risk Management Strategy andFramework Group strategy This section sets out, at a high level, our approach to setting risk strategy and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF for managing risks.
It documents the high-level Risk appetite principles and practices to achieve appropriate risk management standards and demonstrates the inter-relationships Policy framework between components of the ERMF see diagram.
Reporting & The ERMF enables us to run the business with the necessary monitoring Principal risks understanding of our risks and controls, as well as having appropriate oversight to manage risks proactively.
The ERMF is aligned to the Three Lines of Defence model, and intends to provide a coherent, robust, fit-for-purpose, end-to-end approach for managing all material risks.
Our policy framework is a central part of the ERMF, and includes policies and minimum Risk management standards.
These inform the business about how it needs to conduct activities to remain within its risk appetite.
Identify Risk The Board approves our strategy, risk appetite and policies, profile and the Board Risk Committee BRC approves the ERMF.
Assess Our risk culture Manage Our risk culture underpins our business and decision-making, and helps us embed a robust approach to managing risk.
Our risk culture is demonstrated in the understanding and Monitor business-wide use of the risk management systems and processes and through risk-aware decision-making.
The Board is committed to promoting a culture of high standards Report of corporate governance, business integrity, ethics, and professionalism in all our activities.
An annual assessment of risk behaviours and attitudes ARBA is undertaken jointly by the Risk function and Group Audit and considers a range of factors influencing risk culture.
Principal risks and uncertainties We assess robustly the principal risks facing us.
Principal risks are defined as having a residual risk impact of 40 million or more on profit before tax or net asset value on a one-in-200 years basis, accounting for customer, financial and reputational impacts.
We believe our risk profile remained broadly unchanged over the last year.
Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples Insurance risk Chief Financial We estimate technical reserves using various actuarial and Officer, Managing statistical techniques.
Managements best estimate of total Underwriting Directors of reserves is set at not less than the actuarial best estimate Reserve Personal Lines Third parties review our reserves and Commercial Distribution Underwriting guidelines are set for all transacted business, Pricing and pricing refined by analysing comprehensive data Reinsurance Catastrophe and motor excess of loss reinsurance limits our exposure to events and large losses The risk of loss due to fluctuations in the We invest in enhanced external data to analyse and timings, amount, frequency and severity mitigate exposures of an insured event relative to the We have set reserves using the latest data and trends.
In expectations at the time of underwriting.
particular, the recent decision to reduce the Ogden discount See pages 136 to 139. rate has been reflected in the estimate of reserves www.
com 27 Risk management continued Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples Market risk Chief Financial We manage and control the risks in our investment Officer portfolio through: Spread an investment strategy approved by the Board: Interest rate diversifying the types of assets: limits on the amount of Property illiquid investments: tightly controlling individual credit exposures: and risk-reduction techniques, such as hedging The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations foreign currency exposures with forward contracts, and in the level and volatility of market prices of assets, liabilities and financial hedging exposure to US interest rates with swap contracts instruments.
See pages 139 to 141. Credit risk Chief Financial Credit limits are set for each counterparty and we actively Officer monitor credit exposures Concentration We only purchase reinsurance from reinsurers with at least Counterparty default an A rating The risk of loss resulting from fluctuations in the credit standing of issuers of securities, counterparties and any debtors to which we are exposed.
Operational risk Specific members We have appropriate operational processes and systems, of the Executive including detection systems for fraudulent claims Information security We are working to improve the performance of our IT systems IT and business continuity while focusing on developing future systems capability.
With Outsourcing significant change underway, we are continuing to monitor risks associated with our IT systems stability, cyber security, Financial reporting and the internal control environment Model Our risk management system is designed to enable us to Partnership contractual obligations capture risk information in a robust and consistent way Change We monitor the performance of outsourced and offshored Technology and infrastructure activities The risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
Regulatory and conduct risk Chief Risk Officer We maintain a constructive and open relationship with and Managing our regulators Compliance Director, We use specific risk management tools and resources Conduct Personal Lines to help manage our exposure to regulatory risk Our risk-based monitoring is designed to ensure we use The risks leading to reputational our resources effectively damage, regulatory or legal censure, We have a strong culture of considering customers fines or prosecutions, and other perspectives: delivering the right outcomes for our customers types of non-budgeted operational is central to how we operate risk losses associated with our conduct and activities.
Our robust customer conduct risk management is designed to minimise our risk exposure 28 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks Owner Management and mitigation examples Strategic risk Chief Executive We agree, monitor and manage performance against the Officer plan and targets Strategy implementation We run an annual strategy and 5-year planning process Strategy formulation which considers our performance, competitor positioning and strategic opportunities The risk of direct or indirect adverse We identify and manage emerging risks using established impact on the earnings, capital, or governance processes and forums value of our business, resulting from the strategies not being optimally chosen, implemented or adapted to changing conditions.
We consider brand, reputational and political risk within the drivers of other risk types, such as regulatory and conduct, operational and strategic risks.
UK economy Emerging risks The UK could enter a prolonged period of reduced growth Our definition of emerging risks is newly developing or following its referendum vote on EU membership, potentially changing risks that are often difficult to quantify, but may reducing insurance sales and the value of our investment materially affect our business.
We have further defined portfolio.
Equally, the uncertainty surrounding the nature and emerging risks as highly uncertain risks that are external to our outcome of the Article 50 negotiations could have various business.
We record emerging risks within an Emerging Risk implications.
In addition, whilst our operations are based Register.
We report these to the Risk Management Committee mainly in the UK, we have monitored and will continue to and BRC for them to review, challenge, approve and feed into monitor actual and potential implications including: changes the Boards strategic planning process.
Our emerging risks to the value of Sterling which impact claims and non-claims processes aim to: supplier costs: volatility in currency exposures and hedging achieve first mover advantage by recognising risks and costs: inflation: recruitment and retention of people: potential associated opportunities early: changes to direct and indirect tax: and the impact on our capital position.
reduce the uncertainty and volatility of our business results: and Climate change manage emerging risks proactively.
Climate change could increase the frequency of severe weather events in the UK, and particularly flooding claims We consider our main emerging risks to be as follows: costs.
We continue to monitor changes in claims experience and consider weather trends as part of our pricing and Technological change in driving habits reduces underwriting processes.
consumer need for motor insurance New car technologies, such as crash-prevention technologies Potential future changes to the Ogden discount rate and driverless cars, could significantly affect the size and The Ogden discount rate has recently been reduced to nature of the insurance market, and the role of insurers.
minus 0.75%, with an imminent consultation announced to In addition to our partnership with the Government on consider the methodology for setting this discount rate and Automated Driving Systems MOVE UK, the Group continues therefore potentially leading to further changes to the rate itself.
to consider new motor technologies as part of its pricing and We are monitoring the development of the consultation and underwriting approach.
analysing the implications on claims costs and the solvency capital requirement.
Changes to traditional insurance business models New market entrants and changes in consumer expectations could result in significant changes to the structure of the general insurance market, and require us to update our business model.
Our strategy, aligned to our mission to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers, is positioned to take advantage of changes in technology and customer behaviours.
