STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management The Board has continued to identify, evaluate and monitor risks facing the Group and, during the year under review, a particular focus has been placed on assessing thelikely impact that each identified risk could have on the business.
Our approach BUSINESS OWNER All businesses choose to take considered risks in the expectation ofearning a return for their shareholders.
The Board has determined its risk appetite, stating the risks it seeks to take or is prepared to face within the Companys business model and the adopted strategy, GROUP LEADERSHIP and has also defined the risks it is not prepared to take.
The latter are EXECUTIVE TEAM avoided or eliminated as far as possible, or transferred to insurers.
The Board is responsible for overseeing managements activities in identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Group.
Importantly, we treat identifying and managing risk as an integral part of managing the business, and not as an additional bureaucratic chore.
IDENTIFY Principal risks are recorded in the Groups risk register and regularly reviewed and evaluated.
Each risk has a business owner, responsible RISK for managing that risk, implementing appropriate controls and mitigating actions and reporting on it to the leadership team.
In turn, the principal risks are reported on to the Board.
REGULARLY ASSESS RISK REVIEW AND As a sense-check on managements actions, the Board undertakes its AND IMPACT EVALUATE own assessment of principal risks in each year, which is then integrated THE BOARD into the risk register.
These known risks are taken into account in developing the Groups strategy and business plans.
UPDATE CREATE KEY RISK MITIGATION REGISTER STRATEGY Principal risks and uncertainties The business faces a wide range of risks on a daily basis.
The Board has new risks may arise, the potential impact of known risks may increase undertaken a robust assessment of what it believes are the principal risks or decrease and or our assessment of these risks may change.
The risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, therefore represent a snapshot of what the Board believes are the principal future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The table overleaf summarises risks and are not an exhaustive list of all risks the Company faces.
these principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Board has considered the risk posed by Brexit and has noted that The risks in this table have been assessed on a residual basis according there are likely to be risks associated with increases in the cost of raw to our current view of the potential severity being the combination of materials and potential labour cost increases for franchisees.
At the impact and probability and assume that existing controls are effective.
present time, the Board does not consider Brexit to be a principal risk We have linked the risks to the strategic pillars described on pages 14 tothe business model, but will continue to monitor and evaluate this and 15.
The environment in which we operate is constantly evolving: riskand reassess the exposure as necessary.
18 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC RISKS People-related risks Failure to respond to and Inability to react to changes in overcome competitive pressures the health debate and public desire for healthier food Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1234 1234 1234 Risk Risk Risk The business is overly dependent on The business faces strong competition from As societys expectations evolve, and keyindividuals either at Executive level arange of players, including those exploiting governmental acts on public health concerns, orinrelation to specialist skills, possibly emerging technologies or new food options we may need to change the products we offer exacerbated by a failure to attract or retain and new entrants into the UK market and our approach to marketing theskilled and experienced people it needs Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact Medium High Medium Probability Probability Probability Medium Low High Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation The Board considers succession planning on Management keeps the competitive landscape Management keeps consumers purchasing a regular basis and has set the CEO a personal under continual review and the Board also preferences under continual review and objective of developing multiple potential monitors the markets in which it operates, adjusts menus in response to these.
Contingency plans are in place aswell as KPI data on the current business.
engage, appropriately, with the government which could be implemented on a short-term Strategy is reviewed and developed by the onthe public health debate to ensure that basis should we suddenly lose a key Executive.
Board on at least an annual basis ourviews are understood by policy makers The business is considering whether to open and influencers asite away from Milton Keynes to assist in therecruitment and retention of specialist ITdevelopers Nature of threat Nature of threat Nature of threat These risks could have some impact on future These risks have the potential to compromise These risks have the potential to compromise performance, for a limited time our future performance or, in an extreme our future performance or, in an extreme scenario, even the business model scenario, even the business model Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Commentary Commentary Commentary The overall risk rating remains unchanged.
This risk has not changed materially during The Group has developed a food philosophy Anew Human Resources Director was theyear which includes structured objectives, action appointed during the year who is leading plans and governance structure.
We are working thedevelopment of the Groups HR operating towards meeting the childhood obesity model.
There has been significant change requirements detailed on page 26 ofsenior management during the year which hasincluded the recruitment of a new ChiefFinancial Officer Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 19 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED OPERATIONAL RISKS Failure to achieve UK growth Commercial leverage of large Food safety through new store openings franchisees Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1234 1234 1234 Risk Risk Risk Failure to meet store growth targets would be The Group has a number of franchisees whose There is the risk of contamination in either the a breach of our Master Franchise Agreements.
businesses run large numbers of stores, and so pre-proved dough we produce at the Groups Our ability to open new stores depends on our enjoy some commercial leverage.
The Group Supply Chain Centres, or in the pizza topping ability to lease or buy suitable premises, obtain may be unable to persuade these franchisees ingredients we distribute to our franchisees the necessary planning approvals and identify to implement our preferred strategies, or to stores.
In Switzerland, we operate corporate a suitable franchisee to run the store pass on cost increases in full or in part stores, and are responsible for finished products, which exacerbates this risk Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact High High High Probability Probability Probability Low Medium Medium Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Board approval is needed for the targets Open and transparent relationships with The business has implemented a contained within the MFAs, and the Board multi-site franchisees are managed at senior rigorousregime of standards and food monitors the pipeline of proposed store levels of the Group.
We also explain the safetychecks, working with the appropriate openings on a continual basis.
Franchisee profit-sharing model to all franchisees, so government regulator development programmes are run and we thatthey understand that success is mutual.
employ surveyors to identify and secure Numbers of stores managed by the large appropriate premises franchisees are monitored Nature of threat Nature of threat Nature of threat These risks could have an impact on future These risks have the potential to compromise If this risk materialised, it could have a significant performance.
In an extreme case an our future performance for a period of time impact on future performance and potentially unremedied breach of the MFA could threaten liquidity, for a limited time.
The reputational the Companys business model and liquidity impact could have a longer-term effect on performance and, in an extreme case, threaten the business model Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Commentary Commentary Commentary This risk has not changed materially during This risk has not changed materially during This risk has not changed materially during theyear.
The Group opened an additional theyear theyear.
The risk is monitored on a regular 82stores in the year and we remain confident basis by a qualified in-house resource.
of our ability to continue opening new stores TheBoard routinely receives a presentation tomeet the requirements of the MFA onfood safety risk controls 20 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPERATIONAL RISKS Interruption of raw material Supply Chain Centres are unable Failure of online ordering systems supplies to supply the stores for a prolonged or critical period Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1234 1234 1234 Risk Risk Risk The business relies on a number of third-party We distribute both the pre-proved dough we Over 75% of delivered sales are now placed suppliers for pizza toppings, some of whom produce and third-party pizza toppings to our online, around half of which are using apps provide the sole source of an ingredient.
In the event of physical formobile devices.
As well as the reliance on These suppliers must make a commercial damage to, or loss of, a Supply Chain Centre data centres and our own software developed return to stay in business and reinvest in their we would need to make urgent contingency in house, there is also a risk from malicious operations.
The Group would be vulnerable arrangements wherever possible.
However, the denial of service attacks ifasupplier decided to cease trading, suffered space required to hold dough whilst proving a major interruption or food safety incident, or forms a critical constraint to our business was responsible for an ethical breach of such severity that the Group would no longer trade with them Potential impact Potential impact Potential impact High High High Probability Probability Probability Low Medium Medium Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Suppliers who are selected through In the event of the loss of a Supply Chain Cyber risk appears on the Board agenda on at competitive tendering and appropriate due Centre, third-party ingredients could be least an annual basis and management reviews diligence processes supply the Group under delivered to stores direct, at an additional cost.
the performance of its IT infrastructure on a long-term contracts.
The economics of their The Group is considering developing additional continual basis.
Our systems are hosted by businesses are kept under review and their dough proving facilities, which would mitigate third-party specialists, with parallel processing performance against their obligations this risk significantly.
Loss of our dough across multiple sites and real-time replication monitored.
We assess their compliance with production facilities would be more difficult to and appropriate protection from malicious acceptable business standards overcome, but contract production of dough attempts to disrupt the availability of our sites.
would be possible, at an additional cost The business is considering whether to open asite away from Milton Keynes to assist in therecruitment and retention of specialist ITdevelopers Nature of threat Nature of threat Nature of threat These risks have the potential to compromise These risks could have a significant impact on These risks could have some impact on future our future performance for a limited time future performance and potentially liquidity, performance, for a limited time for a limited time Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Commentary Commentary Commentary This risk has not changed materially The level of risk remains as last year The overall level of risk has remained since2015 butwillreduce as new facilities in ROI unchanged during the year.
The IT function has andWarrington become operational continued to increase the technical capability to improve resilience and has recently achieved Level 1 PCI compliance status Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Dominos Pizza Group plc 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Loss of personal data relating to Implementation of enterprise customers, employees or others: resource planning ERP system loss of corporate data Link to strategic pillars Link to strategic pillars 1234 1234 Risk Risk For ease of use, our online ordering systems The Group implemented an ERP system hold some customer data, the loss of which during 2016.
The new system is expected whether accidental or following hacking toimprove the internal control environment, would cause disruption and cost to the though the migration from legacy IT systems Group.
In addition, the Groups own data on creates continuity risks.
The implementation employees and suppliers is exposed to the ofnew operating practices and culture needed same risks of loss to bring the ERP system into full effect creates further risk to the Groups business Potential impact Potential impact High High Probability Probability Medium Medium Mitigation Mitigation Cyber risk appears on the Board agenda The business had planned the implementation onatleast an annual basis and management of ERP for 2 years and selected a product keeps the security of data under its ownership with a good track record on ease of installation or control under continual review.
We do not supported by an experienced consultancy for hold customer credit card data on our systems.
the implementation Franchisees are trained in their obligations in respect of personal data and are required to train their staff appropriately.
Appropriate IT security is in place and kept under continual review Nature of threat Nature of threat These risks have the potential to compromise These risks have the potential to compromise our future performance.
In an extreme scenario, our future performance, for a limited time the reputational damage could possibly threaten the business model if we suffered a total loss of consumer confidence Change from 2015 Change from 2015 Commentary Commentary Cyber risk remains a significant threat across The Groups ERP system became operational all industries and we have raised the risk profile during Q4 of 2016.
The new systems will take to reflect the current industry-wide exposure.
time to become embedded fully but initial The Board received regular updates on the indicators are showing that the platform cyber security controls that operate within the isstable.
We have therefore concluded that business and our IT security infrastructure has the overall level ofrisk has reduced continued to evolveand mature during the year 22 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
