STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The risk management governance are commensurate with the risk appetite structure includes seven business risk established by the Board, are adequately management committees RMCs.
resourced and comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Each RMC reports Each RMC reports to the executive to the Board annually on themanagement of management of that area, assisting in the risks within the scope .
In turn, each executive is responsible for their risks RMCs review new and emerging risks and to the Group Executive Committee.
A top down review of risks is performed by each RMC and by Each RMC is responsible for ensuring that the Group Executive Committee on at least The Board is responsible for defining risk all risks associated with its specific area of an annual basis.
New risks are also identified appetite and ensuring the effectiveness of the business are identified, analysed and during development of the Business Plan.
risk management and internal controls across managed systematically and appropriately.
The Group has a comprehensive Each RMC has terms of reference that A new Group risk scoring matrix has system of governance controls to manage require local levelrisk policies and control been adopted in 2016 to align scoring key risks.
systems to be approved, implemented and across all RMCs.
Risks are scored based monitored in order to ensure that activities on impact and probability as follows: GROUP APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has a Risk Management Policy in place, approved by the Board which defines the Groups approach to risk management.
Critical risk Almost The key elements of the Policy are as follows: High risk certain Medium risk identify principal risks that threaten the Low risk achievement of our strategic objectives then assess their significance to the Likely Negligible risk business: put in place appropriate mitigating controls to manage identified risks to an Possible acceptable level: escalate and report principal risk and control information to support management decision making: Unlikely assign responsibility and define accountabilities for risk management and put these into practice across the Group: Rare continuously monitor the changing risk environment, the Groups principal risks, the effectiveness of mitigation strategies Very high High Medium Low Very low and the application of the risk framework.
IMPACT The approach manages rather than eliminates the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
55 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc PROBABILITY PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Drax Group plc Board ASSURANCE ACCOUNTABILITY GROUP AUDIT GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE RISK COMMITTEE Group Haven Power Drax Biomass Billington Drax Power Corporate RMC RMC Bioenergy Services RMC RMC Currency and Corporate Safety, Health Commodity Services Environment RMC RMC andProduction Integrity Committee The Group Executive Committee and the The results of each internal audit are CHANGE IN RISK PROFILE Board review reporting on critical and high documented in a report for internal distribution Risks are reported to the Board and disclosed risks from each RMC at least annually and and action.
A full copy of the report is in the annual report and accounts under eight from Group Risk biannually.
In addition, the distributed to the Group Executive Committee principal risk headings.
This has increased Audit Committee reviews the suitability and and the Chair of the Audit Committee, with from five principal risks disclosed in 2015. effectiveness of risk management processes an executive summary going to the other and controls on behalf of the Board.
members of the Audit Committee.
Each report Information Systems and Security risks includes management responses to Internal have been included in their own right in Audits findings and recommendations and an INTERNAL CONTROL 2016, rather than being combined under a agreement of the actions that management The Group has a comprehensive and wellCorporate risk heading as in 2015.
Corporate will take to improve the risk management and defined internal control system with clear Risk has been removed.
In addition structures, delegated authority levels and Environment, Health and Safety risk to the results of work undertaken by Internal accountability.
The Board has adopted a hasbeen separated out from Plant Audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself Schedule of Matters which are required to Operating Risk.
that an action plan is in place and management be brought to it for decision.
The internal Delivery of our Growth Strategy has been are addressing issues raised by the external control system is designed to ensure that added to reflect the adoption of the auditor in their yearly management letter.
the directors maintain full and effective Groups new growth strategy and the control over all significant strategic, focus of senior management on ensuring Based on the reporting from the RMCs financial and organisational issues.
and from the Audit Committee in 2016, the Whilst People risk has always existed for Board determined that it was not aware Through the Audit Committee, the Board the Group, it is now a principal risk as there of any significant deficiency or material has implemented a programme of internal is increased reliance on key staff due to the weakness inthe system of internal control.
audits of different aspects of the Groups pace of strategic change.
The programme is developed based on an assessment of the key risks of the Group, the existing assurance and controls in place to manage the risks and to the core financial control framework.
56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 1.
Strategic risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic The Group has adopted a new policy A rigorous programme risk in 2016 priorities designed to reduce the exposure to management framework has A new purpose and strategy Targeted commodity price movements and been established to drive and the acquisition of Opus long-term strengthen the long-term future of successful integration of Opus.
and four OCGT growth the Group.
The strategy includes Significant development costs development projects.
acquisitions and expansion into new for the OCGT plants will only be We are actively pursuing activities with their associated risks.
incurred if a contract is won in a potential acquisitions of capacity market auction.
Risk and impact We continually analyse the The benefits from our strategy may not changing dynamics of the be realised fully if we do not integrate markets in which we operate.
A programme of research and Development of the four OCGT plants is development into new dependent on winning contracts in technologies, products and capacity market auctions which is not markets has been established.
The markets where we operate and are looking to grow are constantly evolving, making the identification and implementation of further opportunities for growth more challenging.
57 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 2.
Political and regulatory risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic We remain vulnerable to changes Engagement with politicians risk in 2016 priorities in Government policy.
The energy across the political spectrum The Government has Higher sector is subject to detailed legislation and Government officials to confirmed that biomass Quality and regulation that is frequently influence thinking.
conversions will not be Diversified changing and ever more stringent.
Communication of our socioeligible to participate in the Earnings economic value to the UK.
Risk and impact Working with think tanks and The Government has Operational Changes to UK policy and regulations specialist consultants to confirmed the Carbon Price Excellence may reduce our ability to deliver our establish Drax as a thought Floor will remain forecast earnings from our base leader on priority policy and unchanged at its current business and our growth strategy, regulatory issues.
level until 2020 21. putting pressure on our financial Engagement with regulators to Government has issued a results and cash flows.
ensure compliance with consultation on the closure More complex and challenging regulatory requirements.
of all coal stations in the UK regulations could lead to Working with Energy UK to by 2025. non-compliance.
develop voluntary codes of Brexit has created practice in retail.
uncertainty over UK participation in, and influence over, discussions on new EU legislation The growing importance of principles-based regulation in the retail sector was emphasised by Ofgems plans to extend the scope of principles in the supply licence, and by significant penalties on suppliers for failures under the standards and conduct principle.
There has been an increase in the momentum of the smart meter roll-out.
Ofgem has been consistent on the importance of achieving the roll-out timetable and has fined one company for failures under the related advanced meter programme.
The obligation from the CMA enquiry on improving customer engagement and competition, to disclose prices of all acquisition and retention contracts for microbusinesses, will result in increased costs.
58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 3.
Biomass acceptability risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic The biomass market is still relatively Increased engagement across all risk in 2016 priorities new, sustainability legislation at both an European Institutions UK sustainability standards Higher EU and UK level is evolving, and public Commission, Parliament, became mandatory in Quality understanding of the benefits of the Council, and relevant UK December 2015 and we Diversified technology needs to be improved.
have demonstrated full Earnings Strong coalition with other compliance to date Risk and impact utilities and those engaged in The European Commission Operational EU or UK sustainability policy changes forest industries including using has published its draft Excellence could be excessively onerous and make EU and US forestry expertise to biomass sustainability it difficult for us to comply with policy brief Brussels.
criteria as part of the new requirements and claim subsidy in Increased transparency in how Renewable Energy support of economic biomass we evidence sustainability.
Directive so called Winter generation.
Working with academics, think Package, following Detractors and some eNGOs have been tanks and specialist consultants extensive consultation.
The known to act in concert to try and to improve understanding and proposal includes influence policymakers against wider analysis of the benefits of substantial elements similar biomass use and future biomass biomass.
to the UKs existing conversions, which could make it Engagement with key NGOs to sustainability regime but is difficult to gain support for further discuss issues of contention.
still subject to Council and conversions.
Media, including social media, Parliament scrutiny and presence to respond in the negotiation.
Plant operating risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic The reliability of our operating plant is Comprehensive risk-based plant risk in 2016 priorities central to our ability to create value for investment and maintenance The increase in Operational theGroup.
intermittent generation Excellence Adequate insurance in place to has led to a reduction in Risk and impact cover losses from plant failure transmission system Single point failures of plant could where possible.
stability and a more volatile result in forced outages in our Significant research and pattern of running for our generation or pellet production plants.
development on the production units, principally the coal Changes in generation running regimes of wood pellets as well as the units, which places expose us to new and emerging handling and burning of additional thermal stress technical risks which could result biomass.
inhigher than forecast forced Full testing of all biomass Lack of demand in the outagelevels.
supplies prior to acceptance biomass market is putting Successful generation using biomass and the use of contractual suppliers under price requires stringent quality throughout rights to reject out of pressure which in turn the supply chain, which continues to specification cargoes.
could compromise pellet evolve and mature.
Poor quality could Stringent safety procedures in quality as suppliers look to result in unplanned loss of generation.
place for handling biomass and reduce production costs.
Increased sampling and analysis through the supply chain to increase understanding of causes of fuel quality issues.
59 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 5.
Trading and commodity risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic The margins of our generation and High levels of forward power risk in 2016 priorities retailbusinesses are influenced by sales for 2017.
Low power prices and more Management commodity market movements, Hedging retail commodity price intermittent generation of whichareinherently volatile.
exposures when fixed price have reduced economic Commodity sales are executed with off-peak running, especially Market Risk and impact thirdparties.
Exposure Fluctuations in commodity prices, Wood pellets purchased under Prices for wood pellets particularly gas and power, could result long-term contracts with were depressed in 2016 due in lower margins and a reduction in cash fixedpricing.
to oversupply in the market.
flow in our generation business.
Significant forward foreign Sterling exchange rates Drax Power may fail to secure future exchange hedging in place.
against the euro and dollar grid system services contracts which have experienced are a source of revenue diversity for significant adverse theGroup.
movements since Brexit Following Brexit, foreign exchange rates and remain weak.
have moved adversely against the Low Recycle Fund outturn pound sterling, which could result in for 2015 16 RO compliance higher costs on unhedged exposures in year as ROC production the mid-term.
The value of ROCs generated may be lower than forecast if the recycle value outturns below BEIS projections due to higher than anticipated renewable generation.
Information systems and security risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic The availability, integrity and security of our Business continuity, disaster risk in 2016 priorities IT systems and company data are essential recovery and crisis management Significant investment in Operational to support operations of the Group.
plans in place across the Group.
our critical IT systems has Excellence Cyber security measures, improved the general Risk and impact including a defence, detect, resilience of the core Non-availability of IT systems, or a remedy strategy, in place.
breach in their security, could result in IT transformation programme in Development of the IT the inability to operate systems or our place to deliver upgraded transformation programme information could be compromised.
which is now being If our IT architecture does not meet the implemented.
increasingly demanding and complex requirements of the Group, we may not deliver our growth plans effectively.
60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 7.
People risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic We need to ensure we have the right Retention and talent risk in 2016 priorities people in place with the leadership and development strategies in place.
Development of the new Operational specialist skills to help the Group to Regular staff surveys to monitor strategy HR identified areas Excellence compete, innovate and grow.
engagement levels and across the Group that will alignment of people with Group require strengthening as Risk and impact values.
Our performance and the delivery of our Career management strategy is dependent upon having programme.
strong, high-quality leaders and Regular staff communications.
engaged and talented people at all levels of the organisation.
Environment, health and safety risks Context Mitigations Movement Changes in factors impacting Strategic The health and safety risks of the Well embedded health and risk in 2016 priorities environment in which we operate make safety systems based on world World class personal safety Operational our strong standards and culture crucially leading systems performance for the year Excellence important.
Continuous review of health and with TRIR well above the safety systems particularly as we industry benchmark.
Risk and impact increase our experience and No legislative changes in The health and safety environment is operating knowledge of the year.
subject to numerous and evolving handling and burning biomass.
health, safety and environmental laws, regulations and standards.
If we do not operate safely and comply with regulations the wellbeing and satisfaction of our workforce and levels of outage could be adversely affected.
Strategic report The Strategic report is set out on pages 161 of this document and was approved by the Board of directors on 15 February 2017.
Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive, Drax Group Will Gardiner Chief Financial Officer 61 Annual report and accounts 2016 Drax Group plc
