40 Strategic Report Principal risks Protecting the integrity of our business strategy.
OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Group has an established management The Group recognises that it is subject to many and varied general framework for identifying, managing, hazards that are preventable, strategic risks which the Group monitoring and mitigating risks.
This forms chooses to take in pursuit of its plan targets and external uncertainties such as changes in socio-economic conditions, the basis on which the Board reaches its political, financial, general regulatory and legislative changes conclusions on the effectiveness of the Groups including events over which the Group has no influence, but risk management and internal controls.
whose effect would impact its ability to deliver its plan.
We advocate and promote a risk-aware culture in all decision At a strategic level, our risk management process continues to making throughout the Groups businesses.
We remain committed be one of the cornerstones of our corporate planning process.
to seeking out opportunities and minimising the barriers and All risk management actions are aligned to our strategic priorities challenges that might impede the delivery of our plan.
The risks to ensure the Board has a clear line of sight to the amount of risk we face, in the markets we choose to operate in, do not change to be taken to deliver the Groups plan.
significantly from year to year, but their influence on our strategic priorities can vary in magnitude and frequency.
The relative AN UPDATE ON OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS influences of each principal risk on our strategy are reflected Following the introduction of the Financial Reporting Councils in the Boards current views and are categorised as stable, revised Code on risk management, and with the necessary increasing or decreasing, as shown in the principal risks table.
procedures in place, the Board has carried out its annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and control See p 42 for details of our principal risks and uncertainties systems and is confident that the design continues to support In 2016, the Board agreed the inclusion of one additional principal the proper assessment of the Groups principal risks.
risk, and classified it as the influence and impact of cyber threats The Group has continued to adapt existing procedures and has taken impeding the development of the Groups critical information appropriate steps to improve mitigation plans, improve the level technology IT infrastructure, and that influence on its digital and quality of discussion of its principal risks and integrate newly strategy within its supply cycle business model.
This threat had acquired businesses into the Groups approach to managing risk.
previously been recognised within a broader governance risk category: however, the Board believes, given the current concerns The Groups business risks are now reviewed over a rolling three about the potential impact of cyber security breaches, that it year period which enables more detailed focus and discussion, should now stand as its own principal risk category.
We have also and an improved understanding of the Groups ability to tolerate refreshed our existing analysis, to provide greater insight and to those threats.
In order to more fully understand and address the improve clarity and detail around the way the Group manages and near-term impact of its principal risks the Board has sought to gain reports on all its principal risks and uncertainties.
additional insights into the potential speed, influence and impact of emerging threats and uncertainties on the integrity of the See p 46 for more about our cyber risk case study Groups business model.
In 2016 the Board adapted the current The Board and the Group Operations Committee GOC continue framework to ensure that there is appropriate line of sight on new to monitor how these risks are managed, how they support the and emerging matters through horizon scanning discussion which achievement of the Groups strategic priorities and to understand formed part of the corporate planning process.
This more in-depth the mitigation strategies adopted to ensure the Group is resilient review of future uncertainties and their management, coupled in the event of a major and prolonged disruption whilst still with the introduction of the discipline and rigour of scenario and maintaining delivery of the Groups strategy targets.
sensitivity testing, supported the annual production of the Groups Viability Statement on page 41.
