Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board confirms that it has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Boards assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the mitigation in place is set out below.
Following a review of the risks as part of the process to support the viability statement, the Board decided to amend the description of some of the risks set out below: the categorisation used in last years report is recorded in the table.
The risks themselves have not changed materially, with the exception of the addition of the risks associated with the United Kingdoms exit from the European Union.
Risk Description How we mitigate Progress in 2015 16 The Group competes z Comparative performance within X Dunelm continues to lead the UK Competition, with a wide variety of the homewares market tracked homewares market with an increased market and retailers across multiple monthly across all main product share of 8.1% in 2015 7.7% in 2014. customers channels and across a categories.
X New Marketing Director appointed broad spectrum of pricez Customer insight research gauges to the Executive Board to lead our Link to strategy: points.
Failure to maintain relative customer perception and customer insight, marketing, store a competitive offer in experience.
1 2 3 the homewares market z Investment in store design X Enhancement of our store format to on multiple fronts price, and marketing designed to improve the customer experience is Performance Indicator: range, quality and service communicate our credentials on one our eight strategic initiatives.
Market share and or to respond to range, choice and value.
X Additional investment in customer changing customer needs z We continually focus on new insight activity and resource.
could materially impact Strategic initiative link: product development, both in X Continuing product innovation in profitability and limit Store format, Online existing and new homewares existing categories and strengthened opportunities for growth.
Marketing Director : categories, to strengthen our seasonal campaigns.
New strategic Furniture Product Director : specialist proposition.
initiative for 2016-17 to focus on Made to Measure business Product.
Stores Director : Product Board oversight: X One of our eight strategic initiatives Product Director Reviewed annually in depth by the is development of our online offer Board at its Strategy Day.
following the successful launch of a Executive responsibility: Strategic initiative review once new web platform.
X Strategic initiatives in place to Reports to: develop our furniture and made Chief Executive to measure business as part of the Impact compared growth of our competitive offer.
to 2014 15: Previous category: Competition and customers Trend Direction: INCREASING UNCHANGED DECREASING Link to strategy LFL STORES NEW STORES HOME DELIVERY 1 2 3 SALES GROWTH Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 19 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
indd 19 12 10 2016 09:57:55 strategic report Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED Risk Description How we mitigate Progress in 2015 16 The quality and safety of z We have a range of policies X Committed suppliers and overseas Brand our products and services is specifying the quality of agents continue to work directly damage essential to the business.
products and production with factories to deliver more green processes which suppliers must ratings against our Ethical Code of We must also ensure that adopt.
our suppliers share and Link to strategy: z We operate a full test schedule X Clearer communication to suppliers uphold our approach to for all new products and on about corrective actions and 1 2 3 business ethics, human a sample basis for on-going what is expected to make the rights including safety and lines, overseen by our specialist improvements.
modern slavery and the Performance Indicator: Product Technology team.
X Food Safety manual reviewed and environment.
Product complaints and z Food hygiene is maintained updated, and all food suppliers recalls Failure to do so could result through the adoption of clear signed up to Anti-Bribery and Ethical in harm to individuals and operating guidelines contained Codes of Practice.
Strategic initiative link: consumers, colleagues and in our food safety manual.
Product other stakeholders losing certification is compulsory and X Policy on Modern Slavery adopted confidence in the Dunelm risk assessments, equipment and awareness programme launched brand.
inspections and compliance with colleagues and key partners.
Executive responsibility: audits are performed regularly Product Director to ensure standards are For further information please see the Reports to: maintained.
Chief Executive z All stock and food suppliers and the majority of our other Impact compared suppliers are required to sign to 2014 15: up to our Anti-Bribery and Ethical Codes of Conduct which is in line with international Previous category: guidelines, and also specifically Brand reputation, product covers modern slavery.
and service quality z We conduct periodic audits on all stock suppliers against our Code of Conduct.
z Selected non-stock suppliers are assessed against our modern slavery audit.
Board oversight: Ethical trading modern slavery and product safety reviewed annually in depth by the Board.
Trend Direction: INCREASING UNCHANGED DECREASING Link to strategy LFL STORES NEW STORES HOME DELIVERY 1 2 3 SALES GROWTH dunelm.
indd 20 12 10 2016 09:57:56 Risk Description How we mitigate Progress in 2015 16 Availability of vacant or z Our property team actively X We have opened six new stores in Portfolio new retail space in the monitors availability of retail the year, including two in the London expansion space with the support of area.
right location is essential professional advisers.
to deliver our growth X We have legally completed on nine Link to strategy: new stores due to open in 2016 17 plans.
Inability to secure or z Financial modelling helps us 2 and beyond, of which three are develop the required retail assess the viability of potential within the M25.
trading space to deliver X Project London to specifically Performance Indicators: our superstore format will z The Groups strong cash Number of new store source stores in the London area, limit our pace of expansion generation and funding openings and pipeline where we are relatively underor force us to compromise headroom provide an attractive represented, is one of our eight our offer.
covenant to landlords and the strategic initiatives.
Strategic initiative link: ability to acquire freehold units if London appropriate.
Board oversight: Executive responsibility: Property strategy reviewed annually Property Director by the Board.
Reports to: Chief Executive Impact compared to 2014 15: Previous category: Portfolio expansion The success of Dunelm z The composition of the Executive X Our new Chief Executive and People and is dependent upon the team is regularly reviewed by Chief Financial Officer have been culture availability of talented the Board to ensure that it is appointed.
senior management and appropriate to deliver the growth X The Executive Board has been Link to strategy: specialist colleagues.
The plans of the business.
further strengthened through the success of the business 1 2 z Succession plans and annual appointments of a Stores Director, 3 could be impacted if it appraisals are in place across the a Supply Chain Director and a fails to attract, retain and Group.
Marketing Director all new roles.
Performance Indicator: motivate high calibre z High calibre individuals are X Formal people plan and talent Colleague retention colleagues.
retained and developed through management process adopted.
sponsored talent management X Significant investment in training and and development.
Strategic initiative link: development programme for the z Key business principles in senior management team.
All place to describe our values and X Further investment has been made business culture.
Executive responsibility: in both depth and capability of People Director z The Groups remuneration policy teams in key areas such as IT, Buying Reports to: detailed on pages 55 to 59 is & Merchandising and Logistics.
Chief Executive designed to ensure that high X Key business principles reinforced calibre executives are attracted through communication and and retained.
Lock-in of senior incorporation into induction Impact compared management is supported by processes.
to 2014 15: awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Board oversight: Previous category: People plan and talent management Management team and key reviewed annually by the Board.
personnel Trend Direction: INCREASING UNCHANGED DECREASING Link to strategy LFL STORES NEW STORES HOME DELIVERY HOME DELIVERY 1 2 3 SALES GROWTH Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 21 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
indd 21 12 10 2016 09:57:56 strategic report Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED Risk Description How we mitigate Progress in 2015 16 The Group risks incurring z Policies and codes of practice X Health and safety policies and audit Regulatory, penalties, damages, are in place outlining mandatory procedures reviewed and refocused Environment & claims and reputational requirements within the business on highest risk areas by new Health Compliance damage arising from for all key compliance areas.
failure to comply with These are regularly reviewed and X Operational audit updated to focus legislative or regulatory updated.
Performance Indicators: requirements across many z Operational management are also X New training programme for Prosecution and other areas including, but not responsible for liaising with the regulatory action commercial teams includes focus on limited to, trading, health Company Secretary and external pricing and marketing law.
and safety, employment law, advisers to ensure that potential X Data protection compliance data protection, Bribery Act, issues from new legislation are Link to strategy: strengthened through colleague advertising, human rights identified and managed.
z Dedicated Group Health and X New procedures adopted to address Safety function to oversee this requirements of the Market Abuse Strategic initiative link: aspect of compliance.
All z Training on the requirements of the Bribery Act and Competition Law is Executive responsibility: in place for all relevant colleagues Company Secretary and policies are communicated to Reports to: all suppliers.
Chief Financial Officer z We have a whistle-blowing procedure and helpline which enables colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
Impact compared Board oversight: to 2014 15: Monthly Board report on health and safety.
Previous category: Health and safety reviewed in depth Regulatory, Environment & by the Board at least annually.
Compliance Non-compliances reported by the Company Secretary by exception.
Dunelm is dependent on z All business critical systems are X Continued investment is being made IT Systems, the continued availability, based on established, industry in the capability of our IT function Sensitive Data integrity and capability of leading package solutions, with and in maintaining and upgrading and Cyber Risk key information systems full support in place.
A major z A detailed IT Roadmap is in X The IT Roadmap is aligned to and incident including a place.
reviewed alongside our strategic Link to strategy: cyber-attack, sustained initiatives.
z We have a disaster recovery performance problems or strategy designed to ensure X We have adopted the Governments 1 2 3 failure to keep technology continuity of trade.
10 steps to cyber security as a up to date could constitute template to assess our position: z Authorisation controls and access Performance Indicator: a significant threat to the progress has been made against all to sensitive transactions are kept Number of major incidents business, at least in the measures during the year.
z Information Security Steering Group in place to oversee the Strategic initiative link: Groups approach to IT security All and data protection.
Board oversight: Executive responsibility: Cyber security is standard agenda Chief Information Officer item for the Audit and Risk Reports to: Committee.
Chief Executive IT strategy reviewed annually by the Board.
Impact compared Major security incidents reported by to 2014 15: the Company Secretary.
Previous category: IT systems, sensitive data and cyber risk Link to strategy Trend Direction: LFL STORES INCREASING UNCHANGED DECREASING NEW STORES HOME DELIVERY 1 2 3 SALES GROWTH dunelm.
indd 22 12 10 2016 09:57:57 Risk Description How we mitigate Progress in 2015 16 Supply chain disruption z Physical infrastructure All X Supply Chain Director recruited to Supply chain could disrupt stock flows Dunelm non-store facilities are develop and lead our supply chain disruption to store and customers subject to disaster recovery plans strategy.
leading to an impact on and could all operate from fallX Major project completed to trading or cost efficiency back facilities.
construct a new warehouse facility Link to strategy: implications.
z Suppliers The Group seeks to at Stoke to increase capacity and limit dependency on individual provide a further fall-back facility for 1 2 3 Loss of the store support suppliers by actively managing our existing warehouse one of our centre, workroom or contact eight strategic initiatives.
centre could impact our X Desk-top simulation exercises Performance Indicator: ability to trade and divert Board oversight: Service levels in respect of completed to increase Crisis focus from long term Disaster recovery is a standard Audit store service Management Team capability.
and Risk Committee agenda item.
Strategic initiative link: Supply chain Executive responsibility: Supply Chain Director Reports to: Chief Executive Impact compared to 2014 15: Previous category: Business interruption and infrastructure Failure to operate the z Costs managed by the Board X Store operating procedures and Business business in an efficient and Executive Board through the stock management are two of our efficiency manner leads to additional budget and forecast process.
cost and margin pressure, z Strategic initiatives are in place to X Impact of living wage offset and could constrain our simplify store processes to reduce by productivity improvements Link to strategy: profitability, ability to store operating costs and improve generated by leaner store operating 1 2 3 compete and grow the stock management.
business in line with our z Dunelms scale, growth and X Project in place to reduce cost of strategy.
Performance Indicator: increased buying power allows it product returns.
Gross margin to secure supply of key services Failure to anticipate or and raw materials at competitive manage cost price volatility prices.
Commodity price tracking in key areas such as freight, Strategic initiative link: covers all key materials.
raw materials, energy Store operations, stock z Major non-stock purchase management and exchange rates may contracts regularly tendered.
lead to increased cost, margin pressure and lower Board oversight: Executive responsibility: profitability.
Board receives monthly management Chief Financial Officer, accounts.
Stores Director Store Operations, Supply Strategic initiatives and budget Chain Director Stock reviewed by the Board at least Management annually.
Reports to: Chief Executive Impact compared to 2014 15: Previous category: Commodity prices Link to strategy Trend Direction: LFL STORES HOME DELIVERY INCREASING UNCHANGED DECREASING NEW STORES HOME DELIVERY 1 2 3 SALES GROWTH Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 23 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
indd 23 12 10 2016 09:57:57 strategic report Principal Risks and Uncertainties CONTINUED Risk Description How we mitigate Progress in 2015 16 Lack of access to z The Group has a 150m, five-year X Net Debt at the end of the year was Finance and appropriate levels of cash revolving credit facility in place 79.3m 0.51 EBITDA.
treasury resources or exposure to until March 2020.
X Foreign currency hedges are in significant variations in z Further, uncommitted borrowing place covering c 60% of expected interest rates or exchange Link to strategy: facilities have been agreed for purchases in FY17.
rates could have an impact possible short-term working X The fall in the value of sterling 1 2 3 on the Groups operations capital requirements.
following the United Kingdoms vote and growth plans.
z Dunelm works with a syndicate to exit from the European Union will of long-term, committed partner potentially impact the Groups gross Performance Indicators: banks.
margin if this is long term and cannot Operating cash conversion be mitigated.
z A Group Treasury Policy is in Banking covenants place to govern levels of debt, Loan headroom cash management strategies and to control foreign exchange Strategic initiative link: exposures.
Hedging is in place All for foreign exchange, and freight and energy prices are agreed in advance, to help Executive responsibility: mitigate volatility and aid margin Chief Financial Officer management.
Reports to: Chief Executive Board oversight: Board receives monthly treasury report.
Impact compared to 2014 15: Previous category: Finance and treasury Failure to anticipate and Assessment of potential impact X Mitigating actions taken as Brexit risk manage the potential made and mitigating actions taken, described.
impact of Britain leaving the including: European Union.
z Implementation of plan to address potential cost inflation Link to strategy: arising from the fall in the value 1 2 3 of sterling z Modelling of impact of a short term recession on FY17 sales Performance Indicator: z Product range and marketing to Sales and gross margin be positioned appropriately z Identification of potential profit protection opportunities.
Strategic initiative link: Board oversight: All Board receives monthly management accounts and quarterly management updates on likely out-turn for the Executive responsibility: financial year.
Chief Financial Officer Reports to: Chief Executive Previous category: New Trend Direction: INCREASING UNCHANGED DECREASING Link to strategy LFL STORES NEW STORES HOME DELIVERY 1 2 3 SALES GROWTH dunelm.
indd 24 12 10 2016 09:57:58 The five year plan considers the Groups As a result, a number of sales and gross Going concern earnings growth potential, its cash flows, margin based sensitivities against the The Directors have made appropriate financing options and key financial five year plan have been reviewed by enquiries and formed a judgement ratios, taking into account the economic the Audit and Risk Committee and the at the time of approving the financial outlook and principal risks and mitigation Board as part of the assessment made statements that it is appropriate to adopt affecting the Group.
to support this statement, together with the going concern basis of accounting in the actions which could be taken to preparing the financial information.
This assessment of viability has been mitigate these.
Account was also taken made with reference to the Groups of the Groups strong balance sheet and Viability statement current position and future prospects, relatively low level of debt.
In accordance with provision 2.2 of the its strategy, the market outlook and its 2014 Corporate Governance Code, in principal risks and the mitigation in place In the scenarios reviewed by the Board addition to the going concern statement, to manage them.
These were reviewed the likely impact could be absorbed the Directors have also assessed the by the Directors at their annual Strategy over the term of the financial forecasts prospects of the Group over a longer Day in May 2016 when the five year by making adjustments to its operating period.
plan and the budget for the following plans within the normal course of year was considered and again at the business without impacting its external The Directors confirm that the Group September 2016 meeting, when the financing or capital and dividend policy.
has considerable financial strength, potential effect of the United Kingdoms and therefore they have a reasonable exit from the European Union was also expectation that the Group will continue considered.
in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next five years, The Board considers that the risk ending 3 July 2021. most likely to occur in the near future is a reduction of sales due to a fall in A period of five years has been chosen consumer confidence following the as this is the timeframe currently Brexit vote, and an increase in its cost adopted by the Board as its strategic base as a result of the fall in the value of and financial planning horizon, and the sterling against the US dollar.
However, business is largely dependent on UK it also considers that the likely impact consumer confidence and discretionary of any of the principal risks materialising spending which is difficult to project would be a reduction in the level of beyond this period.
sales growth and possibly a resultant weakening in gross margin.
HOME DELIVERY Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016 25 24722.04 12 October 2016 7:29 AM PROOF 5 Dunelm AR2016-front.
