Risk Risk management framework The Group faces a number of risks which, if they arise, could affect its ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature of these risks and ensuring appropriate mitigating actions are in place to manage them effectively.
The current level of risk is compared to Risk appetite the Boards risk appetite to determine whether further The level of risk it is considered appropriate to accept in mitigation measures are required.
Risks specific to the achieving easyJets strategic objectives is reviewed and functions activities are managed within the function on an validated by the Board on an annual basis.
The appropriateness on-going basis with regular follow-up by the risk team.
of the mitigating actions is determined in accordance with the Board's approved risk appetite for the relevant area.
The most significant risks from each function based on materiality, cross functional impact and or those which have Risk management process common themes across the business are reviewed by the The diagram below sets out easyJets risk management Risk Evaluation Group, which consists of members of senior process.
This is co-ordinated by the risk team, which reports to management from each function.
This Groups role is to the Chief Financial Officer.
The key elements of the process are: debate, agree and prioritise the principal risks.
The risk management process begins with the identification These risks, which form the basis of the principal risks and of significant risks by function.
Risk identification workshops uncertainties detailed in this section, are challenged and are run to identify matters which could materially impact on validated by the Executive Management Team and the functions or the wider business.
These are attended by the Board.
Executive Management Team members and The principal risks are monitored and managed throughout senior managers.
the year by the Executive Management Team and the Risks are assessed taking into account the potential impact Board in conjunction with the risk team.
Risk reports are and likelihood of the risks occurring and the key mitigation provided to the Board on a quarterly basis as a minimum.
In addition to supporting the Board, the risk team supports Turn to page 53 for further details on the business in its management of risks relating to key Risk Management and Internal Control projects, third parties, countries and bases.
Risk identification & assessment RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS OPERATIONAL RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD Challenge & ownership REPUTATIONAL RISKS RISK EVALUATION SPONSORSHIP EXECUTIVE GROUP PLC AND RISK SAFETY MANAGEMENT AGREES AND BOARD APPETITE RISKS TEAM PRIORITISES ASSESSMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS PROJECT PROGRAMME RISKS FEEDBACK FROM THE BOARD Challenge & ownership COUNTRY BASE RISKS THIRD PARTY RISKS A separate management system monitors flight safety risks easyJet's safety process is described in more detail on page 34.
Risk identification & assessment 24 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Principal risks and uncertainties The risks and uncertainties described below are considered, at this point in time, to Link to strategy: have the greatest effect on easyJets strategic objectives.
This list is not intended to A lean cost Build number 1 and 2 be exhaustive.
Whilst easyJet can monitor risks and prepare for adverse scenarios, the 1 2 advantage network positions ability to affect the core drivers of many risks is not within the Groups control, for Customer and The best people operational 6 3 example adverse weather, pandemics, acts of terrorism, changes in government excellence regulation and macroeconomic issues.
Grow revenue 5 4 Data and digital Risks impacting the viability assessment turn to page 22 for further details V SAFETY FIRST Risk description Mitigation easyJets number one priority is the safety and security of its customers and people.
Major safety incident A major safety incident such as a hull A Safety Committee a committee of the Board overseesthe management of loss could adversely affect easyJets easyJets safety processes and systems.
reputation and its operational and financial performance.
The impact of Turn to pages: 48-49 such an incident would be heightened if for further details easyJet failed to react promptly and A Safety Review Board at Executive Management Team level is responsible for deal with it effectively.
directing overall safety policy and governance.
This is chaired by the Chief Executive.
Link to strategy: Safety Action Groups from across the airline are responsible for the identification, 1 2 V evaluation and control of safety-related risks.
6 3 easyJet operates a Safety Management System using a leading software system SafetyNet.
This is used to: 5 4 collect and analyse safety data enabling potential areas of risk to be projected : and enable learning from easyJet and industry events incidents to be captured and embedded into future risk mitigations.
"A robust incident reporting process and ""Just Culture"" are in place."
Turn to page: 34 for further details easyJet has an emergency response process and performs regular crisis management exercises.
Hull all risks and liabilities insurance including spares is held.
easyJet has an industry-leading fatigue risk management system and has implemented the EASA Flight Time Limitations regulations.
A Security Decision Group, comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive, appropriate Security threat or attack members of the Executive Management Team and other senior management, Failure to identify or prevent a major determines whether easyJet should continue to operate in countries or areas security-related threat or attack, or affected by security-related incidents or conflict.
As part of that process the easyJet react immediately and effectively, could security team work to provide the Security Decision Group with timely, credible and adversely affect easyJets reputation reliable information upon which to base operational decisions.
easyJet adheres to all and its operational and recommendations and guidelines provided by the authorities.
The Director of Safety and Security and the Head of Security work with authorities Such an incident has the potential to and governments around easyJets network to assess whether security measures impact upon easyJets business, are effective and in compliance with regulatory requirements.
A significant amount regardless of the location or target.
of work is carried out with the aim of enhancing: The threat of further security-related early identification of developing and emerging security risks: attacks regardless of where they may occur may impact the future demand the active management of security risks: for air travel.
the methods for reducing the impact of any security-related incident: and Link to strategy: the Groups security culture and awareness.
com 25 Risk continued COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL Risk description Mitigation easyJet seeks torapidly respond to any such activity that may impact its ability Competition, capacity and togrow the business.
industry consolidation The aviation market is highly Competitor and consolidation activity is monitored, enabling strategic decision competitive and easyJet operates in making on key routes and positions.
competition with both flag carriers and The Network Development Forum, a cross-functional panel of senior executives, other low-cost airlines.
approves new bases and the allocation of assets around the network.
Excess capacity in the market may arise due to a decrease in demand for air Fleet framework arrangements, together with the Groups leasing policy, provide easyJet with significant flexibility in respect of scaling the fleet according to travel and or additional capacity as a result of low fuel prices.
This could have business requirements.
an adverse financial impact on easyJet.
Strong cost control is a key behaviour across the Group, with initiatives to drive easyJets key competitive advantages costreduction and improve efficiency in targeted areas.
include its network, cost base, brand, digital innovation and efficient and robust capital structure.
Failure to retain these advantages or react quickly to competitor changes could have an adverse financial impact on easyJet.
Industry consolidation could also affectthe competitive environment in anumber of markets.
This could cause a loss of market position and erosion of revenue.
Link to strategy: 1 1 2 2 6 6 3 3 5 5 4 4 There are processes in place, and clear roles and responsibilities within teams across Significant network disruption the business, to plan for and manage significant disruption.
Widespread disruption to easyJets network may be caused by a single A business disruption team, which includes senior management from relevant event or factors that occur for a business areas, determines and initiates required action.
Examples include forces of nature extreme weather, Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer which allows the Group to better volcanic ash, etc.
terrorism, air traffic manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary curtailment of activities.
management issues, epidemics In addition, easyJet holds business disruption insurance.
pandemics or the closure of a key airport.
Significant disruption to the network could adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and financial performance.
Link to strategy: 1 2 6 3 5 4 26 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Link to strategy: A lean cost Build number 1 and 2 1 2 V Risks impacting the viability assessment turn to page 22 for further details advantage network positions Customer and The best people operational 6 3 excellence Grow revenue 5 4 Data and digital COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation Critical systems are hosted either across two data centres or within third party Continuity of services provider locations.
Recovery arrangements, including failover between the two data easyJet is dependent on a number of centres, are in place for all locations holding critical systems.
key IT systems and processes.
An IT incident management team is in place to respond rapidly to any unforeseen A loss of critical systems or access to incidents that may arise.
facilities, including the website, may lead to significant disruption and could IT disaster recovery plans are tested regularly to identify areas for improvement have an adverse operational, in resilience.
Business continuity plans ensure easyJet is prepared in the event of loss of facilities, Link to strategy: including alternative sites for the relocation of critical staff.
1 2 6 3 5 4 There is a defined procurement process, led by a centralised procurement team, Third party service providers which ensures a competitive and robust selection of suppliers.
As part of the easyJet has entered into agreements process, alternative service providers are identified and assessed against balanced with third party service providers for evaluation criteria within the major markets in which easyJet operates.
services covering a significant proportion of its operational and Any specific supplier risks are identified and assessed during the procurement cost base.
process and controls and risk mitigation measures are included in the contracts entered into with the supplier.
Failure to manage third party performance adequately may adversely Contracts are managed according to easyJets supplier relationship management affect easyJets reputation and its framework, with key principles covering defined ownership and accountability, a operational and financial performance.
governance framework and effective communication.
Supplier performance is monitored through regular business reviews, including achievement of service level Link to strategy: agreements and key performance indicators.
1 2 Robust transition plans are agreed in the event of switching suppliers to enable an 6 3 acceptable level of service to be maintained.
5 4 As easyJet operates across Europe there are19unions and nine representative Industrial action bodies across eight countries which its crew are members of.
easyJet seeks to easyJet, and the aviation industry in maintain positive working relationships with all trade unions and other general, has a significant number of representative bodies.
employees who are members of trade unions.
Industrial action taken by Each of the countries in which easyJet operates has localised employment terms easyJet employees, or by the and conditions.
This mitigates the risk of large scale internal industrial action employees of key third-party service occurring at the same time.
providers, could impact on easyJets ability to maintain its flight schedules.
Processes are in place to adapt to disruptions as a result of industrial action.
This could adversely affect easyJets reputation and its operational and financial performance.
com 27 Risk continued COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation The Board considers that the efficiencies achieved by operating a single fleet type Single fleet risk outweigh the risks associated with easyJets single fleet strategy.
easyJet is dependent on Airbus as its sole supplier for aircraft.
The Airbus A320 family which includes the A319 is one of the two primary fleets used for short-haul travel, the other being the Boeing B737 family.
There are There are significant cost and efficiency approximately 6,800 A320 family aircraft operating with a proven track record for advantages of a single fleet, however safety and reliability.
there are two main associated risks: easyJet operates a rigorous established aircraft maintenance programme.
technical or mechanical issues that could ground the full fleet, or part To mitigate the potential valuation risks, easyJet regularly reviews the second-hand ofthe fleet, which could cause market and has a number of different options when looking at fleet exit strategies.
negative perception: and Sale and leaseback facilitates the exit of A319 aircraft from the fleet by transferring valuation risks which crystallise residual value risk, and also provides flexibility in managing the fleet size.
when aircraft exit the fleet.
The main exposure at this time is with the ageing A319 fleet, where easyJet is reliant on the future demand for second-hand aircraft.
Link to strategy: V 1 2 6 3 5 4 FINANCIAL Risk description Mitigation The Finance Committee a committee of the Board oversees the Groups treasury Financial risk and funding policies and activities.
easyJet is exposed to various financial risks which could give rise to adverse Turn to page: 55 pressure on the financial performance for further details of the Group, e. g. costs, revenue and cash flow.
The role of the Committee includes: Market risks easyJet's business maintaining and implementing a treasury policy setting out Board-approved model is sensitive to a sustained strategies for foreign exchange and fuel hedging, along with liquidity, interest significant adverse movement in rate management, counterparties' limits: and foreign currency exchange rates, jet reviewing and reporting on compliance with Board treasury policies.
fuel prices or interest rates, which can't be mitigated.
The policy is to hedge revenue and costs within a percentage band for a rolling Counterparty risk non- 24-month period.
performance of counterparties used Board policy is to maintain a liquidity buffer including cash and a $500 million five for depositing surplus funds e. g. year revolving credit facility provided by a group of 12 relationship banks.
This allows money market funds, bank the Group to better manage the impact of downturns in business or temporary deposits and hedging.
The basis for the liquidity policy was revised in 2016 to cover Liquidity risk misjudgement of the peak unearned revenue, with a minimum position of 2.6 million per 100 level of liquidity resulting in the aircraft seats.
inability to meet contractual A strong balance sheet supports the business through fluctuations in the economic contingent financial obligations or conditions and theGroup has access to diverse sources of funding to support the inability to fund the business liquidity requirements.
Link to strategy: 1 2 6 3 5 4 28 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Link to strategy: A lean cost Build number 1 and 2 1 2 V Risks impacting the viability assessment turn to page 22 for further details advantage network positions Customer and The best people operational 6 3 excellence Grow revenue 5 4 Data and digital FINANCIAL CONTINUED Risk description Mitigation The Executive Management Team meets monthly to review progress made on the Delivery of projects supporting portfolio of programmes and solve issues that require escalation.
the business strategy The business is undertaking a number Key IT projects or programmes have additional oversight through the IT Governance of key projects and programmes to and Oversight Committee a committee of the Board.
deliver key elements of the strategy.
Turn to page: 55 Failure to deliver the planned business for further details benefits and cost savings from these projects may result in under Each project or programme has its own steering group which provides challenge to achievement of easyJets planned the project, monitors progress and ensures that decisions are made at the financial results.
Link to strategy: A portfolio management office is in place to oversee delivery of projects and programmes, and track budgets and realisation of benefits.
1 2 A project management framework, which sets out governance requirements, key 6 3 processes and controls, is followed by all projects and programmes.
"""Lessons learnt"" reviews are undertaken to ensure continuous improvement to this approach."
5 4 PEOPLE Risk description Mitigation There is a recruitment strategy for pilots and cabin crew.
This includes pilot Attraction and retention of talent sponsorship and the Amy Johnson Flying Initiative to attract more female pilots.
In easyJets current and future success is addition, easyJet has developed a coherent employment brand to attract and retain reliant on having the right people with top talent.
An annual survey is undertaken to measure staff engagement and identify any areas Increased competition in the for further management attention.
recruitment market may impact easyJets ability to attract and retain easyJets aim is to develop talent from within.
There are several talent development key talent.
This could adversely affect programmes in place for individuals who have been identified for fast-tracking into the delivery of strategic objectives.
more senior roles as vacancies arise.
Link to strategy: Alongside this there is an annual succession planning process to ensure there are 1 2 clear successors for all key business roles.
com 29 Risk continued COMPLIANCE AND REGULATORY Risk description Mitigation An internal working group has been established to review all aspects of Impact of EU exit easyJets operations.
Following the outcome of the UK referendum to leave the EU, there easyJet is actively engaging with regulators, the UK Government and the EU to remains uncertainty as to how this will secure European flying rights through the continuation of a liberalised and affect easyJets current market access deregulated aviation market across Europe.
If easyJet is unable to continue to fly its intra-EU network this would As a mitigant, easyJet is in the process of registering an Air Operator Certificate in have a significant operational and an EU territory to enable access to the European aviation market in as similar a way financial impact.
as today in a post-Brexit landscape.
Link to strategy: 1 2 V 6 3 5 4 easyJet has an in-house legal team to advise on legal issues and developments, and Legislative and regulatory risks to monitor compliance with formal regulatory requirements.
It also has a panel of The airline industry is heavily regulated external legal advisers both in the UK and inkey easyJet markets, who are briefed and there is a continual need to keep tokeep easyJet informed of any changes or new legislation and to assist easyJet well informed and adapt to as indeveloping appropriate responses to such legislation.
required any legislative or regulatory changes across the jurisdictions in In addition, a Head of Compliance has recently been appointed to develop and lead which easyJet operates.
Failure to comply with legislative The Regulatory Affairs Group co-ordinates easyJets role in influencing future and andregulatory requirements or existing policy and regulations that affect the airline industry and will work with interpretations thereof, such as local industry bodies to assist in this, as appropriate.
consumer laws, legal decisions or policy changes in relation to passenger Country Review Boards are established for easyJets main markets, raising awareness of in-country issues, and providing a forum in which to highlight any potential compensation, environmental and airport regulation, in the jurisdictions legislative changes and impacts in the different countries.
inwhich easyJet operates, could havean adverse reputational and financial impact.
Link to strategy: 1 2 6 3 5 4 30 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Link to strategy: A lean cost Build number 1 and 2 1 2 V Risks impacting the viability assessment turn to page 22 for further details advantage network positions Customer and The best people operational 6 3 excellence Grow revenue 5 4 Data and digital REPUTATIONAL Risk description Mitigation easyJet has an active shareholder engagement programme led by its investor Major shareholder and brand relations team.
As part of that programme easyJet engages with easyGroup owner relationship Holdings Limited on a regular basis alongside its other major shareholders.
easyJet has two major shareholders easyGroup Holdings Limited and In addition, the Company has a relationship agreement with easyGroup and Polys PolysHoldings Limited which, as a Holdings in line with the controlling shareholder regime as set out in the Financial concertparty, control 33.73% of Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Representatives from the Board and senior management take collective Shareholder activism on their part could responsibility for addressing issues arising from any activist approach adopted by the adversely impact the reputation of major shareholders.
The objective is to address issues when they arise and anticipate easyJet and cause a distraction and plan for potential future activism.
The brand licence agreement with easyGroup Ltd provides for the regular meeting easyJet does not own its company of senior representatives from both sides to actively manage brand-related issues as name or branding which is licensed they arise.
Such meetings occur on a quarterly basis and have proven effective.
The licence easyJet also monitors compliance with brand licence service levels and has a right to includes certain minimum service levels take steps to remedy any instance of non-compliance.
that easyJet must meet in order to retain the right to use the name and brand.
The easyJet brand could alsobeimpacted through the actionsofeasyGroup or other easyGroup licensees.
Link to strategy: 1 2 6 3 5 4 An Information Security Steering Group, chaired by the General Counsel, oversees Cyber threat and any developments in data threats and controls and determines whether appropriate information security responses are being taken to them.
easyJet receives most of its revenue through credit card transactions and There are dedicated information security teams that monitor threats and ensure that operates as an e-commerce business.
the design, implementation and operation of easyJet systems are secure.
This is Itfaces both external cyber threats and through the following: internal risks to its data and systems.
"achieving ""secure by design"" through a dedicated security architecture capability: A security breach could negatively monitoring of secure systems against unauthorised access: impact easyJets reputation and have an adverse operational and reviewing the security of external and internal systems and easyJet."
periodic vulnerability scanning: considering information security risks within procurement processes and the Link to strategy: introduction of new systems and IT services: 1 2 reviewing and refreshing information acceptable use policies: and 6 3 maintaining staff security awareness and education through a Security Champions network, online training materials and periodic awareness campaigns.
5 4 Given the nature of this risk the appropriateness of the controls is under continuous review.
