Strategic Report Governance Financials Principal risks The Directors consider that the following are the principal risks facing esure Group, focusing on those that would threaten the business model, future performance or solvency of the Group.
Insurance risk Market risk Key elements Key elements Pricing and underwriting Interest rate Reserves Spread Catastrophe Equity Reinsurance Default Liquidity Definition Definition Insurance risk is the most material risk for the Group.
It There are moderate levels of market Risk taken by the represents the uncertainty in the profitability of the business Group.
It represents the uncertainty in the financial position written due to variability in the value and timing of claims due to fluctuations in the level and in the volatility of market and premium rates this can impact historic reserve risk prices of assets and liabilities.
as well as future exposures underwriting and catastrophe.
There is some increased uncertainty within the market There is some uncertainty within the market in terms of the following Brexit and other macroeconomic uncertainties.
rating environment and potential legal changes through the Mitigation government consultation on Ogden discount rate and Market Risk is managed through regular monitoring, whiplash reforms.
including the drivers of investment return and value at Mitigation risk measures, counterparty exposures and interest rate There is strong and regular monitoring in place of the sensitivities of our assets and liabilities.
As part of this, external environment to understand and react to the the Group considers the matching of the investment changing market, ensuring that we are well placed to portfolio with its insurance liabilities to mitigate and benefit from any developments.
There is a strong claims management process that Oversight of the Groups investment strategy and ensures that there is strong customer service, the associated liquidity risk is undertaken by the management of claims costs and management Investment Committee.
information to understand claims trends.
Our investment strategy does not expose the Group to There is a robust monitoring process in place that tests material currency risk or the risks arising from active the key variables affecting loss performance, including trading of derivatives.
loss ratios, risk mix, pricing, quote conversion, renewal The Group manages the level of investment counterparty retention ratios, claims costs, claims frequency and the credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to adequacy of reserves.
a single counterparty or groups of counterparties, and There is use of external data to support our analysis of on geographical counterparties and geographical risk exposure for underwriting and catastrophe risk.
Such risks are subject to regular review There is a prudent approach to reserving risk with a risk within the Investment Committee.
appetite to hold a margin above the actuarial best The Group continues to monitor its liquidity risk by estimate.
The Groups actuarial function analyses and considering the Groups operating cash flows, stressed projects historical claims development data and uses a for catastrophe scenarios, dividend payouts, liquidity strains and investment strategy to mitigate this risk.
number of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition, independent external actuaries assess the adequacy of the Groups reserves.
There is reinsurance in place to protect the business from large losses and Catastrophe events: there are risk appetite metrics set against the level of coverage as well as the creditworthiness of reinsurers and concentration risk these are monitored prior to finalisation of any contract and on an ongoing basis to ensure that it remains in line with our risk appetite.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25 Principal risks continued Financial and solvency risk Operational risk Key elements Key elements Infrastructure risk and Financial reporting Business processes business continuity Solvency position IT systems and disaster Financial crime and recovery fraud Data security and Outsourcing cyber risk Distribution Definition Definition The risk that inaccurate financial estimates or judgements The risk that there is a financial loss or reputational could misrepresent our financial or solvency position and damage due to inadequate or failures with processes, change key strategic decisions.
The preparation of financial people or systems either within the Group or within information requires management to make judgements, material partners.
estimates and assumptions where the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
Mitigation Ownership and management of the operational risks Mitigation sit with the first line business functions.
There are also The Group reviews financial estimates and underlying specialist teams that reside within the business functions assumptions on an ongoing basis, taking into account that provide expertise and support, including for business changes in underwriting conditions, changes in continuity, IT disaster recovery, fraud and financial crime legislation or regulation, and market movements.
The Group has strong governance in place to provide Oversight, support and challenge are provided by the oversight of the financial estimates and judgements as second line risk function which works closely with the well as the solvency position being monitored on a first line business and specialist functions.
Operational risk identification, assessment and In addition, independent external actuaries assess the management are embedded within management adequacy of the Groups technical provisions.
These processes are supported by the oversight of the Groups material financial estimates and second line Risk team, including the annual risk and judgements resides with the Audit Committee.
As part of the ORSA process the Group considers the The Group has a robust governance and risk framework longer-term solvency position and the risks that it faces.
in place which provides an effective structure within which operational risks are identified, measured and managed.
It ensures that there is clear ownership for risks with effective reporting and escalation mechanisms, supporting management oversight and decision-making.
26 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Legal, regulatory and conduct risk This section together with the reports set out on pages 1 to Key elements 27 of the Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
Legal and political risk Conduct and compliance risk Signed on behalf of the Board.
Regulatory risk Definition The Group operates in a regulated environment therefore Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer there is a risk of reputational or financial damage driven by regulatory or legal intervention.
Mitigation There is a low appetite for this risk and this is reflected in management decision-making, with close monitoring of key risk indicators.
Board oversight is ensured by upward reporting of a Darren Ogden suite of customer and conduct risk appetite statements Chief Finance Officer and measures.
9 March 2017 The Group continues to monitor legal and regulatory developments in the UK and Europe, through our close relationship with our regulators the FCA and PRA and other official bodies and the use of proactive risk management tools and processes to mitigate our exposure to regulatory risk.
Our culture and tone from the top ensures the interests of our customers and their fair treatment is paramount.
We have a strong governance framework and our Conduct Risk and Customer Committee reviews all aspects of our customer service.
esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 27
