Risk management The Groups risk management framework is dynamic and continues to be enhanced and developed to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
The Board is responsible for prudent oversight of esure Group, ensuring that it is conducted in accordance with sound business principles and within applicable law and regulation.
This encompasses the responsibility to set and monitor adherence to strategic risk objectives and risk appetite statements.
The Board also ensures that measures are in place to provide effective identification, management control and acceptance of risk.
In order to set boundaries to the acceptance of risk exposures, the Board has set out the following strategic risk statements that underpin our risk appetite and how the Group operates see table below.
The Groups risk management framework and ORSA processes are proportionate to the risks that we face and are organised around the core elements of risk strategy, risk appetite, governance, and the associated risk reporting.
The Groups risk management framework is dynamic and Darren Boland Chief Risk Officer continues to be enhanced and developed to ensure it continues to meet the needs of the business.
Strategic risk statements Our goal is to manage volatility within a cyclical market for our Earnings shareholders through targeted growth opportunities, continuous adaptation in our underwriting and a focus on expense management.
Financial Capital and We ensure there are appropriate financial resources in place liquidity to deliver on our corporate and policyholder obligations.
Our brands represent our promise to our customers and are central Reputation to our continued success.
How we treat our customers is at the core of everything we do and, Conduct and Non-financial through our strategy, culture and service delivery, we aim to deliver customer fair outcomes to our customers.
Our people are what makes us successful and we aim to continue People to invest in our people, ensuring the Group is a great place to work.
22 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financials Risk strategy and appetite A key strength of the Groups risk management strategy The Groups risk appetite incorporates a range of is the integration of risk assessment and evaluation into quantitative and qualitative measures of risk, supporting the Groups business operations, planning and our strategic risk objectives, against which the actual or capital management.
planned exposures and uncertainties can be monitored.
This monitoring is reflected in regular reporting to the Risk governance Group Executive Committee and the Risk Committee.
In accordance with recognised good practice, the Group operates a 'three lines of defence' governance framework.
The risk appetite forms a fundamental part of the way in This is set out on page 24.
The Groups risk governance is which the Group thinks about and assess risk, setting out underpinned by a risk management function headed by the the types and level of risk that it is willing to accept or Chief Risk Officer, a member of the executive team reporting avoid in the pursuit of its strategy.
to the Chief Executive Officer, but with independence assured through direct and independent access to the These are considered within the Groups strategic decisions Chairmen of the Board, Audit and Risk Committees.
and business planning but also form a critical element in the way we think about risk within the business.
This The risk strategy, appetite and framework are articulated includes how performance is assessed and how staff are in a suite of policies covering the material risks that we incentivised.
This ensures that staff and management face.
Each of these policies is subject to annual review behaviours are aligned to the risk appetite and strategic and approval.
risk objectives and that this is reflected in day-to-day decision-making.
Regulation The UK motor and home markets are regulated by the Risk reporting Prudential Regulation Authority 'PRA' and the Financial The risk management framework and ORSA process are Conduct Authority 'FCA'.
designed to ensure that the Risk Committee receives timely and appropriate reporting on our exposure to existing and A summary of areas of focus in 2016 can be found below: emerging risks in each of the core risk categories insurance, market, financial and solvency, operational, Solvency II implementation: the Group has implemented legal, regulatory and conduct.
Strategic risks and the Solvency II as a standard formula firm.
reputational consequences of these risk exposures are EU General Data Protection Regulation.
considered within this risk reporting.
Senior Insurance Managers Regime and extending the Senior Manager and Certification Regime to all Such reporting is supported by: regulated firms.
Updates to the Groups risk registers covering current Renewal price transparency.
Reports on events that have resulted in actual or potential financial or reputational losses to the Group or its customers.
The results of stress, scenario and sensitivity testing as well as the modelling of our risks within our economic capital model.
The findings, recommendations and management actions arising from reviews conducted by the risk, compliance and Internal Audit functions.
Detailed reviews of our key risks.
Own Risk and Solvency Assessment 'ORSA' Our Board and senior management Earnings have confidence in how we are ORSA Capital and liquidity embedding our strategic risk objectives.
Reputation Conduct and customer There is a clear linkage between Strategic risk our strategic risk objectives and People objectives our risk appetite.
Our strategic decisions and plans Business Strategic are aligned to and support our Risk appetite plan decisions risk appetite.
The risk appetite is fully embedded Key risk Reportable Risk Emerging Risk and in all areas of the business.
indicators events and registers and risks compliance incident assessments reviews management esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 23 Risk management continued Viability statement The cyclical nature of the business means that In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate projecting for periods much longer than three years Governance Code 2016 the Directors have assessed the creates material uncertainty: however, we do look at Groups prospects and viability for the three-year period to longer-term strategic developments and emerging risks 31 December 2019, taking into account the Groups current over longer time periods.
position and the potential impact of the principal risks as The stress and scenario tests are considered over a detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 27.
This three year period as applicable and such a period gives is based on the ORSA as described within the Risk management sufficient opportunity to implement section on pages 22 to 27: the report on this process was mitigations to return to business as usual.
submitted to the UK financial services regulator, the PRA.
Based on this robust assessment, the Directors confirm This assessment encompasses business planning as a that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company central estimate and variability derived from both the stress will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities and scenario testing and risk modelling.
The Directors as they fall due over the period of their assessment.
consider this to be a robust process for assessing the current and future principal risks facing the Group.
Distributions As noted in the Directors Report on page 71, the Directors In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust have become aware of certain technical issues in respect assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including of the Companys procedures for the payment of the final those that would threaten its business model, future cash dividend of 7.3 pence per share paid on 20 May 2016 performance or solvency of the Group.
and the interim cash dividend of 3.0 pence per share paid on 21 October 2016, the 'Relevant Distributions'.
As a result, The assessment period of three years has been chosen as the Relevant Distributions were not made in compliance with it is in line with our business planning horizon and for the all the procedural requirements of the Act.
The Company has following reasons: put in place additional procedures to ensure that all relevant legal requirements relating to distributions are complied We have an annual renewal cycle: which means that with going forward.
These procedures have been subject three years provides sufficient scope to see the impact to external legal review and will be regularly reassessed to of changes to the business.
Board and Board Committees Board of Directors Risk Audit Committee Committee Executive Committees and Management Risk Management Internal Audit Team and Compliance Teams outsourced to Mazars LLP Management Committees and Operational Teams 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence 1st Line of Defence Risk Management and Internal Audit Operational Business area Compliance Team Independent, objective assurance Risk ownership and management.
Provision of oversight and challenge on the internal control environment, Primary responsibility for risks that esure to business areas and management focusing on the design and operating takes in the pursuit of its objectives.
Co-ordination of Risk and Compliance effectiveness of the governance Observance of risk management activities and reporting Design, coprocesses, risk management procedures, practices, processes and controls.
ordinate and embed a consistent and internal control and information systems.
effective framework for the management of risk and compliance.
24 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
