Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management system For more information, see the risk The risk management process aims to identify, management and internal control evaluate and manage potential and actual threats section of the corporate governance report on pages 107-109 to the Group achieving its objectives.
TOP-DOWN APPROACH CEO BOARD OF DIRECTORS CEO BOARD OF DIRECTORS Has ultimate responsibility for risk Has an oversight role management, ensuring that it is in Ensures that risk management processes are in place, adequate, effective place and effectively functioning Approves a risk appetite in accordance with the risk management methodology adopted by EVRAZ Risk Management Group Audit Committee Internal audit Identifies, assesses and monitors Supports the board in monitoring risk Supports the Audit Committee in Group-wide risks and mitigation actions exposure against risk appetite reviewing the effectiveness of risk Reviews the effectiveness of risk management and internal control management and internal control systems systems Oversight, identification, assessment and management of risks at corporate level EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT Identification, assessment and management of risks at regional and site levels and across functions Site levels Identification, assessment and mitigation of risks Promoting risk awareness and safety culture REGIONAL BUSINESS UNIT MANAGEMENT TEAMS Adopts regional risk appetite Support the Risk Management Group in reviewing and monitoring effectiveness of risk management Identification, assessment and management of risks at the regional le vel Monitoring of risk management process and effectiveness of internal control BOTTOM-UP APPROACH 32 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Risk migration in 2016 and robust assessment In 2016, the management carried out a robust The Group has also considered and assessed Key developments in 2016 assessment of the principal risks facing the some risks not emphasised previously, eg IT Group.
The Audit Committee has carefully security and IT infrastructure failure, HR To enhance the transparency of risk reporting, reviewed the assessment on behalf of the Board.
succession planning, taxation, and other the Groups Risk Committee was transformed risks.
Whilst the impact and probability into the Risk Management Group.
The assessment focused on the risks that analysis suggests that such risks could affect could adversely affect the Groups strategies, the Groups operations to some extent, the Like the Risk Committee, the new Risk evaluation of risks identified at the plant level management does not consider those risks Management Group is composed of the vice to consider their relevance and significance as being capable of seriously affecting the presidents under the leadership of the CEO.
for the Group, and detailed assessment of Groups performance, future prospects or The Risk Management Groups role is to some specific areas where new risks have reputation.
support the CEO in the day-to-day supervision been identified or the risk profile has changed and management of risk, as well as to provide significantly.
As a result, the principal risks have Additionally, the Group has considered how assurance and advice to the Audit Committee been confirmed.
the UK referendum in favour of leaving the members, on the effectiveness of the EU might impact its operations.
The Group Companys risk management and internal Whilst the composition of the Groups principal believes that the UK referendum results will not control systems.
risks has not changed compared with the significantly affect its business.
previous year, a detailed analysis of their impact and probability of negative consequences for the Group has led to a recalibration in assessment of some of the risks.
Maximum Principal risks and uncertainties heat map in 2016 Please see description 5 of the mitigating actions on the next page.
Risk appetite level 4 1 Risk migration, yoy Global economic factors, 1 industry conditions 2 Competition 2 9 5 7 3 Cost effectiveness 3 6 4 Treasury: availability of finance 5 Functional currency devaluation 6 HSE: environmental 4 8 3 2 7 HSE: health, safety 1 8 Potential action by governments 1 2 3 4 5 9 Business interruption Minimum Severity www.
com 33 Probability Principal risks Success Factors Strategic priorities Health, safety & environment Development of product portfolio and customer base Human capital Customer focus Prudent CAPEX strategy Asset development Retention of low-cost position EVRAZ business system Debt reduction Direction # Risk Description Mitigating risk management actions in 2016 Reason for change 1 EVRAZ operations are dependent on the global This is an external risk that is mostly outside the Global economic macroeconomic environment, as well as economic Companys control: however, it is partly mitigated factors, industry and industry conditions, eg the global supply and by exploring new market opportunities, focusing conditions, demand balance for steel, iron ore and coking coal, on expanding the share of value-added products, industry which affect both product prices and volumes across further downscaling inefficient assets, suspending cyclicality all markets.
production in low-growth regions, and further reducing and managing the cost base with the Related with: The Groups operations involve substantial fixed costs, objective of being amongst the sectors lowest-cost and global economic and industry conditions can producers.
impact the Groups operational performance.
2 Product Excessive supply on the global market and greater Expand product portfolio and penetrate new competition competition.
Intensified competition, Low demand for construction products and increasing Develop and improve loyalty and customer focus mostly in the steel products Related with: competition in this segment.
market, mainly as a result of competitors activity Increasing competition in the rail product segment.
and introduction of new Excessive supply of slabs on the global market and Focus on expanding the share of value-added products.
3 Cost Most of the Groups steel production remains sensitive For both the mining and steelmaking operations, effectiveness to costs and prices.
the Group is implementing cost-reduction projects to increase the competitiveness of assets.
Given the substantial product share of commodity Related with: semi-finished, which requires less customer service Focused investment policy aimed at reducing and and is more cost driven, maintaining a low-cost managing the cost base.
position is one of EVRAZ key business objectives in Further expansion and control of the Groups Russian steelmaking, as well as in the iron ore and coking coal steel distribution network.
Development of high value-added products.
Impact from the possible introduction of limitations on Action to extend the debt maturity profile and diversify 4 Treasury: finance repatriation of foreign-currency export revenues, as well sources of funding, as well as proactively manage the Extension of debt maturity availability as additional regulations or limitations on cross-border remaining portion of debt subject to maintenance profile on more favorable capital flows.
Potential government action, including economic Liquidity risk is managed by revisiting capital sanctions impacting Russian entities, might increase expenditure plans, cost optimisation programmes, and the Groups capital market risk regarding additional continued asset portfolio rationalisation.
Counterparty risk with commercial customers is EVRAZ is subject to counterparty risk via receivables managed through a combination of letters of credit from commercial customers.
and, where creditworthiness is uncertain, by prepayments.
The Groups current debt facilities include certain covenants in relation to net debt and interest expense.
A breach of these covenants could result in certain of the Groups borrowing facilities becoming repayable immediately.
34 Strategic report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Direction # Risk Description Mitigating risk management actions in 2016 Reason for change Any significant fluctuation in subsidiaries functional EVRAZ works to reduce the amount of intergroup 5 Functional currency currencies relative to the US dollar could have a loans denominated in Russian roubles and Ukrainian Decrease in volatility of devaluation significant effect on the Groups financial accounts, hryvnias to limit the possible devaluation effect on its national currency in Russia.
which might impact its ability to borrow.
Related with: Steel and mining production carry an inherent risk of Environmental risks matrix is monitored on a regular 6 HSE: environmental environmental impact and incidents relating to issues basis.
Respective mitigation activity is developed and Implementation as diverse as water usage, quality of water discharged, performed in response to the risks.
Related with: air emissions, waste recycling, tailing management, of mitigating risk Implementation of air emissions and water use air emissions including greenhouse gases, and management actions reduction programmes at plants.
focused on reduction improvement programmes.
of risks of environmental Consequently, EVRAZ faces risks including regulatory Most of EVRAZ operations are certified under ISO 14001 fines, penalties, adverse impact on reputation and, in exposures.
and the Group continues to work towards bringing the the extreme, the withdrawal of plant environmental remaining plants to ISO 14001 requirements.
EVRAZ licences, which would curtail operations indefinitely.
is currently compliant with REACH requirements.
Participation in development of GHG emissions regulation in Russia.
Reduction in GHG emissions as a positive side-effect of energy efficiency projects.
Potential danger of fire, explosions and electrocution, as Management KPIs place significant emphasis on safety 7 HSE: health, safety well as risks specific to individual mines: methane levels, performance and the standardisation of critical safety rock falls and other accidents could lead to outage or programmes.
Related with: production delays, loss of qualified personnel, loss of Implementing an energy isolation programme.
material, equipment or product, or extensive damage compensation.
Introducing a programme of behaviour safety observations drives a more proactive approach to Breach of any HSE laws, regulations and standards preventing injuries and incidents.
may result in fines, penalties and adverse reputational impacts and, in the extreme, the withdrawal of mining Introducing a contractual safety programme.
operational licenses, thereby curtailing operations for A series of health and safety initiatives related an indefinite period.
Maintenance and repair modernisation programmes, downtime management system.
8 New laws, regulations or other requirements could limit Whilst these risks are mostly outside the Groups Potential government the Groups ability to obtain financing on international control, EVRAZ and its executive teams are members of Introduction of improved action markets, sell its products and purchase equipment.
compliance monitoring Risk of capital controls that affect the Group in terms of As a result, they contribute to the development of such Related with: procedures, development free flow of capital.
bodies and, when appropriate, participate in relevant of compliance controls.
discussions with political and regulatory authorities.
EVRAZ may also be adversely affected by government sanctions against Russian businesses or otherwise Procedures have been implemented to ensure that reducing its ability to conduct business with counterparties.
sanction requirements are complied with across the Companys operations.
Risk of adverse geopolitical situation in countries of operation.
9 Prolonged outages or production delays, especially The Group has defined and established disaster Business interruption in coal mining, could have a material adverse effect recovery procedures which are subject to regular review.
on the Groups operating performance, production, Business interruptions in mining mainly relate to Related with: financial condition and future prospects.
Measures to mitigate these risks include In addition, long term business interruption may result methane monitoring and degassing systems, timely mining in a loss of customers and competitive advantage, and equipment maintenance, and employee safety training.
damage to the Groups reputation.
Detailed analysis of causes of incidents is performed in order to develop and implement preventative actions.
Records of minor interruptions are reviewed to identify any more significant underlying issues.
com 35 Viability statement As a global steel and mining group, EVRAZ Increased conversion costs in the CIS: is exposed to a range of risks and inherent Limited access to capital markets: uncertainties that are explained more fully in Appreciation of local operating currencies: this section.
The Groups principal risks and its Business interruption: approach to managing them, together with the lost production and restoration costs: and latest financial forecasts and five-year strategic Combinations of correlated risks scenarios.
plan, have formed the basis of this long-term viability assessment.
The scenarios are designed to be severe but plausible.
They take full account of the In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the potential actions available to mitigate the UK Corporate Governance Code published occurrence and impact of the risk, and the in April 2016, the Board has assessed the likely effectiveness of such action.
The process Groups prospects over the period of the makes certain assumptions about the normal current strategic plan to December 2021 and level of capital recycling likely to occur and considers it possible to form a reasonable considers whether additional financing facilities expectation of the Groups viability over this will be required and available in each scenario.
The assessment included EVRAZ considers that this stress-testing-based consideration of the stress-testing detailed assessment of its prospects is reasonable, below, with particular attention paid to the given the risks and inherent uncertainties forecast cash position and compliance with facing the business.
financial maintenance covenants in each scenario, as well as the mitigation plan The directors confirm that their assessment developed by the management.
of the principal risks facing the Group is robust.
Based upon this robust assessment and The assessment was underpinned by scenarios the stress-testing of Group prospects across that encompass a wide spectrum of potential several risk-related scenarios, the directors outcomes.
These scenarios are designed to have a reasonable expectation that EVRAZ explore the Groups resilience to the significant will be able to remain in operation and meet risks set out on pages 34-35, as well as its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year combinations of correlated risks.
The key period to December 2021. scenarios can be summarised as: Base scenario: In making this statement, the directors have the key assumptions as disclosed in made the following key assumptions: Note 6 to the financial statements under the continued availability of funding or Impairment of assets on pages 183-186: refinancing, by way of capital markets, bank future pricing of steel and raw materials debt, and asset financing, of up to one-third is within the range of the external analyst of the current debt level in all the scenarios forecasts set out in Note 6: considered: and annual steel volumes are assumed to selling prices remain in line with prevailing vary from -9.0% to 5.0% compared with market assumptions.
the 2016 level over the five-year period to December 2021: Global economic decline: steel and raw material prices and exchange rates during 2017 and future periods are at the lower end of the external analyst forecast set out in Note 6: sales volumes are assumed to remain at the level of the base scenario: 36
