12 Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk Principal risks identifying and managing risk Introduction Risk management is an essential element of how we run Experian, to help us deliver long-term shareholder value and to protect our business, people, assets, capital and reputation.
Successful management of existing the management of global risks.
The The global and regional strategic and emerging risks is critical to the regional risk management committees project committees comprise the most long-term success of our business and oversee the management of regional senior global and regional executives.
to achieving our strategic objectives.
The Tax and Treasury Committee Their remit is to oversee a process to To seize the opportunities in front oversees the management of financial ensure that all strategic projects are of us, we must accept risk to a risks, including tax, credit, liquidity, appropriately resourced, risk assessed reasonable degree and manage that funding, market and currency risks.
and commercially, financially and risk appropriately.
Risk management is Each committee is responsible for technically appraised.
Depending on therefore an integral component of our ensuring these risks remain consistent the outcome of their discussions, the corporate governance.
with Experians risk appetite, strategies committees conclusions are then and objectives.
considered by the Board or relevant Our risk and control governance Group Principal Operating Subsidiary The Group Operating Committee Board The Board has overall for approval.
comprises the Groups most senior responsibility for determining, and executives.
Its remit includes identifying, Executive management keeping under review throughout debating and achieving consensus on Executive management implements the year, the nature and extent of the issues involving strategy, risk, growth, and takes day-to-day responsibility for principal risks it is willing to take within people and culture, and operational Board policies on risk management our strategy, setting our overarching efficiency.
It also focuses on ensuring and internal control.
In doing so, risk appetite and ensuring that risks strong communication and co-operative management designates internal are appropriately managed across the working relationships among the responsibilities and accountabilities Group.
The Board delegates oversight executive team.
Its meetings tend to be through the design and implementation of certain risk management activities issues oriented and focus on selected of necessary systems of internal control.
Group issues worthy of discussion.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee regularly monitors the principal risks and uncertainties Risk and control governance structure identified by the Groups risk assessment processes, along with strategies Board developed and actions taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Audit Committee system of risk management and internal controls that supports the identification, Executive Risk Management Committee assessment and reporting of risk.
Tax and Strategic Regional risk Executive committees Group Operating Treasury project management The Executive Risk Management Committee Committee committees committees Committee comprises senior Group executives, including the executive Executive management directors and the Company Secretary.
Its primary responsibility is to oversee Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk 13 Risk management Our risk management framework The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of Tone at the top our risk management activities from a financial, operational and strategic Business strategy Sustaining a perspective.
These activities are culture designed to identify and manage, of integrity and Consumers at the Risk management ethical values rather than eliminate, the risk of failure heart of what we do to achieve business objectives or to A culture of successfully deliver our business winning together Monitor Identify strategy.
Our risk management Commitment to maintaining a framework supports the successful Disciplined capital strong risk and allocation running of the business, by identifying control culture Risk and where possible managing risks appetite A powerful brand to an acceptable level and delivering Mitigate Analyse assurance on these.
Great client outcomes Commitment to competency The risk management framework has Evaluate Leading, innovative been built to identify, evaluate, analyse, products mitigate and monitor those risks that threaten the successful achievement of our business strategy and objectives, Principal risk profile within our risk appetite.
More detail regarding the specific actions and Business conduct risk Loss or inappropriate processes underlying each element of use of data and systems Non-resilient IT business the risk management process can be environment New legislation or changes in found in the Governance section.
regulatory enforcement Undesirable investment Risks are owned and managed within the outcomes Increasing competition business, and formally reviewed at least Dependency on highly every quarter.
To supplement business skilled personnel self-assessments, global governance teams form a second line of defence, Data ownership, Failure to comply with laws executing information security, regulatory access and integrity and regulations compliance and business continuity Adverse and unpredictable risk and control reviews.
Internal Audit financial markets or fiscal provides a third line of defence, by developments executing independent and objective risk and control assessments.
The results of these reviews feed into the quarterly reporting cycle.
Risks are overseen and supervised through the Executive and LIKELIHOOD regional risk management committees.
Our risk identification processes follow a dual approach, seeking to identify at the regional and global level.
During the year under review, we began risks using: Higher rated risks are escalated deployment of a global issue tracking to the regional and Executive risk system that consolidates the monitoring A bottom-up approach at a management committees.
and reporting of active risk remediation business unit or country level.
Action items are prioritised, This approach identifies those risks A top-down approach at the monitored, reported and escalated which threaten an individual business global level.
This approach based upon standard criteria.
unit activity and are managed identifies those principal risks which by the business unit.
To provide threaten delivery of our strategy visibility of wider issues within the and objectives.
The diagram above business, these are consolidated summarises our principal risk profile.
IMPACT 14 Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued In parallel, we recognise the behavioural Risk appetite Principal risks and uncertainties benefits that clear expectations bring to We assess the level of risk and our The table on the following pages sets the business.
As such, we are reinforcing associated risk appetite, to ensure out what the Board believes to be our compliance culture with policies appropriate focus on the risks we face.
the principal risks and uncertainties and procedures across the business, Risks are targeted for assessment facing Experian, the mitigating actions and wrapping this within a broader based upon gross risk and measured for each, trending of the inherent risk One Experian way of working.
based upon net risk, using our preenvironment and an update on any defined scoring methodology.
Risks changes in the profile of each risk Future developments are then prioritised for mitigation by during the course of the year ended In the coming year, we plan to refine our considering these scores against our 31 March 2016.
The risks are arranged risk management framework, as well as risk tolerance and appetite.
The principal in order of risk priority.
The list is not our risk appetite metrics and reporting, risks, of which there are currently exhaustive and it is likely to change to further improve our risk management ten, are reviewed by the Board and during the current financial year, monitoring.
We are also evolving our Audit Committee on an ongoing basis, as some risks may assume greater Three Lines of Defence model, where and monitored by the Executive Risk importance and others may become operational management provides Management Committee.
the first line of defence, the Risk and established risk appetite statements Governance teams provide the second For the purposes of assessing the for those principal risks that the Board line of defence and Internal Audit is the Groups viability, the directors focused felt would benefit from articulation of third line of defence.
The enhancement on three principal risks which are an objective risk appetite statement.
to our second line of defence will, critical to our success.
These risks Behind certain statements, initial risk over time, increase the evidence and are summarised below and further metrics are being identified, which will visibility we have of the operational discussed in the Viability statement.
show whether we are working within effectiveness of critical business our tolerance and whether additional Loss or inappropriate use of processes.
This will provide further executive attention may be required.
consumer personal identifiable opportunities to strengthen and improve These metrics are being incorporated information leading to brand our business, helping to ensure that we within our quarterly reporting activities.
damage, legal penalties and are positioned to deliver a competitive, class action litigation.
consistent, quality service and product Our culture to our clients.
We are also developing Significant regulatory changes or The Board is aware that effective risk a software solution to give managers restrictions to our business through management depends on behaviours.
an enhanced tool for monitoring their law changes or enforcement, leading We are now four years into our Heart risks: provide better live data reporting to changes in how we operate of Experian initiative, which is a way across the Group: and give our principal our business.
to express the ties that bind our governance teams an integrated tool to organisation together, wherever we are Adverse and unpredictable business support their enhanced second line of and whatever we do.
Our core DNA and financial markets, such as defence risk assessment and reporting.
Connect, Protect, Create reflects what Brazil, that may result in economic we do and the way we work: deterioration, currency weakness Our risk landscape continues to change or restrictions.
as both the business and regulatory Connect bringing our people environments evolve.
The pace of together, to make a difference for change, and the need for greater visibility our clients and communities.
across the organisation, continue to Protect how our people take grow and the risk function and practices care of sensitive personal and are developing to meet these challenges.
Create how everyones ideas matter, in creating smart and insightful ways to help consumers and organisations.
Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk 15 1 4 6 V Loss or inappropriate use of data and systems Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Increasing We hold and manage sensitive consumer We deploy physical and technological security information that increases our exposure and measures, combined with monitoring and alerting susceptibility to cyber-attacks, either directly for suspicious activities.
through our online systems or indirectly through We maintain an information security programme our partners or third-party contractors.
for identifying, protecting against, detecting, and responding to cyber security risks and recovering from cyber security incidents.
We impose contractual security requirements on our partners and other third parties who use our data, complemented by periodic reviews of third-party controls.
We maintain insurance coverage, where feasible and appropriate.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Losing or misusing sensitive consumer data Information security continues to be an increasing risk, could create adverse effects for consumers and reflecting the growing intensity of threats companies are result in material loss of business, substantial facing from cyber-attacks, both domestic and foreign.
legal liability, regulatory enforcement actions We continue to invest in new tools and people, to give us and or significant harm to our reputation.
increased visibility into technical systems, with a keen focus on identifying suspicious activities.
In addition, several initiatives are underway to complete the standardisation and centralisation of security management activities.
In 2015, we hired a new Chief Information Officer and a new Chief Information Security Officer.
In September 2015, we detected unauthorised access to a server that contained personal identifying information for consumers who applied for certain services with one of our clients, T-Mobile USA.
No other clients were affected and our US consumer credit database was not accessed in this incident.
We took immediate action to secure the server and notified all affected consumers with guidance on how to protect themselves.
Key Our strategy: 1 Consumers at the heart of what we do 2 A culture of winning together 3 Disciplined capital allocation 4 A powerful brand 5 Leading, innovative products 6 Great client outcomes V Considered as part of the viability assessment 16 Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued 1 4 5 6 Failure to comply with laws and regulations Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Increasing We hold and manage sensitive consumer We maintain a compliance management framework that information that exposes us to a range of privacy includes defined policies, procedures and controls for and consumer protection laws, regulations Experian employees, business processes and third parties and contractual obligations with which we are such as our data resellers.
We assess the appropriateness of data usage for new and or changing products and services.
We vigorously defend all pending and threatened claims, employing internal and external counsel to effectively manage and conclude such proceedings.
We analyse the causes of claims, to identify any potential changes we need to make to our business processes and policies.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Non-compliance may result in material litigation We face existing regulatory and government investigations and or regulatory actions, including class in a number of jurisdictions, as well as new actions and actions, which could result in civil or criminal proceedings resulting from the North America security liability or penalties, as well as negative publicity incident.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the number that harms our reputation.
of US class action lawsuits increased, whilst the cost of defending individual consumer litigation continues to rise year on year.
This is at least in part attributable to greater consumer awareness and to heightened media coverage of the US consumer bureau business.
Business conduct risk 1 4 5 6 Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Increasing Our business model strives to create long-term We maintain appropriate governance and oversight that value for people, businesses and society include policies, procedures and controls designed to through our data assets and innovative safeguard personal data, avoid detriment to consumers, analytics and software solutions.
Inappropriate provide consumer-centric product design and delivery, execution of our business strategies or activities and effectively respond to enquiries and complaints.
could adversely affect our clients, consumers These activities also support a robust conduct risk or counterparties.
We enforce our Global Code of Conduct, and our Anti-Corruption and Gifts and Hospitality policies.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Consumers or clients could receive Regulators are increasingly putting public trust and consumer inappropriate products or not have access to and investor protection at the centre of their mission appropriate products, resulting in material statements and promoting prudent conduct risk management.
loss of business, substantial legal liability, New consumer focused laws and changes to existing regulatory enforcement actions or significant regulations continued to be proposed along with heightened harm to our reputation.
regulatory oversight and reviews in our USA and UK operations.
Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk 17 1 3 4 5 6 Non-resilient IT business environment Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Stable Delivery of our products and services depends We maintain a significant level of redundant operations, on a number of key IT systems and processes designed to avoid material and sustained disruptions to that expose our clients, consumers and our businesses, clients and consumers.
businesses to serious disruptions from We design applications with a focus on resilience and a systems or operational failures.
balance between longevity, sustainability and speed.
We maintain a global integrated business continuity framework that includes policies, procedures and controls for Experians systems and related processes.
We duplicate information in our databases and maintain back-up data centres.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 A significant failure or interruption could have Whilst we experienced limited disruptions during the a materially adverse effect on our business, financial year, isolated events including weather and power financial performance, financial condition and disruptions tested our plans and processes.
We continue to or reputation.
perform periodic exercises to validate where possible that our documented procedures are accurate and suitable for each environment.
Undesirable investment outcomes 1 2 3 4 5 6 Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Stable We are investing in a number of high-quality We design our incentive programmes to optimise growth opportunities for example in health, shareholder value through delivery of balanced, sustainable fraud prevention, software and business credit returns and a sound risk profile over the long term.
and executing performance improvement We carry out comprehensive business reviews.
programmes for example in Brazil and North We perform due diligence and post-investment reviews America Consumer Services, any of which on acquisitions and partnerships.
may not produce the desired financial or We employ a rigorous capital allocation framework.
We analyse competitive threats to our business model and markets.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Failure to successfully implement our key We continue to take advantage of strategic partnerships, business strategies could have a materially such as with Fair Isaac, to differentiate our offering, and adverse effect on our ability to achieve our invest in new technology that has returned our North revenue or growth targets.
America Consumer Services business to growth.
com continues to deliver good growth and our Poorly executed business acquisitions or re-branded free service has now attracted over three million partnerships could result in material loss members cumulatively.
Experian Health in the USA continues of business, increased costs, reduced to develop and expand its capabilities from revenue cycle revenue, substantial legal liability, regulatory management into areas such as fraud.
We now place our enforcement actions and or significant harm products in over 50% of USA hospitals.
In Latin America, our to our reputation.
business in Brazil continues to perform well despite a difficult economic backdrop.
We also divested several non-core assets during the year, to tighten the focus of the portfolio.
18 Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued Adverse and unpredictable financial 3 4 5 V markets or fiscal developments Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Increasing We operate globally and, as such, results could We have a diverse portfolio by geography, product, sector be affected by global or regional changes in and client.
fiscal or monetary policies: We provide counter-cyclical products and services.
A substantial change in the USA, UK We convert cash balances which accumulate in foreign or Brazil credit markets could reduce currencies into US dollars.
our financial performance and growth We retain internal and external tax professionals, who potential in those countries.
regularly monitor developments in international tax and We present our financial statements in US assess the impact of changes and differing outcomes.
However, we transact business in a number of currencies.
Changes in other currencies relative to the US dollar could impact our financial results.
A substantial rise in USA, EU or UK interest rates could increase our future cost of borrowings.
We are subject to complex and evolving tax laws and interpretations, which may be subject to significant change.
These changes may lead to increased effective tax rates in the future.
Uncertainty in the application of these laws may also result in different outcomes from the amounts provided.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 The USA, UK and Brazil in aggregate A number of currencies, including the Brazilian real and contribute 88% of revenue.
A reduction in Colombian peso, weakened against the US dollar during the one or more of these consumer and business year.
Revenue growth has been impacted by 9% and Total credit services markets could impact revenue EBIT by 11% as a result of weakness in these currencies and Total EBIT.
compared to the US dollar.
We benefit from the strengthening of A number of countries and bodies continue to develop tax laws currencies relative to the US dollar and and regulations.
In addition, the Organisation for Economic are adversely affected by the weakening of Co-operation and Development G20 Base Erosion and Profit currencies relative to it.
Shifting Project continues to gain momentum.
Countries may amend legislation in respect of international tax matters.
In We have US$3,120m in outstanding debt addition the application of existing tax laws is changing and this denominated principally in US dollars, sterling may impact the settlement of historical tax filings.
As this debt matures, we may need to replace it with borrowings at higher rates.
Earnings could be reduced and tax payments increased as a result of settlement of historical tax positions or increases in our effective tax rates.
Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk 19 1 4 5 6 V New legislation or changes in regulatory enforcement Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Increasing We operate in an increasingly complex external We use internal and external resources to monitor planned environment, in which many of our activities and realised changes in legislation.
and services are subject to legal and regulatory We educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy influences.
New laws, new interpretations of advocates, industry trade groups, our clients and other existing laws, changes to existing regulations stakeholders in the public policy debate.
and or heightened regulatory scrutiny could Our global compliance team has region-specific regulatory affect how we operate our business.
For expertise and works with our businesses to identify and example, future regulatory changes could adopt balanced compliance strategies.
impact how we collect and use consumer We execute our Compliance Management Programme that information for marketing, risk management directs the structure, documentation, tools and training and fraud detection.
Regulatory changes could requirements to support compliance on an ongoing basis.
impact how we serve Experian Consumer Services clients or how we are able to market services to clients or consumers.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 We may suffer increased costs or reduced Increasing regulation by the UK Financial Conduct Authority revenue resulting from modified business FCA and the US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau practices, adopting new procedures, selfCFPB, and various federal and state legislative actions regulation and or litigation or regulatory within Brazil, may impact our access to data, increase our actions resulting in liability or fines.
costs, require us to modify our products or negatively affect our revenue.
From 1 April 2014, the FCA has regulated credit bureaux in the UK.
Experian currently operates in the UK under an interim permission and is in the process of obtaining full FCA accreditation in 2016.
The region experienced higher regulatory costs as we prepared for FCA accreditation and made some continued organic investments.
In Brazil, certain states have either enacted or are considering enacting laws requiring us to mail and receive back more expensive return receipt letters, before negative consumer credit information can be added to our database.
Whilst we are currently managing the effects associated with return receipt letters, the long-term continuation and proliferation of this type of legislation at the state and federal levels could negatively impact our business and the businesses of our clients.
Key Our strategy: 1 Consumers at the heart of what we do 2 A culture of winning together 3 Disciplined capital allocation 4 A powerful brand 5 Leading, innovative products 6 Great client outcomes V Considered as part of the viability assessment 20 Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk Principal risks identifying and managing risk continued 1 2 3 4 5 6 Increasing competition Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Increasing Our competitive landscape continues to evolve, We are committed to continued research and investment with traditional players reinventing themselves, in new data sources, people, technology and products to emerging players investing heavily and new support our strategic plan.
entrants making large commitments in new We carry out detailed competitive and market analyses.
technologies or new approaches to our markets, We continue to develop new products that leverage our including marketing, consumer services, and scale and allow us to deploy capabilities into new and business and consumer credit information.
There is a risk that we will not respond We use rigorous processes to identify and select our adequately to such business disruptions or our development investments, so we can effectively introduce products and services will fail to meet changing new products and services to the market.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Price reductions may reduce our margins, We increased our focus on understanding the external market share and results of operations, or environment and competitor activities during our annual harm our ability to obtain new clients or retain strategic planning cycle and executed ongoing corporate existing ones.
We might also be unable to intelligence monitoring.
We established working groups to support changes in the way our businesses and understand emerging business models in our core markets clients use and purchase information, affecting for example, payments and marketplace lending and build our operating results.
We also increased our focus on developing responses from cross-business unit teams, building the operating mindset of One Experian.
1 2 4 5 6 Data ownership, access and integrity Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Stable Our business model depends on our ability to We monitor legislative and regulatory initiatives, and collect, aggregate, analyse and use consumer educate lawmakers, regulators, consumer and privacy and client information.
There is a risk that advocates, industry trade groups, clients and other we may not have access to data because of stakeholders in the public policy debate.
consumer privacy and data accuracy concerns, We use standardised selection, negotiation and or data providers being unable or unwilling to contracting of provider agreements, to address delivery provide their data to us or imposing a different assurance, reliability and protections relating to critical fee structure for using their data.
Our legal contracts define how we can use data and provide services.
We analyse data to make sure we receive the best value and highest quality.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Our ability to provide products and services We continue to enter into long-term contracts with data to our clients could be affected, leading to a providers and secure access to data sources through strategic materially adverse impact on our business, partnerships.
In addition, we monitor emerging business reputation and or operating results.
models that make use of alternative data assets for creditbased decision making, to understand the value, accuracy and availability of these assets.
We are investing in several initiatives to provide greater assurance over the integrity of data provided to us and are participating in ongoing discussions about the practices of companies that resell consumer data to commercial, government and not-for-profit entities.
Momentum towards reporting of positive data continues in some countries and we continue to advance positive data in countries such as Brazil, India and Australia.
Strategic report Principal risks identifying and managing risk 21 1 2 4 5 6 Dependency on highly skilled personnel Risk trend Description Examples of control mitigation Stable Our success depends on the ability to In every region, we have ongoing recruitment, personal attract, motivate and retain key talent and career development, and talent identification and and build future leadership.
We carry out our Global People Survey approximately every 12 to 18 months and act on the feedback.
We offer competitive compensation and benefits and review them regularly.
We actively monitor attrition rates, with a focus on individuals designated as high talent or in strategically important roles.
Potential impact Changes from 2015 Not having the right people could materially We monitor engagement through a variety of channels.
We are affect our ability to service our clients and delivering the action plans from our 2015 Global People Survey, grow our business.
and our next survey will take place in June 2016.
Voluntary attrition rates have increased, and are an area of primary focus for us.
Talent, succession planning and reward also continue to be key initiatives.
For further information on our succession and retention programmes please refer to the Our people section of the Strategic report.
Key Our strategy: 1 Consumers at the heart of what we do 2 A culture of winning together 3 Disciplined capital allocation 4 A powerful brand 5 Leading, innovative products 6 Great client outcomes V Considered as part of the viability assessment
