STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has established risk management and internal control systems which support the identification, understanding and mitigation of the key risks that it faces.
APPROACH RISK GOVERNANCE 2016 RISK ASSESSMENT The Groups risk management processes The Ferrexpo Board is ultimately The risks set out in the matrix were provide a framework to support responsible for defining the Groups assessed by the Finance and Risk the identification, prioritisation and attitude to risk and ensuring that Management Committee, Executive management of the risks involved in the appropriate systems of risk management Compliance Committee and the Audit Companys activities.
It is not and cannot and internal control are established and Committee, as appropriate, and the risks be designed to eliminate risk, particularly embedded across the Group, in conformity identified as posing the biggest threat in an emerging market economy.
with its desired risk management culture.
to the Companys operations based on Ferrexpos risk management policies Its responsibility extends to ensuring that their potential impact and taking account and procedures have been established the principal risks faced by the Group are of the mitigating measures in place were to identify and analyse the risks faced robustly assessed and that the Companys analysed in order to identify the principal by the Group, to set appropriate limits exposure to such risks are aligned with its risks faced by the Group for assessment by and controls and take relevant mitigating strategic objectives.
The principal risks identified are actions where considered by the Board set out on pages 28 to 35. of Ferrexpo and its executive management The Audit Committee assists the Board to be beneficial.
in its regular monitoring of risk exposures At each Board meeting throughout and the Groups risk matrix, and is the year, the Board reviewed the risk RISK ASSESSMENT responsible for evaluating the adequacy register and assessed the risks facing the The Groups risk matrix is regularly and effectiveness of the established risk Company over both the short and long reviewed and monitored by the Executive management and internal control systems.
The Viability Statement is set out Committee and its sub-committee, the It also oversees how management on page 36.
Finance and Risk Management Committee, monitors compliance with risk as well as the Audit Committee and the management policies and procedures, Board.
This review process includes with assistance from the Group internal ensuring that any new risks are identified, audit function which conducts ad-hoc their potential impact on the Group reviews of risk management controls assessed and appropriate controls and procedures as part of its annual established.
The risks identified are ranked programme of work.
For more information based on the monetary impact and the relating to the Audit Committees probability of occurrence in order to assess monitoring and assessment of the their impact on the Groups operation and effectiveness of the risk management viability.
The impact and the probability and internal control systems, see the are reassessed on a regular basis based Audit Committee Report on page 55. on latest developments in the Groups macro and micro environment.
It is the The Finance and Risk Management responsibility of the Groups Executive Committee oversees the centralised Committee to define appropriate actions financial risk management structures, to adequately monitor those risks and while the Corporate Social Responsibility establish an effective control environment.
Committee monitors safety, environment The controls are generally conducted and community risks and the Executive by the Groups internal audit function or Compliance Committee monitors members of the Executive Committee and compliance and the activities of the Group updates are provided to the Executive and local compliance officers.
These three Committee and the Board.
committees assist the Audit Committee and Board in the identification and analysis of risk.
Assurance on the internal control and risk management systems is provided in the form of management information, reports and updates from the Group internal audit function, external audits and the oversight by the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board.
26 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS FERREXPO BOARD Overall responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems Sets strategic objectives and defines risk appetite Monitors the nature and extent of risk exposure AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE CSR COMMITTEE Support the Board in monitoring Assess and mitigate Oversight of CSR matters and risk exposure and risk appetites Company-wide risk performance Review effectiveness of risk Monitor internal controls management and control systems FINANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Monitor centralised financial risk management structures EXECUTIVE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Monitor Group compliance Monitor Group and local compliance officers INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION Support the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Internal control systems OPERATIONAL LEVEL Risk management processes and internal controls embedded across all Ferrexpo operations RISK MATRIX HEAT MAP 2.1 4.4 3.4 The risks identified in 3.1 2.6 the heat map to the right 3.2 2.4 highlight which could have 4.1 3.3 the greatest impact shaded 1.1 1.2 grey on the Groups 2.5 operations and viability.
4.3 1.3 4.2 2.2 2.3 UNLIKELY ALMOST CERTAIN Likelihood FERREXPO PLC 27 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Impact VERY LOW SEVERE
