STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS The list of the principal risks and uncertainties facing Ferrexpos business that follows below is based on the Boards current understanding.
Due to the very nature of risk it cannot be expected to be completely exhaustive.
New risks may emerge and the severity or probability associated with known risks may change over time.
RISKS RELATED TO THE IRON ORE MARKET Change from 2015 1.1 GLOBAL ECONOMIC GROWTH, IRON ORE PRICES AND PELLET PREMIUMS POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION The demand for steel, and hence iron ore, is driven by global The pellet market is a niche market and according to CRU is economic growth trends, which in the recent past has been largely forecast to grow at a faster rate than the underlying iron ore determined by Chinese economic growth, and for the past eight fines market.
years China has produced more than 45% of the worlds steel Ferrexpo has invested to increase production and is now the output.
A reduction in world or Chinese GDP growth could impact third largest producer of pellets for the seaborne market.
demand for steel and iron ore. Conversely, the supply of iron ore Ferrexpo is a low cost producer and invests to maintain its low requires long periods of large scale, capital intensive investment.
position on the global cost curve.
A mismatch between increasing supply of iron ore and lower Ferrexpo sells under long-term contracts to established demand can lead to iron ore price weakness.
steel mills who produce premium steel products through the commodities cycle.
Fluctuations in the iron ore price as well as in demand can Through the economic cycle pellet premiums have historically negatively impact the financial results of the Group.
The Platts been more stable than the iron ore fines price.
62% Fe iron ore fines CFR China price has declined from a peak Ferrexpo has its own logistics infrastructure and a diversified of US$193 per tonne in 2011 to a low of US$39 per tonne in 2015. customer base.
It is in close proximity to its European In 2016 the price stabilised at an average of US$58 per tonne for customers and has port access to seaborne markets.
the year compared to an average of US$56 per tonne in 2015.
This provides flexibility should a particular region experience The average price YTD as of 20 March 2017 has been US$86 a decline in demand.
Ferrexpo receives a pellet premium from its customers in addition to the iron ore fines price.
Currently, a portion of the Groups profit is due to this premium.
The historic average annual Atlantic longterm contract pellet premium has been approximately US$30 per tonne since 2011.
Spot market pellet premiums in China have been more volatile, reaching a low of approximately US$11 per tonne in January 2016, before recovering to finish 2016 at approximately US$23 per tonne.
Overall, the pellet premium currently represents a high proportion of the underlying iron ore fines price.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 28 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 We have indicated how our principal risks would Denotes a risk that the Board considers impact our ability to deliver against our strategy.
more likely to impact the viability statement.
Position Optimise Discipline Change from 2015 1.2 COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION The international iron ore market for all types of iron is highly Iron ore pellets have high capital costs barriers to entry.
competitive, with four large producers dominating the export Iron ore pellet projects require several years to implement.
market and several mid-tier producers operating in selected Pellet feed is typically more expensive to produce than iron markets.
The principal factors affecting competition are price, ore fines and requires a higher capital intensity.
New entrants quality, range of products offered, reliability and logistics costs.
are likely to be at higher cost than the current participants in themarket.
In the pellet market, Ferrexpo considers that its principal pellet competitors are Vale, Luossavaara Kiirunavaara AB LKAB, Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC, Samarco, Lebedinsky-GOK, Mikhailovsky-GOK and Severny-GOK.
Samarcos operations are currently idled following a tailings dam accident in November 2015.
Prior to the accident, Samarco was the second largest supplier to the global pellet market, exporting approximately 30 million tonnes of pellets per annum, or around 20% of total pellet exports.
The pellet market is currently in supply deficit, which could encourage idled capacity or new supply to enter the market.
In addition, Samarco has indicated that it intends to return to the market in the second half of 2017.
The increase in supply of pellets could reduce the pellet premium.
Furthermore, the current level of pellet premiums could encourage competing products and ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES processes to be developed.
Change from 2015 1.3 SEABORNE FREIGHT RATES POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION As iron ore is a bulk commodity, seaborne freight rates are an Ferrexpo has its own in-house freight and distribution important component of the cost to deliver product to a customer.
specialists who procure freight competitively on behalf of An increase in freight rates will reduce the net price received from theGroup.
a customer all else equal while a reduction in freight rates will Ferrexpos geographic proximity to its European customers is increase the net price received from a customer.
a competitive advantage compared to other iron ore producers.
Ferrexpo can access the seaborne market competitively via its Seaborne freight rates, such as C3, are published by the Baltic own port infrastructure.
Exchange and represents the cost for ocean transportation of iron Ferrexpo invests in its own infrastructure to ensure that its total ore from the Brazilian port of Tubarao where the largest seaborne cost of transportation remains competitive.
suppliers of pellets are based to Qingdao, China the largest steel producer in the world.
As Ferrexpo sells to international customers the price it receives ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES includes reference to C3 or other global benchmarks.
FERREXPO PLC 29 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 2.
RISKS RELATING TO UKRAINE 2.1 POLITICAL Change from 2015 POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION ALSO SEE UKRAINIAN VAT AND TAX RISK AND RELIANCE ON Ongoing conflict in Eastern Ukraine, the annexation of STATE MONOPOLIES RISK Crimea and political instability have negatively impacted the The Group manages liquidity to ensure smooth operations Ukrainianeconomy.
should the economic weakness of the country disrupt the financial system.
Any continuing or escalating conflict in Eastern Ukraine could have Ferrexpo makes meaningful contributions to the local further adverse effects.
This could include a material impact on communities and towns surrounding its operations.
the availability of critical production inputs such as electricity, gas Ferrexpo invests heavily in energy efficiency, including or other products, including diesel fuel, as well as availability of rail alternative fuels to augment gas consumption, and maintains and port services.
close contact with electricity suppliers.
Ferrexpo has established several sources of suppliers for key Economic deterioration impacts the governments ability to fund products as well as several supply routes.
usual social services and could lead to social upheaval and Ferrexpos operations are remote from the conflict zone.
political tension within local communities.
It can also impact the governments ability to meet its payment obligations to exporters, such as VAT refunds: or it could impact Ferrexpos ability to use its cash held in Ukraine: or Ferrexpos ability to obtain financing from ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES international capital markets.
Change from 2015 2.2 LEGAL SYSTEM AND COMPLIANCE AND CORRUPTION POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Since Ukraines change in government in 2014, the government Ferrexpo prioritises a strong internal control framework and has undertaken to implement a number of reforms to strengthen operates to the highest international standards of compliance the rule of law in the country, supported by the IMF.
legal system has been developing to support this transformation: Ferrexpo continues to pursue relevant matters through the however, it is subject to greater risks and uncertainties than more court system.
Risks include a weak judicial system that is susceptible to outside influence, and can take an extended period of time for the courts to reach final judgment.
For further information see Note 35 of the financial statements on page 150.
Transparency International ranks Ukraine as 131st out of 176 countries in terms of the level of perceived corruption.
There is a risk that counterparties are involved in activities that are not in compliance with relevant international standards.
Also see ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Counterparty risk on page 32.
Change from 2015 2.3 UKRAINIAN BANKING SECTOR POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION The Ukrainian banking sector is regarded as weak.
In December Ferrexpo manages its liquidity to ensure it can continue to 2016 PrivatBank, the countrys largest bank with 37% of the operate in the event of disruptions to the local banking sector.
countrys retail deposits and one fifth of the banking assets, Ferrexpo spreads its funds amongst international and, if wasnationalised.
available, at least two local banks.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 30 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 We have indicated how our principal risks would Denotes a risk that the Board considers impact our ability to deliver against our strategy.
Position Optimise Discipline 2.4 UKRAINIAN CURRENCY AND LOCAL INFLATION Change from 2015 POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Fluctuations in the Hryvnia US Dollar exchange rate impacts 100% of Ferrexpos sales are in US Dollars.
Ferrexpos profitability and the book value of its assets.
Ferrexpo invests to reduce its costs of production as well as increase its output and quality.
In 2016 the Hryvnia devalued from UAH24.0 per US Dollar as of Ferrexpo has a long-established Business Improvement 31 December 2015 to UAH27.2 per US Dollar as of 31 December Programme aimed at reducing costs in constant currency by 2016.
The average rate during the year was UAH25.6 per US Dollar 2% per year.
2015 average rate: UAH21.9 per US Dollar.
Balances at the year While Ferrexpos revenue is received in US Dollars, actual end are converted at the prevailing rate.
costs expressed in US Dollars have historically been linked to international commodity prices rather than local inflation rates.
As a result of the devaluation of the Hryvnia against the US Ferrexpo can revalue its assets to reflect current replacement Dollar since 2014 as of 1 January 2014 the rate was UAH7.9 prices in the event of a substantial devaluation of the Hryvnia per US Dollar local inflation has been around 90% over the past against the US Dollar or in the event of hyperinflation.
If the Hryvnia were to strengthen against the US Dollar this could increase the Groups cost base and impact its ability to remain a ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES low cost operator.
Change from 2015 2.5 UKRAINIAN TAXATION AND VAT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Ferrexpo is a large taxpayer in Ukraine.
It also operates The Group operates its taxation affairs in an open and internationally and is subject to transfer pricing regulations both transparent manner and maintains a close dialogue with the locally and internationally.
The Group has experienced times government and operates to best international standards where the taxation it has paid in Ukraine has been in excess of the including OECD guidelines, including the recent Base Erosion amounts due, leading to increases in working capital and exposure and Profit Shifting BEPS guidelines.
to devaluation of the local currency.
Ferrexpo can reduce its working capital requirements via trade finance or similar to mitigate temporary delays and holds Ferrexpo incurs VAT on purchases of goods and services, which sufficient operational liquidity to provide a buffer.
as an exporter, it cannot offset on amounts charged on local sales.
As a result, Ferrexpo is exposed to the risk that the Ukrainian government either delays or does not repay the VAT incurred.
This can be up to 20% of the costs of local operations.
For further information see Political and Legal risk and Note 23 to the financial statements.
The late repayment of VAT results in increased working capital which must be funded from operating cash flows and debt.
As Ukrainian VAT balances are in local currency the balances in US ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Dollar terms are exposed to the devaluation of the Hryvnia.
FERREXPO PLC 31 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 2.
RISKS RELATING TO UKRAINE CONTINUED 2.6 COUNTERPARTY RISK Change from 2015 POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Financial instability of Ferrexpos counterparties, including its Ferrexpo deals with well-established steel producers with customers, suppliers, the government and local banks, could sound credit profiles.
absorb high amounts of working capital, impact production levels Ferrexpos counterparties are subject to regular and thorough and lead to material financial loss.
The results of these reviews are used to determine appropriate levels of exposure, and available alternatives, in Ferrexpo has counterparty exposure through ongoing trading order to reduce the potential risk of financial loss.
relationships as well as with the Ukrainian government in terms of The Group develops its supplier base in order to avoid taxes payable and receivable see Ukrainian taxation and VAT and excessive dependence on any supplier, actively encouraging a in terms of required licences and other permits.
diversity of supply where reasonable and practical.
In March 2015, Ukraine received a new four-year US$17.5 billion Ukraine has a weak credit profile as defined by international credit rescue package from the IMF to help stabilise the countrys rating agencies.
Also see Legal system and compliance and weak financial position.
RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUPS OPERATIONS Change from 2015 3.1 MINING AND PROCESSING RISKS AND HAZARDS POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Mining risks and hazards may result in employee and contractor Ferrexpo has significant volumes of iron ore in stock to smooth fatalities as well as material mine or plant shutdowns or periods mining variations and holds pellet stocks to mitigate disruption of reduced production.
Such events could damage the Groups in the processing facilities.
customer relationships, its financial performance and balance Safety, environmental and operational performance is regularly sheet strength.
and rigorously reviewed throughout the organisation, including by the Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Committee and the Board.
Ferrexpo has modernised its mining and production facilities, improving safety, environmental, operational and financialperformance.
All accidents are fully investigated and, where appropriate, improvements are made to minimise the risk of re-occurrence.
Appropriate safety training is regularly provided to employees.
Employee remuneration is linked to safety performance.
Active management of the operational risk register is undertaken to ensure predictable volumes and quality ofoutput.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 3 2 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 We have indicated how our principal risks would Denotes a risk that the Board considers impact our ability to deliver against our strategy.
Position Optimise Discipline Change from 2015 3.2 ENERGY COSTS POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Energy represented 47% of Ferrexpos C1 cost in 2016.
An Energy costs are either directly or indirectly linked to increase in oil prices and other energy related costs will increase international markets.
Oil prices also heavily influence Ferrexpo is low on the pellet cost curve.
Competitors producing international freight rates, which is likely to impact the net price pellets will also experience similar cost increases.
the Group receives for its pellets for further information see C3 Ferrexpos Business Improvement Programme focuses on freightrates.
energy reduction, including the replacement of gas with alternative fuels and the optimisation of its mining fleet.
In 2016, the European Brent spot price increased 49% to US$54 per barrel.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 3.3 RELIANCE ON STATE MONOPOLIES Change from 2015 ALSO SEE POLITICAL AND LEGAL RISKS AND ENERGY COSTS ON PAGE 30 AND PAGE 33 POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION The Group purchases electricity and transport services from Effective lobbying at local and national level to ensure tariffs state-owned enterprises and the supply of gas is heavily regulated.
Changes in the related tariffs can be politically motivated and Ferrexpo manages and owns its own rail wagons to reduce affect the Groups cost base.
Availability of services can also be reliance on state-owned rail cars.
limited, which could affect the Groups ability to produce and Recent reforms to the Ukrainian gas sector have increased deliver pellets.
competition and improved pricing transparency.
As such, Ferrexpo is diversifying its natural gas supplier base.
To date, the Group has not experienced any material supply disruption of key inputs since its IPO in 2007.
Ferrexpo looks to reduce its reliance, where possible, on statemonopolies.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 3.4 LOGISTICS Change from 2015 POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Ferrexpos logistics capability is dependent on services provided The Group maintains and invests in its logistics capabilities to by third parties and state-owned organisations within Ukraine.
ensure available capacity to better service its customers, lower costs and reduce reliance on third-party providers.
Ferrexpo The Group operates a barging company on the Danube Rhine currently owns 2,252 rail cars, which reduce reliance on state River corridor.
River barging can be impacted by low water levels rail cars for transportation of pellets to border points, 150 and ice, which at times can limit its ability to operate.
barges for transportation of pellets into Central Europe and a 49.4% interest in the port of TIS Ruda on the Black Sea which Logistical bottlenecks on rail or at the port may affect guarantees the Group independent access to the seaborne Ferrexpos ability to distribute its products on time, impacting markets, avoiding reliance on the state port.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES FERREXPO PLC 33 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 4.
RISKS RELATING TO THE GROUPS STRATEGY Change from 2015 4.1 DEBT MATURITY PROFILE POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION From 2013 until 2016 the debt capital markets and bank debt Ferrexpo targets an amortisation profile to match its cash markets have been closed, firstly due to geopolitical factors in flows with cash held in excess of immediate requirements.
Ukraine and in the last year due to low iron ore prices.
Ferrexpo targets strong credit metrics.
As of 31 December 2016 net debt to EBITDA was 1.57x compared to 2.78x as As debt falls due Ferrexpo may need to make repayments at a of 31 December 2015. time when refinancing is not possible and will therefore have to Ferrexpo maintains short-term trade finance lines.
temporarily change its business plan.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Change from 2015 4.2 INTEREST RATE RISK POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION A portion of the Groups debt facilities are linked to US Dollar Ferrexpo maintains a high level of interest cover.
An increase in interest rates will increase the Groups 31 December 2016 this amounted to 6.9x.
The Group has funding costs.
Any new debt facilities could also result in higher a mix of debt facilities at fixed and floating interest rates.
As of 31 December 2016, the debt facilities subject to fixed interest rates represented approximately 54% of the Groups The average cost of debt for the period ended 31 December outstanding debt.
The increased average rate reflected amortisation of the Groups pre-export banking facilities, which have a lower cost compared to the Groups outstanding US$346 million Eurobond.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Change from 2015 4.3 SUSTAINING AND EXPANSION CAPITAL INVESTMENT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION The Companys facilities require continual sustaining capital The Group has invested over US$2 billion into its operations expenditure to maintain productive efficiency.
The Groups growth since its IPO in 2007.
This has included modernisation of depends on its ability to upgrade existing facilities and develop its existing equipment.
For any major capital project there is a risk The Group has established strict procedures to control, monitor of insufficient controls, cost overruns, shortage of required skills, and manage capital expenditure which is regularly reviewed by and unexpected technical problems affecting the time taken to the Investment and Executive Committee and the Board.
complete the project and the return on the capital invested.
ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 34 FERREXPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 We have indicated how our principal risks would Denotes a risk that the Board considers impact our ability to deliver against our strategy.
Position Optimise Discipline 4.4 MINING LICENCES AND GOVERNMENT APPROVALS FOR EXPANSION Change from 2015 POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION Ferrexpo holds mining licences and the other permits required to Ferrexpo maintains an open and proactive relationship with carry out mining operations.
If mining licences were to be revoked various governmental authorities and is fully aware of the or not renewed, the Groups ability to continue to produce pellets importance of compliance with local legislation and standards.
and meet customer demand would be at risk.
Ferrexpo monitors and reviews its commitments under its various mining licences in order to ensure that the conditions The mining licences for the  and contained within the licences are fulfilled or the appropriate Lavrikovskoye deposit, exploited by FPM, expires in July 2017. waivers obtained.
Ferrexpo maintains strict compliance with the Ferrexpo expects that this licence will be renewed as a matter Ukrainian mining code and execution of work in accordance of due course.
with the project design through active engagement of Ukrainian and international legal advisers.
The Group does not yet have all the governmental approvals required to develop future deposits.
Although all approvals that have been applied for have been granted, there is no guarantee ASSOCIATED STRATEGIC PRIORITIES that others will be granted in the future.
FERREXPO PLC 35 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
