Fidessa group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report continued Risk factors and uncertainties Responsibility for internal controls and risk management systems across the Fidessa group ultimately rests with the Board.
The Operating Board is responsible for the identification and management of risks and this is overseen and managed by the Governance Risk and Compliance Committee which is chaired by the Group General Counsel and comprises senior managers from across Fidessa.
The Governance Risk and Compliance Committee provides regular updates to the Operating Board and the Audit Committee.
There are a number of potential risk factors that could have a material adverse effect on Fidessas operations, its financial results or the value and liquidity of its securities.
During the year the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Fidessa, including those that threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and the table below identifies the known principal risk factors: the table is not intended to be exhaustive.
Whilst there has been no material change to Fidessas risk profile from previous years, increased focus has been given during the year to cyber threats.
Consideration has also been given to the risks of regional changes such as Brexit and the American election: however, the Board believes that the global nature of its trading platforms means that it is less susceptible to the effects of regional changes, as trading infrastructure is likely to continue to operate on a cross border basis.
There may also be risks that are not currently considered to be serious or which are currently unknown.
Where reasonably possible, Fidessa has taken steps to manage or mitigate the risks or potential risks but it cannot entirely safeguard against all of them.
Additionally, and where feasible, Fidessa has purchased reasonable levels of insurance, including cyber liability cover, to mitigate against the financial exposure arising from known or potential risk.
The Board considers its risk assessment processes to be compliant with the current governance requirements.
Further details of its internal control and risk management systems are set out in the Audit Committees Report.
Principal risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Economic conditions and competitors: Impact: adverse economic conditions or the activities of Instability of the financial system, market disruptions or competitors could harm Fidessas revenue, profit, growth suspensions and cash flow over a sustained period.
A material downturn in financial markets or economic Mitigation: Fidessas business model generates a high level recession of recurring revenue which lessens the immediate effect The insolvency, closure, consolidation or rationalisation of downturns in end markets or competitor actions.
of parts of its customer base In addition, Fidessa is a global business which provides Fidessas response to competition may not resilience against regional recession.
be satisfactory Fidessas service line structure together with dialogue with customers, research and marketing activities help provide focus to maintain a competitive advantage.
Strategic risk: Impact: damage to Fidessas reputation and or financial Fidessas investment decisions may not loss if customers cancel or do not renew their contracts.
be satisfactory Mitigation: Fidessa undertakes strategic reviews using customer and market intelligence to support its decisionmaking processes.
Fidessa group plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Operational risk: Impact: a failure in the delivery of an aspect of service or a Inability to access an office or data centre facility software error could immediately and materially damage Inability to provide Fidessa service or loss of data due Fidessas revenue, profit, growth and reputation.
to software error or infrastructure failure Mitigation: through established controls and procedures, Delay to or failure of an implementation of Fidessa including a rigorous test and quality assurance process, software or service Fidessa aims to prevent many of these risks materialising.
Lack of access to the Fidessa services or markets or In addition, the service environment is monitored using failure of data transmission from Fidessa data centres tools and processes so that issues arising can be detected Saturation of network or infrastructure capacity and reacted to at an early stage.
In designing and Software or algorithm error or external interference managing facilities, the resilience and capacity are of high including sabotage for individual or multiple customers importance so that continuity of service is expected.
causing trading errors or preventing customers from Fidessas regulatory teams monitor applicable trading requirements and advise on how they are to be reflected in A disaster such as a natural disaster occurs and the software and services.
Fidessa has robust business Fidessas business continuity planning and or disaster continuity and disaster recovery policies and procedures.
recovery is found to be inadequate Fidessa products or services cause customers to breach regulations Test trades entering a live market Security and data: Impact: a security, cyber security or customer data breach Unauthorised access to and or breach of systems, may immediately and materially affect Fidessas reputation network or premises with possible implications for revenue and growth over the Loss, corruption or misuse of customer or Fidessa data shortto medium-term.
Such a breach may also cause Exploitation of a software vulnerability financial loss, for example as a result of contractual claims Inadequate monitoring of security events or regulatory penalties.
Malware outbreak Mitigation: Fidessa has robust cyber and physical security policies, system and procedures, managed by dedicated staff: these provide a substantial level of protection against ever-evolving threats.
Fidessa limits access to customer data, systems, office and data centre areas to appropriate personnel.
Penetration testing is undertaken to monitor the effectiveness of security and cyber security and identify areas for improvement.
Separation between the corporate network and the customer environment further reduces security risk.
Fidessa has robust incident management procedures.
Fidessa uses various levels of anti-malware protection.
Fidessa group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report continued Principal risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Legal: Impact: an injunction against Fidessa in connection with a Contractual risk in relation to customer and breach of a third partys intellectual property right could supplier contracts prevent Fidessa from delivering its full portfolio of Claims for infringement of a third partys products and services whilst contesting that injunction.
intellectual property Other legal actions brought by or against Fidessa may Infringement of Fidessas intellectual property have an impact on profit and cash balances.
Mitigation: Fidessa maintains a rigorous process for approving contractual terms and deliverables to control the level of risk that is accepted and manages contract deliverables.
Fidessa ensures its intellectual property is protected in its employment contracts, data leakage protection policies and procedures and access controls.
Fidessa controls its product development processes to focus on its own innovation and intellectual property and seeks to protect its own inventions through the development of a patent portfolio.
Bribery, corruption and fraud: Impact: damage to Fidessas reputation and or financial Failure to follow anti-bribery laws and policies loss if customers cancel or do not renew their contracts.
Bribery and corruption are more prevalent in certain Mitigation: Fidessa has an established set of anti-bribery jurisdictions policies and an established training programme.
Fraudulent activities or theft by employees Fidessa operates background checking and training.
Collusion between employees and customers suppliers Fidessa has security processes, including access controls, in place for key business areas.
Access to bank accounts is controlled and monitored centrally.
Additionally, internal audit reviews are undertaken on key control areas.
Regulation: Impact: failure to comply with changes in regulations that Changes in regulations in financial markets affecting concern Fidessas software, services or operations may the software and services that Fidessa provides have an impact on Fidessas reputation, revenue and cash Health and safety and environmental regulation balances over the shortto medium-term.
affecting Fidessas operations Mitigation: Being a workflow provider, changes in financial market regulation are normally beneficial for Fidessas business.
It has a team of specialists who monitor regulatory developments and how they need to be reflected in the products and services offered.
Fidessa maintains awareness of applicable laws that are likely to affect its operations whilst developing procedures and providing training that are designed to ensure compliance.
Advice is obtained from external experts as necessary.
Fidessa group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risk factor Risk impact and mitigation Impact: the loss of key employees or a skills shortage Employees: Loss of key employees may have an effect on Fidessas ability to implement its strategies and business plans over the shortto Skills shortage medium-term.
Mitigation: Fidessa recognises that it is important to provide a stimulating environment in which to work, and provide the development and training to create successful careers whilst also rewarding fairly and competitively and uses benchmark data, career planning and succession planning as part of its strategy.
Financial: Impact: the occurrence of the financial risks highlighted may weaken cash balances, revenue and profit over the Foreign exchange fluctuations due to operating in multiple currency short-term and could expose Fidessa to reputational risk.
Collapse of financial institutions holding Fidessas cash Mitigation: Fidessa has an established treasury policy that deposits limits the level of single counterparty risk.
Foreign Real or perceived non-compliance with tax regulations exchange fluctuations are mitigated by a significant level of natural hedge and hedging of any remaining foreign exchange risk is currently not considered necessary.
Fidessa minimise tax risk through robust processes and governance, the employment of appropriately trained resources and the use of specialist advisors where deemed appropriate.
