Principal risks and uncertainties businesses and also to provide an understanding of the scale of risk Our risk management approach exposures and appetite in the context of our strategic goals, in both We take a bottom up, top down approach to risk management, cases helping us to set appropriate parameters for risk and assess first building a picture of the principal risks at divisional level, then theextent to which our risk mitigations and controls are appropriate consolidating those principal risks alongside Group risks into a Group and in line with appetite.
During the year, we reviewed our methodology, resulting in a new presentation format and risk categorisation which helps us to focus Risk management structure better on our key risks.
Whilst some risks such as treasury risk are managed at a Group level, all of our businesses own and manage the risks they face with We are currently working to develop a risk appetite framework which appropriate assistance from the Group functions as necessary.
will include a formal Board risk appetite statement.
We will use this both to assist in the management of the operational risks within our The current structure is as follows: Responsibility Process The Board has overall responsibility for The Board reviews and Board and Audit Committee the Groups systems of internal control confirms Group and and their effectiveness.
divisional risks and the Audit Committee reviews The Audit Committee has a specific the Groups risk responsibility to review and validate management process.
thesystems of risk management and internal control.
The Executive Committee ExCo The Executive reviews the Groups risk management Committee and other processes.
Group management Internal review and challenge ExCo Internal Audit provides assurance on Audit Group and divisional the key risk mitigating controls and risksubmissions.
ensure that the audit plan is appropriately risk-based.
Business division and Group function Divisional and Group risk management have responsibility for champions maintain and Business divisions the identification and management update risk registers for ofrisks, developing appropriate their function or division.
mitigating actions and the Risks and mitigating maintenanceof risk registers.
actions are monitored through normal business management processes.
The Groups principal risks are set out below.
These risks have been Principal risks and uncertainties assessed taking into account their potential impact both financial Our risk management methodology is aimed at identifying the principal and reputational, the likelihood of occurrence and any change to risks that could: this compared to the prior year and the residual risk after the adversely impact the safety or security of the Groups employees, implementation of controls.
Further information on our risk customers and or assets management processes is contained in the Corporate governance have a material impact on the financial or operational performance report on pages 50 to 51 and 65.
The impact of each of these risks of the Group onour strategic objectives is set out in the table on page 41. impede achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and financial targets: and or adversely impact the Groups reputation or stakeholder expectations.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Economic conditions Changing economic conditions affect our different businesses in To an extent, our First Bus and differentways.
Greyhound operating companies are Continued low oil able to modify services to react to A less positive economic outlook could have a negative impact onour prices have adversely economic impacts.
businesses in terms of reduced demand and reduced opportunities for affected our growth or to retain or secure new business.
OurFirstRail businesses are All of our businesses focus on controlling Greyhound business.
particularly sensitive to movements inkey economic indicators.
The same costs to ensure they remain competitive.
A vote to exit the EU factors could also affect ourkey suppliers.
in the UK referendum An improving economic climate, particularly when combined with lower on 23 June 2016 may fuelprices, may result in reduced demand for public transportation in our adversely impact the Greyhound and First Bus businesses as alternative modes of transport UKs economic become relatively more affordable.
position which in turn Lower oil prices can also lead to reduced oil activity in the Canadian oil sands may have an adverse region which may affect demand for First Transit services in this region.
impact on the Groups Improving economic conditions may also result in a tightening of labour UK operations.
markets resulting in employee shortages, pressure to increase pay, oraffectthe availability of public funding for transport services.
Political and regulatory The political landscape within which the Group operates is constantly The Group has dedicated legal teams in changing.
Changes to government policy, funding regimes, or the legal and theUK and North America who advise The UK Government regulatory framework may result in structural market changes or impact the onemerging issues.
hasrecently Groups operations in terms of reduced profitability, increased costs and or The Group actively engages with the published a Bus a reduction in operational flexibility or efficiency.
relevant government and transport Services Bill which bodies and policy makers to help ensure includes devolved that we are properly positioned to powers to regulate respond to any proposed changes.
bus services in Our continued focus on service quality localareas, subject and delivery helps to mitigate calls for tocertain tests structural market change.
Contract businesses including rail franchising The Groups First Student, First Transit and First Rail divisions are contract The relevant divisions have experienced businesses dependent on the ability to renew and secure new contract and dedicated bid teams who undertake No material change wins on profitable terms.
Failure to do so would result in reduced revenue careful economic modelling of contract during the year.
and profitability and incorrect modelling or bid assumptions could lead bids and, where possible, seek to togreater than anticipated costs or losses.
negotiate risk sharing arrangements withthe relevant customer or Failure to comply with contract terms could result in termination, litigation contractingauthority.
and financial penalties and failure to win new contracts or non-renewal ofexisting contracts.
The Group also has a comprehensive review process for rail bids as they are Competition for new rail franchises is intense.
We bid against rail operators developed and finalised involving a from both the UK and other countries, principally from within the European number of divisional and Group Union EU.
Failure to win franchises in the future will result in a lower functions as well as final Board sign off.
FirstRail division contribution and profitability.
Compliance with our rail franchise The new GWR and TPE franchises cover a periodduring which there will agreements is closely managed and be significant change including major infrastructure work, electrification and monitored on a monthly basis by resignalling as well as the introduction of new trains, which require careful seniormanagement and procedures planning and management.
Failure to manage these risks adequately in areinplace to minimise the risk of accordance with our plans could result in financial and reputational risk non-compliance.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Competition and emerging technologies All of the Groups businesses both contract and non-contract compete The Group continues to focus on service inthe areas of pricing and service and face competition from a number quality and delivery as priorities in No material change ofsources.
making our services attractive to during the year.
passengers andother customers, Our main competitors include the private car and existing and new public and across our portfolio of businesses.
private transport operators across all our markets.
Emerging technologies such as Uber, ride sharing apps and price comparison websites make access In the UK, we have established a to alternative transport solutions easier.
dedicated cross-divisional Retail Services Committee focused on Increased competition could result in lost business, reduced revenue and improving our service to customers and reduced profitability.
improving access to our services.
In our contract businesses, a competitive bidding strategy and a strong bidding team are key.
In addition, wherever possible, the Group works with local and national bodies to promote measures aimed at increasing demand for public transport and the other services that we offer.
Information technology The Group relies on information technology IT in all aspects of our As a result of the continuing threat businesses.
Any significant disruption or failure, caused by external factors, ofcyber attacks, our operations Web and mobile denial of service, computer viruses or human error could result in a service areimplementing new threat sales channels interruption, accident or misappropriation of confidential information detectionsystems.
remain of increasing including credit card and personal data.
Process failure, security breach The Group has also increased its focus importance across or other operational difficulties may also lead to revenue loss or increased on asset management and further many of our costs, fines, penalties or additional insurance requirements.
Prolonged enhanced its IT security processes and businesses.
failure of our sales websites could also adversely affect revenues.
Continued successful delivery and implementation of the Greyhound IT Cyber security The Group has further strengthened transformation plan is required to improve yield management and drive remains agrowing itsIT project management capability risk.
during the year, particularly within Failure to manage properly the implementation of new IT systems may Greyhound.
result in increased costs and or lost revenue.
Treasury and credit rating As set out in further detail in note 24 to the financial statements onpages The Groups Treasury Committee 133 to 136, treasury risks include liquidity risks, risks arising from changes manages treasury policy, and No change to foreign exchange and interest rates and fuelprice risk.
periodically to ensure compliance Foreign currency and interest rate movements may impact the profits, withbest practice and to control and balance sheet and cash flows of the Group.
Ineffective hedging arrangements may not fully mitigate losses ormay The Group is continuously focused increase them.
onimproving operating and financial The Group is credit rated by Standard & Poors and Fitch.
Adowngrade in performance as part of our strategic the Groups credit ratings to below investment grade may lead to increased objectives as outlined on page 31. financing costs and other consequences and affect the Groups ability to invest in its operations.
38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Pension scheme funding The Group sponsors or participates in a number of significant defined Diversification of investments, hedging benefit pension schemes, primarily in the UK.
ofliabilities, amendment of the defined No material change benefit promises and the introduction Future cash contribution requirements may increase or decrease based during the year.
ofdefined contribution benefits for upon financial markets, notably investment returns and valuations, the newstarters in First Bus, Group, and ratesused to value the liabilities and through changesto life expectancy ourCanadian businesses, has reduced and could result in material changes inthe accounting cost and cash these risks.
The Group also seeks to remove liabilities from the balance sheet where itcan be achieved cost effectively.
Under the First Rail franchise arrangements, the Groups train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit attheend of a franchise so there is onlyshort term cash flow risk within aparticular franchise.
Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety The Groups operations are subject to a wide range of legislation and Compliance with Group and divisional regulation.
Failure to comply can lead to litigation, claims, damages, policies and procedures.
The Group has a very strong focus on environment, The Group has three main insurable risks: third party injury and other safety and itisone of our five values.
particularly in our claims arising from vehicle and general operations, employee injuries TheGroup self-insures third party and North American andproperty damage.
employee injury claims up to a certain businesses, remains level commensurate with the historical The Group is also subject to other litigation, which is not insured, a challenge.
We purchase insurance particularly in North America, including contractual claims and those abovethese limits from reputable global relating to employee wage and hour and meal and break matters.
Claims are managed A higher volume of litigation and claims can lead to increased costs, byexperienced claims handlers.
reduced availability of insurance cover, and or reputational impact.
Non-insured claims are managed by the A large single claim or a large number of smaller claims may negatively Groups dedicated in-house legal teams affect profitability and cash flow.
with external assistance as appropriate.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Comment and movement Risk and potential impact Mitigation during the year Labour costs, employee relations, recruitment and retention Employee costs represent the largest component of the Groups operating The Group seeks to mitigate these risks costs, and political or trade union pressure to increase wages could via its recruitment and retention policies, increase these costs.
Competition for employees, particularly in an training schemes and working practices.
Some localised improved economic climate can lead to shortages which increase costs An applicant tracking system has been tightening of and affect service delivery.
introduced into First Bus and our North employment High employee turnover could lead to higher than expected increases in American divisions tostreamline the markets, particularly the cost of recruitment, training and employee costs andoperational recruitment process and assist in for FirstStudent.
providing a suitablepool of drivers to help manage anyshortages in an Similarly, industrial action could adversely impact customer service and efficient and cost-effective way.
have a financial impact on the Groups operations.
Our working practices include building communication and engagement with trade unions and the wider workforce.
Examples of this engagement include regular leadership conferences, employee surveys and the presence ofEmployee Directors Directors voted for by employees to represent them on many of the Groups UK divisional boards and the Board.
Disruption to infrastructure operations Our operations, and the infrastructure on which they depend, can be We continue to develop and apply good affected by a number of different external factors, many of which are not practice, and provide guidance to our within our control.
These factors include terrorism, adverse weather events employees to help them identify and No material change and potentially climate change or pandemics.
respond effectively to any potential threat during the year.
The threat from terrorism is enduring and continues to exist in all of our markets.
Public transport has previously been subject to attack, and We maintain close working relationships acrossour businesses we take all reasonable steps to help guard against with specialist government agencies, in such activity on the services we operate.
An attack orthreat of attack relation to terror threats, both in the UK couldlead to reduced public confidence in public transportation and or and North America.
specifically in the Groups security and safety record, and could reduce We employ dedicated security demand for our services, increase costs orsecurity requirements and specialists in the UK and North America.
The geographic spread of the Groups Greater and more frequent adverse weather could lead to interruptions or businesses offers some protection disruption to service performance and reduced customer demand with against specific incidents.
In addition, consequent financial impact, potential increased costs and accident rates.
some of our contract-based businesses As a leading transport provider, we face the challenge of addressing have force majeure clauses inplace.
climate change, both through managing its impact and reducing our We have severe weather action plans carbon emissions.
andprocedures to manage the impact onour operations.
The Group continues to target reductions in our emissions, including through behaviour change initiatives andinvestment in new technology.
The risks listed are not all of those highlighted by our risk management processes and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or currently deemed to be less material, may also impact our business.
Indication of a movement in a risk may not indicate a change in the overall net risk position after taking into account risk mitigations.
40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Strategic objectives To deliver our strategy, it is important that we understand and manage the risks that face the Group.
The table below outlines our principal risks and identifies which of our strategic objectives may be affected bythose principal risks.
Driving Responsible growth Continuous partnerships through improvement Prudent with our Focused and attractive in operating investment customers disciplined commercial and financial in our and bidding propositions performance key assets communities Economic conditions Political and regulatory Contracted businesses including rail franchising Competition and emerging technologies Information technology Treasury and credit rating Pension scheme funding Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety Labour costs employee relations recruitment and retention Disruption to infrastructure operations Viability Statement The plans and projections prepared as part of these corporate planning In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance processes consider the Groups cash flows, committed funding Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over andliquidity positions, forecast future funding requirements, banking a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position covenants and other key financial ratios, including those relevant and the potential impact of the principal risks set out above.
Based tomaintaining the Groups existing investment grade status.
It also onthis assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable considers the ability of the Group to deploy capital.
A key assumption expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and underpinning these corporate planning processes is that credit markets meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2019. will be sufficiently fluid to enable the Group to refinance itsbonds.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be In making their assessment, the Directors took account of the potential viable over a longer period, the period over which the Directors financial and operational impacts, in severe but plausible scenarios, consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups ofthe principal risks which might threaten the Groups viability during longer term is the three year period to 31 March 2019.
This period the three year period to 31 March 2019 and the likely degree of reflects the Groups corporate planning processes and is considered effectiveness of current and available mitigating actions that could appropriate for a fast moving competitive environment such as betaken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of such risks.
The Board confirms that in making this statement it carried out a robust The Groups corporate planning processes include completion assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those ofastrategic review, preparation of a medium term business plan thatwould threaten its business model, future performance, solvency andaquarterly re-forecast of current year business performance.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
