Principal Risks and Future Prospects Each year the Board carries out a comprehensive, robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that could threaten Foreign & Colonials ongoing operations and achievement of its objective.
The consequences for its business model, liquidity, future prospects and viability form an integral part of this assessment.
The principal risks, both perceived and observed, together with their The principal risks identified as most relevant to the assessment of mitigations are set out in the table below.
The Boards processes for the Companys future prospects and viability were those relating to monitoring them are set out on pages 41 and 42 and in note potential investment portfolio under-performance and its effect on 25 on the accounts.
The risks that affect the Companys ongoing share price discount and dividends, as well as threats to security operations as well as the threats to security over the Companys over the Companys assets.
assets may vary in significance from time to time.
These principal risks are unchanged from those reported in the prior year.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year Inappropriate business strategy in relation to investor The Board specifically considers business strategy at a formal meeting More shares were bought back than in 2015 in an environment needs leading to significant pressure on the share price annually and monitors investor requirements and themes at each Board in which discounts widened generally.
The Board also discount to net asset value per share.
A discount control mechanism has operated over many years.
The commissioned an independent assessment of the Companys effectiveness of the marketing strategy is also reviewed at each meeting.
audience, proposition and values to help determine how best to direct its future marketing and promotional campaigns.
Marketing Unchanged throughout campaigns continued throughout the year including advertising the year under review across financial and price comparison websites.
Unfavourable markets or inappropriate asset allocation, Underlying investment strategies, performance and gearing are reviewed with 2016 was a very strong year.
The opportunity was taken to sector and stock selection, currency exposure and use the Fund Manager at each Board meeting.
Cash, borrowing and derivative secure long-term borrowings at historically low rates.
New private of gearing and derivatives may give rise to investment limits are also monitored.
F&Cs Performance and Risk Oversight team provides equity commitments were made as part of the new structure under-performance as well as impacting capacity to pay independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly managed accommodating future exposure towards this asset class.
Political risk factors could also portfolios.
The portfolio is diversified and the Companys structure enables it to impact performance.
take a long-term view of countries, markets and currencies.
Unchanged throughout the year under review Failure of F&C as the Companys main service provider to The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment management The Board has reviewed F&Cs controls and risk management continue to operate effectively including the loss of key staff.
and client services resources and meets their risk management team to review structure as part of its annual assessment.
The Board meets senior internal control and risk reports.
The Managers appointment can be terminated at management at least annually as part of the reappointment process.
A business continuity plan is in place.
The Manager structures Unchanged throughout its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works the year under review closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
Errors, fraud or control failures at service providers or The Board receives regular control reports from F&C covering risk and The Audit Committee is reviewing a proposed new risk management loss of data through business continuity failure or cyber compliance including oversight of third party service providers.
The Board has framework provided by the Manager which aligns with its parent attacks could damage reputation or investors interests or access to F&Cs Head of Business Risk and BMOs Group Information Security company, BMO, to enhance controls and help improve the risk result in loss.
Cyber risks increased generally in 2016.
Officer, International and requires any significant issues directly relevant to the management process.
This is to be implemented for the Company for Company to be reported immediately.
The Depositary is specifically liable for the current year.
This forms part of the strengthening of the Managers Increased in loss of any of the Companys securities and cash held in custody.
Risk, Compliance and Internal Control functions including IT security.
the year under review Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained by F&C and includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyberthreats.
The Depositary maintained oversight of custody of investments and cash and reported to the Company in accordance with the AIFMD.
14 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Through a series of connected stress tests over the ten years The Boards conclusions are set out under the Ten Year Horizon below.
commencing 1 January 2017, the Board assessed the effects of: Potential illiquidity of the Companys portfolio during substantial Ten Year Horizon market falls when needing to fund private equity commitments.
Substantial falls in investment values on the ability to maintain Based on its assessment and evaluation of the Companys future loan covenants and to repay and re-negotiate funding.
prospects, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company Significant falls in income on the ability to continue paying steadilywill be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they rising dividends and maintaining adequate revenue reserves.
fall due over the coming ten years: the Companys business model, Constraints on the Boards ability to control the discount strategy and the embedded characteristics listed below have helped including those concerning the funding of buybacks during periods of high volatility in the share price.
define and maintain the stability of Foreign & Colonial over many decades.
The Board expects this to continue over many more years The Board also took into consideration the perceived viability of its principal to come.
service providers, potential effects of anticipated regulatory changes and the potential threat from competition.
The Company has a long-term investment strategy under which it invests mainly in readily realisable, publicly listed securities and which restricts the level of borrowings.
Principal Risks Mitigation Actions taken on Principal Risks in the year The Companys business model and strategy are not time limited and, as Inappropriate business strategy in relation to investor The Board specifically considers business strategy at a formal meeting More shares were bought back than in 2015 in an environment a global investment trust, are unlikely to be adversely impacted as a direct needs leading to significant pressure on the share price annually and monitors investor requirements and themes at each Board in which discounts widened generally.
The Board also result of the Brexit Referendum.
discount to net asset value per share.
The commissioned an independent assessment of the Companys The Company is inherently structured for long-term outperformance, effectiveness of the marketing strategy is also reviewed at each meeting.
audience, proposition and values to help determine how best to rather than short-term opportunities, with ten years as a sensible timedirect its future marketing and promotional campaigns.
Marketing campaigns continued throughout the year including advertising frame for measuring and assessing long-term investment performance.
across financial and price comparison websites.
The Company is able to take advantage of its closed-end investment trust structure.
New private The Company has the ability to hold a proportion of long-term less liquid of gearing and derivatives may give rise to investment limits are also monitored.
F&Cs Performance and Risk Oversight team provides equity commitments were made as part of the new structure private equity investments with ten years being the period over which under-performance as well as impacting capacity to pay independent oversight on investment risk management for the directly managed accommodating future exposure towards this asset class.
commitments are made and realisations are expected to be received.
The portfolio is diversified and the Companys structure enables it to The Company has put in place long-term borrowing arrangements and has impact performance.
the ability to secure additional finance in excess of ten years.
There is rigid monitoring of the headroom under the Companys bank borrowing financial covenants.
Regular and robust review of revenue and expenditure forecasts is Failure of F&C as the Companys main service provider to The Board regularly reviews the strength of the Managers investment management The Board has reviewed F&Cs controls and risk management undertaken throughout the year against a backdrop of large revenue and continue to operate effectively including the loss of key staff.
The Board meets senior capital reserves.
internal control and risk reports.
The Manager structures The Company retains title to all assets held by the Custodian which are its recruitment and remuneration packages in order to retain key staff and works subject to further safeguards imposed on the Depositary.
closely with the Board on any significant management changes.
The Company maintains a business continuity plan.
This forms part of the strengthening of the Managers loss of any of the Companys securities and cash held in custody.
Supervision of third party service providers has been maintained by F&C and includes assurances regarding IT security and increasing cyberthreats.
