Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 42 Managing Our Risks The Companys approach to managing the risk inherent in our business activities is to ensure that our framework is able to identify, assess, prioritise and manage the most likely risks to have the greatest impact on the value creation objectives defined in our business model.
Risk management system In addition to our established risk 2016 risk assessment The annual and ongoing elements of management activities, our priority Our 2016 risk assessment exercise took the Groups risk management process for 2016 was to promote a monitoring place across all our operations, advanced are controlled by well-established risk environment which consists of validating projects, exploration offices and support identification, assessment and monitoring the effectiveness of our current controls and corporate areas, which identified and processes.
We have continued to build on in order to support the Board in their evaluated 107 risks, including three new our existing risk management framework, responsibilities of monitoring and reviewing risks added over the course of the year enhancing risk management and internal risk management and the internal control that reflect specific circumstances related control systems across the business in systems.
For this task, over the course to certain projects 2015: 104 risks.
This line with changes to the UK Corporate of 2016, operations managers, the universe was narrowed down into major Governance Code.
controllership group, HSECR managers risks monitored by Executive Management and exploration managers have all and the Audit Committee, and then further been engaged in strengthening their consolidated into 11 principal risks closely understanding of internal controls monitored by the Board of Directors.
Risk Governance Framework Top-down Board of Directors Oversight, Overall responsibility Defines risk appetite.
Monitors exposures Sets tone on risk identification, for risk management to ensure their nature management culture.
assessment and and internal control and extent are aligned mitigation of risk systems.
with overall goals and at a corporate level strategic objectives.
Executive Committee Audit Committee Internal Audit Assesses level of risk related to Supports the Board in Supports the Audit Committee achieving strategic objectives.
monitoring risk exposures in evaluating the design and Oversees execution and against risk appetite.
effectiveness of risk mitigation implementation of controls into Reviews the effectiveness of our strategies, internal controls strategic and operating plans.
risk management and internal implemented by management.
Bottom-up Identification, Operational level assessment, and mitigation of risk Risk identification and Risk mitigation and internal Risk awareness and safety assessment performed controls monitoring embedded culture embedded in across all operational across mining operations, across functional areas and day-to-day operations.
and functional areas projects, exploration sites.
For the bottom-up process, business A number of developments have adversely Based on the aforementioned unit heads determined the perceived level impacted the entire Mexican mining circumstances, we assessed that the of risk for their individual unit.
Executive industry in recent years as reflected in risk rating levels for potential actions 1 Management then reviewed and the Investment Attractiveness Index that by the government e. g. taxes, security, challenged each perceived risk level, and assesses how mineral endowments and and public perception against mining compared it to Fresnillo plcs risk universe public policy factors, such as taxation and have increased for 2017.
The results of this exercise regulatory uncertainty, affect exploration while the Board has always given the were used as an additional input for the and mining investment.
Specific examples highest priority to safety issues, three identification of the Groups principal risks.
that have impacted the industry in Mexico fatal accidents occurred in 2016 and one The same risk analysis was conducted on include: weak rule of law in disbanding in early 2017: thus we also elevated the advanced projects, detailing the specific illegal blockades to mining assets: legal risk rating level for safety to reflect this risks faced by each project according to uncertainty regarding certain land tenure troubling reversal of our safety record.
their unique characteristics and conditions.
issues: instances of community opposition As with all our key risks, the Board and The risk heat map for each business unit to mining resulting in the cancellation the Executive Committee continue to and development project is included in the of major projects: aggressive and closely monitor them.
Review of Operations pages 58-70. unfavourable tax requirements that 1.
Fraser Institute Annual Survey of Mining disadvantage Mexico relative to other Companies: 2015, published June 8, 2016. mining countries: and the adverse www.
org security environment still facing a number of regions in the country.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 43 Heat map Risk 1.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments silver and gold prices v 2 2.
Potential actions by the government e. g. taxes more stringent regulations v 3 3 6 4.
Environmental incidents v Likelihood Unlikely Almost certain Bold text indicates those risks which have changed during 2016. v Risk that was considered for the viability assessment as detailed on page 54.
Impact of global macroeconomic developments Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy There could be an adverse Fresnillos hedging policy remains guided High Mines in operation impact on our sales and profits, by the principle of providing shareholders Development Risk rating and potentially the economic with full exposure to gold and silver prices.
projects relative position viability of projects, from However, following shareholder approval 2016: Very high 1 Growth pipeline macroeconomic developments for the acquisition of 44% of Penmont and 2015: Very high 1 such as: associated companies in 2014, we initiated a specific hedging programme to protect the A decrease in precious metal Change in heat map: Key risk indicators value of the investment made in the acquisition, prices primary driver of the using a collar structure to allow partial continued Gross profit risk : even though this was not exposure to gold prices.
The volume associated sensitivity to the case for silver and gold with this phased hedging programme was % change in in 2016, with higher annual Description of risk change strictly limited to up to the 44% of production metals price average realised prices over During 2016 all associated with the acquired Penmont assets and to MXP US$ the previous year of 10.3% macroeconomic and will not be extended to other assets in the exchange rate.
and 10.7% respectively: the variables favoured our Group.
The total volume hedged was 1,559,689 high uncertainty of economic EBITDA sensitivity financial results, however oz of which 242,000 oz matured in 2016 with markets still positions this risk to % change in volatility and uncertainty a profit of US$48,158.
For more details, see at the top of our scale.
metals price and were constants in the Financial Review pages 102 to MXP US$ Exchange rates, for the same period and are Fresnillo is not precluded from entering into exchange rate.
same reasons of volatility expected to remain as derivatives to minimise its exposure to changes and uncertainty: while most such in 2017 : therefore in the prices of lead and zinc by-products.
As in currencies lost value vs. the we still consider the previous years, the Group entered into a hedging US dollar in 2016, the Mexican impact of global structure in 2016 to mitigate the risk related to peso suffered a devaluation macroeconomic the sale of lead and zinc.
See note 31 in the of 17.7% vs. the average spot developments our Financial Statements page 211. exchange rate of the US dollar.
principal risk driver: in Furthermore, we have hedging policies in addition, most industry General inflation in Mexico place for foreign exchange risk, including and financial analysts which was 3.42% in Mexican those associated with capex related to projects.
who follow metal prices pesos in 2016: the specific The Company entered into a number of foreign continue to foresee deflation affecting the exchange forward contracts denominated in volatility in silver and Company was 8.08% Canadian dollars, euros and Swedish kronas.
gold prices for 2017, with in US dollar terms.
See note 31 in the Financial Statements page 210. a notable spread among A decrease in the price of the forecasts, meaning A significant increase is expected in some of Companys by-products: this continued volatility.
our main energy inputs diesel and electricity, was not the case in 2016, with because of the increase in international the average annual prices for petroleum prices and the market liberalisation lead and zinc rising 7.0% and of fuel prices in Mexico.
We will continue to 20.0%, respectively, over the identify efficiency initiatives to improve our previous year.
Change in heat map: Vertical movement indicates impact Horizontal movement indicates likelihood No change Very low Severe Impact Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 44 Managing Our Risks continued 2.
Access to land Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Failure or significant delays in To maximise our opportunities for Medium Mines in operation accessing the surface land above successful land access we actively manage Development Risk rating our mineral concessions and other our mining rights focusing on areas of projects relative position land of interest is a persistent risk to interest or strategic value: at the end of 2016: Very high 2 Growth pipeline our strategy, with a potentially high 2016, after adding required areas and 2015: Very high 2 Sustainable impact on our objectives.
Possible divesting areas of less interest, we held development barriers to land access include: 1.8 million hectares, a 11.4% decrease vs. Change in heat map: 2015.
Other initiatives include: Rising expectations of land owners.
Plan well in advance for land requirements Key risk indicators and acquisitions e. g. anticipating any Refusal to acknowledge prior Description of risk change issues with a potential land purchase Percentage of land acquisition terms and before intensive exploration.
In certain land required conditions by members of The mining industry areas of interest, leasing or occupation for advanced an agrarian community.
continues to face legal agreements with purchase options exploration challenges in regard Influence of multiple special are negotiated.
projects which is to access to land by interests in land negotiations.
under occupation Foster strong community relations individuals and local Conflicts in land boundaries or other through investment in community communities who may with an often arduous agreements other programmes and infrastructure.
Such seek to disregard previous resolution process.
than full property investments totalled US$2.6 million land agreements: this Succession issues among land ownership overall in 2016. has been a permanent owners resulting in a lack of and by project.
Always seek tri-party cooperation clarity about the legal entitlement Total US$ and between the government, community Thus, despite all to possess and sell land.
percentage of and ourselves in securing access to land.
the strategic actions Litigation risk i. e. increased project budget undertaken by the Early involvement of our community activism by agrarian communities spend on HSECR Company, the perceived relations teams during negotiation and or judicial authorities.
activities, level of this risk remains and acquisition processes, including including very high.
Furthermore, insecurity and conflicts the exploration stage.
community in our exploration and operation Continue working with our land relations at areas increase the complexity of negotiation teams, comprising projects and land access.
negotiators hired directly by Fresnillo exploration sites.
and also provided by Peoles as part of the service agreement.
We have almost concluded a comprehensive review of the legal status of the Companys land rights in order to mitigate or eliminate litigation risk.
Certain areas of opportunity were identified and we continue to implement measures to manage this risk on a case-by-case basis.
Such measures include, whenever possible, negotiating with agrarian communities the outright purchase of land through mechanisms provided under agrarian law as well as utilising other legal mechanisms under mining law which afford added protection for land occupation.
The Company has already closed several such agreements in the states of Sonora and Zacatecas.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 45 3.
Potential actions by the government, e. g. implementation of more stringent regulations for obtaining permits, etc.
Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy The implementation of new The Company, together with its internal Low Mines in operation governmental requirements and external advisors, is conducting a full Development Risk rating may have an adverse impact assessment of the detail of the Tax Law as projects relative position on us, as would other potential, well as its potential impact on the Company.
2016: Very high 3 Growth pipeline not yet materialised, or more As a result of this review, the Company 2015: Very high 3 Sustainable stringent ecological or explosives believes that there are solid grounds to development regulations, or more difficult legally challenge, on a Federal level, the Change in heat map: processes to obtain permits.
imposition of this Tax Law.
We are currently formulating an appropriate defence On 31 December 2016, the state strategy.
Should legal challenges not prove Key risk indicators of Zacatecas in northern Mexico successful, we estimate that the potential Description of risk change published a new tax law the Tax Number of net impact of these new taxes on the Law that came into effect on media mentions We continue to perceive Companys income statement would be 1 January 2017, which includes a related to mining this risk level as very high in the range of US$4-7 million for the 2017 new set of environmental taxes regulations i. e. due to the great pressure fiscal year.
relating to the following activities tax royalties that the government undertaken within the state: We continue to collaborate with other banning of mining could exert over the members of the mining community via the activities in i.
Extraction of materials other mining industry, as Mexican Mining Chamber to lobby against protected areas, than minerals referenced in is the case described this and any other new detrimental taxes, legal precedents Article 4 of the Mexican Mining of the imposition of the royalties, or regulations.
We also support and profile of Law gold, silver, lead, zinc, etc.
environmental taxes the industrys lobbying efforts to improve those quoted from the soil and sub-soil contained in the new the general publics understanding of the political parties, through open-pit processes: Tax Law in Zacatecas, Mining Law.
government as well as the continued ii.
Emissions of certain substances officials, etc..
The Company remains in compliance with perceived level of into the atmosphere: all applicable environmental regulations corruption across Mexico, iii.
Deposit of contaminants into and is fully committed to operating in which remains high.
We the soil and water: and a sustainable way.
Storage of waste in public view that regrettably, local Indigenous consultation is an ongoing or private landfills.
and regional governments matter, thus we continue to monitor in particular have In addition, the Tax Law also developments and work with the Mexican worsened in this regard, includes certain other modifications Mining Chamber on the issue.
While notwithstanding the and adjustments to pre-existing no new regulation has been defined national effort to taxes in Zacatecas such as the following the dismissal of the 2015 implement an payroll tax and the tax for the court case, a significant change to anticorruption system, University of Zacatecas.
the Mining Law could take time due which is not yet fully to the complexity of the terms and A 2015 case brought before Mexicos deployed.
As a result, proceedings yet to be discussed.
Supreme Court of Justice looked at delays in obtaining the right of indigenous communities permits for certain within the overall process for operations and or granting mining concessions.
the ruling did not find in favour of the communities in this case, such matters may arise again and affect the granting of new concessions in Mexico.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 46 Managing Our Risks continued 4.
Security Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people, contractors and We closely monitor the security situation, Low Mines in operation suppliers face the risk of kidnapping, maintain clear internal communications Development Risk rating extortion or harm due to security and coordinate work in areas of higher projects relative position conditions in the regions where insecurity, along with the following practices 2016: Very high 4 Growth pipeline we operate.
We face the risk of to manage our security risks and prevent 2015: Very high 4 Sustainable restricted access to operations possible incidents: development projects and theft of assets.
We maintain close relations with Change in heat map: The influence of drug cartels, authorities, including army encampments other criminal elements and general installed near a certain number of Key risk indicators lawlessness in the regions where our operations.
We also maintain a Description of risk change we operate, combined with our relationship with the army secretariat Total number of exploration and project activities at the regional level in order to align security incidents We have suffered more in areas of transfer or cultivation and coordinate efforts in the regions affecting our security incidents to of drugs, makes working in these where we operate.
workforce thefts, personnel, both in areas of particular risk for us.
kidnapping, We designed and engineered the frequency and in severity, extortion, etc.. We recognise the importance standard of technological and physical thus we believe that the of confidentiality, continuity, security measures for all of our business perceived level of risk has Number of sites integrity and security of our data units.
Implementation was completed increased vs the previous affected and and production systems.
Whilst at the dynamic leaching plant and other year.
In addition, the crime work days lost, cybersecurity has not risen to areas in Penmont during 2016, and we rate worsened during by region and the level of a key risk, it continues expect to conclude the process in the 2016 in half of the regions type of site.
to merit ongoing management remaining Business Units BUs in 2017. and projects where Number of media oversight and review.
All BUs have a chief of security who mentions related coordinates internal and external We also refer to The to security issues 1 personnel to improve the efficiency of Global Peace Index affecting the our security strategy.
For 2017 we aim to ranking, which indicates mining industry.
work with security contractors to convert a higher likelihood of our personnel into professionally trained violent demonstrations specialists in managing security risks and and political instability.
to reduce their turnover rate.
This index uses three broad themes: level of We continued to utilise logistics controls safety and security in in 2016 to further reduce the probability society: the extent of of theft of mineral concentrate, including domestic or international the use of real-time tracking technology, conflict: and the degree surveillance cameras, guard services and of militarisation.
Mexico control checkpoints in a safe corridor ranks 140 of 163 countries and reduced authorised stops in order worldwide from best to to optimise delivery times and minimise worst, as a country with the convoys exposure: on short-haul a low state of peace.
routes no stops are allowed.
Certain new automatic and rigid truck covers are being analysed for transportation.
We continue to invest in community programmes, infrastructure improvements and government initiatives to support development of lawful local communities and discourage criminal acts.
In order to ensure the security of our personnel, access to the San Nicols del Oro prospect remains suspended because of the level of insecurity in the state of Guerrero.
We continue to promote reporting to authorities amongst our contractors.
Our cybersecurity strategy seeks to ensure that our networks, systems and data are secured in accordance with best practices as put forth by the US National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework NIST CSF and Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies COBIT.
Global Peace Index 2016 and Mexico Peace Index 2016 prepared by the Institute for Economics & Peace, http: economicsandpeace.
org FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 47 5.
Public perception against mining Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Public opinion globally is Communities are our strategic partners: Low Mines in operation increasingly wary of the potential having their trust requires understanding Development Risk rating adverse social and environmental and effective engagement, and being projects relative position consequences of mining operations.
Our permanent 2016: High 5 Growth pipeline This sentiment is manifested programme for community engagement 2015: High 5 Sustainable through increased regulatory includes: development obligations for mining companies Working with communities at an early Change in heat map: and increased social activism by exploration stage to understand their communities and other grassroots needs and communicate the benefits organisations.
Key risk indicators of developing and operating a mine Description of risk change in terms of social welfare and quality Number of of life.
local actions We have maintained the by nonConducting regular community social license to operate in governmental perception studies across all our our communities: however, organisations operating units, the results of which public sentiment against NGOs or other enable each of the BUs to update their mining has continued local social social risks and opportunities, and define to increase.
groups against action plans focused on specific areas of There are multiple mining by region.
For 2017 the examples of cancelled priority will be discussing harmonious Number of projects after years of relocation of certain groups if required actions by NGOs protests and violent and the implementation of jointly or other local clashes in Latin America.
We now social groups Local and international utilise an information system to record against mining NGOs are increasingly community support and social in the Americas.
active, aiming to share investment, with logs of activities experiences and tactics Number of media organised by the Company and requests against extractive mentions related for contributions, allowing us to better industry projects at to demonstrations track and follow up on our work.
periodic meetings with against the Following the guidelines set out by communities.
the International Finance Corporation lawyers in the north and the International Council of Mining of Mexico are sharing and Metals.
strategies in respect of successfully cancelled or Continuously developing a portfolio temporarily suspended of proposals for institutional projects projects, thus we believe and alliances with NGOs.
During 2016 likelihood in the perceived we started an alliance with ECOS level of this risk has biodiversity, and continued working increased.
with Naturalia biodiversity and communities, IBBY books for children and Innovec science education.
Monitoring public opinion within local and international media newspapers, radio stations, local channels.
Collaborating with peers in the international and Mexican mining community to pursue an industry response to this risk.
See Community Relations pages 9599 for more information.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 48 Managing Our Risks continued 6.
Safety Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk Our safety performance regrettably Low Mines in operation of incidents due to unsafe acts deteriorated in 2016, thus we have Sustainable Risk rating or conditions that lead to injuries redoubled our efforts in the pursuit development relative position or fatalities.
of our strategic safety goals.
We are 2016: High 6 committed to offering a safe workplace Our people face risks such as 2015: Medium high 7 to our workers and contractors: and fire, explosion, electrocution and Key risk indicators a safety culture where our personnel carbon monoxide poisoning, as Change in heat map: Safe behaviour and contractors have the knowledge, well as risks specific to each mine index competence and desire to work safely.
site and development projects such percentage of as rock falls caused by geological Our priorities for 2017 are: work observed Description of risk change conditions, cyanide contamination, Continue working towards zero fatalities.
that is executed and heavy or light equipment Three fatal accidents 20% reduction in the accident rate in all safely in collisions between other machinery occurred in 2016.
accordance with or involving personnel.
Board has always given the Companys Our strategy consists of: the highest priority to safety Managing our knowledge of safety safety issues and oversaw procedures.
through identifying and analysing risks, the investigations of these Unsafe conditions evaluating controls, performing situational accidents, ensuring that eliminated index assessments and monitoring performance.
actions were taken to percentage of improve safety systems Engaging our stakeholders through the unsafe conditions and practices: however, No more accidents process, which has observed and the likelihood of this risk become a permanent effort to reinforce recorded that has been increased to the safety culture, and includes the have been reflect this troubling following programmes and initiatives: eliminated.
reversal of our safety Leaders for Safety, Behavioural Operational record.
Change, Operational Discipline, Rules procedures that Save Lives, and comprehensive availability index accident investigation.
percentage of Launching initiatives to embed safety required safety in our culture.
Safety culture is routinely procedures that monitored to assess the attitudes, are available.
behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions.
We have launched a new initiative called Safety folder to improve compliance and monitoring of safety behaviour.
The Total Recordable Injury Frequency rate decreased to 16.93 in 2016 vs. 26.84 in 2015 and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate decreased to 5.99 vs. 7.51 in 2015.
We continue to deliver training for both employees and contractors.
Personnel received an average of 89 hours of training in 2016.
50 of the 89 hours were in relation to HSECR training, of which 41 related to safety.
See Safety pages 82-84 for more on our safety strategy and programmes.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 49 7.
Projects performance risk Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Pursuing advanced exploration Our investment evaluation process Medium Development and development opportunities, determines how to best direct available projects Risk rating which are core to meeting our capital using technical, financial and relative position strategic goals, carry certain qualitative criteria.
2016: Medium high 7 project-related risks: Technical: we assess the resource Key risk indicators 2015: Medium high 6 Economic viability: impact estimate and confirmed resources, Earned value of capital cost to develop and metallurgy of the mineral bodies, Change in heat map: rate of financial maintain the mine, future metal investment required in general advancement prices and operating costs infrastructure e. g. roads, power, general rate vs. physical through the mines life cycle.
services, housing and infrastructure advancement.
Description of risk change required for the mine and plant.
Uncertainties associated with Percentage of developing and operating new Financial: we look at risk relative to return Our strict investment major equipment mines and expansion projects: for proposed investments of capital.
We governance process and ordered and fluctuations in ore grade and set expected internal rates of return IRR system of capital project received recovery, unforeseen complexities per project as thresholds for approving controls remain in place, according to plan.
in the mining process, poor rock the allocation of capital based on the safeguarding our ability Percentage quality, unexpected presence present value of expected cash flows to deliver growth through of completion of underground water or lack from the invested capital.
development projects of mine thereof, lack of community on time and on budget.
Qualitative factors: e. g. alignment of the development.
support and inability to We are prepared to defer investment with our strategic plan and obtain and maintain required certain projects based on business model: synergies with other operating permits.
adverse macroeconomic investments and operating assets: conditions.
For the time Delivery risk: projects may go implications for safety, security, people, being, and with the over budget in terms of cost and resourcing and community relations.
available information, time, or may not be constructed We closely monitor project controls to we do not foresee a in accordance with the required ensure that we deliver approved projects change in the perceived specifications, or major mining on time, on budget and as per the defined level of this risk for 2017. equipment may not be delivered specifications.
The Executive Management on time.
team and Board of Directors are regularly updated on progress.
Each advanced exploration project and major capital development project has a risk register containing the identified and assessed risks specific to the project.
The project development pipeline in 2017 includes: Completion and commissioning in 2Q 2017 of phase II of the San Julin project: management will continue to closely monitor progress, paying particular attention to contractor turnover due to the projects remote location and security incidents, as well as delays in the delivery of certain equipment that could further impact progress.
Ongoing construction and development of the pyrites plant.
The Centauro Extension, including a second line of the dynamic leaching plant, at Herradura.
See Development Projects on pages 68-70 for more information.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 50 Managing Our Risks continued 8.
Union relations Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Although the risk of union action Our strategy is to integrate unionised Low Mines in operation or a deterioration in union relations personnel into each BU team.
To do so, Development Risk rating at some sites may be possible, our we have clearly assigned responsibilities projects relative position overall union relationship continues and programmes for maintaining close 2016: Medium low 8 to strengthen: nonetheless, internal relationships with unions at mine sites and at 2015: Medium low 8 union politics could impact us the national level.
We have maintained close Key risk indicators negatively, as could pressure communication with union leaders at various Change in heat map: Union members from other mining unions that levels of the organisation to raise awareness level of want to take over the Fresnillo about the economic situation the industry satisfaction.
is facing, to share our production results and to encourage their participation in Number of media Description of risk change our initiatives regarding safety and other mentions related During 2016 we continued operational improvements such as the to mining union to build on our good safety guardians programme, alliances developments.
relations with unions for obtaining certifications, integration of at the national and local high productivity teams, family integration levels, and we do not activities, etc.. expect an increase in We are proactive and timely in our responses this perceived level of risk.
to the needs of the unions, and experienced Notwithstanding the no labour-related work stoppages in 2016. above, we remain alert If required, we engage experienced to internal leadership legal counsel, both internal and external, struggles that might arise to support us on labour issues.
We will amongst certain sections continue to closely monitor union and of the union or between labour developments.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 51 9.
Exploration Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy We are highly dependent on Risk capital invested in exploration in 2016 Medium Growth pipeline the success of the exploration totalled US$137.9 million, below budget: this Risk rating programme to meet our strategic was in accordance with the Groups decision relative position value-creation targets and to reduce exploration expenditure in light of Key risk indicators 2016: Medium 9 our long-term production and current market conditions.
Our exploration 2015: Medium 9 Drill programmes reserve goals.
objectives for 2017 include a budgeted risk completed capital invested in exploration of Risk factors that may impact Change in heat map: overall and by approximately US$160 million, with the prospecting and converting inferred project.
approximate spending split of 36% for resources, apart from the growing Change in the operating mines, 22% for exploration projects level of insecurity and access to number of ounces and the remaining 42% for prospects, land detailed in previous risks, Description of risk change in reserves and regional prospecting and mining rights.
include not having a robust portfolio Maintaining a reasonable resources.
of prospects in our pipeline with Our measures also include: investment in exploration, Rate of sufficient potential in terms of A focus on increasing regional exploration even when metal prices conversion indicated and inferred resources drilling programmes to intensify efforts are low, puts this risk on from resources and insufficient concession coverage in the districts with high potential.
a steady level: continuous to reserves.
investment has been a For local exploration, aggressive in-field We also risk the loss of purchase hallmark of the Companys exploration to upgrade the resources opportunities due to insufficient exploration strategy, and category and convert inferred resources speed in decision making.
we foresee no change in into reserves.
status based on available As our production escalates and A team of highly trained and motivated information.
more mines approach the end of geologists, both employees and longtheir lives, it becomes increasingly term contractors.
Advisory technical reviews by international third party experts, up-to-date and integrated GIS databases, remote sensing imagery and software for identifying favourable metallogenic belts and districts to be field-checked by the team.
During 2016 we revised our portfolio of concessions and determined that some did not meet our criteria for continued investment: thus we voluntarily relinquished 231,266 hectares in order to focus our efforts on areas of greater potential.
See Exploration pages 71-75 for more on our exploration programmes and investment.
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 52 Managing Our Risks continued 10.
Human Resources Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Our people are critical to delivering Recruitment: We assessed our hiring Medium Mines in operation our objectives.
We face risks in requirements for key positions for 2017, Development Risk rating selecting, recruiting, training and and aim to meet openings through internal projects relative position retaining the people we need.
training and promotion, and by recruitment 2016: Low 10 Growth pipeline through: A lack of reliable contractors with 2015: Low 10 Sustainable sufficient infrastructure, machinery, Our close relationships with universities development track records of performance and offering earth sciences programmes Change in heat map: skilled people is also a risk that we have dedicated programmes to might affect our ability to develop identify potential candidates based Key risk indicators and construct mining works.
on performance who may be hired as Description of risk change interns and or employees on graduation.
Number of positions filled by CETEF Centre for Technical Studies We aim to have area of specialty, Fresnillo which teaches specific mining our human capital for vacancies and operational skills: all the 12 graduates requirements carefully new positions.
from 2016 joined the Company as aligned to our operations full-time employees.
and growth requirements: Employee for the time being we turnover rate.
CETLAR the Peoles Centre for believe that we have Technical Studies which trains mechanics Average hours covered our requirements, and electrical technicians: all seven of training and which includes the of the 2016 graduates designated professional benefit of our ongoing for Fresnillo BUs joined the Company development university recruitment as full-time employees.
activities and employee Retention: We provide a stable labour Number of retention strategies.
environment, strong corporate culture contractor Notwithstanding, we must committed to our people, good working personnel relative be ready for changes in conditions, competitive benefits and career to unionised labour market conditions development opportunities.
In 2015, Fresnillo personnel per BU.
and be flexible to adapt to plc was recognised by the Great Place to available staff contractors.
Work Institute, and it currently ranks 17th As a result it continues in Mexico among companies with more than to be a challenge to 5,000 employees: results of the 2016 survey maintain the best available will be released in 2017. contractor personnel.
Performance: We have strengthened the maturity of our performance evaluation process, reinforcing formal feedback.
We promote certification of key technical skills for operational personnel and the administrative and leadership skills development programme for required positions.
Contractors: We have long-term drilling and mining contracts.
We invest significantly in training contractors, particularly on safety and environmental requirements.
We have supported the enrolment of 58 of our contractor companies into the Self-Management Programme on Health and Safety at Work PASST, promoted by the Mexican Secretariat of Labour and Social Welfare STPS, with 19% certified, 72% in the process and 9% who adhered voluntarily.
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016 53 11.
Environmental incidents Risk description Response mitigation Risk appetite Link to strategy Inherent to our industry is the risk Our environmental management system Low Sustainable of environmental incidents such as ensures effective compliance with Mexican development Risk rating overflow collapse of tailings dams, regulations, transparency and supports relative position cyanide spills and dust emissions, initiatives that reduce our environmental Key risk indicators 2016: Low 11 among others, any of which could footprint.
We disclose our performance in 2015: Low 11 Number of have a high potential impact on our the water and climate change programmes BUs with ISO people, communities and business.
of the Carbon Disclosure Project.
See Change in heat map: 14001:2004 Environment pages 86-88 for more certification.
results on our environmental strategy Number of BUs and indicators.
with Clean Description of risk change All our mining units are certified under ISO Industry 14001 and have Clean Industry certification Our environmental certification.
except for Saucito: in this case the course of management system, Number of BUs action has changed because we are pursuing investment in the with International an integrated certification with OSHAS:18001 prevention of Cyanide Code Occupational Health and Safety Series : we environmental incidents certification.
have advanced 90% towards obtaining both.
and training of personnel Number of The Herradura mine is certified in the are key factors which environmental International Cyanide Management Code reduce the risk of major permits for while at Cinega the process is on hold, set environmental impact all advanced to resume once expansion at the processing incidents.
With the exploration plant is complete.
Noche Buena also information available, we projects obtained this same certification in 2016. did not expect a change according in this perceived risk level.
We rigorously adhere to the requirements to schedule.
established by each projects environmental permit Environmental Impact Statement issued by the Ministry of Environment, SEMARNAT.
We also continue to support contractors in their efforts to integrate environmental management systems.
See Environment pages 85-90 for more on our environment strategy.
