Risk management AN INTEGRAL PART OF DAY-TO-DAY MANAGEMENT Our aim is to identify the principal risks we face and to focus management attention on effective mitigation of the most critical risks to achieve our strategic objectives and safeguard our reputation.
Regional Audit Committees will How the risk landscape has evolved continue to review, challenge and direct improvements in the Events during 2016 have continued to highlight the dynamic performance of all control standards, financial judgements and nature of the global landscape in which G4S operates.
Through continued engagement and review by country, shifts, changes in political leadership, volatility in commodity region and Group management we will enhance the quality and markets, terrorist events, weak economic recovery, migration in timeliness of the identification of risks and the delivery of Europe and on-going instability in the Middle East have created mitigating actions.
During the year we will reassess the Groups increased risks and uncertainty and also opportunities for the risk appetite and improve the reporting of risks and use metrics to security industry.
G4S also continues to face operational and assist with risk identification.
health and safety risks which are particular to the security business, along with the financial and commercial risks common to all What are the key risks faced by G4S?
As in prior years we have undertaken a bottom-up review, with Our assessment is that the risk to G4S arising directly from the countries completing a review of their risks and recording them in vote for the UK to leave the EU is not significant.
We mainly our Governance Risk and Control GRC tool together with operate within national boundaries and are subject to national mitigating actions as appropriate.
This is combined with a security licensing regulations, and are relatively well positioned top-down review from the board and Group functional leaders to with around 82% of revenues outside the UK and minimal ensure that the risks captured are complete and appropriately cross-border trading.
However, depending on the terms of the assessed.
The risks are then summarised and presented to the Risk UKs exit from the EU there might be a range of business factors Committee for their consideration and approval.
The resulting that could affect our business including the availability of labour, principal residual risks and the mitigating actions are outlined in regulations and taxation.
It is also possible that continuing the following pages.
In general the level of residual risks is similar uncertainty during the negotiation period lowers economic to the prior year.
Any identified changes are reflected in the growth in the UK and Europe which could affect both our individual principal risks described on pages 52 to 55.
For 2016 we customers and our competitors.
We continue to monitor removed the principal risk of Brand and Reputation as the risks developments through our risk and governance framework.
described in that category largely duplicate risks discussed in several other principal risks.
We have also removed the risk of What we did in 2016 Delivery of Core Service Lines as the key elements in that risk are During 2016, progress has been made to ensure that accountability more reflective of our risk of not delivering our Growth Strategy for risk management rests with country operational business and are included in that risk for 2016. management.
The Groups mandated control standards have been G4S operates in high risk areas of business in which our core updated to ensure they address key risks and were simplified to competence and value-add to customers is managing those risks facilitate compliance.
These were launched Group-wide and now effectively.
We have a higher risk appetite for growing and form part of the updated control self-assessment mechanism.
transforming the business when we have the expertise to deliver Quarterly Regional Audit Committees focus on financial judgements and achieve a good commercial return for the risk we are and address internal and external audit findings, which has driven accepting.
In delivering our agenda of change and growth we need an improvement in financial control awareness and compliance.
to manage effectively the risks we accept: We have further embedded the enterprise risk management governance model, as detailed on page 51, across the Group.
By assessing the risks of major contracts thoroughly: applying the best resources and expertise: and hence putting in place What we will do in 2017 mitigation strategies which will control the risks to a commercially acceptable level: We will further embed the mandated control standards to ensure they operate effectively throughout the Group.
Functional teams By applying commercial and financial discipline and controls to will use the results of the control self-assessment to assist manage our growth opportunities: and countries with training and guidance as well as challenging By applying effective programme and project management to countries to ensure controls are operating in line with their our change agenda.
In addition, internal audits will test the operational 50 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE MODEL BOARD The board has ultimate responsibility for assuring risk management processes by reviewing the most critical risks and controls.
RISK COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Risk Committee meets four times per year and The Audit Committee meets four times per year and reviews the Groups risk appetite, assesses the ensures the Groups control framework is operating Groups principal residual risks and assesses the effectively.
overall enterprise risk management process.
GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REGIONAL AUDIT COMMITTEES The Group Executive Committee considers the The committees meet four times a year and are also Groups principal residual risks and the progress of attended by the external auditor and review: mitigating actions.
The progress of closing internal and external audit findings: and 2.
Reports on status of financial controls and significant accounting judgements GROUP AND REGIONAL ETHICS COMMITTEES The committees are responsible for whistleblowing and investigations across the regions.
OPERATING COMPANIES AND SHARED SERVICE FUNCTIONS Our operating companies and shared service functions planning process with updates made in senior identify and assess the risks to their business objectives management team meetings and trading reviews and plan appropriate mitigating actions.
These are formally twice a year.
Control self-assessments against recorded in our Group-wide risk management tool.
Group control standards are completed annually A thorough review is conducted as part of the annual bi-annually for financial control standards.
Operating companies ST 1 LINE: BUSINESS OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT We employ Responsibility for the first line sits with the managers maintaining appropriate controls across their business.
three lines of our businesses, whether line management or of defence Result: Ensures standards expected by the Group, our support.
The senior management team within each to control customers and other stakeholders are met.
business is responsible for implementing and and manage risks across the Group.
ND 2 LINE: CONTROL AND OVERSIGHT FUNCTIONS The second line consists of oversight functions at both commercial and CSR.
regional and Group level including: risk, finance, legal, Result: Provides support to business managers.
human resources, operations, information technology, RD 3 LINE: INTERNAL INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE The third line comprises the internal audit function.
Result: Provides independent assurance over the As part of its annual programme of work, internal design and operation of controls.
audit conducts regular reviews of risk management processes and gives advice and recommendations on how to improve the control environment.
EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial reporting risks are considered as part of the external audit.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 51 Principal risks Principal risk Link to strategy HEALTH AND SAFETY H&S improvements are recognised and rewarded, while poor practice Risk description and insufficient progress lead to close executive scrutiny, formal The provision of security services to protect valuable assets, often performance management processes and reductions in in hostile or dangerous circumstances, presents health and safety performance related pay for business leaders as appropriate.
The business operates a large vehicle fleet in a number of countries with poor road infrastructures, increasing the risk of Mitigation priorities for 2017 road traffic incidents.
In 2016, 47 2015: 46 employees lost their We will continue to monitor compliance with the H&S controls lives in work-related incidents.
through the annual self-assessment process and through on site reviews from local, regional and Group teams to check compliance Risk mitigation with these controls.
We will enhance the process for reporting The protection of our staff, people in our care or custody, and H&S performance and introduce the tracking of high potential third parties including the public, is of utmost importance.
We incidents with the aim of proactive prevention of incidents leading believe that accidents are preventable and that zero fatalities is an to injuries and fatalities.
The Group has mandatory H&S controls which all companies are required to comply with.
These controls cover Having recently developed a number of training programmes the core requirements for businesses management systems and aimed at managers and business leaders, we will focus our are supplemented by on-line training for managers and business attention on the content of H&S training given to front line leaders.
Formal processes, which are continuously reinforced, are employees and make changes as appropriate to ensure the in place to report, investigate, close out and share the lessons messages about the importance of health and safety and learned from serious incidents.
A road safety policy applies to all responsibilities are consistent at all levels.
We will refresh the businesses, a number of which also run local programmes on Golden Rules to ensure they remain aligned to the key H&S risks topics such as speed management, GPS tracking and motorcycle and awareness of them is reinforced.
We will continue to provide safety.
A series of Golden Rules which reflect some of the most guidance and intervene to support selected businesses in common H&S risks are widely publicised, included in mandatory delivering improved health and safety performance.
training, and failure to adhere to them is linked to our disciplinary procedures.
As part of embedding best practice H&S standards and behaviour we have completed assessments of H&S practices in high-risk countries and provided further guidance to mitigate H&S risks.
Good practice and progress in delivering H&S CULTURE AND VALUES countries on ethical matters.
In the UK & Ireland we focused on Risk description building awareness of the importance of our corporate values and G4S provides security for people, premises and valuable assets.
whistleblowing, particularly in prisons and other secure care The Care and Justice services businesses provide services to environments.
Members of our Group Executive Committee have detainees, victims of crime, people needing state assistance, and undertaken a programme of visits to these locations to help other members of the public.
We operate in many different ensure this is embedded successfully.
countries around the world with a diversity of local and national cultures.
Having a strong set of corporate values that unite the Mitigation priorities for 2017 organisation deeply embedded in our culture, is very important.
To ensure widespread understanding and awareness of If we fail to behave in accordance with the high standards that ourrevised corporate values, we have recently launched a we set ourselves there is a risk that we will not deliver on our new communications toolkit and identified a global network of commitment to our colleagues, customers and other stakeholders values ambassadors who are responsible for communicating the and may fail to comply with legislation and international standards.
In addition, we are embedding the values in our processes for selecting, hiring, on-boarding, training Risk mitigation and development of colleagues around the world.
We are The Group has a strong set of corporate values which are launching a scheme to recognise colleagues who are living the embedded in a range of employment practices including values and will share best practice case studies across the Group.
recruitment, induction training, Group policies and performance This includes a new video for induction training which makes the contracts.
They are communicated to employees through posters, values relevant to our day to day activities, a revised competency intranet, values events, training programmes and other methods framework for managers so that expected behaviours and across our different markets.
Our corporate values are detailed on assessment of their performance is aligned to the new values, as page 3.
In everything we do, no matter how challenging the well as on-line management training.
Every opportunity will be circumstances, we require our people to live these values and to taken to promote Speak Out in these materials so colleagues can be prepared to Speak Out if others disregard them.
Ethics steering report any concerns with behaviour that appears contrary to committees at a Group level and in each region oversee the our values.
whistleblowing investigation process and provide guidance to People and values Customers and service excellence Growth and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline 52 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risk Link to strategy PEOPLE Risk description We review in detail the performance and potential of In a global and diverse security business such as ours, employing approximately 3,000 managers across the Group to help identify over 585,000 people across around 100 countries, there are risks development needs and build succession plans.
We also run a associated with recruiting, supervising, motivating and training regional leadership programme to nurture talented individuals employees on such a large scale, as well as rewarding early in their careers and develop them into more senior roles as they move through the organisation.
appropriately and retaining critical talent to ensure effective succession in management roles.
Screening is also a particular We monitor staff turnover monthly to ensure that our employee challenge in some territories which lack supporting infrastructure engagement initiatives are achieving desired results of improved from the relevant authorities.
While our controls are robust we employee loyalty and retention.
During the year voluntary staff still face the risk of a rogue employee not complying with turnover reduced by 7.1%, for more details see page 15. our values.
Mitigation priorities for 2017 Risk mitigation We will undertake our fifth global employee engagement survey.
The Group has mandatory human resources controls which all The questions will be aligned to the revised corporate values to countries are required to comply with.
These HR core standards help businesses identify whether our employees believe the were reviewed and re-launched during the year with appropriate company is living up to them.
The results will guide further training and support and are assessed through a control selfenhancements to policies and incentive mechanisms to improve assessment process within our GRC tool.
This provides visibility of productivity, customer satisfaction, personal development and compliance and monitoring of action plans to mitigate any engagement.
Self-assessments against the HR core standards are non-compliance.
In those territories where local circumstances completed annually so progress in closing any gaps identified in make it impossible to comply fully with the screening and vetting the 2016 assessments and any new ones will be followed up.
elements, we identify alternative measures, approved by Group human resources, to mitigate the risk as much as possible.
We also perform a quarterly financial review of the Risk description top 25 and low margin contracts in each region.
For our large The Group has a number of long-term, complex, high-value multinational customers we have account managers who oversee contracts with multinational, government or other strategic performance of these contracts across relevant countries and have customers.
For such contracts there are risks to accepting onerous regular updates with these customers to ensure we deliver to contractual terms: poor mobilisation of contracts: not transitioning contract terms.
We believe the improvements made to controls in effectively from mobilisation to on-going contract management: this area over the last three years have significantly reduced the not delivering contractual requirements: inaccurate billing for risk of entering into new contracts which will become complex contracts: ineffective contract change management: and materially onerous.
Mitigation priorities for 2017 Risk mitigation We will continue to enhance the review and approval process We have strict thresholds for the approval of major bids involving to mitigate further the risk of poor contracts and ensure lessons both detailed legal review and senior management oversight.
learned from underperforming contracts and those we have These are embedded into our SalesForce opportunity turned around lead to better performance and the identified management tool.
For our most significant contracts in the UK, we issues are part of future approvals for all contracts.
perform 360 reviews of all aspects of contract management and LAWS AND REGULATIONS Risk description Risk mitigation G4S operates in many jurisdictions globally, with complex and Our policies and procedures clearly set out the requirement for diverse regulatory frameworks.
An additional complexity arises all local management to comply with local laws and regulations.
from the extraterritorial reach of some of the legislation to which Group and regional leadership together with our Ethics the Group is subject.
Committees at Group and regional level provide oversight and support compliance with these policies and procedures to mitigate Risks include increasing litigation and class actions: bribery and the risks.
Group legal and regional leadership closely monitor corruption: obtaining operating licences: complying with local tax changes in foreign ownership laws and make appropriate plans to regulations: changes to employment legislation: complying with respond.
G4S continues to liaise with relevant governments and human rights legislation: and new or changed restrictions on foreign authorities to influence positively the regulatory environments in ownership.
Risk also arises from new or changing regulations which which we work.
require modification of our processes and staff training.
These can lead to higher costs from claims and litigation: inability to operate in Mitigation priorities for 2017 certain jurisdictions, either through direct ownership or joint We will continue through Group and regional leadership to ventures: loss of management control: damage to our reputation: monitor for changes in laws and regulations and ensure that and loss of customer confidence.
compliance with them is maintained in all countries.
In addition we will continue to liaise constructively with governments and relevant authorities.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 53 Principal risks continued Principal risk Link to strategy GEOPOLITICAL difficult territories.
We collaborate with our local partners: Risk description conduct early risk assessments before and during security We operate in many countries across the world, with wideassignments: have robust operating procedures: and work closely ranging government and political systems, different cultures and with our local and global customers in managing the risks of varying degrees of rule of law and compliance with human rights operating in such environments including compliance with human within conflict and post-conflict zones.
The risk factors include rights.
Our G4S Risk Management business has particular political volatility, revolution, terrorism, military intervention and expertise in providing secure solutions in very high risk, low insurgency.
The geopolitical risks we face impact us in many ways: infrastructure environments.
the health and safety of our staff and customers: the continued operation of our businesses: and the ability to secure our assets Mitigation priorities for 2017 and recover our profits.
We will continue to assess and monitor geopolitical risks, including exposure to potential human rights abuses, across the high risk Risk mitigation countries in which we operate.
We have developed a global process for assessing geopolitical risks of different countries which determines the types of customers we will serve and the types of service we will provide.
We also have a great deal of experience of operating in a wide range of INFORMATION SECURITY application by operating businesses across the Group.
Our Risk description Minimum Information Security Controls are continually refined The customers, staff, suppliers and partners of G4S which entrust and updated in line with our assessment of threats.
Compliance their sensitive and confidential business information into our with the controls is measured through self-assessment and care rightly expect that we will take all reasonable steps to independently audited by group internal audit.
We are at risk of cyber and physical attack by criminal In 2016, G4S migrated successfully all its businesses to one unified organisations and individual hackers which could result in censure and fines by national governments: loss of confidence in the G4S office productivity suite, Google Cloud, covering around 65,000 employees.
This further improves our control and security of email brand and specific loss of trust by customers, especially those in government and financial sectors.
Additionally, we face the risk of disruption to service delivery from Mitigation priorities for 2017 system failures, incomplete backup routines, inadequate business Group IT will refine policies into standards and will continue to continuity plans and disaster recovery.
provide direct technical and hardware solutions to improve performance of IT systems, backup routines and resilience across Risk mitigation the world.
We will deploy appropriate IT security controls to We have defence-in-depth technologies i. e. multiple layers of ensure that we have the right levels of monitoring, reporting and defence in key systems to protect business information entrusted protection of our business information.
We have mandatory policies and best practice guidance for CASH LOSSES deployment and continued effective operation of these controls Risk description across our cash businesses.
Group and regional teams monitor There are risks in our cash business from external attacks, internal compliance with the reconciliation and control standards and theft and poor cash reconciliation as we transport and safeguard support our cash businesses to improve them.
high value cash and valuables including international shipments.
We provide a wide range of cash management services including We also have clearly defined standards for physical cash security cash processing, sorting of notes for ATMs, holding funds on behalf for our employees, vehicles and processing centres.
The Group cash of customers, secure storage, and a range of ATM services.
Loss of security function is responsible for monitoring compliance with cash or valuables could lead to loss of profit, increased cost of these: for monitoring attacks and other cash losses: and for insurance and health and safety considerations for our staff and communicating lessons learned.
Innovative security defence the public.
products are in use, cash box tracking, vehicle protection foam and protective boxes.
Risk mitigation Mitigation priorities for 2017 We have clearly defined standards for reconciliation and operational cash controls and have developed an e-learning We will continue to drive improvement in cash reconciliation and academy for cash reconciliation and controls to facilitate quick physical cash security across our cash businesses through both Group and regional teams.
People and values Customers and service excellence Growth and innovation Operational excellence and productivity Financial and commercial discipline 54 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risk Link to strategy GROWTH STRATEGY Our outbound programme works with Chinese and North Risk description American multinational customers to provide services to them Our growth strategy is to leverage our expertise to drive innovation on a global scale.
We are able to mitigate local reduction in our core service lines to improve service for our customers and in growth opportunities through the diversity of industries and so increase the value of long-term customer relationships.
markets we serve and by leveraging our portfolio of products to There are risks that we will fail to create higher value solutions offer alternative cost efficient solutions.
that differentiate us from local commoditised competitors: that we We also have a consistent approach across all countries to assess fail to deliver our core services effectively and consistently: that we customer satisfaction and ensure we deliver our service lose contracts or growth opportunities through price competition commitments, key performance indicators and thus improve and market changes: that we fail to enter target markets retention of customers.
successfully: that we become over-reliant on large customers: and that government legislation changes could impact on our growth Mitigation priorities for 2017 potential or force exit from markets and territories.
We will continue to invest in our business development capabilities in both people and systems.
The results of Risk mitigation understanding our customers levels of satisfaction in how we We have best practice service delivery guidelines for both secure deliver our services will be used to improve further customer solutions and cash service lines and are developing a global satisfaction and guide how we deliver integrated solutions to information system supporting the end to end order to cash existing and potential customers across all businesses.
process in our secure solutions service lines, including finance, human resources and operational delivery.
The global information system is planned to be piloted in our UK & Ireland businesses, and then rolled out globally over a Our development of new service offerings, particularly in number of years.
Further enhancements will be made to our electronic security and cash solutions, is focused on those business resilience mechanisms to enhance business continuity centres of excellence where we have the strongest capability.
and thus mitigate the risk of interruption of service to customers.
We leverage our global network to offer integrated solutions internationally.
In particular, our global accounts programme supports and promotes our multinational accounts and focuses selling our more specialist services such as investigations and secure logistics.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the updating its rolling three-year strategic plan The vast majority of the Groups risks UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, and considering the risks to achievement exist at an individual country level and the directors have assessed the viability of of that plan.
These plans were reviewed are individually immaterial.
The principal the Group over a three-year period, and refined by regional management and residual risks described on pages 52 aligned with that of the Groups rolling then by the Group Executive Committee to 55 are an aggregate view of the planning cycle, taking into account the before being reviewed by the board in approximately 1,500 individual risks Groups current position and the potential October 2016.
The key assumptions in the captured in country, region and Group impact of the principal risks documented financial forecasts, reflecting the overall functional risk registers.
These wideon pages 52 to 55. strategy, include: ranging risks are highly unlikely to crystallise simultaneously and it is Planning beyond three years is seen by the A continued demand for security therefore unlikely that such risks would Group as being of limited value due to: services, as set out on page 8 of the have a material impact on the Groups strategic report: The majority of the Groups contracts financial position.
Nevertheless, the Group An ability to continue to drive through being less than three years in duration: has sensitised its three-year financial our productivity programmes and to projections for the following risks: a The correlation of demand for security flex the cost base, as set out on pages potential loss of certain of the Groups services with the very volatile global 24 to 25: and top customers: b potential adverse economy: and changes in foreign ownership legislation Continuing to improve the operating The impact of the Groups on-going cash flow performance of the Group resulting in cessation of material business transformation programme.
lines: and c potential claims from major as set out on pages 26 to 27.
The Groups prospects are assessed contracts resulting in material settlement The output of this plan is used as the payments.
The directors consider that this primarily through its bottom-up strategic baseline for stress-testing covenant and planning process.
The overall strategy for stress-test assessment of the Groups headroom analysis.
This analysis includes prospects is reasonable in the the Group was refreshed comprehensively sensitivity analysis to changes in trading in November 2013 and the board has circumstances.
Based on this assessment, conditions affecting profit growth and the the directors have a reasonable monitored progress closely against this capital needs of the business, as well as strategy as well as the risks to its success.
expectation that the Group will be able the principal residual risks.
to continue in operation and meet its The 2016 process commenced in June with each country and business unit liabilities as they fall due over the three financial years to 31 December 2019.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 55
