18 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Principal risks Roles and responsibilities Identifying, evaluating and managing our The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of risk principal risks and uncertainties is integral management and internal control, which are subject to ongoing monitoring processes alongside a formal and robust annual review.
to the way we do business and to achieving It is also responsible for determining the overall level of risk which it our strategy.
is willing to accept in pursuing the Groups strategy.
The Board has delegated implementation of risk management and internal control, together with their day-to-day operation, to the Groups executive management.
The process is overseen by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Group Finance Director and managed on a day-to-day basis by the Director of Risk and Internal Audit.
The Risk Committee is also attended by the Chairman.
Although they are not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems of risk management and internal control are designed to identify, manage, mitigate, monitor and report on risks to which the Group is exposed.
Risk identification, assessment and mitigation We develop and maintain risk registers at business unit, divisional and Group level, which identify key operational, financial and strategic risks applicable to that level within the organisation, and which are assessed and consolidated into a Group-wide register using a standardised methodology.
The methodology requires each identified risk to be assessed and measured using a risk matrix which quantifies the likelihood and impact of each risk the inherent risk, the effect of the mitigating actions to determine the residual risk and the desirable risk profile the target risk, as aligned to the Groups risk appetite.
The methodology evaluates the impact of each risk on the Groups profitability and reputation.
Risk management, risk reporting, internal controls and internal audit The material components of the Groups established framework of internal controls comprise the following: 5 organisational structure: each business has its own management board and each business unit is led by a managing director and management team: 5 contractual review and commitments: the Group has clearly defined policies and procedures for entering into contractual commitments which apply across its business units and operations and are enforced through the Groups legal authorities matrix: 5 investment in land and development: land expenditure approval is subject to clearly defined policies and procedures, with significant investments approved at Executive and main Board levels under Group policies and procedures: 5 operational activity: there are established frameworks to manage and control all site operations including health, safety and environmental procedures, regular performance monitoring, quality and external accountability to stakeholders: 5 financial planning framework: the Group reviews and refines its business plan on an annual basis, following specific Board meetings held to consider strategy.
A detailed annual budget is prepared for each financial year which is approved by the Board: 5 operational and financial reporting: we continue to improve the Groups reporting and financial systems as a result of implementing both Oracle and Hyperion systems.
An exacting profit and cash reporting and forecasting regime is in place across the Group.
As well as the emphasis placed on cash flow, income and balance sheet reporting, health, safety and environmental matters are prioritised within monthly operational reports: Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 19 5 Code of Conduct: the Group requires its employees to operate of the internal controls framework, together with the findings of ethically and with demonstrable integrity.
Group standards are set the internal audit function over the past year, which may indicate out in a Code of Conduct issued to all employees, and supported weaknesses that have had, could have had, or may have in the future, by specific training modules in key areas: a material impact on results, and any remedial actions taken.
Based on these assessments, the Board is satisfied with the effectiveness 5 pension plan administration: the administration of the Groups of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
fully closed final salary and ongoing defined contribution pension plans is outsourced to professional service providers.
Each of the Viability statement final salary schemes has an independent scheme secretary and In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance a proportion of independent trustees to provide additional layers Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group over a of external scrutiny: and period longer than the 12 months as required under provision C. 1.3 of the Code in relation to the adoption of the going concern basis.
5 assurance provided by non-audit functions: a number of other The Board conducted this review for a period of three years in line with Group functions provide assurance in areas including, but not its typical business planning and risk management review period.
limited to, health, safety and environment: legal contract review and compliance: and construction industry regulation.
The Groups business plan includes information in relation to the Groups revenues, profits, cash flows, dividends, net debt, and other The Groups governance reporting structure shown on page 57 key financial and non-financial metrics.
The plan considers the clarifies the effective Group, business and operational board structures potential impact of the principal risks to the business as described upon which the delegated authorities matrices and corporate and below and overleaf, and the cyclical nature of the markets in which finance manuals are overlaid.
the Group operates, and incorporates an appropriate level of flexibility The Risk Committee and the Board review the risk registers and to provide against these risks.
This is achieved through the preparation associated mitigating actions on a regular basis.
For example, during of sensitivity analyses on a range of scenarios including variations in the last year the ongoing review included consideration of the impact revenue, house prices, sales rates, build costs, cash generation and of possible outcomes of Junes EU referendum and the Groups access to financing.
exposure to the London market.
In addition to this process, which has Based on the results of this analysis, the Board has a reasonable been in place throughout the past year, we undertake an annual expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation review of our risk management processes in the context of market and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of developments, projects secured and Group strategy to ensure that its assessment.
they remain up-to-date and relevant.
This also encompasses a review Risk heat map effects of mitigation on inherent risks and residual risks The heat map shows the principal risks the Group faces by impact and likelihood, before and after mitigating actions are taken into c, d, e c, d, e account, illustrating the effects of the Groups b risk management process in mitigating the identified risks.
i a a h g a Economic g h b f i f b Government c Health and Safety d Over-reliance e Legal and regulatory compliance f Land acquisition g People and supply chain h Business management systems i Business continuity Residual Inherent Lower Likelihood Higher Lower Impact Higher 20 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Principal risks continued Principal risks The directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to the Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the mitigations in place, is set out below and on the previous page.
There may be other risks and uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely affect the Group and its performance.
More detail can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages 58 and 59.
Inherent risk trend Category Description of inherent risk in the year Mitigation a.
Economic The biggest risk is the macro-economic We manage the impact of macro-economic risks, environment and the possibility of an economic including by building a strong order book and downturn.
The result of the recent EU maintaining an appropriately sized landbank.
referendum has the potential to distort some We have been doing that successfully and had of our markets.
While this is certainly not an a Construction order book of 3.5 billion and sales inevitable outcome, we must be mindful of the carried forward position in Linden of 380 million potential risks and plan for the Groups future at the year end.
We monitor closely political and accordingly.
The Construction and Partnerships economic developments: we have modelled a businesses are very well placed to deal with any range of macro-economic scenarios and planned uncertainty due to the nature of their businesses measures which can be implemented should and their late cycle and hybrid nature respectively.
the macro-economic environment improve or Linden Homes, while more exposed to a potential deteriorate as against our internal models.
slowdown and changes in consumer confidence, We also regularly monitor actual supply chain has a great brand, and is solidly positioned, costs against costs assumed at tender, with with an appropriate landbank, good locations regular reforecasting of the likely effect on margin, and well-designed homes.
and with realistic increased supply chain costs fed Improvement in the construction market increases back into tenders going forward.
We also regularly the workload in our supply chain, enabling it to review fixed price assumptions in bids.
Land seek increased prices which could impact our purchases at appropriate margins are reviewed margins.
House price inflation can mitigate this in the context of three-year market forecasts, effect but the effect can be amplified by a house and we monitor sales rates on an ongoing basis.
The input costs to our business can also be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
Government A reduction in Government spending on The Group regularly engages with Government infrastructure projects or affordable housing and the Homes & Communities Agency HCA, development, including schemes such as both directly and via our membership of industry Help to Buy, would directly affect our business.
Prudent pricing models, increased hurdle Other initiatives relating to project bank accounts rates and other contingencies are built into our or payment terms may impact the cost of doing land appraisal process, including removal of any business.
Government may also impose future Government support.
Support for Help to Buy taxes or levies that are not incorporated into appears to be in place until 2020.
monitors on an ongoing basis economic and political conditions and developments: and it plans for different economic scenarios.
c. Health and A catastrophic incident with fatalities and or We have operational controls in place, including Safety H&S significant injuries can, in addition to its impact a H&S site risk assessment for every site.
We have on victims and corporate reputation, lead to fines processes in place which allow us to respond or prosecutions for individual members of staff promptly and appropriately to incidents.
A high cumulative level of H&S year, we implemented the Golden Rules, a new prosecutions would reduce our ability to win work.
H&S database, and reinvigorated our awardwinning Challenging Beliefs, Affecting Behaviour safety programme.
d. Over-reliance Direct or indirect over-reliance on a single We carefully monitor and maintain relationships customer or vendor, such as the HCA in at every level of the organisation up to Executive Housebuilding, may leave us exposed, Board level.
Where customers or suppliers have especially if there is a large degree of regulation regulated contractual commitments, we undertake surrounding this customer or vendor.
annual and, as necessary, independent audits, to ensure we are meeting our requirements.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 21 Inherent risk trend Category Description of inherent risk in the year Mitigation e. L egal and Legal and regulatory failure, for example The Group has comprehensive policies and regulatory involvement in blacklisting, cover pricing, bribery guidance in place at every level, including compliance or other fraudulent activity, or non-compliance the recently reinvigorated Code of Conduct, with law including for example the Bribery Act, mandatory e-learning for all employees, regular Fraud Act, Competition Act, Money Laundering Board legal updates and briefings, six-monthly Regulations, and Proceeds of Crime Act could compliance declarations and conflicts of interest lead to disbarment from bidding for certain registers and authorisations.
In addition, an public or regulated sector work, fines, jail, anonymous and independent whistleblowing and reputational damage.
helpline is available to all staff, with strict policies to ensure anonymity and regular reporting of helpline use provided to the Board.
f. Land If the assumptions used in the land acquisition There are comprehensive land acquisition policies acquisition process are wrong, subsequent financial results and procedures in place.
The Group monitors may be affected.
on an ongoing basis economic and political conditions and developments: and it plans for different economic scenarios.
g. People and The ability to attract, develop, retain and build The Group has an established HR strategy based supply chain relationships with diverse and high-quality on best practice, Investors in People principles employees and supply chain impacts every level and relevant legislation which, among other of the Group, from developing and building our things, includes the regular review of remuneration products to succession planning to the Board.
and benefits packages to ensure we remain competitive.
Our succession planning and talent management processes enable continuity and identify future leaders.
The Group aims to develop long-term relationships with subcontractors to ensure we are a preferred customer in the supply of people and skills, as well as materials.
Key initiatives this year include rolling out the Advantage through Alignment initiative throughout our Construction business supply chain.
The Group monitors on an ongoing basis economic and political conditions and developments: and it plans for different economic scenarios.
h. Business The stability, performance and successful Our IT governance structure prioritises management operation of current and legacy third party resources on the most critical and added value systems business management systems, such as improvements.
Specific improvement forums, our Oracle finance system and electronic for example the Procurement Improvement document management systems, are critical Group, further refine and optimise core processes.
to the successful operation of the business, Relationships with third parties are given the both in Group locations and on-site project offices highest level of management attention, with and sales outlets.
contingency solutions reviewed as appropriate.
Business Loss of our Shared Service Centre or IT Disaster recovery plans have remained in continuity infrastructure, especially our financial system, place throughout the year, and are tested on including a natural disaster or malicious a regular basis, including penetration tests in attack, may affect our ability to carry on respect of cybercrime.
