Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties The Board and the AIFM recognise that risk is inherent in the operation of the Company and are committed to effective risk management to protect and maximise shareholder value.
Risk management the services and controls at the The following are the key components Investment Adviser and at other which the Company has in place to Role of the Board third party suppliers are reviewed provide effective internal control: The Board has the ultimate at least annually.
The Audit responsibility for risk management and the Board and Investment Committee receives and reviews internal control within the Company.
Committee have agreed clearly assurance reports on the controls The Board recognises the existence of defined investment criteria, which of the Depositary and Custodian inherent risks within the Companys specifies levels of authority undertaken by professional service operation and that effective risk and exposure limits: providers: and management is critical to the success the Board notes the rules of the UK of the organisation.
When setting the the Investment Advisers Compliance FCA on the promotion of risk management strategy, the Board Officer continually reviews the nonmainstream pooled also determines the nature and extent Investment Advisers operations.
investments and has a procedure to of the principal risks they are willing to ensure that the Company can Role of the AIFM take to achieve the Companys continue to be approved as an The AIFM is required to operate an strategic objectives.
investment company by complying effective and suitable risk management The Board, with the assistance of the with sections 1158 1159 of the framework to allow the identification, Audit Committee, undertakes a formal Corporation Tax Act 2010: monitoring and management of the risk review twice a year to assess the risks that the AIFM and the AIFs under the Investment Adviser and effectiveness of the Companys risk its management are exposed.
Administrator prepare forecasts and management process and internal management accounts which allow The AIFMs permanent risk control systems.
The review covers the the Board to assess the Companys management function, has a primary operational, compliance and financial activities and review its performance: role alongside the Board in shaping the risks facing the Company.
During the risk policy of the Company, in addition the contractual agreements with the course of such review, the Board has to responsibility for risk monitoring and Investment Adviser and other not identified, nor been advised of any risk measuring in order to ensure that third party service providers, and failings or weaknesses which it has the risk level complies on an ongoing their adherence to them, are determined to be of a material nature.
basis with the Companys risk profile.
regularly reviewed: GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  30 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risk and uncertainties compliance risk.
The principal financial The principal risks and uncertainties risks, the Companys policies for identified by the Board can be found The principal risks faced by the managing these risks and the policy on pages 30 to 33.
Company include but are not limited and practice with regard to financial to execution risk, portfolio risk, instruments are summarised in note 19 financial risk, operational risk, to the financial statements.
cybercrime and regulatory, legal and Risk How the risk is managed Execution Sufficiency of due diligence The Investment Advisers due diligence may not reveal all the facts relevant in In addition to due diligence carried out by the Investment Committee of the connection with an investment and may not highlight issues that could affect Board and the Investment Adviser, various third party financial, technical, the investments performance.
If the investment underperforms, the interest insurance and legal experts are engaged to advise on specific project risks.
and principal received on investments may be lower than envisaged.
Availability of suitable investments and reinvestment risk There is no guarantee that the Company will be able to make suitable The Investment Adviser is constantly in touch with the market seeking new investments with risk and return characteristics that fit within the investment deals and builds a specifically identified investment pipeline before the Board strategy of the Company, or that suitable investments that can be identified will seeks to raise additional finance in an attempt to ensure that capital is be made in a timely manner.
This is a risk when raising capital and when deployed in a timely fashion.
reinvesting principal returned to the Company under existing loan agreements.
If the Company cannot invest capital in suitable assets in a timely manner, the uninvested cash balance will have a negative impact on the Companys returns.
If the only available investments with an appropriate risk profile yield lower rates of return than have historically been achievable, to be fully invested, the Companys overall returns may be adversely affected.
Portfolio Change in laws, regulation and or policy Any change in the laws, regulations and or government policy, in particular Any changes in laws, regulation and or policy are monitored by the Board on relating to the PFI and renewable energy markets, may have an adverse effect an ongoing basis.
Given the UK governments reliance on private capital for, on the performance of the Companys investment portfolio and the returns inter alia, the funding of new social and economic infrastructure and achieved by the Company.
renewable energy projects, it is the view of the Investment Adviser and the Board that any future changes in policy are more likely to have prospective rather than retrospective effect.
Performance of subcontractors The performance of the Companys investments is typically, to a considerable The competence and financial strength of contractors, as well as the terms degree, dependent on the performance of subcontractors, most notably of contractors engagements, is a key focus of investment due diligence.
The facilities managers and operation and maintenance contractors.
If a key Board and the Investment Adviser monitor the Companys exposure to any subcontractor has to be replaced due to the insolvency of that subcontractor or given subcontractor, and ensures that the risk of underperformance is for any other reason, the replacement subcontractor may charge a higher price mitigated by diversification.
for the relevant services than previously paid.
The resulting increase in the costs may result in the Company receiving lower interest and principal payments than envisaged.
Operational or construction issues The investments which the Company holds are exposed to construction and or The Investment Adviser undertakes extensive due diligence on all projects operational risks and may not perform as expected.
In the event of material regarding expected performance.
A full package of insurance and operational or construction issues, the interest and principal payments received manufacturer guarantees is put in place to protect the Company from any by the Company may be lower than expected.
The Companys construction exposure is limited to 25% of its total assets.
The Board and the Investment Adviser monitor this limit and the status of any project in the construction phase on an ongoing basis.
The Board ensures that the Company has security over the assets against which it is lending, so in an instance of borrower default it can enforce security over the assets.
Technology risk Some of the projects that the Company invests in utilise relatively new or The Investment Committee of the Board and the Investment Adviser ensure developing technologies.
There may be issues in relation to those technologies that due diligence is carried out by technical experts to advise on specific that become apparent only in the future.
Such issues may give rise to additional project risks including technology risk.
costs or may otherwise result in the financial performance of the relevant investment being poorer than is anticipated.
This may adversely affect the value of and returns generated by the Companys investments.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  31 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk How the risk is managed Portfolio Lifecycle and maintenance costs From time to time, components of a project may need to be replaced or undergo Project lifecycle and maintenance timings and costs are typically based on a major refurbishment.
Over the life of a project the cost of such replacements manufacturers data and warranties and advice received from specialist or refurbishments may be higher than projected.
In such circumstances the consultants.
Updated lifecycle cost projections are received on a regular basis cash flow available to service the Companys debt may be reduced to an extent and with appropriate provisions made which are monitored on an ongoing where the interest and principal payments received by the Company is less basis by the Investment Adviser.
Insurance All the projects that the Company is exposed to are required under the loan The Investment Adviser requires confirmations and evidence from all documentation to have appropriate insurance in place.
There is a risk that a borrowers that the insurance required by the relevant loan documentation is project encounters issues resulting in a loss that is uninsured, either because it in place.
is not covered by the insurance that is in place or because no insurance is in place.
This could mean the Company loses all or part of the value of its investment.
Project company owner The owners of the project companies to which the Company lends money are The Investment Adviser and the Investment Committee of the Board ensure responsible for the underlying asset performance.
There is a risk that these that equity owners have appropriate expertise and financial standing to own, equity owners do not have the experience, track record, ability or financial construct and operate the underlying project by carrying out the appropriate resources to satisfactorily fulfil their required role.
Financial Assumptions The Company makes investments which rely on detailed financial models based When modelling future cash flows and structuring debt profiles, the on certain assumptions, estimates and projections of each investments future Investment Adviser uses assumptions considered to be conservative by third cash flow.
Such assumptions include, inter alia, inflation, power price, feedstock party experts.
The Investment Adviser constantly monitors the actual cost, asset productivity, lifecycle and insurance cost.
There can be no assurance performance of projects and takes action where appropriate.
that these assumptions will turn out to be accurate, and actual data could have an adverse impact on the performance of the Companys investments.
Valuation The value of the investments made by the Company will change from time to The Companys infrastructure investments are generally low volatility time according to a variety of factors, including movements and expected investments with stable pre determined, very longterm, public sector backed movements in interest rates and inflation and general market pricing of similar revenues.
Such changes will impact the value of the Companys Approximately half of the Companys investment portfolio has some form of investment portfolio.
inflation protection mechanism that will result in increased returns in the event of high inflation.
The Companys investments are valued with reference to duration matched interest rates, typically between 15 and 25 year rates.
The discount rates currently used to value the Companys investments include a material premium that offers protection in the event of rate rises.
Interest rate The Company has a floating rate revolving credit facility and as such the The Facility is in place to fund potential investments in the near term and to financial performance of the Company will be adversely affected in the event avoid holding material amounts of uninvested cash awaiting investment.
The that interest rates rise.
Facility is a shortterm measure and the loan to value borrowings as a percentage of net assets at year end was 3.7%.
Other Regulatory, legal and compliance risk The Company may not achieve full compliance with all applicable legislation The Board monitors compliance information provided by the Administrator, leading to reputational or financial consequences.
Company Secretary, Investment Adviser and legal counsel and monitors ongoing compliance developments in the Channel Islands and Europe along with regulatory developments in the UK as well as listing rules and FCA marketing rules.
The Company has a comprehensive compliance monitoring programme to ensure full compliance with legislation regulation relevant to the Companys operations.
Operational risk Operational risk arises from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, The Company has no employees but has sufficient policies and procedures in and systems, or from external causes deliberate, accidental or natural.
Events place to ensure operational risk is mitigated.
may be manifested as direct financial losses or result in damage to reputation causing longerterm financial consequences.
GCP Infrastructure Investments Limited  32 Introduction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk How the risk is managed Other Cyberattack risk Inadequate systems, policies and procedures in place to prevent against cyber The Company has no dedicated IT systems and it relies on those of its service attack, which may manifest as financial losses, theft of intellectual property or providers.
The Board monitors reports and compliance information provided damage to the Companys reputation as a consequence.
by the Administrator, Company Secretary, Investment Adviser and legal counsel and monitors ongoing compliance developments in the Channel Islands and Europe to ensure the risk is mitigated.
Reliance on Investment Adviser The Company is heavily reliant on the Investment Adviser to implement the The Investment Adviser has industry and asset knowledge of specific use and Companys strategy and investment policy to deliver its objectives.
There is a importance to the Company.
The Company has entered into a contractual risk that the Company may not be able to find an appropriate replacement engagement with the Investment Adviser.
The Board maintains an awareness investment adviser should the engagement with the Investment Adviser of other advisers that could replace the Investment Adviser if required.
Brexit vote There is a risk that the uncertainty caused by the Brexit vote could result in The Chancellor stated in the November 2016 Autumn Statement that the UK adverse conditions for the Company and an increase in the risks mentioned government remains committed to UK infrastructure development and as above, most particularly Change in laws, regulation and or policy, Valuation such the risk of governmental policy changes would appear unchanged.
Although long dated interest rates fell post the vote they have bounced back and there appears an increased risk of rising interest rates and high inflation.
The Company mitigates against these risks as detailed above.
Going concern The Directors have assessed the Given that the projects that the prospects of the Company over a Companys investments are secured The Directors have assessed the longer period than the twelve months against are all UK infrastructure financial prospects of the Company required by the going concern projects that generate longdated, for the next twelve months and provision.
The Board have conducted public sector backed cash flows, the made an assessment of the this review for a period covering the Board thus considers the revenue of Companys ability to continue as next five years, as over this period, the Company over that period to be a going concern.
The Directors are it believes the risk of changes in dependable.
satisfied that the Company has the government policy that would result resources to continue in business for Additionally, the Company primarily in retrospective adjustments to such the foreseeable future and furthermore invests in longdated UK infrastructure public sector backed cash flows is low.
are not aware of any material debt that earns a fixed rate of interest uncertainties that may cast significant This assessment involved an evaluation and is repaid over time according to a doubt upon the Companys ability to of the potential impact on the Company predetermined amortisation continue as a going concern.
As such, assuming that the appropriate, the Companys financial underlying projects perform as Viability statement model was subject to a sensitivity expected, the Companys cash inflows At least twice a year, the Board carries are also predictable.
analysis involving flexing a number of out a robust assessment of the key assumptions in the underlying principal risks facing the Company, Based on this assessment of the financial forecasts in order to analyse including those that would threaten its principal risks facing the Company and the effect on the Companys net cash business model, future performance, the stresstesting based assessment flows and other key financial ratios.
The Directors of the Companys prospects, the The sensitivity analysis undertaken have considered each of the Companys Directors have a reasonable considered the impact of a significant principal risks and uncertainties expectation that the Company will be proportion of the portfolio not yielding, detailed on pages 30 to 33 and in able to continue in operation and meet which is a plausible consequence of a particular the risk and impact of its liabilities as they fall due over the number of the principal risks changes in government policy that five year period of their assessment.
materialising, either in isolation or in could materially affect the cash flows parallel.
The sensitivity analysis was of the underlying projects that support based on a number of assumptions, the Companys investments.
The including that the Companys credit Directors also considered the Mr Ian Reeves CBE facility remains in place to provide Companys policy for monitoring, Chairman short term finance for further managing and mitigating its exposure 13 December 2016 investments and that there will be to these risks.
sufficient liquidity in the market to raise new capital as and when required.
