18 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Genus supplies biological products to agricultural customers and is exposed to a wide range of risks and uncertainties.
Some of these risks relate to current principal risks and uncertainties facing Link to Strategy business operations in our global theGroup.
Increasing Genetic Control and agricultural markets, while others relate 1 Product Differentiation to future commercial exploitation of our More information on the types and levels extensive R&D portfolio.
The table below of risks the Board is prepared to seek and Targeting Key Markets and outlines the principal risks and uncertainties accept in executing the strategy, and 2 affecting Genus and how we manage them.
how we define risk appetite and identify Segments and manage risks, can be found in the Sharing in the Value Delivered The Directors confirm that they have Corporate Governance Statement on 3 undertaken a robust assessment of the page55.
Strategic Risks Risk description How we manage risk Strategy Risk change in 2015 16 Dedicated teams align our 1, 2 Developing products product development to customer requirements, while our technical with competitive services help customers make best No change in porcine but useof our products.
We frequently increased in bovine due advantage measure our performance against tocontinuing trend to Development programmes fail to competitors in customers systems, genomicbulls.
produce best genetics for customers.
toensure the value added by our Increased competition to secure genetics remains competitive.
We have a rigorous process to prepare 1 Commercialising GSS for the successful commercial launch of our GSS technology, supported technology No change.
The initial verdicts by dedicated internal resources Launching a new product technology inthe legal proceedings create andexternal expert advice.
carries technical, production and a path to commercialisation but financial risks.
further rulings by the Court are We also initiated legal proceedings in Failure to commercialise our GSS awaited to bring clarity to the the US, in relation to anti-trust issues technology due to intellectual property next steps.
Technical progress which, together with patent counterIP and other disputes.
to scale up for commercial claims, went to trial in August 2016. launch also progressed well, reducing launch risk.
Our R&D Portfolio Management Team 1, 2 Developing and oversees our research, ensures we correctly prioritise our R&D investments commercialising gene and assesses the adequacy of resources Increased due to the discovery and its IP freedom to operate.
Formal and pursuit of new gene editing technologies collaboration agreements are in place editing applications and Failure to successfully develop consequent higher investment with key partners to ensure responsible and commercialise gene editing in 2015 16 and beyond.
All exploration and development of the technologies due to technical, IP, key initiatives are progressing technologies and the protection of IP.
market, regulatory or financial barriers.
The Board is updated regularly on key Game-changing technology secured development projects.
We have a rigorous acquisition analysis 1, 2, 3 Capturing value and due diligence process, with the Board reviewing and signing-off all through acquisitions projects.
We also have a structured No change.
Failure to identify appropriate post-acquisition integration planning investment opportunities or to and execution process.
Failure to successfully integrate an acquired business.
Genus plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 19 Strategic Risks Risk description How we manage risk Strategy Risk change in 2015 16 We have a robust organisation, 2 Growing in emerging blending local and expatriate executives supported by the global species teams, markets to ensure we comply with our global No change.
Revised plans Failure to appropriately develop standards.
The Board provides regular and approach to the market business in China and other oversight and dedicated significant time in China and other emerging emergingmarkets.
in 2015 16 to discussing our strategy markets continue to improve and the results of our operations our ability to control and inChina.
Operational Risks We have a global, cross-functional 3 Protecting IP process to identify and protect our IP.
Our customer contracts and our Failure to protect our IP means Genusselection of multipliers and JV partners No change.
developed genetic material, methods, include appropriate measures to protect systems and technology could become our IP.
We conduct robust Freedom To freely available to third parties.
Operate searches to identify third-party rights to technology.
We have stringent biosecurity 1, 2 Ensuring biosecurity standards, with independent reviews throughout the year to ensure and continuity compliance.
We continue to extend the No change.
geographical diversity of our production ofsupply facilities, to avoid over-reliance on Loss of key livestock, owing to single sites.
Loss of ability to move animals or semen freely including across borders due to disease outbreak, environmental incident or international trade sanctions.
Industry-wide disease outbreaks affecting demand for Genus products.
Financial Risks We continuously monitor markets 3 Managing agricultural andseek to balance our costs and resources in response to market market and commodity No change.
We actively monitor and update our hedging strategy to manage prices volatility our exposure.
Our porcine royalty Fluctuations in agricultural markets model and extensive use of thirdaffect customer profitability and party multipliers mitigates the impact therefore demand for our products of cyclical price reductions or cost andservices.
Increase in our operating costs, duetocommodity pricing volatility.
We are the principal employer for the n a Funding pensions Milk Pension Fund and chair the group of participating employers.
Thefund is Exposure to costs associated with No change.
The trustees now closed to future service and has an failure of third-party members of joint decision to grant future agreed deficit recovery plan, based on and several liabilities pension scheme.
pension increases on the basis the 2015 actuarial valuation.
We monitor Exposure to costs as a result of external of the movement in CPI, rather the strengths of other employers in factors such as mortality rates, interest than RPI, will reduce costs.
the fund and have retained external rates or investment values affecting However, this is currently being consultants toprovideexpert advice.
the size of the pension deficit.
partially offset by the impact of falling bond yields following the EU referendum in the UK.
