Principal risks and uncertainties The nature of both our business and our strategy means that we face a number of inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Board has carefully considered the Over time, our risk profile evolves and the remove this as a principal risk.
Business type and extent of the principal risks to the Boards view of the principal risks facing the continuity has also been removed as Group achieving its objectives and delivering Group is updated accordingly.
This year, a separate principal risk.
The Board a satisfactory return for shareholders.
acquisition integration has been removed considers the key elements of this risk to be These are summarised below, categorised as a principal risk following the successful appropriately covered by the remaining risks according to the strategic objective to which integration of Fokker Technologies.
of supply chain, information resilience and they relate most closely.
We seek to carefully Relationships with our largest joint venture health and safety.
Each principal risk is manage risk, while at the same time Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems Co described on the following pages together recognising that we need to take some risk Limited SDS remain strong and continue to with the corresponding mitigating actions to achieve our strategic goals including to develop positively.
Accordingly, following the that are in place and an overview of the risk grow above the market.
year end review, the Board has decided to trends during 2016.
Risk trend Risks related to our strategic objectives Other risks Leading in our chosen Leveraging a strong Differentiating ourselves Driving operational markets global presence through technology excellence Increasing Supply chain Technology and innovation Stable Highly competitive Operating in global Product quality Pension markets markets Programme funding Customer concentration Laws, regulations and management corporate reputation People capability Health and safety Information systems resilience Decreasing Contract risk 42 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Supply chain Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend Our suppliers are key to our success.
It is essential that Ongoing communication of our During the year, the Executive suppliers and subcontractors continue to meet our expectations of suppliers through Committee and Audit & Risk high standards of technical competence, innovation, our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Committee reviewed our supply product quality, reliability, delivery performance, cost, Contract terms and conditions that chain management processes in financial stability, safety, ethics and social responsibility.
require our suppliers to meet each division and agreed future specified performance standards.
Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially Ongoing assessment of supplier adverse events such as physical disruptions, We continue to carefully manage technology and dependency.
environmental and industrial accidents, scarcity of and monitor our supply chains and, Monitoring of the financial and supply and the insolvency of a key supplier, any where appropriate, build on operational viability of key suppliers.
of which could impact our ability to deliver orders long-term supplier relationships.
Ongoing monitoring of inventory to our customers.
levels to ensure availability in times Under the leadership of the Group The cost of our products can be significantly affected of production volatility.
Finance Director and the Supply by the cost of the underlying commodities and Contingency plans designed to Chain Steering Committee, which materials from which they are made.
Fluctuations enable us to secure alternative key comprises senior representatives in these costs cannot always be passed on to our material supplies at short notice, to from all three divisions, we continue customers.
transfer or share production between to deliver on our supply chain manufacturing sites and to use excellence strategy.
Potential impact substitute materials where required.
A sustained supply chain disruption, or the delivery Dual sourcing where appropriate of defective product to us, could impact our ability to reduce dependence on single to meet customer requirements, result in additional suppliers.
contractual liabilities and have a consequential impact Supplier quality reviews and audits.
Technology and innovation Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend Developing innovative technologies for our customers Regular assessment of market and We continue to invest in technology is critical to maintaining our differentiation and technology trends and drivers.
and develop internal capabilities to competitive advantage.
We may lose market share Close relationships and technical help meet customers expectations or be subject to additional market pressure if we fail partnerships with customers.
for improving efficiency of aircraft, to develop innovative technologies that our Divisional technology plans aligned cars and other vehicles with customers want.
to emerging and future trends and solutions that are lighter and more business strategy.
Potential impact Technical leadership and promotion We have continued to diversify into The failure to launch new products, new product of engineering best practice by our targeted areas of new technology applications or derivatives of existing products to meet Engineering Fellowship.
including additive manufacturing, customer requirements could have a significant impact Regular review of current and future bionic tooling and vehicle on future profitable growth.
technology plans by the Group electrification and have been Technology Strategy Board.
recognised for a number of industry Consideration of technology plans innovation awards.
as part of the Boards annual strategy review.
Focused investment in research and development.
Read more on how the Group continues to differentiate itself through technology in the Chief Executives and divisional reviews on pages 19 to 35 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Highly competitive markets Mitigation Changes in 2016 Description Risk trend GKN operates in highly competitive markets Maintaining a balanced portfolio Strong competition and customer with customer decisions typically based on price, of businesses across different end pricing pressures have continued quality, technology and service.
Contracts for major markets provides some protection throughout 2016.
Pressure on programmes are subject to highly competitive bidding against competition in particular margins continue in Aerospace processes and the strength of our competitors and markets.
and in the high-growth electric and general market conditions continue to drive pricing Regular review of competition and hybrid automotive vehicle markets.
pressure and challenging contractual terms.
Despite these challenges, we Targeted investment in engineering, continue to win new business and Our margins may come under pressure if competition and a commitment to Lean differentiate ourselves through increases or as a result of customer actions.
An inability manufacturing, quality and customer our technology.
or delay in developing or maintaining sufficient or relationships.
appropriate engineering and manufacturing capabilities We have implemented a GKN-wide Flexible management of our variable in our markets could further increase the risk.
fixed cost optimisation programme and fixed cost base including and taken actions to progressively Customer vertical integration including OEMs taking outsourcing and low-cost sourcing redirect expenditure towards production in-house, the entry of new competitors, initiatives where appropriate.
and the consolidation of existing competitors also Previously announced restructuring contribute to increased competition.
Potential impact The reorganisation of GKN Driveline Competition risk, if not addressed, could result in from three regions into two global reduced sales and profit margins and potentially product lines and the elimination lost growth opportunities.
An inability to secure of a divisional structure around our new business awards on major programmes could former Land Systems operations significantly impact future growth, cash flow and will provide better strategic and profitability.
customer alignment and a more efficient organisation.
Read more about the trends in each of our markets on pages 4 to 11 Customer concentration Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend There is significant customer concentration in the Regular review of the Groups There have been no significant automotive and aerospace industries so a large portion relations with and exposure to changes in the OEM customer of the Groups revenues comes from a relatively small key customers.
landscape with the proportion of number of customers.
Around 50% of the Groups Extensive and regular dialogue business from the Groups top ten sales is derived from its top ten customers.
with key customers and strong customers remaining stable during 2016.
No individual customer commercial and engineering Potential impact relationships.
accounts for more than 10% of Group revenue.
The insolvency of, damage to relations with, Quality, service and delivery or significant worsening of commercial terms with, performance are regularly reviewed We have continued to win new a major customer could seriously affect the Groups based on customer KPIs.
business in each of our key markets.
future results, and could result in loss of market share Credit exposure is actively reviewed and future business opportunities, asset write-offs and managed.
Read more about key customer trends on pages 4 to 11, and about credit risk in note 19 to the financial statements 44 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Operating in global markets Mitigation Risk trend Description Changes in 2016 We operate globally and, as such, results The Group has a diversified portfolio Market conditions are discussed in the could be impacted by global or regional of businesses across its markets Chief Executives review on pages 19 to 21 changes in the macroeconomic or political providing some protection against and the markets overview section on environment, leading to changing consumer individual market or country risks.
pages 4 to 11. demand and preferences.
Lead market indicators are regularly Political and economic uncertainty reviewed so that we can respond Our businesses could be affected by changing continues into 2017 following the US quickly to changing trading conditions.
consumer preference and associated volatility presidential election and other political and Our mitigation strategy includes: in automotive demand: challenging credit economic changes across our markets planning, budgeting and forecasting conditions resulting in lack of access to finance including in Europe, the US and Japan.
processes: by customers and end consumers: delay or flexible management of variable and The UKs vote to leave the EU has resulted cancellation of orders for civil aircraft and fixed cost base, investment spending in some uncertainty in future trading changes in the amount or timing of US military and working capital: arrangements between the UK and the spending: volatility in agricultural and further diversification into other sectors rest of the world, and falling expectations construction and mining markets: exchange which present new opportunities: for UK GDP in the short to medium term.
rate fluctuations: and changing oil prices.
focused restructuring activities, where GKN is a global business with around 90% Potential impact necessary, to respond to markets of its products manufactured outside the which have suppressed levels of UK: this will limit the effect of the vote on Major or prolonged economic or financial economic activity: and the Group.
Weaker sterling following the market deterioration, including movements regular review of our financial risk referendum has so far had a positive in exchange rates of key currencies or political management processes, including effect on the Groups reported sales and uncertainty in one of our key markets, may foreign currency hedging.
earnings but a negative impact on its significantly impact the Groups operational Alignment of our debt to the principal reported debt and liabilities.
currencies in which our revenues and Sustained market weakness could lead to cash flows are generated through cross impairment of assets or site closures.
also materially impact our customers, Currency hedging within our hedging suppliers and other parties with whom we policy.
Laws, regulations and corporate reputation Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend The Group is subject to applicable laws and There have been no significant new A strong culture of doing the regulations in the global jurisdictions and right thing which is regularly regulations impacting the Group during industries in which it operates.
This includes 2016, but our markets continue to be emphasised by senior management.
certain territories where strong ethical Group-wide governance policies and subject to robust enforcement activities in standards may not be well established or relation to existing regulations, particularly procedures, ongoing compliance where parts of the markets in which we training and strong oversight.
in relation to vehicle safety.
Regulations Ongoing monitoring of regulatory We continue to regularly remind our senior include those related to export controls, developments in major jurisdictions.
managers about the importance of doing environmental and safety requirements, Ongoing monitoring of employee the right thing in all our activities.
We product safety, tax laws, intellectual property concerns through our independent emphasised its importance to all senior rights, competition laws and other ethical employee disclosure hotline.
managers as part of our International business practices.
Leadership Conference and as an integral Potential impact part of the GKN DNA see the Chief Executives review on page 20 for further Non-compliance could expose the Group details.
We also rolled out our GKN to fines, penalties, damage to reputation, Governance Handbook to remind suspension or debarment from government employees of our key Group policies and contracting or suspension of export privileges.
procedures and launched refresher training on competition law compliance.
During the year, we have aligned the risk management and governance procedures of our Fokker businesses with the rest of the Group.
Read more about doing the right thing on pages 50 to 59 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Product quality Risk trend Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Maintaining a high level of quality and safety in our Robust engineering design and Excellence in quality has continued products is essential.
We are exposed to warranty, validation processes from initial to be a priority during the year with product recall and liability claims in the event that our design and development through continuous improvement programmes products fail to perform as expected.
ongoing in each of our businesses.
High levels of quality assurance are We continue to monitor quality and In automotive, the industry in general has experienced embedded in robust manufacturing delivery performance as viewed by higher levels of recalls in recent years and the OEMs systems.
our customers and strive to often seek contributions from throughout the supply Ongoing assessments of supply continuously improve product quality, chain.
This risk increases where: chain quality.
safety and delivery key performance vehicle manufacturers offer longer warranty Regular reporting and monitoring of indicators.
periods: quality performance based upon Our cross-divisional Quality more vehicles are being built on standard platforms, customer KPIs.
Committee led a number of initiatives so a single quality issue can affect a large number Maintenance of critical parts lists.
during the year to share best practice, of vehicles: and External agency quality reviews review compliance with Group regulators and our customers are taking a more and certifications.
divisional standards and coordinate stringent approach to recalling vehicles, particularly Robust contract terms and Group-wide quality management if there is a possible safety issue.
In aerospace, customers and regulators impose very strict product safety and quality obligations on all aircraft suppliers.
Potential impact A product failure could result in serious losses, damaging GKNs financial performance and potentially our reputation.
In particular, the costs associated with vehicle or aircraft recalls can be significantly higher than the cost of simply replacing defective products.
Read more about our continuous improvement culture on page 56 Programme management Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend Many of the programmes entered into by the Group Embedded programme New product launch issues are complex and long term and are subject to various management, including investment experienced in the year at our Newton performance conditions which must be adhered to phasing and product testing plant, which had a significant financial throughout the programme.
The management of such activities.
impact, have been addressed and key programmes brings risks related to: learnings shared across the Group Periodic impairment reviews of delays in product development or launch schedules: capitalised development costs, see page 19 for further details.
failure to meet customer specifications or predict including formal review at half year During the year, we have continued technical problems: and year end.
to strengthen our programme inability to manufacture on time for the start of Ongoing review and approval of management processes, organisation production or to required production volumes: key programmes by the Executive and training where required.
This will dependence on key or customer-nominated Committee and the Board.
continue in 2017 where we plan to suppliers: Regular review of lessons learned further strengthen our programme failure to manage effectively internal or customerand best practice sharing.
of independent reviews of key driven change: and Periodic inspection of programmes programme deliverables.
inability to forecast accurately and to manage costs.
Potential impact Ineffective programme management could result in damage to customer relationships or cancellation of a contract resulting in claims for loss and reputational damage.
Poor performance against a contract could also undermine the Groups ability to win future contracts and could result in cost overruns and significantly lower returns than expected.
46 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION People capability Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend The Groups ability to deliver its strategic Competitive reward packages During 2016, we reviewed our incentive plans to objectives is dependent upon the together with focused training ensure that the targets continue to be appropriate recruitment and retention of sufficiently and development programmes.
in light of shareholder expectations and remain qualified, experienced and motivated people.
A culture that motivates individuals an effective tool for attracting, retaining and to perform to the best of their incentivising senior managers and our top It is critical for the Group to secure and abilities.
The resulting changes will form part maintain the relevant capabilities in specific Strong succession and of our remuneration policy proposals put to geographical regions and disciplines in development programmes.
shareholders under the normal three-year cycle.
both existing markets and to support Local initiatives designed to growth markets.
The recruitment and development of young engage young people, promote engineering talent continues to be a focus Potential impact science, technology, engineering supported by our Group-wide and divisional and mathematics STEM subjects The failure to recruit, or the loss of, key graduate programmes and a strong and encourage the next generation personnel, and the failure to plan adequately apprenticeship programme.
We also continued of young engineers.
for succession or develop the potential of to develop and align resources and capabilities employees may impact the Groups ability to to our growth markets.
We are working on deliver its strategic and financial objectives.
improving how we set objectives and manage performance, continually improving our performance management system.
Read more in our sustainability report on pages 50 to 59 Health and safety Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend Safety is our number one priority.
Consistent Group-wide application Regrettably there were two fatalities during We manage safety carefully through of health and safety programmes.
the year see page 52 for further details.
extensive Group-wide processes, yet Regular reporting and monitoring We have completed a thorough investigation we recognise we can never be complacent.
of health and safety performance.
and strengthened our controls accordingly, Therefore we continue to include this as Health and safety audits to ensure particularly in the areas of managing visitors a principal risk and an area which will always adherence to Group policies and and contractors while on site and workplace be a priority for GKN.
movement of vehicles and pedestrians.
A focus on process and behavioural Potential impact The Groups underlying AFR and ASR again safety through a number of improved this year and we continued to increase A serious accident in the workplace could Group-wide risk assessment and our near miss reporting as a key leading indicator have a major impact on employees as training programmes.
of our health and safety performance.
well as their families, colleagues and Maintenance of insurance for costs communities.
Such an incident could also associated with injury-related Hazard awareness and risk assessment result in legal claims, reputational damage actions or claims against the Group.
programmes continued with a particular focus and financial loss.
Targeted incident response and on identifying and addressing potential business continuity plans.
Read more about health and safety on pages 52 and 53 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Information systems resilience Mitigation Risk trend Description Changes in 2016 The Group could be impacted negatively by Formal risk-based governance The Group has continued information technology security threats including framework including dedicated IT to strengthen its mitigating unauthorised access to intellectual property or other security policies and related processes and controls over controlled information.
Interruptions to the Groups compliance processes, ongoing risk the security of our information information systems could also adversely affect its reviews, IT security awareness systems.
In particular, we completed day-to-day operations.
training and robust systems and a review of compliance with the processes to manage access, National Institute of Standards and The inherent security threat is considered highest in information assets, threats Technology NIST IT security GKN Aerospace where data is held in relation to civil and vulnerabilities.
requirements stipulated for all US aerospace technology and controlled military contracts.
External support and benchmarking government contractors by the end of best practice information systems of 2017 and have defined clear Potential impact security and resilience.
A major disruption to information systems could Ongoing development of appropriate have a significant adverse impact on the Groups incident detection and response operations or its ability to trade.
The loss of plans and capabilities.
confidential information, intellectual property or Disaster recovery contingency plans controlled data could result in fines and damage to which are regularly tested including the Groups reputation, and could adversely affect its data centres where the risk is deemed ability to win future contracts.
Executive Committee oversight of IT security and assurance matters.
Pension funding Description Mitigation Changes in 2016 Risk trend The Group has a number of defined benefit pension Close cooperation with Falling yields on long-term bonds plans with aggregate net liabilities of 2,033 million scheme fiduciaries regarding following the UKs decision to leave at 31 December 2016.
These plans are exposed to the management of pension the EU has resulted in an increase in risk of changes in asset values, discount rates, inflation scheme assets and liabilities, the UK pension liability.
In addition, and mortality assumptions.
including asset selection and hedging weaker sterling has so far had actions.
a negative impact on the reported Potential impact liability associated with our overseas Alternative funding and Increases to the pension deficit could lead risk mitigation actions are pensions.
to a requirement for additional cash contributions implemented where appropriate.
The Group continues to have a to these plans, thereby reducing the amount of cash Agreed recovery plans where reasonable degree of visibility over available to meet the Groups other operating, required.
the likely shortto medium-term investment and financing requirements.
funding cash flows and requirements of its pension schemes and builds these cash flows into its budget and strategic planning process.
We will continue to monitor the impact of market volatility and seek to reduce volatility where appropriate.
Discussions with the trustees of the UK pension schemes in relation to the triennial funding valuation are progressing in a constructive manner.
Read more about the Groups pension arrangements in note 24 to the financial statements 48 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Contract risk Mitigation Risk trend Description Changes in 2016 Across our businesses an increasing percentage Robust bid and contract management During the year, we consistently of revenues are generated through contracts which processes including thorough followed the strengthened contract are long term in nature and subject to complex terms reviews of contract terms and management processes introduced and conditions.
Contracts include commitments conditions, contract-specific risk in each division in 2015.
These relating to pricing, quality and safety, and technical assessments and clear delegation of processes aim to ensure effective and customer requirements.
management of risks associated Continuous review of contract with complex design and build Both our aerospace and automotive businesses enter performance.
into design and build contracts.
These are complex contracts that are often long-term, so it is important that the contracted risk is carefully managed.
Specifically within GKN Aerospace, the Group has risk and revenue sharing partnerships with key engine manufacturers.
These contain formalised risk-sharing arrangements relating to risks which are not always within GKN management control.
Potential impact A failure to fully understand contract risks or to anticipate technical challenges and estimate costs accurately at the outset of a contract can lead to unexpected liabilities, increased outturn costs and reduced profitability.
Read more about key examples of new business wins in 2016 in the divisional business reviews on pages 24 to 35 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
