STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION How we manage risk The Group has four levels of defence through which it manages significant risks.
Level 4 Level 3 Level 2 Level 1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Risk ownership and control Monitoring and compliance Independent assurance Our businesses are responsible for Group functions monitor adherence to the Independent assurance over the Groups maintaining an effective risk and control procedures set out by the Executive risk management, control and governance environment as part of day-to-day Committee and provide guidance to the processes is provided by the Groups operations under the direction of the Chief businesses on their application.
This Corporate Audit team, the Head of Risk Executive and the Executive Committee.
includes ongoing reviews by our health and and external assurance providers.
This includes implementation and regular safety audit team, Group IT and financial monitoring and review by divisional control functions.
Representatives of these management of processes and controls functions report their findings to the Level 4 which are designed to ensure compliance Executive Sub-Committee on Governance Oversight with the Boards appetite for risk, Group and Risk or directly to the Executive policies and delegated authority levels, and Committee.
The Sub-Committee reports The Board, Executive Committee and the GKN Code.
These front line controls are twice a year to the Executive Committee on Audit & Risk Committee provide oversight regularly updated to respond to the Groups matters relating to the Groups governance, and direction in accordance with their changing risk profile.
risk management and assurance framework, respective responsibilities, more including areas of concern or proposals information on which is set out in the for improvement.
governance section of this annual report.
Our ERM programme GKNs enterprise risk management Respond ERM programme facilitates a common, The risk response is based on the Identify and Group-wide approach to the identification, assessment of potential risk exposure analyse analysis, and assessment of risks and and an acceptable level of tolerance.
the way in which they are managed, The response reflects whether we accept Manage and controlled and monitored.
the risk on the basis of its assessed level mitigate of exposure and mitigating controls The ERM currently in place, or reduce the risk Monitor Identify and analyse process through additional mitigation to bring it A broad spectrum of risks is considered in line with required levels of tolerance.
The Executive Committee and the Board review the output Assess from ERM at both divisional and Group levels.
Monitor Respond The output from the ERM process is regularly reviewed together with the Manage and mitigate ongoing monitoring of progress against Management controls designed to monitor planned improvement actions.
and mitigate the risks are documented.
Risk owners are assigned for each risk.
Assess The ERM process provides a consistent set of definitions and a common approach to risk evaluation and assesses both risk likelihood and impact.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
