253 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks discussed below are the risks and uncertainties Similarly, our business exposes us to litigation and government relevant to our business, financial condition and results of operations investigations, including but not limited to product liability litigation, that may affect our performance and ability to achieve our objectives.
patent and antitrust litigation and sales and marketing litigation.
The risks below are those that we believe could cause our actual Litigation and government investigations, including related provisions results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
we may make for unfavourable outcomes and increases in related costs such as insurance premiums, could materially and adversely We must adapt to and comply with a broad range of laws and affect our financial results.
These requirements apply to research and development, manufacturing, testing, approval, distribution, sales and marketing of More detail on the status and various uncertainties involved in our Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products and significant unresolved disputes and potential litigation is set out in affect not only the cost of product development but also the time Note 46, Legal proceedings, on pages 226 to 231. required to reach the market and the likelihood of doing so UK regulations require a discussion of the mitigating activities a successfully.
company takes to address principal risks and uncertainties.
A Moreover, as rules and regulations change, and governmental summary of the activities that the Group takes to manage each of interpretation of those rules and regulations evolves, the nature of our principal risks accompanies the description of each principal a particular risk may change.
Changes to certain regulatory regimes risk below.
The principal risks and uncertainties are not listed in may be substantial.
Any change in, and any failure to comply with, order of signicance.
applicable law and regulations could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Patient safety Risk denition Individual Medical Ofcers within the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse Consumer Healthcare businesses and the Groups substantial events from all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings Safety and Pharmacovigilance organisation keep track of any adverse in a timely manner.
issues reported for our products during the course of clinical studies.
Once a Group product is approved for marketing, the Group has Risk impact an extensive post-marketing surveillance and signal detection The impact of this risk is potentially to compromise our ability to system.
Information on possible side effects of products is received conduct robust safety signal detection and interpretation and to from several sources including unsolicited reports from health ensure that appropriate decisions are taken with respect to the risk professionals and patients, regulatory authorities, medical and benefit prole of our products, including the completeness and scientific literature and the media.
It is our policy that employees accuracy of product labels and the pursuit of additional studies are required to report immediately any issues relating to the safety or analyses, as appropriate.
This could lead to potential harm to quality of our products.
Each of our country managers is responsible patients, reputational damage, product liability claims or other for monitoring, exception tracking and training that helps assure the litigation, governmental investigation, regulatory action such as collection of safety information and reporting the information to the fines, penalties or loss of product authorisation.
relevant central safety department, in accordance with Group policy Context and legal requirements.
Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development Information that changes the risk benefit prole of one of the Groups of investigational Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare products will result in certain actions to characterise, communicate Products to determine the safety and efcacy of the products for use and minimise the risk.
Proposed actions are discussed with by humans.
Notwithstanding the efforts we make to determine the regulatory authorities and can include modifying the prescribing safety of our products through appropriate pre-clinical and clinical information, communications to physicians and other healthcare trials, unanticipated side effects may become evident only when providers, restrictions on product prescribing availability to help products are widely introduced into the marketplace.
Questions assure safe use, and sometimes carrying out further clinical trials.
about the safety of our products may be raised not only by our In certain cases, it may be appropriate to stop clinical trials or to ongoing safety surveillance and post-marketing studies but also by withdraw the medicine from the market.
The Groups Global Safety governmental agencies and third-parties that may analyse publicly Board GSB, comprising senior physicians and representatives of available clinical trial results.
supporting functions, is an integral component of the system.
The Group is currently a defendant in a number of product liability The GSB including subsidiary boards dedicated to Consumer lawsuits, including class actions, that involve significant claims for Healthcare Products and Vaccines reviews the safety of damages related to our products.
Litigation, particularly in the US, is investigational and marketed products across the Group and has inherently unpredictable.
Class actions that seek to sweep together the authority to stop a clinical trial if continued conduct of such trial all persons who take our products increase the potential liability.
is not ethically or scientically justied in light of information that has Claims for pain and suffering and punitive damages are frequently emerged since the start of the trial.
asserted in product liability actions and, if allowed, can represent In addition to the medical governance framework within the Group potentially open-ended exposure and thus, could materially and as described above, the Group uses several mechanisms to foster adversely affect the Groups financial results.
the early evaluation, mitigation, and resolution of disputes as they Mitigating activities arise and of potential claims even before they arise.
The goal of The Chief Medical officer CMO is responsible for medical the programmes is to create a culture of early identication and governance for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, evaluation of risks and claims actual or potential, in order to safeguarding human subjects in our clinical trials and patients who minimise liability and litigation.
take our products is of paramount importance, and the CMO has the authoritative role for evaluating and addressing matters of human safety.
254 GSK Annual Report 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Intellectual property Risk denition The expiration dates for patents for our major products which may Failure to appropriately secure, maintain and enforce intellectual affect the dates on which generic versions of our products may be property rights.
introduced are set out on pages 250 to 251.
The listed annual expiration dates are not meant to indicate the certainty of exclusivity Risk impact for the listed products, as patents may be designed around or Any failure to obtain or subsequent loss of patent protection in a invalidated prior to their expiration, resulting in earlier entry of a market, including reducing the availability or scope of patent rights or generic product.
Legal proceedings involving patent challenges are compulsory licensing in which a government forces a manufacturer set out in Note 46 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
to license its patents for specic products to a competitor, could Generic drug manufacturers have also exhibited a readiness to materially and adversely affect our financial results in that market.
market generic versions of many of our most important products prior Absence of adequate patent or data exclusivity protection in a market to the expiration of our patents.
Their efforts may involve challenges could limit the opportunity to rely on that market for future sales growth for our products, which could also materially and adversely to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their affect our financial results in that market.
generic product does not infringe our patents.
As a result, we are and may continue to be involved in legal proceedings involving patent Context challenges, which may materially and adversely affect our financial As an innovative Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare results.
Moreover, in the US, it has become common for patent Products company, we seek to obtain appropriate intellectual infringement actions to prompt claims that anti-trust laws have been property protection for our products.
Our ability to obtain and enforce violated during the prosecution of the patent or during litigation patents and other proprietary rights with regard to our products is involving the defence of that patent.
Such claims by direct and critical to our business strategy and success.
Pharmaceutical indirect purchasers and other payers are typically led as class products are usually only protected from being copied by generic actions.
The relief sought may include treble damages and restitution manufacturers during the period of exclusivity provided by an issued claims.
Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought by government patent or related intellectual property rights such as regulatory data entities or private parties following settlement of patent litigation, protection or orphan drug status.
Following expiration of certain alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive and in violation intellectual property rights, a generic manufacturer may lawfully of anti-trust laws.
A successful anti-trust claim by a private party or produce a generic version of the product.
government entity could materially and adversely affect our financial We operate in markets where intellectual property laws and patent results.
ofces are still developing and where governments may be unwilling Mitigating activities to grant or enforce intellectual property rights in a fashion similar to Our Global Patents group focuses on securing, maintaining and more developed regions such as the EU, Japan and the US.
Some enforcing our patent rights.
This global group maintains internal developing countries have limited, or threatened to limit, effective processes designed to seek to ensure successful procurement, patent protection for pharmaceutical products in order to facilitate enforcement and defence of our patents with the goal of lawfully early competition within their markets from generic manufacturers.
maintaining exclusive rights in markets for our products.
We face competition from manufacturers of proprietary and generic The Global Patents group monitors new developments in pharmaceutical products in all of our major markets.
Introduction of international patent law to seek to ensure appropriate protection of generic products, particularly in the US where we have our highest our assets.
Sometimes acting through trade associations, we work turnover and margins, typically leads to a rapid and dramatic loss of with local governments to seek to secure effective and balanced sales and reduces our revenues and margins for our proprietary intellectual property laws designed to meet the needs of patients products.
Since there is no abbreviated pathway that leads to and payers while supporting long-term investment in innovation.
substitutable generic vaccines, competition in that market arises from branded products or generic branded products and erosion of sales, revenues and margins is less dramatic.
In addition, the proprietary technology used in manufacture and the capital investment in facilities create barriers to entry into the vaccine markets.
We depend on certain key products for a significant portion of our sales.
One such product is our respiratory pharmaceutical product Seretide Advair which accounts for significant Group sales worldwide.
The patent for compositions containing the combination of active substances in Seretide Advair has expired.
Generic products containing the same combination of active substances as Seretide Advair in both dry powder inhalers and metered dose inhalers have been launched by several manufacturers in a number of European markets.
New drugs applications ANDAs have been led in the US by generic competitors for Seretide Advair Diskus and were approved in January 2017.
The date of such approvals is uncertain at this time but could come as early as March 2017.
The timing of an ANDA for Advair HFA in the US is uncertain.
We have patents on the formulation and device used in the metered dose inhaler, although the protection afforded by these patents is uncertain at present.
Similar patents exist for Ventolin HFA and Flovent HFA.
255 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Product quality Risk denition An extensive global network of quality and compliance professionals Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices is aligned with each business unit to provide oversight and assist cGMP or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the with the delivery of quality performance and operational compliance, supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and from site level to senior management level.
Management oversight distribution of products.
of those activities is accomplished through a hierarchy of Quality Councils and through an independent Chief Product Quality Risk impact officer and Global Product Quality Ofce.
In 2016 we introduced A failure to ensure product quality could have far reaching a revised approach to monitoring Regulated Quality GxP implications in terms of patient and consumer safety resulting in performance to provide the Corporate Executive Team with an product launch delays, supply interruptions and product recalls integrated assessment of key performance indicators KPIs.
which would have the potential to do damage to GSKs reputation.
The dened KPIs cover manufacturing practice, clinical practice, Associated regulatory, legal, and financial consequences could pharmacovigilance practice, regulatory practice, drug safety materially and adversely affect company reputation and financial assessment, and animal welfare.
We have implemented a risk-based approach to assessing and Context managing third party suppliers that provide materials which are used Patients, consumers and healthcare professionals trust the quality in nished products.
Contract manufacturers making our products of our products.
Product quality may be inuenced by many factors are expected to comply with GSK standards and are regularly including product and process understanding, consistency of audited to provide assurance that standards are met.
manufacturing components, compliance with GMP, accuracy of labelling, reliability of the external supply chain, and the embodiment All staff members are regularly trained to ensure that cGMP of an overarching quality culture.
The internal and external standards and behaviours based on our values are followed.
environment continues to evolve as new products, new markets Additionally, advocacy and communication programmes are routinely deployed to ensure consistent messages are conveyed across the and new legislation are introduced, with increasing scrutiny of data organisation, whether they originate from changes in regulation, integrity, supply continuity and drug shortages.
Review of inspections learnings from inspections, or regulatory submissions.
There is a conducted across the industry by national regulatory authorities continued emphasis on the value of quality performance metrics to during 2016 highlighted an ongoing focus on data integrity, third facilitate improvement and foster a culture of right first time.
party oversight and the timely escalation of pertinent issues to regulatory authorities.
Mitigating activities We have developed and implemented a single Pharmaceutical Quality System PQS that defines the quality standards and systems for our businesses associated with Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products and clinical trial materials.
This system has a broad scope and is applicable throughout the product lifecycle from R&D to mature commercial supply.
There is no single external quality standard or system that governs the detailed global regulatory expectations for the quality of medicinal products.
Requirements are often complex and fragmented across national and regional boundaries.
Consequently, we have adopted the internationally recognised principles from the ICH Q10: Pharmaceutical Quality Systems framework as the basis for the GSK PQS.
This is an industry standard which incorporates quality concepts throughout the product lifecycle.
The GSK PQS is augmented by a consolidation of the numerous regulatory requirements dened by markets across the world, which assures that the GSK PQS meets external expectations for product quality in the markets supplied.
The PQS is regularly updated to ensure that it keeps pace with the evolving external regulatory environment.
New scientific understanding and operational improvements are incorporated into the PQS to support the delivery of consistent and reliable products.
256 GSK Annual Report 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial controls and reporting Risk denition There continues to be a significant international focus on tax reform, Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses including the OECDs Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS due to treasury activities: failure to report accurate financial project and European Commission initiatives such as the increased information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable use of scal state aid investigations.
Together with domestic legislation: failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight initiatives around the world, these may result in significant changes to over third-party relationships.
established tax principles and an increase in tax authority disputes.
These, regardless of their merit or outcomes, can be costly, divert Risk impact management attention and may adversely impact our reputation.
Non-compliance with existing or new financial reporting and Third parties are critical to our business delivery and are an integral disclosure requirements, or changes to the recognition of income part of the solution to improve our productivity, quality, service and and expenses, could expose us to litigation and regulatory action and innovation.
We rely on third parties, including suppliers, distributors, could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
Changes individual contractors, licensees, and other pharmaceutical and in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign dividends, controlled companies, R&D tax biotechnology collaboration partners for discovery, manufacture, credits, taxation of intellectual property or a restriction in tax relief and marketing of our products and important business processes.
allowed on the interest on intra-group debt, could impact our Third party business relationships present a material risk.
significant losses may arise from inconsistent example, we share critical and sensitive information such as application of treasury policies, transactional or settlement errors, or marketing plans, clinical data, and employee data with specic counterparty defaults.
Any changes in the substance or application third parties who are conducting the relevant outsourced business of the governing tax laws, failure to comply with such tax laws or operations.
Inadequate protection or misuse of this information by significant losses due to treasury activities could materially and third parties could have significant business impact.
Similarly, we use adversely affect our financial results.
distributors and agents in a range of activities such as promotion and tendering which have inherent risks such as inappropriate promotion Failure to adequately manage third party relationships could result in or unethical business practices.
insufficient internal compliance and business disruption and exposure to risk ranging from sub-optimal controls by the distributors could affect our reputation.
These risks contractual terms and conditions, to severe business sanctions and are further increased by the complexities of working with large or significant reputational damage.
Any of these consequences could numbers of third parties.
materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial results.
Mitigating activities Context The Group maintains a control environment designed to identify The Group is required by the laws of various jurisdictions to disclose material errors in financial reporting and disclosure.
The design publicly its financial results and events that could materially affect and operating effectiveness of key financial reporting controls are the financial results of the Group.
Regulators routinely review the regularly tested by management and via independent business financial statements of listed companies for compliance with new, monitoring.
This provides us with the assurance that controls over revised or existing accounting and regulatory requirements.
The key financial reporting and disclosure processes have operated Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory effectively.
requirements concerning our financial statements and disclosure of We keep up to date with the latest developments in financial material information including any transactions relating to business reporting requirements by working with our external auditors and restructuring such as acquisitions and divestitures.
we be subject to an investigation into potential non-compliance with There is shared accountability for financial results across our accounting and disclosure requirements, this may lead to businesses.
Financial results are reviewed and approved by regional restatements of previously reported results and significant penalties.
management and then reviewed with the Financial Controller and the Our Treasury group deals in high value transactions, mostly foreign Chief Financial officer CFO.
This allows our Financial Controller exchange and cash management transactions, on a daily basis.
and our CFO to assess the evolution of the business over time, and These transactions involve market volatility and counterparty risk.
to evaluate performance to plan.
significant judgements are reviewed The Groups effective tax rate reects rates of tax in the jurisdictions and confirmed by senior management.
Business reorganisations and in which the Group operates that are both higher and lower than the newly acquired activities are integrated into risk assessments and UK rate and takes into account regimes that encourage innovation appropriate controls and reviews are applied.
Counterparty exposure and investment in science by providing tax incentives which, if is subject to dened limits approved by the Board for both credit changed, could affect the Groups tax rate.
In addition, the worldwide rating and individual counterparties.
nature In 2016, we created a Finance Risk and Controls Centre of of our operations and cross-border supply routes can result in Excellence to maintain the Finance control framework.
We added conicting claims from tax authorities as to the profits to be taxed in resources to ensure processes and controls were maintained during individual countries.
The tax charge included in our financial business transformation, the upgrade of our financial systems and statements is our best estimate of the Groups tax liability pending processes and the ongoing integration of the former Novartis audits by tax authorities.
businesses into our control and reporting framework.
Additional risk mitigation was introduced by amending the programme timelines of system upgrades.
257 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Financial controls and reporting continued The Group maintains a Disclosure Committee reporting to the Each business unit leadership team retains ultimate accountability Board, which reviews the Groups quarterly results and Annual for managing third party interactions and risks.
When working Report and Form 20-F and determines throughout the year, in with third parties, all employees are expected to manage external consultation with its legal advisors, whether it is necessary to interactions and commitments responsibly.
This expectation is disclose publicly information about the Group through Stock embedded in our values and Code of Conduct.
It is our responsibility Exchange announcements.
The Treasury Management Group that all activities are performed safely and in compliance with meets on a regular basis to seek to ensure that liquidity, interest applicable laws and our values, standards and Code of Conduct.
rate, counterparty, foreign currency transaction and foreign To seek to guide and enforce our global principles for interactions currency translation risks are all managed in line with the with third parties, we have in place a policy framework applicable to conservative approach as detailed in the associated risk buying goods and services, managing our external spend, paying and strategies and policies which have been adopted by the Board.
working with our third parties.
This policy framework applies to all Oversight of Treasurys role in managing counterparty risk in line employees and complementary workers worldwide.
The framework is with agreed policy is performed by a Corporate Compliance officer, complemented by technical and local standards designed to seek to who operates independently of Treasury.
Further details on mitigation ensure alignment with the nature of third party interactions, such as of Treasury Risks can be found on pages 212 to 213 in Note 42, good manufacturing practice and adherence to local laws and Financial instruments and related disclosures.
Tax risk is managed regulations.
Independent business monitoring of key financial and by a set of policies and procedures to seek to ensure consistency operational controls is in place and is supplemented by periodic and compliance with tax legislation.
We seek to maintain open, checks from the companys independent Audit & Assurance function.
positive relationships with governments and tax authorities Continuous monitoring and performance of third parties is enhanced worldwide.
We monitor government debate on tax policy in our key through the Third Party Oversight programme managed through the jurisdictions to deal proactively with any potential future changes in Global Ethics and Compliance organisation.
The global programme, tax law.
We engage advisors and legal counsel to review tax which completed deployment across LATAM and South East Asia legislation and the implications for our business.
Where relevant we countries in 2016, takes an enterprise wide view of third party related are active in providing relevant business input to tax policy makers.
The programme is strengthening risk assessment and due significant decisions are considered and agreed by the Tax diligence efforts on third parties and improving the overall Governance Board, which meets quarterly and is made up of senior management of our third party risks through the lifecycle of the personnel from across the Finance group.
third party engagement A centralised team of dedicated specialists are responsible for managing transactional tax reporting and compliance.
We submit tax returns according to statutory time limits and engage with tax authorities to seek to ensure our tax affairs are current, entering into arrangements such as Continuous Audit Programmes and Advance Pricing Agreements to provide long-term certainty over tax treatment where appropriate.
In exceptional cases where matters cannot be settled by agreement with tax authorities, we may have to resolve disputes through formal appeals or other proceedings.
258 GSK Annual Report 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Anti-Bribery and Corruption Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply Our Code of Conduct, values and behaviours and commitment to with our Anti-bribery and corruption ABAC principles and zero tolerance are integral to how we mitigate this risk.
In light of the standards, as well as with all applicable legislation.
complexity and geographic breadth of this risk, we constantly evolve our oversight of activities and data, reinforce to our employees and Risk impact contractors clear expectations regarding acceptable behaviours, and Failure to mitigate this risk could expose the Group and associated maintain on-going communications between the Group headquarters persons to governmental investigation, regulatory action and civil and local markets.
The Group has an enterprise-wide ABAC programme designed to In addition to legal penalties, a failure to prevent bribery through ensure compliance with the Groups ABAC policies and prevent the complying with ABAC legislation and regulations could have risk of bribery and corruption.
It builds on our values and business substantial implications for the reputation of the company, the standards to form a comprehensive and practical approach to credibility of senior leaders, and an erosion of investor confidence compliance, and is exible to the evolving nature of our business.
in our governance and risk management.
Our ABAC programme is built on best in class principles and a range Context of features which collectively enable us to manage the risk from top We are exposed to bribery and corruption risk through our global down and bottom up.
For example, the programme comprises business operations.
In some markets, the government structure top-level commitment from the Group Board of Directors and and the rule of law are less developed, and this has a bearing on our leadership: a global risk assessment to enable targeted intervention bribery and corruption risk exposure.
In addition to the global nature and compliance monitoring activities.
The programme is underpinned of our business, the healthcare sector is highly competitive and by a global ABAC policy and written standards that address subject to regulation.
This increases the instances where we are commercial and other practices that give rise to ABAC risk and exposed to activities and interactions with bribery and corruption risk.
In addition, the programme The Group has been subject to a number of ABAC inquiries.
We mandates enhanced controls over interactions with government have reached a resolution with US authorities in 2016 regarding their ofcials and during business development transactions.
All ABAC inquiry, whilst the inquiry of the UK authorities is ongoing.
employees are required to complete comprehensive ABAC training These investigations are discussed further in Note 46 Legal dependent on role requirements.
Programme governance is provided by the Groups ABAC Governance Board which includes representation from key functional areas and business units.
We have a dedicated ABAC team responsible for the implementation and evolution of the programme in response to developments in the internal and external environment.
This is complemented with independent oversight and assurance undertaken by the Audit and Assurance and Independent Business Monitoring teams.
We continually benchmark our ABAC programme against other large multinational companies and use external expertise to drive improvements in the programme.
259 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Commercialisation Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to execute business strategies, or effectively manage Our strategic objectives are designed to ensure the Group achieves competitive opportunities and threats in accordance with the letter its mission of helping people do more, feel better and live longer.
and spirit of legal, industry, or the Groups requirements.
The Group continues to strive for new product launches that are competitive and resourced effectively, as well as a healthy proportion Risk impact of its sales ratio attributable to new product or innovation sales.
Failure to manage risks related to commercialisation could materially This innovation helps the Group defray the effect, for example, of and adversely affect our ability to grow a diversied global business downward price pressure in major markets, declining emerging and deliver more products of value for patients and consumers.
market growth and negative foreign exchange impact.
Failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations may Establishing new products that are priced to balance expectations result in governmental investigation, regulatory action and legal of patients and consumers, HCPs, payers, shareholders, and the proceedings brought against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs.
Failure to provide accurate and complete information community enables the Group to maintain a strong global business related to our products may result in incomplete awareness of the and remain relevant to the needs of patients and consumers.
Our risk benefit prole of our products and possibly suboptimal treatment values provide a guide for how we lead and make decisions.
We of patients and consumers.
Any of these consequences could constantly strive to do the right thing and deliver quality products, materially and adversely affect the Group.
seeking to ensure our behaviours reect our values and the mission of our company.
Any practices that are found to be misaligned with our values could also result in reputational damage and dilute trust established with We have taken action at all levels of the Group to enhance and external stakeholders.
improve standards and procedures for promotional interactions, based on our values of transparency, respect, integrity and patient Context focus.
We have policies and standards governing promotional We operate on a global basis in an industry that is both highly activities undertaken by the Group or on its behalf.
All of these competitive and highly regulated.
Our competitors may make activities we conduct worldwide must conform to high ethical, significant product innovations and technical advances and may regulatory, and industry standards.
Where local standards differ intensify price competition.
In light of this competitive environment, from global standards, the more stringent of the two applies.
continued development of commercially viable new products and the development of additional uses for existing products are critical to The Group has harmonised policies and procedures to guide achieve our strategic objectives.
As do other pharmaceutical, vaccine above country commercial practices processes as well as claried and consumer companies, the Group faces downward price applicable standards when engaging in the markets.
Each business pressure in major markets, declining emerging market growth, and unit within the Group has adopted GSKs Internal Control Framework negative foreign exchange impact.
to support the assessment and management of its risks.
Commercial practices activities have appropriate monitoring programmes and Developing new Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and Consumer Healthcare oversight from both business unit Risk Management and Compliance products is a costly, lengthy and an uncertain process.
A product Boards and Country Executive Boards that manage risks across candidate may fail at any stage, including after significant Group in-country business activities.
economic and human resources have been invested.
Our competitors products or pricing strategies or any failure on our All promotional materials and activities must be reviewed and part to develop commercially successful products, or to develop approved according to the Groups policies and standards, and additional uses for existing products, could materially and adversely conducted in accordance with local laws and regulations, to seek affect our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
to ensure that these materials and activities fairly represent the products or services of the Group.
When necessary, we have We are committed to the ethical and responsible commercialisation disciplined up to and including termination employees who have of our products to support our mission to improve the quality of engaged in misconduct and have broadened our ability to claw back human life by enabling people to do more, feel better, and live longer.
remuneration from senior management in the event of misconduct.
To accomplish this mission, we engage the healthcare community in various ways to provide important information about our medicines.
The Group continues to evolve its commercial operating model, embedding industry leading changes in the compensation model Promotion of approved products seeks to ensure that healthcare for sales professionals and their managers who interact with HCPs.
professionals HCPs globally have access to information they need, These changes eliminated rewards based on sales or market share that patients and consumers have access to the information and of prescription products in individuals territories in favour of rewards products they need and that products are prescribed, recommended based on the quality of the individuals interactions with HCPs.
or used in a manner that provides the maximum healthcare benefit to Furthermore, from the beginning of 2016, GSK stopped paying patients and consumers.
We are committed to communicating HCPs to deliver promotional presentations for GSK to other HCPs information related to our approved products in a responsible, legal, or sponsor their travel to medical educational conferences.
While business units within the Group are confronted by common types of commercialisation risks, differences do exist in the types of risks that present themselves, the degree of risk presented in that business unit and, consequently, how those risks are managed.
This reects the different nature and prole of the business units across the Group.
260 GSK Annual Report 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Research practices Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound preclinical and We established an Ofce of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy clinical research.
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities OAWES, led by the Chief of Animal Welfare, Ethics and Strategy, that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, industry, or to seek to ensure the humane and responsible care of animals and the Groups requirements.
increase the knowledge and application of non-animal alternatives for the Group.
OAWES embeds a framework of animal welfare Risk impact governance, promotes application of 3Rs replacement, renement The impacts of the risk include harm to human subjects, reputational and reduction of animals in research, explores opportunities for damage, failure to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for our cross-industry data sharing, and conducts quality assessments.
products, governmental investigation, legal proceedings brought We make information available on our studies, including summaries against the Group by governmental and private plaintiffs product of the results whether positive or negative.
GSK was the first liability suits and claims for damages, and regulatory action such company to publish clinical study reports that form the basis of as fines, penalties, or loss of product authorisation.
Any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our financial submissions to regulatory agencies and we have publically posted results.
more than 1,830 clinical study reports in addition to more than 6,000 study result summaries.
Detailed patient-level data from Context approximately 2,000 clinical studies can be requested and Research relating to animals can raise ethical concerns.
attempt to address this proactively, animal studies remain a vital part We have a Global Human Biological Samples Management HBSM of our research.
In many cases, they are the only method that can be governance framework in place to oversee the ethical and lawful used to investigate the effects of a potential new medicine in a living acquisition and management of human biological samples.
Our body before it is tested in humans, and they are generally mandated global HBSM network champions HBSM activities and provides by regulators and ethically imperative.
Animal research can provide an experienced group to support internal sample custodians on critical information about the causes of diseases and how they best practice.
It remains an important priority to enhance our develop.
Nonetheless, we are continually seeking ways in which we data integrity controls.
A Data Integrity Committee was in place can minimise our use of animals in research, whilst complying with throughout the year to provide oversight and a Data Integrity Quality regulatory requirements.
Assurance team began conducting assessments intended to Clinical trials in healthy volunteers and patients are used to assess provide independent business monitoring of our internal controls and demonstrate an investigational products efcacy and safety for R&D activities or further evaluate the product once it has been approved for marketing.
We also work with human biological samples.
These The Chief Regulatory officer oversees the activities of the samples are fundamental to the discovery, development and safety Regulatory Governance Board which includes promoting monitoring of our products.
The integrity of our data is essential compliance with regulatory requirements and Group-wide to success in all stages of the research data lifecycle: design, standards, making regulatory services more efficient and agile, and generation, recording and management, analysis, reporting and further aligning regulatory capabilities with our international business storage and retrieval.
Our research data is governed by legislation needs at the enterprise and local levels.
The Group strictly prohibits and regulatory requirements.
Research data and supporting promotional practices prior to marketing authorisation, and care is documents are core components at various stages of pipeline taken to seek to ensure that SE activity is not promotional.
progression decision-making and also form the content of Specic accountability and authorisation for SE resides within the regulatory submissions.
Poor data integrity can compromise Medical Governance framework that is overseen by the Global our research efforts.
Medical Topic Board GMTB, accountable to the Chief Medical There are innate complexities and interdependencies required officer.
GMTB is responsible for oversight of applicable policies for regulatory lings, particularly given our global research and and seeking to ensure the highest level of integrity and continuous development footprint.
Rapid changes in submission requirements development of SE at GSK.
This framework seeks to ensure the in developing countries continue to increase the complexity of right level of accountability and clear programme guidance at worldwide product registration.
scientific engagement SE, dened above country across R&D business units and in Local Operating as the interaction and exchange of information between GSK and Companies.
external communities in order to advance scientific and medical The Research Practices risk is now aligned with a new Enterprise understanding, including the appropriate development and use framework that seeks to ensure strengthened governance across of our products, is an essential part of scientific discourse.
Such the R&D businesses in Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer non-promotional engagement with external stakeholder groups Healthcare.
Under the leadership of the Chief Research Practices is vital to GSKs mission and necessary for scientific and medical officer, management of the risk will take a practical approach to advance.
The scope of SE activities includes: advisory boards: information sharing, streamlining risk identication and escalation scientific consultancies: pre-planned informal discussions with while ensuring ownership stays at the business unit level and allows healthcare professionals HCP : sharing medical information: for a proportional risk treatment plan.
publications including abstracts to congresses : scientific interactions with payers, patients, governments and the media: and support for independent medical education.
SE activities are essential but present legal, regulatory, and reputational risk if the sharing of data, invited media coverage or payments for service providers has, or is perceived to have, promotional intent.
The risks are particularly high where HCP engagement and associated financial and or transfer of value disclosures are required by GSK.
261 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information Environment, health and safety and sustainability Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to manage environment, health and safety and substainability The Corporate Executive Team CET is responsible for EHS&S EHS&S risks in line with our objectives and policies and with governance for the Group under a global policy.
Under that policy, relevant laws and regulations.
the CET seeks to ensure there is a control framework in place to manage the risks, impacts and legal compliance issues that relate Risk impact to EHS&S and for assigning responsibility to senior managers for Failure to manage EHS&S risks could lead to significant harm to providing and maintaining those controls.
Individual managers seek people, the environment and communities in which we operate, fines, to ensure that the EHS&S control framework is effective and well failure to meet stakeholder expectations and regulatory requirements, implemented in their respective business area and that it is fully litigation or regulatory action, and damage to the Groups reputation compliant with all applicable laws and regulations, adequately and could materially and adversely affect our financial results.
resourced, maintained, communicated, and monitored.
Additionally, Context each employee is personally responsible for ensuring that all The Group is subject to health, safety and environmental laws of applicable local standard operating procedures are followed by various jurisdictions.
These laws impose duties to protect people, them and expected to take responsibility for EHS&S matters.
the environment, and the communities in which we operate, as well Our risk-based, proactive approach is articulated in our refreshed as potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites.
We have Global EHS&S standard which supports our EHS&S policy and also been identied as a potentially responsible party under the our objective to discover, develop, manufacture, supply and sell our US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and products without harming people or the environment.
In addition to Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to the design and provision of safe facilities, plant and equipment, we our use or ownership of such sites in the US.
Failure to manage operate rigorous procedures that help us eliminate hazards where these environmental risks properly could result in litigation, regulatory practicable and protect employees health and well-being.
Through action and additional remedial costs that may materially and our continuing efforts to improve environmental sustainability we adversely affect our financial results.
See Note 46 to the financial have reduced our value chain carbon intensity per pack, water statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of the consumption and waste generation.
We actively manage our environmental related proceedings in which we are involved.
environmental remediation obligations and seek to ensure practices We routinely accrue amounts related to our liabilities for are environmentally sustainable and compliant.
performance results are shared externally each year in our Responsible Business Supplement.
Information protection Risk denition Mitigating activities The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed The Group has a global information protection policy that is to those not authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be supported through a dedicated programme of activity.
To increase available or are corrupted.
our focus on information security, the Group established the Information Protection & Privacy function to provide strategy, Risk impact direction, and oversight while enhancing our global information Failure to adequately protect critical and sensitive systems and security capabilities.
information may result in loss of commercial or strategic advantage, damage to our reputation, litigation, or other business disruption We assess changes in our information protection risk environment including regulatory sanction, which could materially and adversely through briengs by government agencies, subscription to affect our financial results.
commercial threat intelligence services and knowledge sharing with other pharmaceutical and cross-industry companies.
Context We rely on critical and sensitive systems and data, such as corporate We aim to use industry best practices as part of our information strategic plans, sensitive personally identiable information PII, security policies, processes and technologies and invest in strategies intellectual property, manufacturing systems and trade secrets.
that are commensurate with the changing nature of the security There is the potential that our computer systems or information may threat landscape.
A Privacy Centre of Excellence has been be exposed to misuse or unauthorised disclosure.
We are also established to ensure compliance prior to the deadline with the subject to various laws that govern the processing of PlI.
new General Data Protection Requirements GDPRs.
All employees are required to complete training on the appropriate handling and maintaining of PII.
The Groups Binding Corporate Rules BCRs have been approved by the UK Information Commissioners Ofce for human resource and research activities data.
BCRs have been recognised by 29 European states and Switzerland allowing us to transfer PII internationally between the Groups entities without individual privacy agreements in each European Union country.
The approval in the remaining two countries, Greece and Romania is expected in 2017.
262 GSK Annual Report 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Supply continuity and crisis management Risk denition Mitigating activities Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant nished product: Our supply chain model is designed to ensure the supply, quality inability to respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner and security of our products globally, as far as possible.
We closely to recover and sustain critical operations, including key supply monitor, through the Supply Chain Governance Committees, the chains.
This risk was previously called Crisis and continuity inventory status and delivery of our products with the aim to ensure management.
that customers have the Pharmaceutical, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare products they need.
Risk impact Improved links between commercial forecasting and manufacturing We recognise that failure to supply our products can adversely made possible by our core commercial cycle should, over time, impact consumers and patients who rely on them.
A material reduce the risk associated with demand uctuations and any impact interruption of supply or exclusion from healthcare programmes on our ability to supply or the cost of write-offs where products could expose us to litigation or regulatory action and financial exceed their expiry date.
Each node of the supply chain is periodically penalties that could adversely affect the Groups financial results.
reviewed to ensure adequate safety stock, while balancing working The Groups international operations, and those of its partners, capital in our end-to-end supply chain.
Safety stocks and backup expose our workforce, facilities, operations and information supply arrangements for medically critical and high-revenue products technology to potential disruption from natural events e. g. storm or are in place to help mitigate this risk.
In addition, we routinely monitor earthquake, man-made events e. g. civil unrest, terrorism, and global the compliance of manufacturing external suppliers in order to emergencies e. g. Ebola outbreak, Flu pandemic.
It is important that identify and manage risks in our supply base.
Where practical, we GSK has robust crisis management and recovery plans in place to minimise our dependence on single sources of supply for critical manage such events.
Where alternative sourcing arrangements are not possible, our Context inventory strategy aims to protect the supply chain from unanticipated Our supply chain operations are subject to review and approval by disruption.
various regulatory agencies that effectively provide our licence to We continue to implement anti-counterfeit systems such as product operate.
Failure by our manufacturing and distribution facilities or serialisation in accordance with emerging supply chain requirements by suppliers of key services and materials could lead to litigation or around the world.
A corporate policy requires each business unit regulatory action such as product recalls and seizures, interruption and functional area head to ensure effective crisis management of supply, delays in the approval of new products, and suspension and business continuity plans are in place that include authorised of manufacturing operations pending resolution of manufacturing response and recovery strategies, key areas of responsibility and or logistics issues.
clear communication routes, before any business disruption occurs.
We rely on materials and services provided by third party suppliers Corporate Security supports the business by: coordinating crisis to make our products, including active pharmaceutical ingredients management and business continuity training: facilitating simulation API, antigens, intermediates, commodities, and components for exercises: assessing Group preparedness and recovery capability: the manufacture and packaging of Pharmaceutical, Vaccine and and providing assurance oversight of the Groups central repository Consumer Healthcare products.
Some of the third party services of plans supporting our critical business processes.
Each business procured, such as services provided by contract manufacturing unit has a governance board which performs risk oversight and and clinical research organisations to support development of key monitoring including identifying new and emerging threats.
The products, are important to ensure continuous operation of our Group has a coordinated approach to evaluate and manage the businesses.
implications for our business regarding the UKs exit from the Although we undertake business continuity planning, single sourcing European Union.
of certain components, bulk API, nished products, and services These activities help ensure an appropriate level of readiness and creates a supply risk in the event of regulatory non-compliance or response capability is maintained.
We also develop and maintain physical disruption at the manufacturing sites or logistics system.
partnerships with external bodies like the Business Continuity If any of the small number of single-source, third party suppliers and Institute and the UN International Strategy for Disaster Risk service providers we use fail to full their contractual obligations in a Reduction, which helps improve our business continuity initiatives timely manner or experience regulatory non-compliance or physical in disaster-prone areas and supports the development of community disruption of their logistics and manufacturing sites, this could also resilience to disasters.
result in delays or service interruptions.
We use effective crisis management and business continuity planning to provide for the health and safety of our people and to minimise impact to the Group, by maintaining functional operations following a natural or man-made disaster, or a public health emergency.
