18 GSK Annual Report 2016 We manage current and emerging risks that may impact our strategic priorities through rigorous and consistent risk management processes.
The market in which Our business model A clear strategy for growth How we measure success we operate Our principal risks are regularly reviewed Principal risk and description by the Corporate Executive Team to assess whether they are reective of the most Patient safety significant risks facing the organisation, Failure to appropriately collect, review, follow up, or report adverse events from based on evolving internal and external all potential sources, and to act on any relevant findings in a timely manner.
The table opposite lists the principal risks that were managed across Intellectual property the Group in 2016.
It also includes our Failure to appropriately secure, maintain and enforce intellectual property rights.
denition of each risk and our assessment of any change in the risk during the year, both at a macro level and after GSKs mitigating activities.
Product quality Failure to comply with current Good Manufacturing Practices cGMP or inadequate controls and governance of quality in the supply chain covering supplier standards, manufacturing and distribution of products.
Financial controls and reporting Failure to comply with current tax law or incurring significant losses due to treasury activities: failure to report accurate financial information in compliance with accounting standards and applicable legislation: failure to maintain adequate governance and oversight over third-party relationships.
Anti-bribery and Corruption Failure of GSK employees, consultants and third parties to comply with our Anti-bribery and Corruption ABAC principles and standards, as well as all applicable legislation.
Commercialisation Failure to execute business strategies, or effectively manage competitive opportunities and threats in accordance with the letter and spirit of legal, industry or the Groups requirements.
Research practices Failure to adequately conduct ethical and sound pre-clinical and clinical research.
In addition, failure to engage in scientific activities that are consistent with the letter and spirit of the law and industry, or the Groups requirements.
Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability Arrows key Failure to manage Environment, Health and Safety and Sustainability EHS&S risks Increased risk in line with our objectives and policies and with relevant laws and regulations.
No change to risk Information protection The risk to GSK business activities if information becomes disclosed to those not Decreased risk authorised to see it, or if information or systems fail to be available or are corrupted.
Supply continuity and crisis management Failure to deliver a continuous supply of compliant nished product: inability to For more extensive information on GSK risks, respond effectively to a crisis incident in a timely manner to recover and sustain including risk impact and mitigating activities, critical operations.
This risk was previously called Crisis and continuity management.
See page 56 for our viability statement.
19 GSK Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance and remuneration Financial statements Investor information How we manage risks Macro GSK exposure 2016 assessment environment post mitigation The macro environment has remained stable, with patient safety regulation and standards remaining consistent.
We have improved safety data management, patient communications and product labelling.
These improvements are being incorporated throughout the organisation, leaving the GSK exposure level unchanged.
The macro risk is unchanged due to no significant changes that affect our ability to secure, maintain and enforce patents.
The GSK exposure level is stable, based on the maturity of our risk management processes and general ability to enforce and defend patents where appropriate.
The macro risk is higher, with increasing regulatory scrutiny of data integrity, supply continuity and drug shortages, accompanied by new guidance and revised legislation.
Despite the challenging macro environment, the GSK exposure level is unchanged, reecting effective responses to external regulatory reviews during 2016, a greater focus on data integrity and improved governance.
The macro environment has remained stable, due to no material change in financial reporting requirements.
The unchanged GSK exposure level is reective of the significant IT systems and operating model changes that are being implemented throughout the organisation, as well as continued risk from third party relationships.
While we expect that these system and model changes will reduce risk in the future, the risk impact from these changes is being mitigated through strong risk management and governance, as well as the continued progress of the global Third Party Oversight programme.
The macro environment has remained stable, with the regulatory environment and global attitude towards Anti-bribery and Corruption remaining within expectations.
The GSK exposure level is lower as our risk management practices have gained strength and are embedded deeper across the organisation through our ABAC programme, which builds on the Group's values and standards and has enabled us to manage the risk more effectively.
The macro risk level has increased due to greater industry pricing pressures and increased regulatory scrutiny in respect of sales and promotional activities.
The GSK exposure level is unchanged, as we implement industry-leading changes in our operating model and in particular in the compensation model for sales representatives and our relationships with healthcare professionals.
The macro risk level is elevated due to increased regulatory scrutiny of Good Clinical Practices.
The GSK exposure level is unchanged based on mature internal control processes and an enhanced governance programme, designed to promote best practice across the business units.
The macro risk level is higher due to greater focus and increased regulatory activity on environmental issues.
The GSK exposure level is unchanged due to our controls and governance being well established and capable of allowing for the increased focus and regulatory activity.
The macro risk has increased as the threat has become more sophisticated and targeted, with a higher volume of incidents.
The GSK exposure level is unchanged while we see the effects of the substantial progress we have made in upgrading our level protection against cyber attacks and safeguarding our critical and sensitive data.
Macro factors such as regulatory focus on contract manufacturers outside of the US and EU and increased data integrity expectations, are increasing supply risk.
The GSK exposure level is stable, based on the significant improvements delivered through our ongoing supply remediation programmes and our increased monitoring and supervision of third parties.
