Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management is one of the key responsibilities of the Board and its Audit and HSEC Committees.
Our principal risks and uncertainties whether under our control or not are highly dynamic and our assessment and our responses to them are critical to our future business and prospects.
Our risk management framework identifies and manages growth potential, sustainable development negatively risk in a way that is supportive of our strategic priorities affecting health, safety, environmental, community effects ofopportunistically deploying capital, while protecting orotherwise and reputation.
ourfuture financial security and flexibility.
Our approach The natural diversification of our portfolio of commodities, towards risk management is framed by the ongoing geographies, currencies, assets and liabilities is a source challenge of our understanding of the risks that we are ofmitigation for many of the risks we face.
In addition, exposed to, our risk appetite and how these risks change through our governance processes as noted previously and over time.
our proactive management approach we seek to mitigate, The Board assesses and approves our overall risk appetite, where possible, the impacts of certain risks should they monitors our risk exposure and sets the Group-wide limits, materialise.
In particular: which are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
This process is our liquidity risk management policy requires us to supported by the Audit and HSEC Committees, whose roles maintain via a $3 billion minimum prescribed level include evaluating and monitoring the risks inherent in sufficient cash and cash equivalents and other sources their respective areas as described on pages 94 to 98. ofcommitted funding available to meet anticipated Our current assessment of our risks, according to exposure andunanticipated funding needs: and impact, is detailed on the following pages.
In compiling making use of credit enhancement products, such as this assessment we have indicated the impact of these risks letters of credit, insurance policies and bank guarantees in comparison with a year ago in the table below.
and imposing limits on open accounts extended: The commentary on the risks in this section should be read our management of marketing risk, including daily in conjunction with a commentary under Understanding the analysis of Group value at risk VaR : and information on risks which is set out on page 38. adhering to the principles encapsulated in the To the extent that any of these risks are realised, they may GlencoreCorporate Practice GCP programme.
affect, among other matters: our current and future business and prospects, financial position, liquidity, asset values, 2016 developments and overview of principal risks and uncertainties Reductions in commodity prices Liquidity risk Fluctuations in supply of or demand for commodities Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Health, safety, environment, including potential catastrophes Geopolitical risk Counterparty credit and performance Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate Sourcing, freight, storage infrastructure and logistics Development and operating risks and hazards Cost control Emissions and climate change Community relations Skills availability and retention Key Risk impact Low Medium High Risk exposure Increase Decrease Static 36 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information 5.
Health, Safety, Environment, including potential 2016 developments catastrophes: the high-wall collapse at Katanga in early The following remain the leading risks i. e. those posing the 2016 and the tailings dam disasters in Canada and Brazil greatest potential threat which the Group faces: experienced by other mining companies in the past three 1.
Reductions in commodity prices: the falls in commodity years remain reminders of major catastrophes that prices experienced over the past few years appear to have represent significant unquantifiable risks for resources subsided in 2016, whereby many of the prices appear to companies and as a result this remains a leading concern have, as a minimum, found a floor.
Notwithstanding these subject to challenge and monitoring.
During 2016, the less extreme price conditions, we remain mindful that HSEC Committee continued to concentrate on the Groups underlying markets continue to be volatile and that we catastrophic hazards, following the launch of a new continue to focus on the partially controllable element sustainability risks assurance process in 2016. ofthe margin equation costs.
Any significant downturn In response to the above challenges, the Group continues to in the current commodity price environment, especially ensure it takes appropriate measures to deliver on its copper and coal, would have a severe drag on our strategic objective ofrepositioning the balance sheet to financial performance.
As a result, this continues to be the strong BBB Baa investment grade ratings to ensure it is Groups foremost risk.
capable of supporting growth and shareholder returns 2.
Fluctuations in supply of, or demand for commodities: regardless ofthe commodity price environment.
In addition, thedepression of commodity prices reflects the actual, capital expenditure programmes remain at subdued levels, perceived or prospective increases in supply of initiatives continue to ensure we operate at optimal working commodities and or reductions in demand.
capital levels and marginal operations continue to be carefully monitored.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates: the general appreciation of the US dollar during 2016, particularly Changes in risk exposure against the currencies of emerging and commodity Risk as a result of geopolitical events was brought to the producing countries, has contributed to commodity price forefront during 2016.
The UK voted to exit the EU, while fluctuations.
Although the strength of the US dollar is theEU along with other jurisdictions, increased their rigour generally beneficial to our operating costs, this gain can in pursuit of perceived aggressive tax structuring by be outweighed by the disruption to the world economy multinational companies.
These events, in combination and falls in commodity prices.
withthe imposed new derivative trading regulations being 4.
Liquidity risk: while the delevering and positive implemented in Switzerland and the EU and heightened repositioning of the balance sheet has been completed in global tax reporting obligations via the BEPS initiative led 2016, we remain cognisant that access to credit is vital to an increase, compared to 2015, in the potential risk andthat current market conditions are volatile.
exposure related to 1 geopolitical risks and 2 laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate.
The potential risk exposure related to liquidity risk was reduced compared to 2015, as a result of the progress achieved on the debt reduction initiatives and the successful bond issuances in the Euro and Swiss markets.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 37 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding the information on risks There are many risks and uncertainties which have the Mostly this entails emphasising certain risks more potential to significantly impact our business, including strongly than other risks rather than the elimination of, competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, social, orcreation of, risks.
To understand the changes in outlook business and financial risk.
The order in which these risks and for more detail on certain risks, our previous annual and uncertainties appear does not necessarily reflect the reports are on our website at: www.
com likelihood of their occurrence or the relative magnitude investors reports-and-results reports oftheir potential material adverse effect on our business.
To provide for concise text: We have sought to provide examples of specific risks.
where we hold minority interests in certain businesses, However, in every case these do not attempt to be an although these entities are not generally subsidiaries, exhaustive list.
These principal risks and uncertainties theinterests are mostly taken as being referred to in should be considered in connection with any forward analysing these risks, and business refers to these looking statements in this document as explained on andany business of the Group: page 223. where we refer to natural hazards, events of nature Identifying, quantifying and managing risk is complex orsimilar phraseology we are referring to matters and challenging.
Although it is our policy and practice suchasearthquake, flood, severe weather and other toidentify and, where appropriate and practical, actively natural phenomena: manage risk, our policies and procedures may not in each case our mitigation of risks will include the adequately identify, monitor and quantify all risks.
taking out of insurance where it is customary and The comments below describe our attempts to manage, economic to do so: balance or offset risk.
Risk is, however, by its very nature risk includes uncertainty: uncertain and inevitably events may lead to our policies law include regulation of any type: and procedures not having a material mitigating effect a reference to a note is a note to the 2016 financial onthe negative impacts of the occurrence of a particular statements: and event.
Since many risks are connected, our analysis should be read against all risks to which it may be relevant.
refer to our 2016 sustainability report whichwill be published in May 2017.
In this section, we have sought to update our explanations, reflecting our current outlook.
38 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Comments External Reductions in commodity prices The revenue and earnings of substantial parts of our industrial The dependence of the Group especially our industrial business activities and, to a lesser extent, our marketing activities, are on commodity prices, make this the Groups foremost risk.
dependent upon prevailing commodity prices.
Commodity See the Chief Executive Officers review on page 4 and the prices are influenced by a number of external factors, including financial review on pages 45 to 51. the supply of and demand for commodities, speculative While the price fundamentals of most of the Groups main activities by market participants, global political and economic production commodities currently appear to be stronger than at conditions, related industry cycles and production costs in the end of 2015, the global economic outlook remains uncertain major producing countries.
and any negative issues, especially if they affect China, could A significant downturn in the price of commodities generally quickly lead to reductions in demand and price.
results in a decline in our profitability and could potentially result in impairment and balance sheet constraints.
It is especially harmful to profitability in the industrial activities, which are more directly exposed to price risk due to the higher level of fixed costs, while our marketing activities are ordinarily substantially hedged in respect of price risk and principally operate a service-like margin-based model.
Fluctuations in the supply of, or demand for, the commodities in which we operate We are dependent on the expected volumes of supply or This risk is currently prevalent, with demand growth demand for commodities in which we are active, which can uncertainty in various commodities we produce and market, vary for many reasons, such as competitor supply policies, notably within steel, coal and oil markets.
changes in resource availability, government policies and On the supply side, Chinas implementation of a reduced regulation, costs of production, global and regional economic working year in its coal industry demonstrated the ability conditions and events of nature.
andwillingness of nation states to intervene directly in markets.
Also in nickel, Indonesia prohibited exports of nickel concentrates and the authorities in the Philippines have in 2016 closed a quarter of the countrys mines.
Market price responses to such changes are neither instantaneous nor perfectly calibrated nor can the sustained implementation of such policies be certain.
See the Chief Executive Officers review on page 4.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates The vast majority of our transactions are denominated in This risk is currently prevalent in our industry.
However, USdollars, while operating costs are spread across many thesefluctuations tend to move in symmetry with those in different countries, the currencies of which fluctuate against the commodity prices and supply and demand fundamentals as US dollar.
A depreciation in the value of the US dollar against noted above, such that decreases in commodity prices are one or more of these currencies will result in an increase in the generally associated with increases in the US dollar relative cost base of the relevant operations in US dollar terms.
tolocal producer currencies and vice versa.
If this occurs then itis detrimental to us through higher equivalent US dollar The main currency exchange rate exposure is through our operating costs at the relevant operations.
This negative, industrial assets, as a large proportion of the costs incurred by however, would usually be offset by the increases in these operations is denominated in the currency of the country commodity prices which had caused this change.
in which each asset is located.
The largest of these exposures isto the currencies listed on page 183.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 39 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Geopolitical risk We operate and own assets in a large number of geographic Increased scrutiny by governments and tax authorities regions and countries, some of which are categorised as inpursuit of perceived aggressive tax structuring by developing, complex or having unstable political or social multinational companies has elevated the potential risk climates.
As a result, we are exposed to a wide range of exposures related to geopolitical events.
The Group continues political, economic, regulatory and tax environments.
Policies actively to engage with governmental authorities in light of or laws in these countries may change in a manner that may upcoming changes and developments in legislation and beadverse for us.
Also, some countries with more stable enforcement policies.
political environments may nevertheless change policies The global tax reporting initiative on Base Erosion and andlaws in a manner adverse to us.
We have no control over ProfitSharing BEPS became effective in 2016. changes to policies, laws and taxes.
Risks can also arise from the announcement and or The geopolitical risks associated with operating in a large implementation of reductions in workforces and temporary number of regions and countries, if realised, could affect our orpermanent production stoppages.
ability to manage or retain interests in our industrial activities.
See map on pages 10 and 11 which sets out our global operational footprint.
Laws, enforcement, permits and licences to operate We are exposed to and subject to extensive laws including those We are committed to complying with or exceeding the laws relating to bribery and corruption, taxation, anti-trust, financial andexternal requirements applicable to our operations markets regulation, management of natural resources, licences andproducts.
Through this and monitoring of legislative over resources owned by various governments, exploration, requirements, engagement with government and regulators, production and post-closure reclamation.
The terms attaching and compliance with applicable permits and licences, we strive to any permit or licence to operate may also be onerous.
We also seek to manage these risks Furthermore, in certain countries title to land and rights and through the Glencore Corporate Practice GCP programme.
permits in respect of resources are not always clear or may Its practical application across our business is detailed in our be challenged.
com who-we-are corporategovernance policies code-of-conduct and this framework The legal system and dispute resolution mechanisms in some isreflected in our sustainability reports.
The Groups countries may be uncertain so that we may be unable to enforce anti-corruption policy may also be found at: our understanding of our title, permits or other rights.
com who-we-are corporate-governance Lawsuits may be brought, based upon damage resulting from policies .
past and current operations, and could lead to the imposition of substantial sanctions, the cessation of operations, compensation Bribery and corruption risks remain highly relevant for and remedial and or preventative orders.
Moreover, the costs businesses operating in emerging markets as shown by recent associated with legal compliance, including regulatory permits, regulatory enforcement actions both inside and outside the are substantial.
Any changes to these laws or their more resources sector.
stringent enforcement or restrictive interpretation could cause The Group continues to evaluate the impact of proposed additional material expenditure to be incurred including in regulations to govern commodity market participants our marketing business or impose suspensions of operations principally MiFID 2 in Europe.
and delays in the development of industrial assets.
Failure to In 2016 we published our first Payments to Governments report.
obtain or renew a necessary permit could mean that we would This detailed total government contributions in 2016 of around be unable to proceed with the development or continued $5 billion.
This report built upon the disclosures which had operation of an asset.
been provided in our annual sustainability report since 2010, A dispute relating to an industrial asset could disrupt or delay and our commitment as an active member of the Extractive relevant extraction, processing or other projects and or impede Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
our ability to develop new industrial properties.
40 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Comments Liquidity risk Our failure to access funds liquidity would severely limit our Note 24 details our financial and capital risk ability to engage in desired activities.
Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to meet our During 2016, we have achieved our objectives in materially payment obligations when due, or are unable, on an ongoing delevering the Groups balance sheet see pages 45 to 51.
We also basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or issued during the year the following bonds with applicable secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed coupon and redemption dates: CHF250 million 2.25% 2021 and commitments.
While we adjust our minimum internal liquidity EUR1.0 billion 1.875% 2023.
We have undertaken a programme threshold from time to time in response to changes in market to replace short dated paper with longer term bonds.
conditions, this minimum internal liquidity target may be While significant progress on delevering and repositioning the breached due to circumstances we are unable to control, such balance sheet has occurred over 2016, we remain cognisant that asgeneral market disruptions, sharp movements in commodity access to credit is vital and that current market conditions prices or an operational problem that affects our suppliers, are volatile.
As at 31 December 2016, the Group had available undrawn A lack of liquidity may mean that we will not have funds committed credit facilities and cash amounting to $16.7 billion available to maintain or increase marketing and industrial 31 December 2015: $15.2 billion, comfortably ahead of our activities, both of which employ substantial amounts of capital.
If we do not have funds available to sustain or develop our Standard & Poors and Moodys latest assessments for the marketing and industrial activities then these activities Companys investment grade credit are BBBpositive outlook will decrease.
Business activities Counterparty credit and performance Financial assets consisting principally of marketable securities, We monitor the credit quality of our counterparties and seek receivables and advances, derivative instruments and long-term toreduce the risk of customer non-performance by requiring advances and loans can expose us to concentrations of credit risk.
credit support from creditworthy financial institutions including making extensive use of credit enhancement Furthermore, we are subject to non-performance risk by our products, such as letters of credit, insurance policies and suppliers, customers and hedging counterparties, in particular bankguarantees.
Specific credit risk policy rules apply to via our marketing activities.
openaccount risk with an established threshold for referral Non-performance by suppliers, customers and hedging ofcredit positions by departments to central management.
counterparties may occur and cause losses in a range of In addition, note 24 details our financial and capital risk situations, such as: management approach.
a significant increase in commodity prices resulting in suppliers being unwilling to honour their contractual commitments to sell commodities at pre-agreed prices: a significant reduction in commodity prices resulting incustomers being unwilling or unable to honour their contractual commitments to purchase commodities at pre-agreed prices: and suppliers subject to prepayment or hedging counterparties may find themselves unable to honour theircontractual obligations due to financial distress orother reasons.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 41 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Sourcing, freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics Our marketing activities require access to significant amounts Our global network of infrastructure and logistics operations of third party supplies of commodities, freight, storage, such as vessels, oil terminals and tank farms, metals and other infrastructure and logistics support and we are exposed to warehouses and grain silos assists in mitigating risks related reduced accessibility and or increased pressure in the costs todisruptions to or limitations of sourcing, freight, storage, ofthese.
In addition, we often compete with other producers, infrastructure and logistics.
purchasers or marketers of commodities or other products for See map on pages 10 and 11 that sets out our global limited storage and berthing facilities at ports and freight operational footprint.
terminals, which can result in delays in loading or unloading ofproducts and expose us to significant delivery interruptions.
Increases in the costs of freight, storage, infrastructure and logistics support, or limitations or interruptions in the supply chain including any disruptions, refusals or inabilities to supply, could adversely affect our business.
Development and operating risks and hazards Our industrial activities are subject to numerous risks and Development and operating risks and hazards are managed hazards normally associated with the initiation, development, through our continuous development status evaluation operation and or expansion of natural resource projects, many andreporting processes and ongoing assessment, reporting of which are beyond our control.
These include unanticipated and communication of the risks that affect our operations variations in grade and other geological problems so that through the annual risk review processes and updates to the anticipated or stated reserves, resources or mineralised risk register.
potential may not conform to expectations and in particular We publish quarterly our production results and annually may not reflect the reserves and resources which the Group ourassessment of reserves and resources based on available reports and as a result the anticipated volumes or grades may drilling and other data sources.
Conversion of resources to not be achieved.
Other examples include seismic activity, reserves and, eventually, reserves to production is an ongoing natural hazards, processing problems, technical and IT process that takes into account technical and operational malfunctions, unavailability of materials and equipment, challenges, economics of the particular commodities concerned unreliability and or constraints of infrastructure, industrial and the impact on the communities in which we operate.
accidents, labour force insufficiencies, disruptions and disputes, The geotechnical failure and high-wall collapse at Katanga disasters, protests, force majeure factors, cost overruns, delays in resulted in the deaths of seven people.
Other incidents during permitting or other regulatory matters, vandalism and crime.
the year have led to a further nine deaths.
While the mining Cyber crime can also have materially adverse consequences workplace is inherently a dangerous one, we continue to believe forour marketing and industrial businesses.
that every death is preventable with appropriate planning, The development and operating of assets may lead to future precautions taken, supervision and review.
upward revisions in estimated costs, completion delays, cost Work on the whole ore leach process at Katanga is progressing overruns, suspension of current projects or other operational well.
Mopanis Synclinorium shaft was commissioned and difficulties.
Risks and hazards could result in damage to, or started to hoist ore at the end of 2016. destruction of, properties or production facilities, may cause Availability of continuous high-voltage power continues production to be reduced or to cease at those properties or tobeof critical importance to our copper operations in the production facilities, may result in a decrease in the quality Democratic Republic of Congo.
We are continuing to invest in ofthe products, personal injury or death, third party damage long-term power solutions via the Inga dam refurbishment.
orloss, and may result in actual production differing from estimates of production.
Technological and cyber security risks are also relevant.
In the resources business, the commodities we extract are See also the next page for our assessment of and programmes finiteand reserves replacement is an issue for the industry to mitigate our health, safety and environmental risks and in asawhole.
Exploration and development necessarily require particular catastrophic risks.
alevel of investment ahead of identification, extraction and Details of the significant impairments recorded during the year monetisation of such reserves.
The valuations used for this analysis Natural hazards, sabotage or other interference in operations, remain sensitive to price and deterioration in the price outlook could increase costs or delay supplies.
In some locations poor may result in additional impairments.
The realisation of these development and operating risks and hazards could require significant and additional capital and operating expenditures tofund abatement, restoration or compensation to third parties for any loss and or payment of fines or damages.
42 Glencore Annual Report 2016 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Risk Comments Cost control As commodity prices are outside of our control, the While prices have recovered somewhat, cost control and competitiveness and sustainable long-term profitability of our reduction is still a significant area of management focus.
industrial asset portfolio depends significantly on our ability A number of operations have adopted structured programmes toclosely manage costs and maintain a broad spectrum of to deconstruct their costs, identify marginal savings and low-cost, efficient operations.
Costs associated with the implement these.
operation of our industrial assets can be broadly categorised These local measures are complemented by global procurement into labour costs and other operating and infrastructure costs.
that leverages our scale to achieve the best possible value for Overall production and operating costs are heavily influenced money on high-consumption materials such as fuel, explosives by the extent of ongoing development required, ore grades, and tyres.
mine planning, processing technology, logistics, energy and Maintaining costs and, where possible, lowering them is supply costs and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
supported by our reporting on these measures, coupled with Over time, resources even on the same mine site tend to become the inclusion of certain cost control evaluation measures in more difficult and costly to extract, as challenges such as assessing management performance.
working at depth, increasing haulage distances and working with inconsistent or chemically complex ores are faced.
All ofour industrial assets are, to varying degrees, affected by changes in costs for labour and fuel.
Unit production costs are also significantly affected by production volumes and therefore production levels are frequently a key factor in determining the overall cost competitiveness of an industrial asset.
Sustainable development Health, safety, environment, including  Our operations are subject to health, safety and environmental Our approach to sustainability and our expectations of our laws along with compliance with our corporate sustainability employees, our contractors and our business partners are framework.
The processes and chemicals used in extraction outlined in our sustainability programme.
This underpins our andproduction methods, as well as transport and storage, approach towards social, environmental, safety and compliance mayimpose environmental hazards.
A serious failure in these indicators, providing clear guidance on the standards we areas could lead to an emergency or catastrophe at a site.
expect all our operations to achieve.
Through the reporting Environmental hazards may affect not only our properties but function within the programme, our Board and senior also third parties.
The storage of tailings at our industrial assets management receive regular updates and have a detailed and the storage and transport of oil are material examples of oversight on how our business is performing across all of the these risks.
We monitor catastrophic risks, in particular, across our portfolio and operate emergency Environmental including those associated with particular response programmes.
environmental hazards and health and safety laws may result in increased costs or, in the event of non-compliance or Compliance with international and local regulations and incidents causing injury or death or other damage at or to our standards are our top priorities.
Our operating procedures and facilities or surrounding areas may result in significant losses, those of our partners in relation to owned tankers conform to including arising from 1 interruptions in production, litigation industry best practice working under the guidelines of the and imposition of penalties and sanctions and 2 having International Maritime Organisation IMO, relevant Flag States licences and permits withdrawn or suspended or being forced and top tier classification societies.
to undertake extensive remedial clean-up action or to pay for We remain focused on the significant risks facing our industry government-ordered remedial clean-up actions.
In each case arising from operational catastrophes such as the examples of liability may arise where the hazards have been caused by any tailings dam collapses in Canada and Brazil and the Turkish previous or subsequent owners or operators of the property, by coal mine disaster experienced in the last three years.
any past or present owners of adjacent properties, or by During 2016, the HSEC Committee continued to sponsor and third parties.
monitor the Groups sustainability risks assurance process.
Catastrophes can also arise due to cyber attacks, e. g. where Its focus continues to be on the Groups catastrophic hazards.
there is malicious interference with operational software In addition, considerable ongoing investment continues in the atindustrial assets.
Groups SafeWork health and safety programme.
See also pages 20 to 33 and the HSEC Committee report on pages97 and 98.
Further details will also be published in our 2016 sustainability report.
Glencore Annual Report 2016 43 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Comments Emissions and climate change Our global presence exposes us to a number of jurisdictions Through our sustainability programme operated under our inwhich regulations or laws have been or are being considered GCP framework, we strive to ensure emissions and climate tolimit or reduce emissions.
The likely effect of these changes change issues are identified, understood and effectively will be to increase the cost for fossil fuels, impose levies managed and monitored in order to meet international best foremissions in excess of certain permitted levels and practice standards and ensure regulatory compliance.
We seek  costs for monitoring and reporting.
to ensure that there is a balanced debate with regard to the Third parties, including potential or actual investors, may also ongoing use of fossil fuels.
introduce policies adverse to the Company due to its activities During the year, we published Climate change considerations for in fossil fuels.
our business which set out information about how our business Increasing regulation of greenhouse gas GHG emissions, operates, our position on climate change and how we are including the progressive introduction of carbon emissions managing the opportunities and challenges of climate change trading mechanisms and tighter emission reduction targets is across our business.
likely toraise costs and reduce demand growth.
Our 2016 sustainability report will provide further details ofthe operation of our community engagement programme, including the international standards to which we voluntarilysubmit.
During the year, there have been further announcements by some investment groups regarding the introduction of, or tightening of, policies concerning reduced investment in companies which have fossil fuel businesses.
It should be noted that in 2016 around 5% and 15% of our revenue and EBITDA respectively were derived from coal andoil industrial activities.
Community relations The continued success of our existing operations and our future We believe that the best way to manage these vital relationships projects are in part dependent upon broad support and a is to adhere to the principles of open dialogue and cooperation.
healthy relationship with the respective local communities.
In doing so, we engage with local communities to demonstrate A perception that we are not respecting or advancing the our operations contribution to socio-economic development interests of the communities in which we operate, could have a and seek to ensure that appropriate measures are taken to negative impact on our social licence to operate, our ability to prevent or mitigate possible adverse impacts on the secure access to new resources and our financial performance.
communities, along with the regular reporting as outlined on The consequences of negative community reaction could also our website at: www.
com sustainability ourhave a material adverse impact on the cost, profitability, ability  communities engagement.
to finance or even the viability of an operation and the safety Some of our mine sites are in remote locations where they are and security of our workforce and assets.
Such events could a or the key employer in the region.
Inevitably, every mine lead to disputes with governments, with local communities or will reach a point of depletion where it is no longer economic any other stakeholders, and give rise to reputational damage.
tooperate and must be closed in an orderly fashion.
We are Even in cases where no adverse action is actually taken, the working with all stakeholders at our mine sites to operate uncertainty associated with such instability could negatively foraslong as it is economically viable to do so, and to prepare impact the perceived value of our assets.
long-term plans that provide for a gradual transition to the end of mine life.
Skills availability and retention The maintenance of positive employee and union relations and We understand that one of the key factors in our success the ability to attract and retain skilled workers, including senior isagood and trustworthy relationship with our people.
management, are key to our success.
This can be challenging, This priority is reflected in the principles of our sustainability especially in locations experiencing political or civil unrest, or programme and related guidance, which require regular, open, in which they may be exposed to other hazardous conditions.
fair and respectful communication, zero tolerance for human Many employees are represented by labour unions under rights violations, fair remuneration and, above all, a safe various collective labour agreements.
Their employing working environment, as outlined on our website at: company may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its www.
collective labour agreements when they expire and may face tougher negotiations or higher wage demands than would be the case for non-unionised labour.
In addition, existing labour agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage.
