Strategic report Risk management A strong and robust risk management framework To achieve our objective of being During the reporting period we on internal mitigating controls.
When theUKs leading PRS landlord we haveendeavoured to embed our forming this assessment the business recognise that we must have a clear riskmanagement approach in the considers a range of risk categories, understanding of the risks we face, restructured and simplified business including strategic, market, financial, both those inherent in our strategy following the strategic review in legal regulatory, operational, IT, project and operations and those posed by early2016.
Our systematic and robust approach aims to Our overall risk management ambition A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure continuously monitor those risks, remains to foster and embed a that a consistent approach is taken ourrisk management and internal cultureof risk management that is whenassessing the overall impact to controls systems and evolve our responsive, forward looking, theGroup.
Likelihood is based on the approach accordingly.
frequency of occurrence in a rolling 12-month period for risks arising within Risk management approach Robust risk assessment operational areas.
These risks, and their Good risk management is fundamental Our systematic risk management impact and likelihood scores, are to our ability to meet our operational approach is designed to identify risks documented in divisional, unit and andstrategic objectives.
The competitive tothe business using both a bottomproject risk registers.
The risk registers market in which we operate requires upand a top-down approach.
are reviewed at least quarterly, and effective decision making: ensuring more frequently as required, then thatthe risks the business takes are Once identified, the impact and collated into a Group top risk report adequately assessed and challenged probability of risks are determined forconsideration by the Executive and appropriate returns are achieved.
andscored on both a Gross before Committee and the Audit Committee.
We must also retain our overall resilience mitigation and Net after mitigation to risks over which we have limited basis.
This allows the business to identify control through our disaster recovery those risks which are heavily dependent and business continuity procedures.
Mapping our key risks Post-mitigation 10 1.
Health and safety see page 32 7 8 9 7.
Brexit see page 33 2 3 Risk 1 reduced since 2015.
Risk 10 is a new principal risk.
Minor Moderate Major Extreme Impact 28 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Likelihood Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Strategic report External Audit Risk control framework and assurance andcorporate functions.
These Assurance on risk controls is currently The Board has ultimate responsibility for management committees and provided by internal management Graingers risk management and internal theExecutive Committee provide information, internal audits, external control systems and for determining its appropriate challenge and input to audits and Board oversight.
The Board approves the theidentified risks, reported controls, isalsoan externally supported risk management framework developed mitigants andthe Group top risk report.
anonymous whistleblowing hotline by the Executive Committee.
This The Audit Committee supports the thatstaff can utilise if other methods framework has been restructured during Board by monitoring and reviewing ofnotification are not suitable in the the course of the year to align itself with thecontrol processes and mitigants circumstances.
In addition to embedding the reshaped business that has been inrespect of the identified risks.
It the revised risk management framework, adopted pursuant to the new PRSalsoensures that the process for in 2017 we plan to introduce a software focused strategy.
This structure also reconsidering the principal risks is solution which will improve efficiency complements Graingers evolution carried out on an ongoing basis.
The andquality of risk reporting.
The usage of toathree lines of defence model as internal controls framework for these this software will result in top or common discussed in the 2015 Annual Report.
risks is monitored through the Internal risks being more visible when reported This included the introduction of Audit monitoring plan and the resulting centrally and also assist in ensuring variousmanagement committees in audit outcomes.
For more information thatfocused and consistent controls respect of key property, operational on internal controls please refer to areapplied.
Risk control framework Board and Audit Committee Executive Committee 1st line 2nd line 3rd line of defence of defence of defence Management Financial Internal controls controls Audit Policy and Risk Ad hoc procedure management review Audit Understanding of Compliance risk management Key performance indicators Oversight by Management Committees Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
