Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Managing our principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have undertaken a robust and systematic assessment of the Groups principal risks.
These have been considered within the timeframe of four years, which aligns with our viability statement detailed on page 34.
Table of principal risks and uncertainties Category Risk Impact on Risk appetite Mitigation of risk description strategy Weak macroEconomic uncertainty Graingers business 1.
Market Wider market risk is largely economic conditions may cause drop in isbased on taking dependent on factors we leading tolong-term home ownership: well-judged risks cannotinfluence flat or negative asset values fall: onhouse price and Reducing reliance on trading house priceinflation.
income and house price inflation investment Maintenance of capacity against constraints on banking covenants delivery of PRS High proportion of liquid assets business model: toenable sales where necessary, covenant compliance as evidenced in last economic risk: business downturn unattractive Focus on PRS potentially toinvestors.
leverages greater customer flexibility and lower overall financial commitment compared with home ownership which could be attractive for customers during uncertain economic periods Geographically diverse portfolio, exercising active asset management and implementing future strategic focus on economically active locations 2.
Financial Lack of availability Reduced or severely Grainger has no Financial headroom and relevant orvolatile pricing in limited ability to appetite to commit to key metrics maintained at respect of debtor takeadvantage investment without appropriate compliance levels and equity finance forthe ofbusiness secured funding at in accordance with Board approved Group to achieve its opportunities: appropriate rates nor capital operating guidelines strategic objectives: unableto grow without sufficient Appropriately qualified inability to obtain PRSasset base: headroom.
Treasury team sufficient, diverse or reduces Groups Positive relationship management appropriately priced profitability and NAV.
with banks and other funding funds to implement institutions resulting in diversity the current strategy.
offinance Ability to control the timing and quantum of new acquisitions to reduce cash outflows Simplification of business model makes financing more straightforward Agreed hedging policy to manageexposure to volatility ininterest rates 30 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Category Risk Impact on Risk appetite Mitigation of risk description strategy 3.
Regulatory Failure to meet Fines, penalties and Grainger has no Ongoing management and current or increased sanctions: damage appetite for legal and stafftraining legal or regulatory toreputation: loss regulatory breach Specialist legal, compliance and obligations or ofoperational due to the risks this corporate affairs teams who anticipate and efficiency and poses to its staff, monitor and advise internally and respond to changes competitiveness: customers, assets review the regulatory horizon in regulation that increased costs: and reputation.
Use of external specialists to creates increased reduction in market advise and maintain forward and costly opportunities: impact looking focus obligations including, on ability to finance Close alignment and involvement but not limited to, opportunities.
with leading industry groups bodies the introduction of Robust asset management rent caps or similar controls and compliance processes limitations.
Position as UKs leading PRS provider embeds a cultural requirement to comply with regulation and best practice 4.
People Failure to attract, Reduced ability to We have no appetite Succession plans are retain and develop deliver business plan toaccept a lack of regularly reviewed our people to ensure and strategy: reduced appropriate skills, Management and leadership that we have the right control: inability to expertise and development training skills in the right place grow marketshare of experience that Retention policies in place for at the right time to PRS: failure to would materially keystaff including careful deliver our strategy.
innovate and evolve diminish our ability to monitoring of remuneration This is an acute risk to maintain deliver our strategy packages to ensure issue as there is competitiveness in and respond to competiveness in the market currently a limited acustomer driven changes.
Performance reviews and pool of individuals in market.
appraisals the market with the Identification of opportunities relevant requisite skill to develop and provide internal set in acquiring and career development managing PRS assets.
Supplier A significant failure Increased costs: We utilise a Established internal controls within or by a key inability todeliver significant range of andmanagement systems third-party supplier performance third-party services withregard to third-party or contractor.
objectives to and so recognise that contractor supplier base satisfaction we carry an inherent Experienced Senior Managers ofstakeholders: risk of some type of oversee relationships possible legal action unforeseen failure.
Identification of key suppliers and regulatory However, through and ongoing assessment sanctions: management and of covenant strength reputational controlwe seek to Sufficient diversity of key suppliers damage, customer minimise this risk.
and relationships with potential dissatisfaction.
suppliers to minimise overreliance on any one organisation Established three lines of defence model to facilitate stronger monitoring and controls Increased Reduced Unchanged New Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Table of principal risks and uncertainties continued Category Risk Impact on Risk appetite Mitigation of risk description strategy 6.
Health A significant Harm to customers, Grainger has no Specific internal management andsafety healthand safety tenants, employees, appetite for health systems for health and safety incidentas a result contractors or and safety breaches Established three lines of ofinadequate or visitors: possible legal both within its own defence model to facilitate inappropriately action and or fine: operations and those stronger monitoring and controls implemented subsequent of its third-party Specialist Health and Safety healthand safety reputational damage.
Director and team responsible procedures and foroversight of compliance controls within Regular reporting to the Grainger.
Controls Weak environment Weak underlying We accept that Implementation of an operating of systems, controls control environment problemsmay occur model bespoke to the new and culture resulting does not support the and risks are part of strategy which includes a robust in the failure of efficient operation doing business.
framework of controls, mitigants regarding ofthe business: However, all such governance, processes and the likelihood and increased costs and problems should be systems that are specifically impact of other lower profitability: contained within an designed to mitigate vulnerability principal risks.
compliance failings: effective control or ineffectiveness whilst reputational damage.
framework and empowering staff to act on supporting culture.
initiative if circumstances require it Our focus is on Clear and comprehensive policy continuously framework duly documented and improving this communicated to staff framework on a Use of external specialist advisers standard three lines where required of defence model.
Implementation of three lines of defence responsibilities 8.
Transactional Unable to fully Acquisition of Graingers business Experienced team assembled to implement PRS unprofitable schemes isbased on taking focus on winning and delivering strategy due to will depress Group considered risks for PRS acquisitions including failure to transact returns.
Lack of appropriate returns build-to-rent schemes and and acquire assets competitiveness in intheacquisition, subsequent ongoing on acceptable terms acquiring schemes delivery and management of such assets and or inability to will lead to failure to management of Detailed analysis and integrate PRS assets deliver strategy, PRSassets.
benchmarking of pricing costs efficiently in the reduction in scale ofmanagement management andprofitability Close review and monitoring by platform.
Investment Committee, Executive Committee and the Board as appropriate having regard to applicable capital management guidelines and robust budgeting Use of external professionals where appropriate 32 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Category Risk Impact on Risk appetite Mitigation of risk description strategy 9.
Development Excessive capital Exposure to risk Part of Graingers Capital allocated to allocated to ofcostoverrun returns are based on developmentis carefully activities which carry income shortfall considered capital monitored with due regard development risk.
ondevelopment allocation which tocapital allocation guidelines forrentschemes.
includes such Specific team responsible with activities.
specialist development skills Review and monitoring of all suchschemes by the Investment Committee, Executive Committee and the Board as appropriate Portfolio of development schemes are now focused on delivering build-to-rent assets, thus reducing sales risk Expert advisers professional teamand experienced development partners 10.
Brexit Negative impact Increased Graingers business The economic implications ofBrexit.
construction costs: isbased on taking resulting from the impact of asset and portfolio considered risks Brexit are largely beyond the values fall: inability onhouse price control of the Company tobuild competitive rentallevels and Proven ability to generate cash PRS portfolio: lower management of inuncertain economic periods demand for Graingers development projects.
Appropriate levels of debt and assets in certain maintenance of headroom locations: currency Location of portfolios is volatility: reduction positioned in geographically insupply ofrequisite diverse areas with PRS schemes skilled labour.
targeted in locations with robust levels of economic activity Implementation of PRS strategyontarget Maintaining an open dialogue regarding Brexit impact with keythird parties, suppliers and industry bodies Increased Reduced Unchanged New Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33
