STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties MANAGING RISK As with any business, Greene King faces a range of risksand uncertainties in the course of its business.
Itis essential that we identify and manage these risks effectively in order to deliver on our strategic objective of being the best pub company in the UK and to maximise shareholder returns.
Approach to risk management BOARD Board Overall responsibility for risk management The board has overall responsibility for the groups risk management framework.
It reviews the groups principal risks on an annual basis, together Sets the groups risk appetite with the actions taken to mitigate them.
This year there has been a particular focus on developing our approach to risk appetite.
The board has started this by defining group-level risk appetite statements, to set out the boards desired risk-taking approach to the achievement of our strategic objectives, in the context of managing our principal risks.
Our risk appetite is an expression AUDIT COMMITTEE of the types and amount of risk we are willing to take or accept to achieve Delegated responsibility for monitoring risk profile our plan.
By defining our risk appetite, we will be able to better determine andmitigation the mitigating activities required to manage to within acceptable levels Regularly reviews risk management processes both the likelihood of risks occurring and their potential impact.
foreachdivisionand functional area Details of our broad risk appetite in relation to each of our key risks is set out in the table on page 34.
Audit committee GROUP RISK SENIOR The board has delegated to the audit committee responsibility for reviewing COMMITTEE MANAGEMENT the effectiveness of the groups risk management processes.
It regularly reviews Reviews individual Responsibility for the risk management processes for each business unit and functional area.
riskregisters and identification of risks, mitigationplans implementation of Management mitigating actions and Ensures consistency of risk The implementation of risk management and internal control systems is maintenance of business profiling across thegroup the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management, unit and functional with each business unit or functional area responsible for identifying, assessing Aggregates risk registers to riskregisters and managing the risks in their respective areas.
They are required to maintain, create group risk register review and regularly update a risk register to assist in this process.
Risk management process Classification of risks follows a standard methodology used in risk management and takes into account the likelihood of their occurrence and the scale of potential impact both financial and reputational on the business.
Once the key economic, operational, financial, people and strategic riskshave been identified, each business unit and functional area is then responsible for evaluating current controls, drawing up plans to improve controls and managing new risks.
Each key risk has an action owner to ensure that responsibilities are formally aligned.
To ensure continuous improvement across the business, progress of these risk implementation plans is monitored by senior management on a regular basis.
In addition, a group-wide risk committee reviews the individual risk registers in detail, monitors the risk mitigation plans and assists in the production of the group risk register, whereby risk registers are aggregated and considered on a top-down basis in the context of delivering our strategy for the group.
Given that some risks are external and not fully within our control, the risk management processes are designed to manage risks which may have a material impact on our business, rather than to fully mitigate all risks.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the key risks and uncertainties which affect Greene King.
The group is of course exposed to risks wider than those listed, but these are believed to be likely to have the greatest impact on our business at this moment in time.
For the first time this year we have indicated whether we believe the risk has increased, decreased or remained the same during the year and also how each risk relates to our strategic priorities.
STRATEGIC RISKS LINK TO CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE STRATEGY Integration of Spirit Pub Company and failure to deliver the full anticipated synergies Reduced revenue, Integration steering committee overseeing integration.
We have an appetite for 1 3 4 profitability and lower risks which we understand Retention arrangements in place for critical-to-retain staff.
growth rates than our and which are consistent strategic objectives.
Communication plan designed to keep all staff and other with the delivery of our stakeholders informed of progress and changes impacting them.
Synergy targets established and systems are in place to record synergiescaptured.
Brand swap plans in place and being implemented and monitored.
Failure to develop an appealing customer offer, to identify and respond to fast-changing consumer tastes and to maintain and grow market share Reduced revenue, Research conducted into consumer trends and plans developed With our vision to be the 1 2 3 4 5 profitability and to respond to key trends, including the piloting of new variations best pub company in the lowergrowth rates of existing brands.
UK we expect to be able thanourbudget.
to react swiftly and Use of guest satisfaction tools and net promoter scores to collect appropriately to changing customer feedback and measure performance of our pubs.
consumer trends to ensure Increased investment in support and training for our employees continuity of earnings to ensure service standards meet guest expectations and growth and achievement continue to improve.
Increased use of social media to enhance communication with our guests and other consumers.
ECONOMIC AND MARKET RISKS LINK TO CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE STRATEGY Reduced consumer confidence in the UK, particularly in light of the referendum vote to leave the European Union and increasing competitor activity Reduced revenue, Focus on value, service and quality to appeal to a broadrange We acknowledge and 1 2 4 profitability and lower ofconsumers.
Piloting of new variations of existingbrands.
recognise that in the growth rates.
normal course of business, Costs are kept under constant review and mitigation plans the group is exposed to risk prepared andimplemented where appropriate.
and we are willing to accept Broad geographic spread of pubs including in London a level of risk in order to andtheSouth East.
achieve our strategic priorities and will manage Ongoing agreement innovation, training and support the business accordingly.
Monitoring of competitor activity at strategic and tacticallevels.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Build attractive and 2 Industry-leading value, 3 Work with the 4 Own the best 5 Maintain a strong strongbrands service andquality bestpeople investedpubestate balancesheet and flexiblecapital structure 34 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL AND PEOPLE RISKS LINK TO CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE STRATEGY Significant cyber security breach Potential impact on our Networks are protected by firewalls and anti-virus protection We have a low appetite 3 5 ability to do business, systems withback-up procedures also in place.
for significant breaches impacting revenue within our IT operations.
Plans in place to further enhance controls in this area including andprofitability.
Reputational damage Constant monitoring of threats to data protection by viruses, and financial damage hacking and breach of access controls, with additional controls from fines or added during the year.
Data governance committee drives improved behaviours .
Risks associated with the recruitment, retention and development of employees and licensees Inability to execute A branded recruitment plan is in place with a strong pipeline The nature of the sector 3 ourbusiness plans ofsuitable candidates.
In addition, we operate a range of inwhich we operate andstrategy.
ispredisposed to high turnover levels, but we Potential impact on Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they have a low tolerance for theprofitability of our remain competitive and appropriate mechanisms are in place levels which exceed the PubPartners business formanaging pay progression.
We expect where the risks relate Career development programmes are in place to retain key our staff to have appropriate to licensees.
employees and leadership training has been introduced for skills to deliver the functions alllevels of management.
Our annual employee engagement survey is used to obtain direct feedback from employees on a range of issues.
Exit interviews are conducted with all head office, Brewing&Brands and Pub Company managers to enable action planstobe developed to deal with key leaver reasons.
The range of tenancy agreements, training programmes andsupport available is designed to attract and retain thebestquality licensees.
Reliance on a number of key suppliers and third party distributors and on our own ability to produce, package anddistribute our own beers Supply disruption Back-up plans are maintained in the event of the failure We recognise that we 1 2 couldimpact customer byorloss ofakeysupplier.
carry an inherent risk in satisfaction, leading relation to third party Detailed risk management and mitigation plans exist in our toloss of revenue.
suppliers, but we seek to internal production and distribution activities, which are tested minimise this risk through Key supplier or regularly across thebusiness.
distributor withdrawal or Key suppliers are expected to maintain disaster recovery plans, long-term failure could which wereview on a regular basis.
reduce revenues or lead to increased costs.
Inability to brew and distribute our own beers could lead to lossof revenue.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 35 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks and uncertainties continued REGULATORY RISKS LINK TO CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE STRATEGY Risk of increased regulation, and failure to respond to recent changes in regulation, in relation to any matter affecting ourretail business, including National Living Wage, the apprenticeship levy, the anticipated rates revaluation in 2017 andpotential future changes in relation to the sale of alcohol Legislation such as the We have developed a plan which will in part mitigate the cost We recognise that, in the 1 5 National Living Wage impact of the National Living Wage and the apprenticeship levy normal course of business, and the apprenticeship over the next three years.
we are exposed to legislative levy will drive up costs risk that we need to Monitoring of legislative developments and active engagement as will any increases in manage appropriately with government where necessary.
rates charged on our inorder to meet our pubs and restaurants.
Diversified offer includes soft drinks, coffee, food and strategic objectives.
Legislation impacting accommodation to reduce our reliance on alcohol-based revenue.
consumers could potentially reduce demand leading to reduced revenue.
Failure to respond to the threats to our Pub Partners business posed by the introduction of the market rent only MRO option and the statutory code Loss of income and Development of agreements that are exempt from the MRO We recognise that in the 4 5 profits in Pub Partners option with plans to adopt these where possible.
normal course of business, from reduced beer we are exposed to legislative Site-by-site plans developed to mitigate risks.
margin and penalties risk that we need to forbreach of the Upweighted compliance team in place with training for all manage appropriately statutory code.
relevant employees, and enhanced processes and procedures inorder to meet our toreduce risks.
Failure to comply with major health and safety legislation, including in the areas of food safety and fire safety, orsignificant food integrity issues Serious illness, injury Comprehensive range of formally documented policies We have no appetite for 1 2 oreven loss of life to andprocedures in place, including centrally managed system healthand safety breaches one of our customers, ofcompliance KPI tracking and internal and independent within our operations.
employees or tenants, auditsto ensure compliance with current legislation or significant food andapproved guidance.
integrity issues, could Health and safety policies reviewed by our primary authority partner, have a significant impact Reading Borough Council, which has rated our safety management on our reputation, systems as very good.
Safety measures are in place, including a supplier assurance programme, toensure that product integrity is maintained andthat all food and drink products are fully traceable.
Compliance programme in place to ensure pubs are safely handed over tonew tenants.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES 1 Build attractive and 2 Industry-leading value, 3 Work with the 4 Own the UKs 5 Maintain a strong strongbrands service andquality bestpeople bestinvested balancesheet and pubestate flexiblecapital structure 36 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL RISKS LINK TO CHANGE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION AND MONITORING RISK APPETITE STRATEGY Inability to meet the funding requirements of the enlarged group Reduced revenue, The group's debt structures and financing requirements are kept We expect the group to 5 profitability and lower under regular review.
beable to access suitable growth rates than our financial facilities to meet The group has a 460m bank facility to support activities outside the strategic plan.
theongoing requirements securitisation vehicles, which was entered into in July 2013 and is ofthe business and available until July 2018. ourlonger-term We completed a tap of our Greene King securitisation vehicle strategicobjectives.
Liquidity and covenant risk relating to the groups securitisation and other financing arrangements A breaching of any Long-term strategy and yearly business plans are formulated We expect to be able 5 financial covenants toensure that financial covenants can be met and monitored tomeet our payment applicable to the group ona regular basis.
obligations and covenant would impact our ability levels under a range of Working capital is carefully forecast, regularly reviewed to pay dividends or cautious but plausible bythefinance teams and closely managed.
reinvest cash, and liquidity scenarios.
impact our reputation and ongoing creditworthiness.
Funding requirements of our defined benefit pension schemes, which are subject to the risk of changes in life expectancy, actual and expected price inflation and investment yields Increased deficit being All the schemes are now closed to future accrual We expect to maintain 5 recognised on our toreducevolatility.
funding levels for our balance sheet, and pension schemes at There is regular monitoring of the schemes investments volatility of the deficit manageable levels.
anddialogue withthe trustees on an ongoing basis makes longer-term .
Viability statement In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance on viability was presented to the board following the conclusion of the tap Code, the board has assessed the prospect of the company over a period of the Greene King securitisation vehicle which took place after the year end.
of three years from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The three year plan considers cash flows and compliance with the financial The board concluded that a three year period was appropriate as it is covenants contained within the groups revolving credit facility and aligned to the groups strategic planning process.
The latest three year plan structured finance vehicles.
was approved by the board in February 2016 and covers the three year period to the end of the 2018 19 financial year.
As detailed on pages 33 to 37 the board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company.
This includes consideration of strategic risks, Long-term financing is provided by the groups securitisation and debenture economic and market risks, operational and people risks, regulatory risks and vehicles both of which have a weighted average life of 12 years remaining.
The resilience of the group to the impact of these risks has been The group also utilises a 460m revolving credit facility to provide liquidity assessed by applying significant but plausible sensitivities to the cash flow and to manage its seasonal cash flows.
The latest three year period goes projections based on past experience.
This includes modelling the effect of beyond the June 2018 date when this facility matures.
reduced consumer confidence and therefore spending, the failure of our business to maintain and develop compelling customer offers, food safety issues, lower The groups three year plan is prepared by consolidating each business than anticipated acquisition synergies and the impact of increased regulation segments own plan and overlaying group assumptions in respect of estate across the business.
Key assumptions underpinning the three year plan and the associated cash flow forecasts are the economic outlook, Taking account of the companys current position, principal risks and the revenue growth expectations, impact of expected inflationary cost pressures, sensitivity analysis discussed above, as well as the potential mitigating actions estate development and disposal opportunities, the successful integration that the company can take, and the experience that the company has in of the Spirit business and realisation of synergies, and that credit markets adapting the business to change, the board has a reasonable expectation remain stable in order to renew the revolving credit facility.
A further report that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 37
