Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that risks are managed appropriately.
Risk Committee Our risk management approach The Risk Committee is a management committee that meets Greggs approach to risk management has a number of on a quarterly basis to discuss risks in greater detail than can be components that combine to ensure that significant risks are done during Operating Board meetings.
It comprises the Chief identified, evaluated, recorded and managed, as set out below.
Executive, the Operating Board and a number of heads of business functions.
Its responsibilities include analysing, Board of Directors assessing, measuring and understanding the Companys risk The Board has ultimate accountability for ensuring that risks exposure, as well as supporting the implementation of the are managed appropriately, although it delegates the detailed business risk management strategy.
Significant areas of concern implementation of risk processes and mitigating actions to identified by this body will be reported through to the main management.
Significant risks i. e. those that could prevent the Board, generally via the Audit Committee.
Although the business from achieving its objectives were they to occur are Committees remit extends to all risks faced by the Company, considered at each meeting, with the associated controls being it will focus on key strategic risks and their associated controls.
The Board also debates whether any new or emerging risks require assessment by management, delegating The Risk Committee also considers new and emerging risks as any such risks to the Risk Committee for their consideration.
a standing agenda item, including those identified by the Board of Directors.
Insurance cover provides a means of mitigation for a number of risks facing the business.
On an annual basis, the Board reviews Whistle-blowing the cover in place, and considers whether it is appropriate, taking All staff have an opportunity to raise matters of concern with advice from our brokers where necessary.
senior management through our whistle-blowing policy as detailed on page 48, which is advertised across the business.
Through regular reporting, the Board is kept apprised of any The policy has been reviewed by the Audit Committee during issues or business changes which may impact on the Companys the year.
The Audit Committee reviews risk management procedures at least annually, and reports its findings through to Business Assurance the Board.
The Business Assurance function provides independent internal audit coverage for the entire business operation, and also Operating Board supports risk management activity and information security The Operating Board supports the Chief Executive in governance across the organisation.
implementing the Boards decisions, and comprises Directors representing each of the organisations main functions: Finance, Audit findings are reported to management, and to the Audit Retail, Commercial, Supply Chain, People, Business Development Committee, whose meetings are all attended by the Head of and Property, IT and Business Change, and Corporate Affairs.
The Business Assurance team has authority Responsibility for the day-to-day management of risks sits with to access all areas of the business, all senior managers and the this group.
All key strategic risks identified by the business are Chair of the Audit Committee as required.
allocated to an Operating Board member as risk owner.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to Principal risks and uncertainties management or deemed to be less material currently, may also have The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal an adverse effect on the business.
Greggs exposure to risks evolves risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its as we take mitigating actions or as new risks emerge.
business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
These risks are described below, together with a brief description of Our exposure to cyber risk is not included within this analysis, mitigating activity.
since we do not consider our risk levels to be any greater than other comparable businesses in our sector.
The Board continues to Greggs is exposed to a wider range of risks than those listed.
oversee and receive reports on the management of cyber risk in line However, these are the risks which are considered to be the most with our normal business practice, our approach still being driven by important to the business future development, performance or a cross-functional working group, which sets the priorities and position.
The risks identified are those to which the Board monitors progress.
considers there is a disproportionate exposure, relative to the food-on-the-go sector.
The impact of these risks occurring has Similarly, we face a risk relating to uncertainty in the economy giving been considered in developing the scenarios tested as part of rise to an inflationary impact on our customers disposable incomes.
the financial viability statement on page 41.
However, we do not believe that this will have a disproportionate impact on us compared with our competitors.
The following risks are in no particular order.
Area of principal risk or uncertainty Mitigating actions and controls Risk rating The project delivery is overseen by the Operating Business change Greggs is implementing a strategic Increasing plan to transform the business from a decentralised Board, under the guidance of a project sponsor, traditional bakery to a centralised modern food-on-theproviding robust governance.
Regular updates are go brand.
This is a major programme of business provided to the Board, to monitor progress against change involving restructuring, new systems, significant clearly defined timelines and financial forecasts.
capital investment and a major overhaul of every aspect of the business, particularly supply chain.
Progress may not be in line with plans, disruption could occur and financial returns may fall short of expectation.
Product quality and safety Greggs is unusual in the Procedures are in place throughout our operations to No change food-on-the-go sector in that it is vertically integrated, ensure that food safety is maintained.
These procedures owning its own manufacturing and supply chain are supported by robust audit processes, both internally operations.
In addition, we freshly prepare food on our and by regulatory bodies.
This exposes us to greater risk in ensuring good food safety than many of our competitors.
Food scare Greggs may suffer from a loss of customer The majority of products for sale in our shops have been No change confidence due to a major food scare beyond its manufactured by our staff in our bakeries.
Dependent upon the nature of this, it may have carried out to confirm the integrity of our products and a disproportionate impact on Greggs.
ingredients as part of routine processes.
Loss of production Some of our products are Contingency plans are in place for our supply sites and No change produced in one location and distributed nationwide.
Our property insurers carry Any disruption to supply would have a significant impact out annual site inspections, which help to protect our on our customers.
We have alternative supply sources for key products and these are periodically tested.
Market pressures Changing shopping habits driven Greggs operates a leasehold shop estate with typically No change by new customer channels, such as the internet, may five-year break provisions, allowing us to change have a greater impact on Greggs due to our historical locations in line with customer traffic trends.
In addition, bias towards shops located on high streets.
new shops are predominantly opened in locations away from the high street to offer our services to customers away from home for reasons other than shopping.
The nature of our franchise partners also provide mitigation.
Consumer trends Increasing customer concern with We have a proactive programme to improve the No change health and nutrition may affect demand for some of our nutritional qualities of our traditional products where traditional bakery product ranges.
In addition we are extending range choice to include healthier options branded Balanced Choice which is growing rapidly.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 40 Strategic Report In order to stress-test the Companys financial resilience, scenarios Viability statement were created to simulate the impact arising from the occurrence The Directors have assessed the Companys prospects and of the following principal risks: viability taking into account its current position, plans and principal risks.
The Company remains cash-generative and has 1.
A brand-damaging food scare resulting in a significant no debt other than normal trading liabilities to creditors and the one-year sales reduction followed by gradual recovery of obligations arising under commercial leases.
In making assumptions, the Directors considered Companys viability the Board has considered potential scenarios real examples of companies in the food sector that had that have been envisaged to reflect the occurrence of the experienced such issues.
principal risks that the business faces.
The impact of a 10 per cent annual sales decline as a result of changing shopping habits or consumer trends.
In carrying out its assessment the Board has reviewed the 3.
Temporary loss of production capacity for the Companys three-year operational and financial plan to 2019.
The Board iconic savoury products and the consequences for liquidity believes that this viability assessment period is appropriate given as capacity is restored.
its experience of the Companys cycle of strategic plan renewal and the fast-moving nature of the food-on-the-go market.
In each case the Directors reviewed the mitigating actions that would be necessary to protect the Companys liquidity.
The principal risks to which the Company is exposed ultimately These scenarios represent more extreme circumstances than affect the ability of its shops to trade successfully, either through the Company has ever experienced.
an interruption to supply or because of a loss of confidence in the Greggs brand.
A significant loss of sales would be particularly Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have damaging given the Companys vertical integration in that the a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able cost of the internal supply chain cannot be reduced quickly.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
