Principal risks Viability statement 32 PRINCIPAL RISKS There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups futureperformance.
To mitigate against these risks, the Group conducts a continuous process of assessments that examine whether any risk has increased, decreased or become obsolete: identify new risks: and evaluate the likelihood of each risk occurring and the impact it would have on the Group.
Our principal risks fall into five broad categories which are set out below, along with how we seek to manage them.
More detail on our approach to risk management can be found in the Audit Committee Report on pages46to 50 ofthisAnnual Report: 1 3 TECHNOLOGY TAXATION The Groups customer offer includes products The Group has companies and employees spread operated using different labels and gaming licences, over a number of jurisdictions which creates tax risk the majority of which are now driven by the Groups if actions and decisions are being made in the wrong proprietary technology obtained through the acquisition jurisdictions by the wrong companies.
these companies contract with one another for In an industry where service reliability and integrity are services which are subject to scrutiny by local key differentiating factors, our continual commitment tax authorities.
to providing a reliable, safe, secure, compliant and The Groups strategic focus is to operate in nationally continuous service has continued to be the Groups regulated and or taxed markets.
Revenues earned focus this year.
2 from customers located in a particular jurisdiction may Subsequent to the acquisition of bwin.
party, the Group give rise to further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such initiated a significant technology platform migration taxes are levied, either on the basis of existing law or which carries inherent project risk.
REGULATION the current practice of any tax authority, or by reason of a change in law or practice, then this may have a Other technology-related risks, such as our continuing Focusing on nationally regulated and or taxed markets material adverse effect on the amount of tax payable operations in the event of a natural or man-made safeguards our gaming revenues from potential by the Group.
disaster, have been addressed with a substantial national legislation threatening to prohibit or restrict investment and both the Groups disaster recovery one or more of the products that we offer, or online On 1 January 2015, new VAT rules came into force andbusiness continuity solutions.
There are potential risks for the Group across the EU impacting several areas of the digital from all markets where regulation is not clearly dened economy.
Gambling has typically been exempt from With continuous shifts in how consumers choose and or adopted, especially in relation to EU law.
VAT but falls within the rules for VAT on electronically are able to access our services via different devices supplied services.
Under EU law, Member States and or channels, the process of maintaining and Mitigating factors have the ability to apply VAT to gambling, subject improving our technology will become more complex.
To manage this risk, the Group maintains a dialogue to certain limitations and conditions, and tax may either directly or indirectly with national governments Mitigating factors be due depending on where customers are located and regulators of to-be regulated markets.
The Groups and how Member States implement any exemption.
In May 2016, the Internal Audit function performed compliance and regulatory affairs teams keep abreast a cyber security review over the key systems and Whilst substantial uncertainty remains, in light of the of the regulatory landscape and report to the Board on new rules the Group is now ling for, and paying VAT, interfaces that collectively form the gaming platform, any developments.
However, it should be noted that over both the bwin.
in certain EU Member States.
It is possible that VAT most of the risks in relation to the regulatory landscape could be payable in other EU Member States.
The resilience to cyber and denial of service threats have are outside of the Groups direct control.
been carefully considered and improved upon following Mitigating factors the recommendations arising from this review.
Operating in nationally regulated and or taxed markets Group companies operate only where they are requires the Group to comply with the rules and Furthermore, the Group has committed to maintain its incorporated, domiciled or registered across countries.
protocols of the particular regimes.
Currently, the ISO 27001 Information Security Management System The multi-location set up of the Group gives rise to Group holds 31 licences each with their own unique certication, and is progressing with consolidating its transfer pricing risk, mitigated by the fact that all regulatory requirements.
The need to sometimes ISO 27001 certication across the locations inherited intra-group transactions are documented and take develop bespoke technological, operational and through the bwin.
Part of this process place on an arms length basis unless local legislation promotional offers in each market requires significant involves an internal audit review from an information or other business conditions make an arms length investment.
The Group is committed to meeting its security perspective of all certied sites across a basis impossible or impractical.
licence obligations and monitors its compliance with three-year cycle, which form part of the internal audit regulatory requirements by performing reviews of Following the acquisition of bwin.
party, the transfer annual calendar.
its licensed operations on a periodic basis, with the pricing arrangements are in the process of being The technology platform migration has been executed results reported to the Audit Committee.
The Group reviewed by the Groups Director of Tax.
As well in phases, by label and territory to minimise risk also submits the licensed entities to a series of as holding workshops with senior management and customer impact.
The Group aims to complete external audits by regulators and industry specialists and business unit leaders, he also meets at least the migration by the end of 2017 and subsequently toensure that policies and procedures are being once a year with the Board to review tax strategy decommission legacy systems.
GVC Holdings PLC Annual Report 2016 33 4 COUNTRY & CURRENCY RISK VIABILITY STATEMENT Whilst the continuing uncertainty in the global economic outlook inevitably increases the trading and In accordance with the obligations of the UK balance sheet risks to which the Group is exposed, the Corporate Governance Code, the Board of GVC diversied nature of the Groups business means that is required to provide its assessment within the such risks are not disproportionately different from Annual Report and Accounts of the viability of any other commercial enterprise of a similar scale and the Group over an appropriate period of time.
Conditions in the Eurozone remain Accordingly, the Directors have assessed the challenging and reference has already been made viability of the Group over a three year period to in previous statements to the challenging economic December 2019, taking account of the Groups backdrop in several European countries, reducing the current position and the potential impact of the spending power of customers particularly in Southern principal risks as outlined on pages 32 to 33 European countries, which the Group has attempted ofthisAnnual Report.
toreect in its financial forecasts.
The weaker A three-year period was deemed appropriate for European economies are also increasing the risk of this assessment as it best reects the strategic currency volatility and the potential for significant 5 planning and budgeting process required for the currency devaluation and business disruption if one implementation of Groups strategy.
The Board or more of these countries exit the euro currency.
has completed a thorough review of threats with Accordingly, the Groups treasury processes and IMPACT OF BREXIT the potential to compromise the Groups business policies are designed with the aim of minimising the model, future performance, solvency, liquidity and Groups exposure to the Eurozone economic risk and On 23 June 2016, a referendum was held to its resilience to those risks.
preserving our ability to operate if such events arise.
determine whether the United Kingdom remains in the European Union EU.
In light of the decision to Key factors the Board considered within this The functional currency of the Company and a leave the EU, in addition to the increase in the volatility review included: majority of the Companys subsidiaries is the euro.
of both the global currency and financial markets, Consequently, those GVC companies that have Progress of the integration the bwin.
party it may reduce the Groups ability to operate on an adopted the euro as their functional currency ensure business acquired in February 2016 including unfettered basis in certain EU markets that have tried their financial assets and liabilities in non-euro the migration of customers on to a single to restrict competition in their domestic market from currencies are equal and that any residual balance technology platform.
online gaming companies based overseas.
The Group, isheld in euros.
With the so-called GIPSI countries along with other EU based online gaming operators, The delivery of the 125m by 2017 annualised Greece, Ireland, Portugal, Spain and Italy, if one have previously relied on the ability to challenge such synergies resulting from the acquisition by the or more of these countries exits the euro then the protectionist measures through the EU Court of Justice end of 2017.
Group may be exposed to a currency devaluation CJEU.
In the event that the UK, and by extension ofits financial assets to the extent that the financial The secured nature of the Groups long-term Gibraltar being a UK protectorate, was to leave the assets located in the exiting jurisdiction exceed its debt facility comprising a 250m term loan and EU, unless the Group was to re-domicile certain of its financial liabilities.
subsidiaries within the EU, it would no longer be able to rely on such protection.
Such a re-domiciliation could Mitigating factors The diverse nature of the Groups revenue base The Internal Audit function facilitated a review of the give rise to higher taxes payable.
across both geographical markets and online enlarged Groups Treasury and Cash Management gaming product segments.
Mitigating factors process in June 2016.
The Group adopted a Treasury A Brexit task force has been formed, led by the policy, which dictates that all material transaction and The Groups ability to adapt to regulatory change Group Head of Legal, Compliance and Secretariat currency liability exposures are hedged with financial in regard to online gaming and increase in alongside members of senior executive management.
taxation that may result from such change.
The purpose of the task force is to closely monitor The Treasury policy also requires that wherever the situation, propose various contingency plans Having completed this review, the Board has and, subject to Board approval where appropriate, full confidence that the Company will be able practical and subject to regulatory requirements, the financial assets located in each GIPSI country are execute them as the UK navigates through the EU to continue operating and be will be able to meet its liabilities over the three year period to limited so they do not exceed the financial liabilities exit process, with minimal business interruption and associated with that jurisdiction.
