Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Like all businesses, our Group faces risks and uncertainties that could recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement impact the achievement of the Groups strategy.
These risks are of our corporate objectives.
Responsibility for taking the necessary accepted as being a part of doing business.
The Board recognises actions to manage risk is delegated to appropriate colleagues in the that the nature and scope of these risks can change and so regularly business, with executive manager sponsor involvement.
reviews them as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
Mindful of corporate strategy, executive management and the Board Our corporate risk register is maintained by the Head of Internal consider the risks reported within the risk register and review and Audit and Risk and is regularly updated following discussions with monitor new risks and all mitigating actions to ensure that the Groups executives and senior management.
It is subject to an annual indep th appetite for risk is not exceeded.
The Board recognises that each of its review by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is also alerted strategic pillars could be compromised by the any of the risks set out to any material changes to the register at each of its meetings.
Individual Moving Up a Gear initiatives are reliant on some of Board is regularly updated on Audit Committee proceedings.
For example Service into our DNA delivery is The directors have therefore carried out a robust assessment of reliant on full utilisation of our online training system and on our ability the principal risks facing the company, including those that would to attract and retain good colleagues.
Better shopping experience is threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or reliant on our continuing investment in modernisation of our stores.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 40 to 47 further The Group has discussed its risk register with its insurance broker discusses the Boards responsibilities in relation to risk management and ensures that it has cover to help to mitigate significant risks and internal control systems.
Senior management colleagues assess risks on a  financial risks e. g. liquidity, foreign currency are detailed in department basis using a variety of techniques to identify risk.
The Note 20 to the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 104-107. likelihood and impact of these risks are considered and scored against a Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Economic, Environmental and Political The economy is a major influence on The Group mitigates these risks by maintaining a focus on the defensive consumer spending.
Trends in employment, characteristics of its needs driven product groups.
A firm focus is maintained on cost inflation, taxation, consumer debt levels, control.
Targeted promotions and excellent service are designed to attract and retain weather and interest rates impact consumer customers.
We ensure that marketing and merchandising can be revised quickly to expenditure in discretionary areas.
Changes in react to weather conditions.
Government policies e. g. Cycle to Work may We also ensure that we have representation with Governmental decision makers in the also affect our customers ability to benefit areas supporting our core categories.
from our products and services.
In addition there is, at the time of publishing this report, uncertainty surrounding the outcome of the EU membership vote.
Business Strategy The aim of the Groups business strategy is to The Group has set out its Moving Up a Gear strategy.
Strategic issues are regularly deliver long-term value to our shareholders.
Regular assessment is made to ensure that strategy The Board understands that if the strategy remains appropriate, and that the business is making progress in meeting its strategic and vision are inappropriately formulated, objectives.
KPIs relating to strategy have been communicated clearly, both within the communicated, or executed then the business and to the market.
These KPIs are regularly discussed by the Board.
budget process recognises the importance of strategic initiatives.
The Group has delegated authorities processes to approve significant investments, Key investments could fail to deliver sufficient including review by an Investment Committee and the Board.
The Autocentres and Cycle Republic Republic have dedicated, experienced management teams supported by appropriate businesses could fail to meet growth infrastructure and allocated resources.
The performances of both businesses are closely expectations.
30 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Competition The retail industry is highly competitive and The Board is aware of the risks faced from UK retailers both in-store and online, and dynamic.
The Group competes with a wide from the national car-servicing networks and smaller independents.
variety of retailers of varying sizes and faces We have a significant investment programme to support Moving up a Gear.
The competition from UK retailers, in both stores investment programme is allowing us to improve the service we provide to customers and online, as well as international operators.
by improving the quality of our stores, IT infrastructure, training, customer knowledge The car servicing market is a serviceincluding e-receipts and website including optimisation for mobile and tablet devices.
based market with a number of differentExcellent service is fundamental to differentiating ourselves from our competitors.
sized providers where trust is extremely The national geographical coverage of our stores underpins our Click & Collect important to customers.
Our WeFit service is a key differentiator.
Our Cycle Repair and extended Parts, with competitors on areas including Accessories and Clothing range offer confirm our credibility within the Cycling market.
price, product range, quality, service and The Group seeks to continually strengthen its own-brand retail offer and develop opportunities trustworthiness could have an adverse to differentiate the Halfords brand, including TV, radio, press and social media advertising.
Our effect on the Groups financial results.
products benefit from association with well-known cyclists and designers.
Our Autocentres business continually seeks to provide innovative solutions for their customers, such as brakes4life.
Compliance The Group operates in an environment Regulatory requirements are closely monitored by our Company Secretarial team governed by legislation and codes in areas which includes colleagues with relevant professional qualifications and experience.
including, but not limited to, Listing Rules, The Group has Quality Assurance and Compliance teams working in both the Retail trading standards, advertising, product and Autocentres businesses.
Specialist Health and Safety teams ensure that the Group quality, health and safety, hazardous has adequate policies and risk assessments.
Retail margin erosions are minimised by a substances, Bribery Act and data dedicated profit protection team.
Colleagues and management are trained to identify and handle in-store regulatory issues using Gears training modules on our online Learning Management System.
We The Group recognises that failure to comply have a whistleblowing hotline that allows colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
with ethical standards could expose the business to reputational risk and loss We operate a Code of Conduct that clearly sets out our expectations of suppliers.
We have a corporate delegated authorities framework How We Do Business setting out key authorisation levels.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption training has been delivered through face-to-face and online training sessions.
The Group has a dedicated Investor Relations team which ensures that there is frequent and appropriate communication with investors and the wider financial community.
The Group has a dedicated Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, which calls upon cross-functional support as required.
The Group has a comprehensive record of community engagement through events such as childrens bike workshops, and support of the Re-Cycle charity stock code: HFd halfords.
com 31 slugline Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Supply Chain Disruption Halfords sources a significant proportion Extensive research is conducted into quality and ethics before the Group procures of the merchandise it sells in its stores products from any new country or supplier.
The Groups strong management team in from outside of the UK, either directly or the Far East blends expatriate and local colleagues.
It understands the local culture, via third-party suppliers.
Consequently, the market regulations and risks and we maintain very close relationships with both Group is subject to the risks associated our suppliers and shippers to ensure that disruption to production and supply are with international trade particularly those managed appropriately.
which are common in the import of goods We work with suppliers in a number of territories to reduce the risks of disruption.
from developing countries including, but We maintain firm security and protection measures at our distribution centres.
not limited to, inflation, currency fluctuation, We have business continuity plans to manage any incidents that may occur.
the imposition of taxes or other charges Our logistics are overseen by an experienced, dedicated warehouse and logistics on imports, the exposure to different legal team who maintain contacts with a range of logistics businesses who could be utilised standards, the burden of complying with a if necessary.
variety of foreign laws and changing foreign government policies and natural disasters.
UK withdrawal from the EU could impact on our supply chain.
The Group could also be impacted in the event of disruption to domestic logistic arrangements: for example, unavailability of distribution centres or road transport problems.
Product and Service quality and Brand Reputation The Board recognises that the quality and The Group constantly seeks to enhance its position as the store or centre of first safety of both our products and services choice in each of the markets that it serves.
in our stores and autocentres are of critical Our Gears training programme uses online modules to ensure that colleagues are importance and that any major failure consistently knowledgeable about our products and able to deliver quality services to will affect consumer confidence and our customers.
This online training is reinforced by face-to-face learning and assessments.
Failure to protect the Groups Stores use an accreditation matrix to ensure that all building and fitting is undertaken reputation and brand could lead to a loss by competent colleagues.
Product knowledge among colleagues is promoted through of trust and confidence.
This could result in specialist conferences for selected staff e. g. BikeHut managers.
a decline in the customer base and affect We have also implemented measures to ensure that we attract and retain the best the ability to recruit and retain good people.
colleagues: engagement surveys aim to identify opportunities to reduce colleague There is also the risk that our service turnover: colleagues who have successfully passed Gears training programmes receive proposition fails due to inconsistent levels a premium: we have again been recognised as one of the Sunday Times 25 Best Big of service at individual stores and Companies to Work For: our recruitment processes are now centralised to improve individual centres.
Our products are risk assessed and rigorously tested for quality and safety by qualified engineers in our dedicated quality team.
We monitor customer comments and complaints and, when necessary, we have established recall processes.
Our Autocentres utilise a comprehensive quality assurance process with checks by centre managers.
Technicians are regularly checked to ensure quality of workmanship, and the priority status allocated to individual jobs is reviewed to ensure safety and prevent overselling.
There is a dedicated Operations Quality team.
32 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 1 April 2016 slugline strategic report our governance Financial statements sHareHolder inFormation Key Risk and Uncertainty Mitigation Information Technology IT Systems and Infastructure In common with most businesses, Halfords Extensive controls are in place to maintain the integrity of our systems and to ensure is dependent on the reliability and suitability that systems changes are implemented in a controlled manner.
Halfords key trading of a number of important IT systems where systems are hosted within a secure data centre operated by a specialist company any sustained performance problems remote from our support centre.
These systems are also supported by a number of including those caused by cyber attack disaster recovery arrangements including a comprehensive backup and patching could potentially compromise our operational strategy, and a hotlink secure data centre hosted in a different location.
IT recovery capability for a period of time impacting on processes are tested regularly.
stores, centres or warehouse, multi-channel We review our IT security processes and risk assessments on an ongoing basis and and distribution systems.
With ambitious our IT team has dedicated IT security and continuity experts.
We utilise appropriate growth plans for our multi-channel offer, firewalls, physical and logical system access controls.
We have undertaken network our trading capacity could be affected by penetration testing.
internal and external systems resilience and interdependencies.
Commercial data could be lost or stolen through cyber attack, sabotage, or other security breaches.
Dependence on Key Management Personnel The success of the Groups business Our Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 60 to 62 details the strategies in place depends upon its senior management to ensure that high calibre executives are attracted and retained.
The Group looks to closely supervising all aspects of its improve its senior manager cadre through operating a talent management process business, in particular, the operation of to help individuals achieve their full potential within Halfords and to ensure that the stores and Autocentres, including the appropriate succession plans are in place to meet the future needs of the business.
appropriate training of in-store and centre At a junior level, the Group continues to invest in graduate programmes and store and colleagues, and the design, procurement centre colleague training and development.
Fast Fact 34 Products in the new Olive and Orange by Orla Kiely collection launched on the 20th May 2016 Fast Fact figures relate to 4th April 2015 - 1st April 2016 stock code: HFd halfords.
com 33 slugline Our Governance Board of Directors 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Directors Report 37 Committee Report 50 Corporate Governance Report 40 Audit Committee Report 54 Nomination Committee Report 48 Remuneration Committee Report 58 Remuneration Policy Summary 60 Annual Remuneration Report 63 Directors Responsibilities 73 slugline A very special delivery Talk about going above and beyond... Chris Smart, from Bodmin, made a magnificent gesture on Christmas Day.
He personally delivered two childrens bikes to a local family after discovering on social media that they had been unable to collect them in time.
The children were disappointed not to receive their presents and the distraught family posted their tale on Facebook.
Chris noticed the post, went to the shop to pick up two bikes and then took them straight to the familys home.
There were huge smiles all round and the grateful family sent him the biggest thank you in the world on Facebook.
