arealigned with the Groups growth and Risk Management and Internal Controls toensure continued compliance with covenants and accounting requirements.
The Internal Audit function has operated independently since 2004, reporting to the Maintaining a robust risk Audit Committee.
The team of three dedicated internal auditors, residing in the UK, USA and China, schedule visits to Group companies and control framework toconduct internal audit procedures which have recently been benchmarked to reflectchanging circumstances, specific requirements and to enhance effectiveness.
INTERNAL CONTROL subsidiary managing directors and subsidiary The results of each internal audit are The Board meets regularly throughout the finance directors.
Such guidance includes documented for internal distribution and action year and has adopted aschedule of matters aspects ranging from our Group benefits and with an executive summary going to the Audit which are required to be brought to it for incentives to information related to the internal Committee.
The team may also be involved in decision.
This procedure is intended to financial review procedures conducted any special investigations that may arise at the ensure that the Directors maintain full and to complement the operating control direction of the Company Secretary.
effective control over all significant strategic, environment.
Wecontinue to strengthen financialand organisational issues and is the internal and external resources utilised Group risk is mitigated by means of an subject to routine review.
in the identification of, and investigation into, operating structure which spreads the potential acquisitions.
Our approach and Groups activities across a number of During the year, actions to strengthen the policies areparticularly designed to ensure autonomous subsidiary companies.
Each control environment continue to be taken a rapidandsuccessful integration following ofthese companies is overseen by sector centrally by Group management.
The scope of the Groups executives and led by a high-quality board structure provides additional, dedicated policiesand the programme of compliance ofdirectors including a finance executive.
personnel who supplement and reinforce our audits are regularly reviewed to ensure Theintroduction of internal non-executive controls and the culture in whichwe operate theyare sufficient to address current risks.
director NED opportunities within the Group within the subsidiaries themselves.
The duties The Groupplaced additional emphasis on during 2017 will provide further, mutually and responsibilities of management are updating our business continuity plans over beneficial, oversight ofoperations.
continually refreshed as well as documented.
recent years ensuring that they are mutually The Groups policies and procedures were Embedding internal control and risk complementary to our insurance programme.
moved to a secure web-based portal during management within the operations of the year and updated to be in a more The Groups treasury-related policies are thebusiness and dealingwith areas of user-friendly format.
The portal also includes keptunder review to ensure that appropriate improvement which come to managements links to the additional guidance given to all accounting and banking arrangements andthe Boards attention is a continuous Group internal control system The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below: Operating companies, with the oversight of their sector boards, carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions inplace or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which operational risk action is monitored through to resolution and strategic risks are reported to the Group.
Management also compiles a summary of significant Group risks, documenting existing or planned actions to mitigate, manage or avoid risks.
Each month the board of every operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facingit and the resultant actions.
The relevant Sector Chief Executive or Sector Vice President chairs this meeting.
Sector Chief Executives meetregularly withthe Chief Executive and Finance Director and report on sectoral progress to the Executive Board.
Financial and trading warning signs are reported to Group and sector management.
Weekly data on cash management, sales and orders are also reported directly to the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Group finance team.
This framework is designed to provide an early warning of potential risks and to direct appropriate action where necessary.
The Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma plc Board meeting which includes the main features of Group operations and an analysis ofthe significant risks and opportunities facing the Group.
The papers also cover progress against strategic objectives and shareholder-related issues.
The Finance Director also submits aseparate financial report to each Halma plc Board meeting.
Regular Director visits to Group companies are scheduled and open access to the subsidiary company boards is encouraged: cyclical and risk-based internal control visits are carried out by internal audit or senior finance staff resulting in actions being fed back to each company and followed up by senior finance executives and Sector Chief Executives.
Reviews are coded in terms of risk and a summary of all such reviews isgiven to the Audit Committee, with any significant control failings being reported directly to the Audit Committee: senior finance staff also conduct financial reviews at each operating company before publication of half-year and year-end results.
We have a Group-wide IT policy supported by a programme of IT health checks.
Group IT manages aspects of our cyber security risks and IT development needs.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Internal Audit function report to the Audit Committee on all aspects ofinternal control.
The Board receives regular reports from the Audit Committee Chairman and the papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are used as abasisfor its annual review of internal control.
28 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS process and one which is subject to budgets and the previous years figures on disruptions.
The Group has a wide rigorousscrutiny.
Weekly cash sales orders rangeofmeasures and policies and reporting including details of financial a framework in place which includes Group companies operate under a system of institutions is also maintained within the a virtual private network covering over controls which includes but is not limited to: financial reporting system, all of which is 100 sites worldwide, secure firewalls, reviewed at both local, sector and Group level: an IT security and threat monitoring a defined organisational structure with system, information management an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate delegation ofauthority to audits, disaster recovery and a mobile an appropriate level of approval for all capital operational management which ensures devices management system: and expenditure and other capitalised costs: appropriate segregation of key duties: an acquisitions and disposals framework self-certification by operating company the identification and appraisal of risks both which governs the due diligence, and sector management ofcompliance formally, through the annual process of negotiation, approval and integration and control issues with additional preparing business plans and budgets, processes to ensure that value-enhancing, verification performed centrally: through an annual detailed risk assessment quality investments are made in order to a robust structure for electronic carried out at local level and informally meet our strategic objectives.
communication and conducting through close monitoring of operations: e-commerce to ensure that the Group See Viability Statement on page 68. a comprehensive financial reporting system, isnot adversely impacted by threats to regularly enhanced, within which actual and itsinformation technology infrastructure forecast results are compared with approved and to minimise potential for business Group risk management Board Operational and financial risk Compliance and monitoring Chief Executive Finance Director Audit Committee Executive Board Company Secretary Sector boards Internal Audit Whistleblowing Subsidiary company boards Senior Finance Executives The diagram below summarises our complementary integrated approach to risk management which is consistent with the Groups structure.
Halma has also refined the timings of the Group-wide risk assessment as well as the division of responsibility for the risk review cycle throughout the year.
Top Down Bottom Up Strategic Risk Management Operational Risk Management  review and management of the strategic risks  assessment of the effectiveness of risk management of the Group with visibility of the sector risks: systems across the Group: and  consideration of the environment in which the  reporting principal risks and uncertainties in the Group.
Board and Audit Group operates: and Committee  setting the risk appetite of the Group.
 reviewing completeness and consistency across  delivery of Group strategic actions: and the sectors and adequacy of mitigation actions:  monitoring Group key risk indicators.
Executive Board  consideration of the aggregation of risk exposures and Senior Finance across the businesses: and Executives  review management consolidation of operational risks both sector and business unit, delegated as the Sector Chief Executive deems appropriate.
 execution of any Grouplevel strategic actions:  reporting of significant and emerging risks to the Group: and reporting on any identied key risks and  identication, evaluation, prioritisation, mitigation mitigation progress.
Subsidiary and monitoring of operational risks which are the Companies responsibility of each subsidiary company: and  identication of strategic risks which are reported to the Group.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 29
