I I I I E E E E N N N N R R R R N N N N I I I I O O O O U U U U V V V V Q Q Q Q A A A A C C C C T T T T A A A A E E E E Principal Risks and Uncertainties Halmas principal risks and uncertainties are detailed below and are supported by the robust risk management and internal control systems and procedures noted on pages 28 and 29.
Movements indicate managements perception of how the pre-mitigation risk hasmoved year on year.
Strategic Risk objective Risk description appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation Globalisation Weakening of financial, tax, audit and legal Control is exercised locally in accordance with the Groups policy of autonomous management.
We seek to employ local high-quality experts.
The global interconnectedness control and divergence from overall Group The increasing geographic diversity of operating personnel emphasises the importance the Group placeson local knowledge and experience.
Medium High of operations poses wide-ranging strategy in remote operations, leading to The Groups acquisition model ensures retention of management and staff in acquired businesses, meaning that local expertise is retained.
challenges across the Group businesses taking on more risks than intended Sector Chief Executives ensure that overall Group strategy is fulfilled through ongoing review of the businesses.
Theright balance between especially where businesses or unexpected financial outcomes.
autonomy andadherence to the overall objectives of the Group isa key function of the Sector Chief Executives, Sector Vice Presidents and manage operational matters via Failure to comply with local laws and regulations Senior Finance Executives.
remote locations: the increasing in unfamiliar territories, leading to reputational Regular visits to remote operations and maintenance of key adviser relationships by senior management, finance staff and Internal Audit global spread of our businesses, issues and legal or regulatory disputes.
particularly in China, requires Continued international growth increasesrisk.
The Groups geographic and product diversity reduces risk.
additional vigilance over Missed opportunities due to failure to mobilise communication, culture, training resources efficiently.
and export controls sanctions in order to anticipate and contain anyvulnerabilities.
Competition Loss of market share due to price pressure By empowering and resourcing innovation in local operations to respond to changing market needs, the potential adverse impact of downward The Group faces competition Medium Medium and changing markets.
price pressure and competition can be mitigated and growthmaintained.
intheform of pricing, service, Reduced financial performance arising from We recognise the competitive threat coming from emerging economies and by operating within these economies, typically using local staff, reliabilityand substitution.
competitive threats both from third parties we are better placed to make fast progressourselves.
and customers bringing production in-house.
The Group operates in specialised global niche markets offering high barriers-to-entry.
Economic conditions Reduced financial performance.
Risks are primarily managed at the operating company level where local knowledge is situated.
Thefinancial strength and availability of In times of uncertain economic Medium High Loss of market share.
pooled finances within the Group mitigates local risks faced byoperating companies as does the robust credit management processes conditions, businesses face Unforeseen liabilities.
in place across the Group.
additional orelevated levels of Disruption of service to customers.
The Halma Executive Board identifies any wider trends which require action.
These include market and Breaches of legal or regulatory requirements The Groups geographic diversity limits its exposure to economic risk arising in any one territory.
TheGroup does not have significant customer risk, customer default, resulting in fines penalties impacting the operations, cash deposits orsources of funding in economically uncertain regions.
fraud, supply chain risk and Group financially and reputationally.
Financial Constraints on trading and or acquiring The strong cash flow generated by the Group provides financial flexibility.
Funding newcompanies limiting the Groups Cash needs are monitored regularly.
In addition to short-term overdraft facilities, the Group renewed and increased to 360m its five-year Low Medium A key risk is that the Group may growth aspirations.
revolving credit facility in 2013 providing security of funding and sufficient headroom for its current needs.
run out of cash or not have access Availability of additional funding in The Group increased its funding capacity in 2016 via a US$250m US Private Placement.
In addition, traditional debt markets.
Cash deposits are monitored centrally and spread amongst a number of high credit-rated banks.
cash deposits are required to be Permanent loss of shareholders funds held in asecure form and location.
and or restrictions on dividend payments.
Gearing has increased during the year.
Treasury Volatile financial performance arising from The risk has increased because more of the Groups profits are derived from non-Sterling currencies.
Currency profits are not hedged.
Currency Breaches of banking USPP translation of earnings fromthe Groups hedging must fit with the commercial needs of the business and we have in place a hedging strategy to manage Group exposures.
This requires Medium Medium covenants and foreign currency risk increasing proportion of overseas operations or the hedging of a substantial proportion of expected future transactions up to 12 months and in exceptional cases 24 months ahead.
Longer-term are the most significant  foreign exchange exposures.
currency trends can only be covered through a wide geographic spread ofoperations.
related risks for the Group.
In times Deviation from core strategy through the The Group does not use overly complex derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury transactions are undertaken.
of increased volatility thiscan use ofspeculative oroverly complex We closely monitor performance against the financial covenants on our revolving credit facility and USPPand operate well within these covenants.
havea significant impact on financial instruments.
The Group is Financial penalties, reputational damage exposed to a lesser extent to andwithdrawal of facilities arising from othertreasury risks such as breachofbanking USPP covenants.
interestrate risk and liquidity risk.
Increased interest rate risk on higher forecastborrowings.
Pension deficit Excessive consumption of cash, There is regular dialogue with pension fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma Boardagenda item.
The Groups strong cash flows To meet our pension obligations, limiting investment in operations.
and access to adequate borrowing facilities meanthatthepensions risk can be adequately managed.
Medium Medium wemust adequately fund our closed Unexpected variability in the The Group has maintained additional pension contributions with the overall objective of paying offthedeficit in line with the Actuarys UK defined benefit pension plans.
Alternative means of reducing pension riskisevaluated in light of the best long-term interest of shareholders.
30 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 E E E E M M M M W W W W P P P P O O O O O O O O R R R R W W W W G G G G E E E E R R R R STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I I I I E E E E N N N N R R R R N N N N I I I I O O O O U U U U V V V V Q Q Q Q A A A A C C C C T T T T A A A A E E E E Halmas principal risks and uncertainties are detailed below and are supported by the robust risk management and internal control systems and procedures noted on pages 28 and 29.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Movements indicate managements perception of how the pre-mitigation risk hasmoved year on year.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 E E E E M M M M W W W W P P P P O O O O O O O O R R R R W W W W G G G G E E E E R R R R I I I I I N N N E E E E E N N N N N R R R R R N N I I O O O I I I O O U U U U U V V V V V Q A Q A Q A Q Q T T T A A C C C C C E E E T T A A A A A E E Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Movements indicate managements perception of how the pre-mitigation risk hasmoved year on year.
Strategic Risk objective Risk description appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation Cyber security Information Delay or impact on decision making through There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into Group-wide systems and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
Technology Business Low High lack of availability ofsound data or disruption A small central resource, Halma IT Services, assists Group companies with strategic IT needs and ensures adequate IT security policies are used interruption in denial of service.
Group and operational Reduced service to customers due to poor An IT security committee was set up in December 2012 comprising central and subsidiary IT personnel.
management depend on timely information handling or interruption ofbusiness.
Halma IT has been ISO 27001: 2013 certified for its information security management systems.
andreliable information from our Prevention, detection and containment of Regular IT health checks are conducted.
Comprehensive IT systems monitoring was introduced in 2014.
IT systems to run their businesses.
global threats to systems and critical Cyber risk and security is a regular Board agenda item addressing the landscape as it evolves.
We seek to ensure continuous information are inadequate.
External penetration testing is utilised and the rollout of a centralised IT disaster recovery solution to supplement local processes has been completed.
availability, security and operation Loss of commercially sensitive and or Business continuity plans exist for each business unit and with ongoing testing.
Education awareness of cyber threats continues to ensure Group employees protect themselves andGroup assets.
Cyber threats continue to show Intended and unintended actions of employees anincreasing trend.
Acquisitions Failure to attract sufficient numbers of high-quality The sector restructuring in April 2014 freed up additional resource to focus on M&A activities supported by the appointment of dedicated sector The identification and purchase businesses to meet our strategic growth target.
Such resources remain under constant review.
Medium High ofbusinesses which meet our Failure to deliver expected results resulting We acquire small and medium sized businesses whose technology and markets we know well or who operate in adjacent markets.
demanding financial and growth from poor acquisitionselection.
Sector Chief Executives are responsible for finding and completing acquisitions intheir business sectors, subject to Board approval, supported by sector criteria are an important part of our Failure to identify new markets in which and central resources, as necessary.
We employ detailed post-acquisition integration plans.
strategy for developing the Group, toexpand.
Thorough due diligence is performed by a combination of in-house and external experts to ensure that acomprehensive appraisal of the commercial, as is ensuring the new businesses Reduced financial performance arising from legal and financial position of every target is obtained.
are rapidly integrated into the Group.
failure to integrate acquisitions into the Group.
Incentives are aligned to encourage acquisitions which are value-enhancing from day one.
Unforeseen liabilities arising from a failure to understand acquisition targets fully.
Laws and regulations Unfavourable changes in laws and regulations The Groups emphasis on excellent internal controls, high ethical standards, the deployment of high-quality management resources and the strong Group operations are subject to that restrict the export of our products.
focus on quality control over products and processes ineach operating business help to protect us from product failure, litigation, fraudulent activities Low High wide-ranging laws and regulations Reputational damage and or loss arising andcontractual issues.
including business conduct, frominadvertent non-compliance.
Each operating company has a health and safety manager responsible for compliance and our performance in this area is good.
Health and Safety employment, export controls Diversion of management resources resulting policies, guidance and monthly reporting requirements are updated to reflect changing reporting and governance requirements and to enhance sanctions, environmental and in lost opportunities.
Ourwell-established policies on bribery and corruption have been maintained during the year to ensure continued compliance with health and safety legislation.
There Penalties arising from breach of laws best practice internally, via the Group Code of Conduct and externally, viaappropriate clauses included in third-party agreements.
is also exposure to product litigation andregulations.
Comprehensive insurance covers all standard categories of insurable risk.
Contract review and approval processes mitigate exposure to and contractual risk.
The laws and Loss of revenue and profit associated contractual liability.
regulations we are exposed to as withcontractual disputes.
The Groups whistleblowing policy and externally facilitated hotline assist the timely identification of potential problem areas.
our businesses expand around the Continued investment in international markets may introduce additional risk while we develop the appropriate commercial infrastructure necessary world increase eachyear.
Succession planning Failure to recruit and to retain key staff Group development programmes are under continuous development to ensure they deliver enhanced skills for executives and middle managers and staff quality Low Medium leadingto reduced innovation and progress as needed in their current and future roles.
Group performance is dependent inthe business.
Comprehensive recruitment and ongoing evaluation processes assist high-quality hiring and development.
on having high-quality leaders at all Unethical actions of staff causing reputational The Group regularly surveys staff to assess the alignment of individuals with Group values.
levels and an organisation allowing damage to the Group.
The Group Talent Director assists the identification and development of Group executives.
us to continue to grow through Acquisition growth limited due to our Ongoing focus on increasing the diversity of our employees worldwide to better meet our markets needsand provide sufficient opportunities acquisition as well as driving organisations and leaders inability to for advancement as well as clear succession planning.
Considerable time spent assessing senior management talent and establishing better processes toimprovethe talent pipeline has advanced our International growth increasing the need for succession planning and talent quality.
Research & Development and Loss of market share resulting from product Devolving control of product development to the autonomous operating businesses spreads risk andensures that the people best placed toservice Intellectual Property strategy obsolescence and failure to innovate to meet the customers needs are driving innovation.
Medium Medium New, high-quality products are customer needs.
New product development best practice is shared between Group companies and return on investment of past and future innovation projects is critical to our organic growth and Loss of market share resulting from a failure tracked monthly.
This ensures that the collective experience and expertise of the Group can be utilised to maximum effect.
underpin our ability to earn high toprotect key intellectual property.
Large R&D projects, especially those which are capitalised, require Head Office approval, ensuring that theGroups significant projects are aligned margins and high returns over the Loss of market share resulting from product tooverall strategy.
quality issues including the necessity to Workforce quality and retention is a central objective.
This focus ensures that intangible resources stay and grow within the business.
Operating businesses are actively encouraged to develop and protect know-how in local jurisdictions.
Diversion of resources to address Innovation is encouraged and fostered throughout the Group, inter alia, via the Halma Innovation Awards.
32 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 E E E E E M M M M M W W W W W P P P P P O O O O O O O O O O R R R R R W W W W W G G G G G E E E E E R R R R R STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS I I I I I N N N E E E E E N N N N N R R R R R N N I I O O O I I I O O U U U U U V V V V V Q A Q A Q A Q Q T T T A A C C C C C E E E T T A A A A A E E Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Strategic Risk objective Risk description appetite Risk rating Movement Potential impact Mitigation Cyber security Information Delay or impact on decision making through There is substantial redundancy and back-up built into Group-wide systems and the spread of business offers good protection from individual events.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 E E E E E M M M M M W W W W W P P P P P O O O O O O O O O O R R R R R W W W W W G G G G G E E E E E R R R R R
