Audited Investment Report of Consolidated Key Chairmans Managers Supplemental Directors Independent Financial Highlights Statement Review Data Report Auditors Statements Disclosures GOING CONCERN The Board, in assessing the viability of the Company, have paid particular attention to After making enquiries and given the nature of the principal risks faced by the Company the Company and its investments, the directors as disclosed below.
As part of its strategic are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue planning, the Board considered models of to adopt the going concern basis in preparing pessimistic but plausible scenarios over the the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements, three year period in relation to capital calls and, after due consideration, the directors on the Company and distributions received consider that the Company is able to continue by the Company.
In addition, the Board has for a period of at least the next 12 months.
established a risk management framework, In addition, the Board monitors and manages reviewed on a half-yearly basis, which is intended the ongoing commitments via the criteria set to identify, measure, monitor, report and, out on page 10.
When considering the criteria, where appropriate, mitigate the risks to the the Board reviews detailed reports from Companys investment objective, including any the Investment Manager detailing ongoing liquidity or solvency issues.
The Board does not commitments and the investment pipeline.
consider any other risks to be principal risks as Furthermore, the Board, as part of its regular defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
review of the Balance Sheet and debt position, considers model scenario outputs that Based on its review, the Board has a reasonable are based on a look-through to the anticipated expectation that the Company will be able to underlying fund and portfolio cashflows.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year period to VIABILITY STATEMENT 31 January 2019.
Pursuant to provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and Principle 21 PRINCIPAL RISKS of the AIC Code, the Board has assessed the Risk Factors viability of the Company over a three year period The Companys Board believes that there are from 31 January 2016.
Whilst the Board has no four principal risks faced by the Company: reason to believe that the Company will not be The NAV is at risk of decline, particularly viable over a longer period, it has chosen this if the economic recovery or equity period as this falls within the Boards strategic markets falter.
horizon and within the Companys expected Although the Company currently has investment lifecycle.
no borrowings, it may be necessary to utilise the credit facility at some stage The Companys investment objective is to in the future.
In addition obligations generate superior shareholder returns through could be difficult to fund under certain long-term capital appreciation by investing circumstances.
primarily in a diversified portfolio of private equity The Company depends on HarbourVest investments.
The majority of the Companys and its investment professionals for core investments are in HarbourVest-managed services.
The Company could experience periods of share illiquidity, ongoing price volatility, and discounts to NAV in the shares.
67 NAV Risks The Board and the Investment Manager both actively monitor these metrics and will take Despite positive trends, the economic and stock appropriate action as required to attempt to market recovery remains fragile with persistent mitigate these risks.
levels of unemployment in many markets.
The Company makes venture capital and buyout Reliance on HarbourVest investments in companies where operating The Company is dependent on its Investment performance is affected by the economy of the Manager and HarbourVests investment profescountries in which those companies operate.
With the exception of the 2011 Absolute While these companies are generally privately investment and 2012 Conversus investment, owned, their valuations are, in most cases, influnearly all of the Companys assets, save for cash enced by public market comparables.
In addition, balances and short-term liquid investments, are approximately 16% of the Companys portfolio invested in HarbourVest funds.
Additionally, is made up of publicly-traded securities whose HarbourVest employees play key roles in values increase or decrease alongside public the operation and control of the Company.
Should global public markets decline The departure or reassignment of some or or the economic recovery falter, it is likely that all of HarbourVests professionals could prevent the Companys NAV could be negatively affected.
the Company from achieving its investment There is also a risk that leveraged buyout objectives.
The Board monitors the performance investments held within HarbourVest funds could of the Investment Manager on an ongoing basis, breach debt covenants, resulting in writedowns including through regular reports and visits to in value.
Both the Board and the Investment the Investment Managers London and Boston Manager actively monitor the Companys NAV offices.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed although the Board notes that the Board has a recent ISAE 3402 report from the Investment limited ability to mitigate the above risks.
Manager to assess the controls environment Approximately 23% of the HVPE portfolio is of the Investment Manager.
S. dollar currencies, primarily euros.
Foreign Currency movement Trading Illiquidity and Price affects the Companys investments, borrowings Any ongoing or substantial discount to NAV has on the multi-currency credit facility, and unfunded the potential to damage the Companys reputacommitments.
The Board and the Investment tion and to cause shareholder dissatisfaction.
Manager monitor the foreign exchange risk exWhile trading in the Companys shares has perienced by the Company and will implement increased as a result of the Companys listing hedging arrangements if necessary.
on the main market of the London Stock Exchange, the stock may experience periods of ilBalance Sheet Risks liquidity.
Without liquidity, it could be very difficult This report describes the Companys balance or impossible for a shareholder to sell shares sheet strategy and a willingness to utilise leverwithout having a significant negative impact on age to finance new investments.
The Company the share price and possibly causing the shares also continues to maintain its over-commitment to trade at an even greater discount to NAV.
strategy and may draw on its credit facility to bridge periods of negative cash flow when The five largest shareholders represent cash calls on investments are greater than approximately 50% of the Companys shares realisations.
The level of potential borrowing in issue.
This may contribute to a lack of available under the credit facility could be liquidity and widening discount.
Also, in the negatively affected by declining NAVs.
event that a substantial shareholder chose Therefore, in a period of declining NAVs, to exit the share register, this may have an reduced realisations, and rapid substantial effect on the discount to NAV.
cash calls, the Companys net leverage ratio could increase beyond an appropriate level.
In such a situation, the Company could undertake a number of actions, including asset sales, which could result in further NAV declines.
