HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 33 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MANAGING OUR RISKS THE RISK AND INTERNAL Board Commitees CONTROL FRAMEWORK Audit Remuneration Hargreaves Lansdown comprises of 11 Committee Committee active legal entities, but manages risk at a Plc Board consolidated level, ensuring all categories of Nomination Board Risk risk are covered.
The Groups risk framework Committee Committee and the internal control framework are designed to manage risk within agreed appetite levels and aligned to delivering both the Group strategy and good outcomes for our clients.
Executive Committee Investment Treasury CASS Executive Risk GOVERNANCE OF THE RISK AND Committee Committee Committee Committee CONTROL FRAMEWORK Risk management is acknowledged to be a core responsibility of everyone at The Group has an ongoing process for Hargreaves Lansdown.
Oversight of risk and RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL identifying, evaluating and managing the controls management is provided by Board CONTROL FRAMEWORK principal risks that it faces.
The Board has committees and the Risk Team, which is part reviewed the process over the course of of the Group Risk and Compliance function.
The basis for the Internal Control Framework the year.
The Board considers acceptance is the three lines of defence model.
Risk of appropriate risks to be an integral part Key governance committees relating management is primarily the responsibility of of business and unacceptable levels of risk specifically to the maintenance and oversight the operational teams which constitute the are avoided or reduced and, in some cases, of the risk and control environment are the first line.
Oversight and guidance is provided transferred to third parties.
Internal controls Executive Committee, the Executive Risk by the second line through the Risk and are used to identify and manage risk.
The Committee ERC, CASS Committee, the Compliance department and the Legal team.
Directors acknowledge their responsibility Board Risk Committees Audit Committee and Independent oversight of the internal controls the Investment Committee.
of the business is the responsibility of the Internal Audit function.
It is understood by the Chairs of all Committees, both Board and Executive, that The Internal Audit function reports to the Audit Committee, to ensure its independence risk is a core theme which is evident in all Third Line from the business.
The Internal Audit function committee debates and discussions.
of Defence - is subject to an external effectiveness review Internal Audit on a periodic basis.
The activities of the Board and Executive Committees are detailed in the Corporate Both the Internal Audit function and the Governance section, pp37-43.
Compliance Monitoring team perform a Second Line number of audits during the year covering the There are three sub-committees of the of Defence - adequacy of controls and compliance with Executive Committee that support the Compliance regulation.
management of the risk and internal control & Risk framework.
As explained on p. 41, the Results from this assurance activity are Investment Committee is a sub-committee reported to both the Executive Committee of the Executive Committee, which is chaired First Line of and the Board and shared for action with by Jayne Styles, Non-Executive Director.
From Defence - the the operational teams around the business.
2017 the Board has agreed to a change to operational Progress against actions is monitored and the Terms of Reference making it a subreported on by the Compliance Monitoring committee of the Board.
teams team and Internal Audit respectively.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It provides reasonable but not absolute assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control environment and such reviews are supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board is satisfied that processes are in External Auditors through the year, its own The Company has a documented and agreed place to ensure that risks are appropriately regular review of controls self-assessment Risk Universe, which sets out the high level managed.
reports and the Groups tone from the top risk categories to which the business is with regard to risk management and control.
exposed and to which all risks are linked.
At the end of the year the Chief Risk Risks are captured both top-down and Officer prepared a report on the design and Any control weaknesses that these bottom-up with clear ownership.
The Risk operating effectiveness of the system of procedures identify are monitored and Universe ensures that there is completeness internal controls and presented it to the Risk addressed in the normal course of business.
in the capture of risks and that there is Committee.
The report included a review None of the weaknesses identified in the year consistency of treatment across all risk of processes in place to report and monitor to 30 June 2016 have resulted in any material categories.
The Executive and Departmental risk appetite, risk tolerance and exposures losses, contingencies or uncertainties that Risk categories are explained in the Risk and reviewed the effectiveness of mitigating would require disclosure in the Groups Reporting section below.
strategies and risk management procedures.
It also recognised improvements that had been made to the Risk Management Framework during the period.
Having Executive Risks Departmental Risks RISK FRAMEWORK challenged and discussed the reports Strategic Financial conclusions, the Risk Committee then The Hargreaves Lansdown Risk Framework commended it to the Audit Committee.
Emerging Operational comprises a number of elements.
The core elements for capturing, managing and then The Audit Committee is tasked by the Board reporting and monitoring risks are the Risk to review and recommend the statements Universe, Risk Appetite and Risk Reporting Risk is reported on a monthly basis at the to be included within the report concerning Process.
ERC and at every Board Risk Committee internal controls.
The report from the by the Risk Team, ensuring that there are Risk Committee is a key input into its consideration.
In addition, as well as reports appropriate levels of transparency, discussion from Internal Audit throughout the year, Risk Universe and challenge.
the Audit Committee received a report from Hargreaves Lansdown has a comprehensive the Head of Internal Audit expressing his Risk Framework, capturing both forward Risk Appetite independent view of the design and operating looking and current business risks.
Materials Hargreaves Lansdown has agreed risk effectiveness of the system of internal are reviewed by the Board and Executive appetite statements and risk tolerance levels.
The committee Management on a rolling basis with support The appetite statements cover all areas of the also considered its consultations with the from the second line business functions.
These are agreed by the Board HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 35 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 and are monitored and managed within the requires escalation to the Board Risk risk sets: strategic and emerging.
of the Risk Framework the business balances The Departmental Risks are the consolidated risk and reward within the capital adequacy A further layer of risk appetite management view of the risks to which the business is levels agreed within the Risk and Control is in place through the operational risk currently exposed and managed in the course Governance Framework by the Board under limits agreed for the risks captured under of normal business activity.
the Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment the Operational Risk category.
These are Process ICAAP regime.
managed by the Risk Team, with oversight The first line of defence owns and is and approval from the ERC.
There are For each risk appetite statement the Board also teams with areas of specific focus to has agreed inner and outer limits, which Risk Reporting Process support the maintenance of a strong control set out the levels for formal escalation.
A The Hargreaves Lansdown risk universe framework: CASS Oversight and IT Security.
breach of the inner level requires escalation consists of Executive Risks and Departmental In the second line the Compliance & Risk to the ERC or the Treasury Committee Risks.
The Executive Risks are the forward function includes teams focussed on antiif applicable, a breach of the outer level looking risk profile and are made up of two money laundering, fraud, compliance advice, RISK FRAMEWORK AND REPORTING SCHEMATIC Board Governance Board Risk Committee HARGREAVES LANSDOWN RISK UNIVERSE Executive Governance Executive Risk Committee STRATEGIC Risk Reports Actions Status vs Risk Appetite Conduct Risk EMERGING Committees Key Risk Indicators Strategic & Emerging Risks Breaches and Root Cause Departmental Risks Activity driven analysis ICAAP OPERATIONAL Risk Strategy Capital CREDIT Executive Risks Departmental Risks Strategic Risks Financial Risks MARKET Emerging Risks Op Risks LIQUIDITY Functional and Thematic Risk Assessments HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 compliance monitoring and risk.
DEPARTMENTAL RISKS THE HARGREAVES LANSDOWN RISK PROFILE AND OUR The risk profile is reported in two outputs, The Departmental Risks financial and PRINCIPAL RISKS AND both based on the same data and linked to operational occur during the ordinary UNCERTAINTIES the risk universe.
course of business and are owned by senior managers.
Risks are captured across Risk Dashboard a number of categories including: credit, A risk dashboard is produced monthly, which Managing risk is central to the delivery of market, liquidity, information technology, anti-money laundering & fraud, outsourcing, is central to the agendas at both the Board high levels of client service.
Risk management business continuity and conduct.
For each Risk Committee and the ERC.
The dashboard is understood and embedded at all levels risk category a set of risk limits have been reports on all the core elements of risk of the business and the risks are captured agreed by the business and are monitored management, including: risks, risk appetite and managed accordingly.
Group Risk and reported to management.
Risk data is also reviewed provide regular challenge and advice in the in local management meetings.
The second content, maintenance and reporting of all risk Risks are captured in team based risk output is the ICAAP.
registers, and then reported at both team and at a consolidated level, enabling team Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment based management of risk and controls and Process ICAAP EXECUTIVE RISKS executive understanding of trends and risk at A key aspect of risk reporting is the ICAAP.
the risk universe level and by risk category.
The Capital Requirements Directive CRD The Executive Risks strategic and emerging Thus anti-money laundering risks and IV applies to Hargreaves Lansdown and as are forward looking risks to the business controls can be owned and managed by the such Hargreaves Lansdown complies with and are owned and managed by members processing teams, and the Money Laundering the ICAAP regime.
The primary purpose of of the Executive Committee.
Given the Reporting Officer MLRO and other senior the ICAAP is to ensure that there is a clear, nature of these risks they are managed and executive management can also view the accurate and transparent link between the through planning, monitoring and action status of money laundering risk at a Company risk profile of the business and the capital setting.
These are reported and discussed level.
adequacy level set by the firm.
ICAAP at both the Board Risk Committee and the compliance is overseen by the Board Risk Executive Risk Committee.
The Executive Committee, with day to day management of Risk Committee meets monthly and the PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES compliance by the second line Risk Team.
Board Risk Committee four times a year.
This governance arrangement is the primary Managing the risks to Hargreaves Lansdown Key elements of the ICAAP are reviewed on a method for managing these forward looking is fundamental to delivering the levels of cyclical basis by the ERC prior to discussion, risks to the business.
service our clients expect and generating challenge and approval by the Board Risk returns for shareholders.
The ICAAP activity is integrated New risks are discussed upon identification periodically carried out a robust assessment into the wider risk framework, ensuring and then further assessed as they become of the principal risks facing the Company, consistency in risk reporting, and a clear link more defined and their probability becomes including those that would threaten its between the detailed business team risk more exact.
Where appropriate, management business model, future performance, registers and the capital held by the business.
actions are agreed and monitored.
In making such example was the project to prepare for the an assessment the Board considers the outcome of the UK referendum on European likelihood of each risk materialising in the Union membership, which resulted in a short and longer term.
In assessing the longer plan that allows the Group to maintain term viability of the Company see Viability client service levels in the event of either Statement in the Directors report the Board outcome.
Other risks discussed during has considered the principal risks.
2015 2016 include the potential impacts of negative interest rates, Markets in Financial The principal risks and uncertainties facing Instruments Directive MIFID II, Payment the Company are set out in the table below Services Directive PSD II and changing along with how we intend to suitably mitigate demographics.
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 37 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MITIGATIONS STRATEGIC & EMERGING RISKS Hargreaves Lansdown strategic change The Board reviews the strategy in the context of the political, economic, social and technological environment There is a potential risk that Hargreaves Lansdown fails to continue to provide innovative propositions and services to the market or to There is a Steering Group providing oversight of the development react to the changing political, economic, social and technological of the Peer to Peer and Deposit Services propositions environment.
A project team ensures that the business would be able to Key developments during the period were the: manage any changes in business activity as a result of the UK referendum on European Union membership development of Peer to Peer and Deposit Service propositions launch of new Multi-Manager funds preparation for the launch of a new equity fund Future regulatory change HL ceased the collection of platform cash rebates Managing implementation of regulatory change has been a major Project managed the results of the EU Membership referendum element of the emerging risks in recent years.
Key changes considered Projects have been initiated led by the Group MLRO to meet the by the business have included: revised requirements of the European General Data Protection Sunset clause April 2016.
Regulation and the 4th Anti-Money Laundering directive EU Membership Referendum There is an ongoing project to ensure that Hargreaves Lansdown will comply with the revised requirements of MiFID II New European General Data Protection Regulation Fourth Anti-Money Laundering Directive MIFID 2 OPERATIONAL RISKS Conduct Hargreaves Lansdown monitors and assesses ways in which clients could experience poor outcomes and monitors Management The risk that Hargreaves Lansdown poses to the achievement of fair Information against these client outcomes and to stability and transparency in financial markets Conduct Risk Management Information is discussed at the Board Risk Committee as part of the wider Risk Management Information Legal & Regulatory Independent Compliance, Compliance Monitoring and Internal Audit functions, strong governance including Board oversight Failure to comply with current, new or revised regulations or failure to prevent inappropriate conduct by staff could result in fines, legal action Strong compliance culture geared towards client outcomes and or regulatory sanctions regulatory compliance Formal compliance manuals in place for each area of the business Independent risk management function Regular updates from External Auditors HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MITIGATIONS OPERATIONAL RISKS Disruption to business Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery plans in place and tested regularly Physical business continuity event or catastrophic loss of systems, or other external event could cause disruption to our business and result Dual hosting of all critical servers, telecommunications and in inability to perform core business activities or reduction in client applications service High level of resilience built into daily operations Separate business continuity disaster recovery site available 24 7 Ongoing project to upgrade and enhance our IT operating platform Large, experienced in-house team of IT professionals and established name suppliers Monitoring of critical devices and systems in place Financial Crime, Fraud, Information Security & Data Protection Dedicated Information Security, Anti Money Laundering and Client Protection teams in place Failure to protect against cybercrime, fraud or security breaches could result in loss of data or inability to maintain our systems resulting in Formal policies and procedures in place with ongoing review and client detriment and reputational damage monitoring to check adherence A programme of training and awareness carried out across the business Externally audited and compliant to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard A rolling risk-based programme of penetration and vulnerability testing in place A Security Operations Centre focussed on the detection, containment, and remediation of information security threats Advanced malware protection in place Information Technology Strong in-house IT function As a platform business with a proprietary platform tool, it is imperative Regular testing of the performance of the IT Architecture that there is a strong control environment to support the business All new IT releases subject to stringent testing including model regression testing Regular load tests and stress tests Forecasting of client demand to support the effective management of peaks and troughs in system demand Access controls to HL systems Regular senior management review of the change programme People Career development path in place including talent management programme Failure to recruit or retain appropriately skilled and experienced staff may have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations and Continuous programme of SAYE and share option schemes to implementation of its strategy incentivise staff and encourage retention Contracts for relevant roles have restrictive covenants and enhanced notice periods are in place for key staff Support and encouragement for taking qualifications HARGREAVES LANSDOWN GOVERNANCE 39 ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MITIGATIONS FINANCIAL RISKS Market Risk The Group model comprises both recurring platform revenue and transaction-based income Fluctuations in capital markets may adversely affect trading activity and or the value of the Groups assets under administration or A high proportion of the assets under administration are held management, from which we derive revenues within tax-advantaged wrappers, meaning there is a lower risk of withdrawal The Group model includes the ability to earn margin from cash management services when clients decide to shelter assets from market volatility Liquidity Hargreaves Lansdown is a highly cash generative business with a low working capital requirement Lack of sufficient readily realisable financial resources to meet the Groups obligations as they fall due or lack of access to liquid funds A Treasury management policy is in place, overseen by the Treasury on commercially viable terms could lead to inability to pay clients and Committee, which maximises return on capital whilst providing the regulatory breaches ability to access sufficient liquid funds at short notice should this be necessary Bank default We manage this risk by placing deposits only with highly creditrated institutions, in accordance with the Treasury Policy and The Group must always protect against the risk that a bank could fail overseen by the Treasury Committee The Treasury Committee monitors the counterparties credit ratings on a regular basis Interest rates Using a range of banks and varying terms of deposit where permitted Reduction in interest rates or regulatory changes affecting interest income could lead to a decline in earnings Prudential risk As part of the ICAAP, HL undertakes regular capital adequacy assessments to ensure that it maintains financial resources of The risk that the Group may hold insufficient regulatory capital sufficient scale and quality at all times.
These assessments include resources in order to meet FCA Threshold Condition requirements risk-based stress testing to model the impact of extreme scenarios on the Groups own funds This process is overseen by the Board of Directors
