Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks Key monitors Commercial performance risk Inability to manage reserving and pricing Regular internal and external reserve reviews reported to the Board risk Underwriting of Underwriting and external actuaries that report to Underwritings Reserving Committee, combined with monthly results reports submitted totheBoard of Underwriting.
Market risk Constant market assessment and the implications for assets under management.
Reinsurance risks Underwriting Regular reviews of reinsurance arrangements and the stability of external partners that provide reinsurance programmes.
Changes to the way that consumers purchase general Assessing consumer preferences, and in particular the use of PCWs for the insurance products less use of PCWs Retail purchase of general insurance products against our planning assumptions.
Liquidity and capital risk Insufficient capital to service debt arrangements Group Monitoring of cash flow from trading entities and the free cash position of the Group.
Insufficient capital to meet Solvency II requirements Management of own funds in accordance with Solvency II and Board reviews Underwriting inUnderwriting.
Monitoring and measurement of risk and capital implications through stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as captured in Underwritings Own Risk andSolvency Assessment.
Insufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements Annual stress testing and management of finances against the Groups Retail ThreeYearPlan.
Operational risk Business interruption events as a result of systems, Regular reviews of resilience risks, contingent back up capability, system stability property or supplier failure Underwriting and Retail and supplier continuity plans.
Insufficient resources to meet the volume demand and Robust and real time resource monitoring and long term planning to achieve deliver the technical and professional services growthplans and continue to deliver a refreshingly straightforward claims and service experience.
Reliance on third party suppliers to provide customer Ongoing supplier relationship and performance management, with regular facing services, and technology capability due diligence reviews.
Information security breaches or cyber crime Constant IT infrastructure monitoring, data assessment and perimeter testing.
Increased investment in information security cyber crime defences and controls.
Increased exposure to claims fraud may increase Dedicated team that deploys effective and anti-fraud techniques.
