Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 42 PRINCIPAL RISKS Managing risks so we How we monitor our progress three lines of defence achieve our strategic Board & Audit Committee growth targets.
Management Board We focus on key risks First line of defence: Second line of defence: Third line of defence: which could impact Management Controls Financial Control Internal Audit on the achievement Policies and Security External Advisers Procedures Risk Management of our strategic goals Internal Control KPIs and therefore on Measures Compliance Group Risk the performance Committee of our business.
Ownership & Monitor & Oversight Independent Assurance Our risk appetite Management Hays has a proactive approach to measuring performance and considers risk as an integral them according to risk magnitude and part of decision-making, both about current The Board delegates to management ownership and responsibility for operating likelihood.
Risks covered include operational, and future performance throughout the risk management and controls, and financial and reputational risks, as well as global businesses.
With the Board being management need to provide leadership compliance and people-related risks.
Each risk responsible for the level of risk that the and direction to the employees to ensure is assigned an owner with current and future Group is willing to accept, the Board the organisations overall risk-taking activity risk mitigation procedures detailed, with the manages this by linking risk appetite to its is managed in relation to the agreed level of continuing monitoring of these undertaken strategic objectives, being mapped against risk appetite.
defined impact and likelihood scales, in order to define where the level of risk sits.
To manage the effectiveness of this the Viability statement Board and management need to rely on In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the The principal risks have all been mapped adequate line functions including UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the through the risk appetite process in order monitoring and assurance functions within directors have assessed the prospects to identify both position and tolerance levels the organisation.
As such the organisation of the Group over a period longer than and to assess the mitigating actions.
operates the Three Lines of Defence model the 12 months from the approval of the as a way of explaining the relationship financial statements.
Hays operates a measured risk appetite between these functions and demonstrating position due to the nature of the recruitment market, being a cyclical business and highly how responsibilities are allocated: The directors have determined that the sensitive to macroeconomic conditions, which The first line of defence responsibility three-year period ending 30 June 2019 is results in a lack of forward visibility of fees to own and manage risk: the most relevant time period over which and increases the overall risk environment.
The second line of defence responsibility to provide the viability statement.
This is to monitor and oversee risk: because it is aligned with the strategic Risk attributes The third line of defence functions that planning cycle and, given the fast moving When considering the risk appetite the provide independent assurance.
nature of the industry, using a three-year Board considers this in terms of the period it is possible to form a reasonable following attributes: The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the expectation as to the Groups longer-term Experienced and stable management Group Finance Director and comprising viability.
team globally: senior operational, IT, legal and finance Strong balance sheet, including the level representatives, assists in the strategic Process to assess the Groups prospects of operational gearing: management of risk in the Group.
As in prior years, the Board undertook a Clear and open communication channels.
strategic business review in the current Risk identification and impact Hays year taking into account the Groups current Risk governance identifying, evaluating principal risks are analysed on a gross position and the potential impact of the and managing risk pre-mitigation and net postprincipal risks set out on pages 43 to 45 The Board has overall responsibility for the mitigation basis of the Annual Report.
Groups internal control systems and for The Management Board oversees an reviewing their effectiveness.
This has been enterprise risk management framework, In addition and in making this statement, designed to assist the Board in making which allows for a holistic, top-down and the Board carried out a robust assessment better, more risk-informed, strategic bottom-up view of key risks facing the of the principal risks facing the Group, decisions with a view to creating and business.
These are recorded in a Group risk including those that would threaten the protecting shareholder value.
In practice, the register, which is reviewed at least annually by Groups business model, future performance Board delegates the task of implementing its the Management Board and submitted to the and liquidity.
While the review has policy on risk and control to management Board thereafter to enable it to carry out its considered all the principal risks identified and needs to assure itself on an ongoing risk oversight responsibility.
This exercise by the Group, the resilience of the Group to basis that management is responding involves a current and forward look at various the occurrence of these risks in severe yet appropriately to these risks and controls.
risks affecting the business and prioritising plausible scenarios has been evaluated.
OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 43 Stress testing to manage its business risks.
Macroeconomic cyclical The Board approves an annual budget and enquiries, the directors have formed the business exposure reviews monthly management reports and judgment at the time of approving the quarterly forecasts.
The output of the financial statements, that there is a reasonable Movement in year strategic planning and budgeting processes expectation that the Group has adequate has been used to perform a sensitivity resources to continue in operational existence analysis to the Groups cash flow to model for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the potential effects should principal risks they continue to adopt the going concern Risk description actually occur either individually or in unison.
basis of accounting in preparing the The performance of the Group is Consolidated Financial Statements.
significantly impacted by changes to The sensitivity analysis included loss of underlying economic activity, particularly business arising from a prolonged global Risk trends in the UK, Germany and Australia, the downturn, material movements in foreign The ongoing review of the Groups principal levels of business confidence as exchange rates, and a detailed assessment risks focuses on how these risks may evolve.
businesses consider permanent and of a range of possible outcomes arising from Since the publication of last years Annual temporary hiring decisions and levels of the UKs vote to leave the European Union.
Report, our principal risks have changed candidate confidence which impact their as follows: propensity to change jobs.
Set against these downside risks the Board considered key mitigating factors including Increased risks Risk impact the geographic diversity of the Group, its Financial balanced business model across temporary, Risk 1 permanent and contract recruitment Macroeconomic cyclical services, and the significant working capital business exposure inflows which arise in periods of severe The Brexit decision has increased the level Risk mitigation downturn, particularly in the temporary of uncertainty and thus risk to the trading Hays has continued to diversify its recruitment business, thus protecting performance of our UK business and operations to include a balance of both liquidity as was the case during the global potentially to the broader European market.
temporary and permanent recruitment financial crisis of 2008-09. services to private and public sector Risk 2 markets, and operates across 33 countries In addition, the Groups history of strong Business model and 20 sector specialisms.
Progress is cash generation, tight cost control and flexible The pace of change in social media and being made to further diversify the workforce management provide further internet-enabled digital dynamics, allied to business to reduce the Groups reliance protection.
The Group also has in place a changes in the structure of the professional on the UK, Germany and Australia, which 210 million revolving credit facility with a workforce, is increasing the potential risk of currently represent 70% of the Groups suite of banks until 2020, and has recently insourcing and disintermediation.
signed a new actuarial valuation of its defined benefit pension scheme which maintains cash Risks 5 and 6 Hays cost base is highly variable and outflows broadly at their existing level.
Reliance on technology carefully managed to align with business Data governance activity, and can be focused and scaled Confirmation of longer-term viability The increasing prevalence of cyber attack accordingly to react to the individual Based on the above assessment the across the world, means that along with all markets, with temporary recruitment directors confirm that they have a reasonable being more resilient in times of economic large corporates, our business systems are expectation that the Company will be able to uncertainty or downturn.
under increasing level of attack.
Over the last continue in operation and meet its liabilities two years as explained in the detailed risk as they fall due over the three-year period to Hays is highly cash generative, requiring sections, we have invested significantly in 30 June 2019. low levels of asset investment.
Cash this area both in upgrading all aspects of our collection is a priority and the Group has systems and our internal resources and also Going concern made appropriate investment in its credit using external consultants to perform regular The Groups business activities, together control and working capital management external and internal penetration tests and with the factors likely to affect its future processes, resulting in the elimination of using the results to drive a continuous development, performance and position are Group net debt and a year-end net cash improvement programme.
set out in the Strategic Report.
position of the Group, its cash flows and Decreased risks liquidity position are described in the It is too early to have a clear view on the While foreign exchange remains a risk to the Financial Review, with details of the Groups impact of Brexit on our UK business, but Group, in light of the assessment under the treasury activities, long-term funding annual review and the elimination of net its potential to have an impact is fully arrangements and exposure to financial debt, it has been removed from the list of acknowledged.
risk included in notes 18 to 20 to the the Groups Principal Risks.
The Group has sufficient financial resources which, together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient Link to relevant strategic priority sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its contractual and 2 commercial commitments and any proposed dividends.
The Group is therefore well placed Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 44 PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED 2. Business model 3.
Compliance Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Risk description Risk description Risk description The Group faces competition from The Group is reliant on its ability to recruit, The Group operates in 33 countries, the increasing use of social media for develop and retain staff to protect the with each operating its own legislative, recruitment purposes and a growing trend business it has today and to deliver its future regulative, compliance and tax rules, towards outsourced recruitment models growth plans, especially internationally especially for temporary workers, with with associated margin pressures, which both at a manager and consultant level.
any non-compliance increasing the may impact on the business should Hays Its strategy is to grow and nurture talent Groups exposure to potential legal, not continue to take appropriate actions internally into senior roles wherever possible.
Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Operational People Compliance Financial Financial Financial Reputational Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Hays monitors industry trends and Hays provides a defined and sustainable Compliance processes and monitoring opportunities, including social media and career development path for new hires, are tailored to specific specialisms, insourcing, and continues to invest in our starting with a structured induction ensuring additional focus is given to online presence to provide a high-quality programme and ongoing training as higher-risk specialisms such as Education customer experience.
they advance their careers, supported by and Healthcare in the UK, Construction formalised performance and career tracking.
& Property in Australia and specialised Our key relationships such as with SEEK corporate contracts through Hays Talent in Australia increase our exposure to Development Centres focus on the progress Solutions.
online professional networking and of high-potential individuals, providing recruitment portals and enhance our value further development opportunities and Employees receive training in respect of proposition to clients and candidates.
also helping to identify any talent gaps the operating standards applicable to their and training needs.
Leadership and role, with additional support provided by Our expert and specialised consultants are development programmes are aligned compliance functions, regional legal teams trained in utilising social media to enhance with the Groups business strategy.
and, where necessary, external advisers.
their day-to-day activities in providing the best quality candidates for our clients.
Overall remuneration packages are All staff receive regular training to ensure competitive, including an employee benefit that legal and compliance updates are We continue to leverage our broad programme, together with a long-term understood and applied.
In territories where geographical and sectoral footprint to incentive scheme that is offered to some legislation sets out additional compliance 320 senior managers, which encourages a requirements, specialists are employed.
win and maintain a significant number performance led culture and aids retention.
of multi-specialism contracts with large corporate organisations, which has Dedicated compliance auditors conduct strengthened our relationship with these Succession plans identify future potential sample checks to ensure that the clients and increased our share of their leaders of the business and produce appropriate candidate vetting checks and recruitment spend.
individual development plans in which due diligence obligations are carried out in to harness and cultivate talent.
line with legal and contractual requirements.
We have made a significant investment in FY16 to address data analytics in order The Groups standard employment The Group holds all standard business to significantly improve our candidate contracts include notice periods and insurance cover, including employers acquisition strategy.
The initiative is non-solicitation provisions in the event liability, public liability and professional supported by increasing our digital of an employee leaving.
capability with the appointment of a Group Data Marketing Director.
Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority.
Link to relevant strategic priority 3 3 3 OVERVIEWSTRATEGIC   INFORMATION Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 45 5.
Contracts Movement in year Movement in year Movement in year Risk description Risk description Risk description Our dependence on technology in our The business works with personal data in The Group enters into contractual day-to-day business means that systems all 33 countries on a daily basis under a arrangements with clients, some failure due to technical issues or cyber variety of laws and regulations.
A material of which can be on onerous terms attack, may have a significant impact on data breach or data loss could expose the and or impacted by local regulatory our operations and ability to deliver our Group to potential legal, financial and requirements, especially in relation services if it continued for a period of days reputational risks in the form of penalties to temp contracting markets.
and as such could negatively impact our and loss of business.
Risk impact Risk impact Risk impact Operational Operational Operational Financial Financial Financial Reputational Reputational Reputational Risk mitigation Risk mitigation Risk mitigation The Groups technology strategy is Robust procedures for handling, storing During contract negotiations management continually reviewed to ensure that the and transfer of personal data are in place seeks to minimise risk and ensure that the systems it operates across the Group across the Group, on both a physical and nature of risks and their potential impact support its strategic direction.
Ongoing asset lifecycle management Comprehensive data protection and Our global legal team has the depth programmes mitigate risks of hardware information security policies and of knowledge and experience to enable and software obsolescence.
procedures are in place across the Group them to advise management on the and, where data protection and privacy level of risk presented in increasingly Technology systems are housed in various legislation allows, protective email onerous contracts, with clear guidelines data centres and the Group has capacity monitoring programmes are undertaken in operation.
to cope with a data centres loss through to address potential areas of concern, to the establishment of disaster recovery best protect our confidential information The Group Finance Director reviews sites, that are physically based in separate and candidates personal data.
all commercial contracts with onerous locations to the ongoing operations, non-standard terms in accordance with intrinsically linked to the country business Attention has been focused in this area, the Groups risk appetite.
In addition the continuity plans.
with the increased threat of cyber crime Groups Insurance Manager reviews and globally, and security vulnerability is where necessary engages with insurance Across the regions we have established assessed as part of the ongoing IT providers to ensure that risks are covered.
dedicated security teams in order to Reviews are performed on a risk basis ensure that the systems are protected from unauthorised access, both externally Hays is preparing for the implementation across key contracts to identify compliance and internally, and includes ensuring that of the EU General Data Protection and agree improvements to the way in anti-virus software is in place and Regulations in May 2018. which we deliver services to clients.
up-to-date, with regular testing of these environments by external providers.
We use external advisers to perform Assurance work is undertaken in key regular external and internal physical countries by Internal Audit to ensure We use external advisers to perform and logical penetration tests on all major contractual obligations are appropriately regular external and internal physical systems and operations and implement managed.
and logical penetration tests on all major any required improvements coming out systems and operations and implement of such tests as part of a continuous any required improvements coming out improvement process.
of such tests as part of a continuous Link to relevant strategic priority improvement process.
2 Link to relevant strategic priority Link to relevant strategic priority By order of the Board Doug Evans 3 3 Company Secretary 1 September 2016 Hays plc | 2016 Annual Report and Financial Statements 46
