Strategic Report 32 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Economic Risk: Changes in government spending plans Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group generates the majority of its revenues from its operations Strategy of diversification into new markets and territories.
Higher located in the UK and the USA.
Identification of export opportunities to encourage growth A reduction in UK or US government infrastructure spending, in alternative markets.
particularly in relation to national roads infrastructure in the UK, Product development initiatives.
could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial performance.
Co-operation between Group businesses, leveraging The financial burden on the governments of both jurisdictions from Link to strategy the Groups size international footprint and exploiting economic downturn may lead to reduced spending in the principal synergies.
markets in which the Group operates.
Risk: Changes in global outlook and geopolitical environment Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates in a range of end-user markets around the The Group has a diverse portfolio of businesses with Higher world and may be affected by political, economic or regulatory exposure to a range of markets and geographies, limiting developments in any of these countries.
exposure to any one country or market sector.
Material adverse changes in the political and economic environments Current and future financial performance is continuously in the countries in which we operate have the potential to put at risk monitored, facilitating rapid response to changes in market Link to strategy our ability to execute our strategy.
Entrepreneurial culture established through a decentralised management structure, ensuring that Group businesses are agile and responsive to changes in their competitive environments.
Commercial & Financial Risk: Product failure Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates in infrastructure markets where it is critical Products tested, approved and accredited by regulatory No change that its products meet legislative requirements and where the bodies.
consequences of product failure are potentially serious.
Quality control protocols fully implemented and Significant product failure arising from component defects or continuously monitored.
warranty issues may require remediation including the replacement Contractual controls in place to minimise economic Link to strategy of defective components or complete products, resulting in direct impacts.
financial costs to the Group and or wider reputational risk.
Insurance cover maintained globally with insurance partners.
Litigation supported managed by external legal specialists.
Risk: Contractual arrangements Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group delivers its commitments to its customers through a Group material contract review process implemented No change variety of contractual arrangements of both a short and medium ensuring specialist central oversight of key contractual term nature.
Weaknesses in the contract tendering process, inappropriate pricing, Contracts training provided to all relevant employees during misalignment of contract terms, ineffective contract management the current and prior year.
Link to strategy or failure to comply with contractual conditions could result in loss Dedicated quantity surveyors and contracts managers of revenues, pressure on operating margins and wider reputational embedded in subsidiary management structures to control damage to the Group.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 33 Operational Risk: Supply chain deficiency Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups businesses depend on the availability and timely delivery Implementation of Group procurement standards, including Slightly higher of raw materials and purchased components, which could be robust due diligence of supply chain partners and requiring affected by disruption in its supply chain.
Supply chain failures as a result of performance, cost, quality and or Maintenance of relationships with key suppliers through insolvency may have an adverse impact on the Groups production regular interaction and assessment of performance capacity and lead to an inability to meet customer requirements, financial status.
Link to strategy resulting in reduction in revenues, potential loss of market share and Central oversight of material procurement contracts possible reputational damage.
Risk: Weaknesses in IT systems Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group relies on the information technology systems used in the Group IT Steering Committee established to review IT No change daily operations of its subsidiaries.
systems capability, suitability and integrity.
A failure or impairment of those systems or any inability to Steering Committee assesses, approves and monitors effectively implement new systems could cause a loss of business significant IT change programmes.
and or damage to the reputation of the Group, together with Disaster recovery plans documented, tested and monitored Link to strategy significant remedial costs.
The Groups Policy Manual incorporates IT policies in respect of system back-up procedures and hardware software protection.
Risk: Ineffective management of acquisitions Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups growth strategies include the acquisition of businesses Board approval required for Group acquisitions, in line with Slightly higher around the world that complement or supplement its existing the Groups delegation of authority structure.
Due diligence protocols deployed in relation to assessment Failure to execute an effective acquisition and integration of target businesses, including financial, commercial, legal programme would have a significant impact on the Groups ability to and others where appropriate.
Link to strategy generate long term value growth for shareholders.
Contractual protections and assurances sought from sellers to mitigate subsequent identification of risks.
100 Day post-acquisition integration plan established for all material acquisitions with regular performance monitoring and reporting to the Board.
Risk: Insufficient investment in product development and innovation Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates in global infrastructure markets where Subsidiary discretion to engage in research and No change continuous innovation is integral to the Groups product offering and development activities.
where a failure to innovate could result in product obsolescence, the Robust quality controls.
entry of new competitors and or loss of market share.
Dedicated quality compliance resources in place across The development of new products and technologies carries risk Group businesses, ensuring responsiveness to regulator Link to strategy including failure to develop a commercially viable offering within an and or customer approval requirements.
Executive Board approval of product development proposals within the Groups capital spend approval policies.
Board monitoring of emerging risks alongside external specialist support, where both the risks identified and the potential opportunities arising are considered.
Portfolio management Target returns and leverage Geographic diversification Entrepreneurial culture www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 34 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Human Resources Risk: Loss of key employees Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group encourages an entrepreneurial culture through a Development and implementation of a succession planning No change decentralised management structure.
model driven by the Group Chief Executive.
An inability to attract, develop and retain high-quality individuals Implementation of contractual protections and retentions in key management positions could severely affect the long term in employment contracts of senior management and other success of the Group.
Link to strategy Competitive remuneration, benefits and incentive plans offered to employees and regularly benchmarked.
Recruitment process developed to include competency requirements and skills gap analysis.
Group policies supporting the training and development of employees.
Regular interaction between Group and local executive management, including attendance at subsidiary Board meetings.
Legal & Regulatory Risk: Failure to comply with applicable health and safety legislation Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around the Implementation of health and safety monitoring and No change world.
safety cloud online reporting framework.
A failure in the Groups health and safety procedures could lead to Retention of an external independent health, safety and environmental damage or to injury to or death of employees or third environmental consultant.
parties, with a consequential impact on operations and the increased Group Health and Safety Forum established to monitor Link to strategy risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the Group.
such action could result in both financial damages and damage to Culture of zero tolerance in respect of health and safety reputation.
violations promoted by the Board and disseminated throughout Group businesses.
Open relationships maintained with regulatory bodies.
Risk: Violation of applicable laws and regulations Trend Description and potential impact Mitigation The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national Group Code of Conduct issued to all employees setting out Slightly higher and international laws and regulations including those related to the Groups requirements in relation to legal and regulatory anti-bribery and corruption, human rights and employment, trade matters.
export compliance and competition anti-trust.
Training testing modules in respect of Anti-Bribery and A failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could Corruption and Competition Compliance required to be Link to strategy result in civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate taken by all Group employees.
fines and could also result in debarment from government-related Competition compliance manual implemented by each contracts, restrictions on ability to trade or rejection by financial Group business.
counterparties as well as reputational damage.
Programme of audits undertaken on a cyclical basis to review subsidiary compliance with regulatory requirements, for example simulated dawn raids.
Software solutions implemented globally to ensure compliance with trade and export legislation.
Whistleblowing hotline available to all employees to allow them to raise concerns in confidence or anonymously, if preferred.
Modern Slavery compliance programme implemented in 2016. www.
com | Stock Code HILS 35 M. A. S. S. Visirail guard supplied by Asset VRS at Hinkley Point C nuclear power station, Somerset.
ATAs Zoneguard rental fleet delivered and deployed in Stockholm, Sweden.
