Risk and control continued Risk management Internal control During 2016, the Group focused on embedding the The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness Enterprise Risk Management ERM framework.
of the Groups systems of internal controls and risk Hikma operates in diverse and dynamic markets which management.
The Board confirms that it is in accordance are subject to great levels of uncertainty and the ERM with the Code and follows the FRCs Guidance on Risk framework is an integral part of our business as it Management, Internal Control and Related Financial provides for a pragmatic and consistent approach to and Business Reporting.
The system for identifying, identifying, calibrating and reporting on risks throughout evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces draws the organisation: gauging changes in the Groups risk on the ongoing output of the finance department on profile: and balancing risk-taking with mitigation Group performance, the work of the internal auditors and control.
and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
The Board monitors In addition to providing consistent approaches to the ongoing effectiveness of the system and formally measurement, the ERM framework specifies the reviews the Groups policies on internal control on an designated senior executiveresponsible for detailed annual basis, including all material controls.
The Board is oversight and management of each of the principal risks satisfied that the Groups systems for internal control have in the business and guides them on the approach they been in place throughout the year under review and up to should take to monitor, mitigate and control each type the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
All senior executiveshave the significant daily The systems of internal control are designed to manage interaction with reporting lines to members of the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Executive Committee, which is responsible for controlling business objectives and can only provide reasonable but situations that may arise, irrespective of the risk category.
not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board considers two key areas where control needs to be enhanced: 1 IT the Board appointed a Chief Information Officer to integrate Hikmas global IT initiatives and expanded the Groups IT resources.
The Board receives regular updates on the progress of this enhancement.
2 Compliance the Board initiated a programme to enhance the ABC activities in the US operations and instructed an external assessor to assess the enhancements in early 2017.
The Board is satisfied that the enhancements are on track to be fully implemented and tested.
