Strategic Report 30 Risk Managemen Risk Management and Assur t and Assurance ance Effective risk management is critical to the achievement of our strategic objectives of portfolio management, geographical diversification, entrepreneurial culture and targeted growth returns.
All our subsidiaries hold leading positions in the provision of galvanizing services and the design, manufacture and supply of infrastructure products and the Group benefits from a risk management system that is integrated into the daily business activities of these subsidiaries.
Whilst the Board has delegated the risk discussion to the Audit Committee, the Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of our system of risk management and internal control.
It has established the level of risk that is appropriate for our business and acceptable in the pursuit of our strategic objectives.
It has also set delegated authority levels to provide the framework for assessing risks and ensuring that they are escalated to the appropriate levels of management, including up to the Board where appropriate, for consideration and approval.
As part of this process, the Risk Committee receives reports from the subsidiaries on their individual risks.
The Committee, met formally once during the year and comprises the Group Risk & Compliance Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Company Secretary and the Groups Director of Corporate Development.
Subsidiary Managing Directors are invited to attend on a rotational basis.
The Committee reviews and validates the subsidiary reports, before presenting a Group-wide report to the Audit Committee for discussion on both subsidiary risk and Group risk.
Challenging feedback is provided by the Audit Committee to further question the validity and mitigations of the risks presented and to identify others not already considered.
This process ensures that risks are not just the product of a bottom-up approach but are also examined from a top-down perspective via an integrated senior management approach, which is closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
In order to enhance the Groups approach to risk generally, more work was done with the subsidiaries in terms of providing an online risk assessment reporting process during 2016, and the senior management team were instrumental in adding a top-down perspective to the Groups principal risks.
The approach, enhanced throughout 2016, has allowed the Board to carry out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that might threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity and this has led to a more strategic focus on our principal risks and uncertainties as explained on page 32 to 34.
Key focus for 2017 Continued assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and its subsidiaries including those that might threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: Further work with the subsidiaries to develop business unit risk registers and to share best practice: Improved bottom-up reporting on principal risks and uncertainties and enhancing the Board conversation: and Further development of the Risk Committee and top-down risk assessment processes.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 31 The roles and responsibilities of the Groups risk management process, key committees and all levels of management from a risk management perspective are summarised below.
Subsidiary key risks and uncertainties Subsidiary management assess risk on a business unit by business unit basis using a dedicated risk assessment and reporting tool.
The likelihood and impact of these risks and uncertainties are considered and scored against a recognised framework dependent upon their effect on the achievement of the subsidiaries strategic plan.
Mitigation Responsibility for taking the necessary actions to manage these risks is deferred to individual managers within the subsidiaries.
Each subsidiary risk register and the associated mitigations are monitored by the Groups Risk Committee.
Review The Risk Committee reviews, challenges and validates the individual subsidiary risk registers whilst at the same time engaging with other senior managers within the Group to identify those risks and uncertainties that are Group specific.
Report The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee on the principal risks and uncertainties that have been identified by the subsidiaries and senior management and validated by the Risk Committee.
The Audit Committee gives challenging feedback on the output from the Risk Committee ensuring that the type, quantum and mitigations of the principal risks and uncertainties identified mirrors the levels of risk that the Board is willing to accept in achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
