Home Retail Group 22 Annual Report 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties We outline below the principal risks and uncertainties to achieving theGroups strategic priorities together with the approach the Group takes to managing them.
Wehave also included the principal transitional risks which arise following the disposal of Homebase and the risks associated with the proposed purchase of the Retained Group by J Sainsbury plc.
For further information on how we manage risk, see page 34 and 35 within the corporate governance section for an overview of our risk management process.
riSKS and UncertaintieS riSK management aPPrOacH Our strategic report on pages 5 and 6 details how Argos continues to progress towards retail digital leadership whilst Business strategy maintaining its heritage and mass-market appeal by evolving the role of the traditional catalogue.
Balancing the Impact on shareholder value investment in Argos Transformation and delivering shareholder value is of paramount importance to the Board.
Inappropriate strategies Strategic issues, including risks and opportunities, are discussed at every Board meeting.
All material investments are Poor investment decisions evaluated and monitored at both the Group Executive Board and the Board.
Inadequate execution Programme governance structures are in place, supported by an established project management environment, with selected projects reviewed by Internal Audit.
Considerable time is dedicated to strategic review, with regular performance reviews of strategic KPIs at various executive meetings.
We strive to effectively communicate with key stakeholders such as investors, colleagues and suppliers.
We operate in a highly competitive and diverse marketplace which demands both strategic and tactical risk management Trading environment approaches.
Commercial advantage is gained through breadth and depth of product ranges however this also attracts a broad Impact on sales, gross margins, costs, set of competitors all with different dynamics.
profit and cash of: The universal customer appeal strategy pages 5 and 14 within Argos aims to broaden customer appeal.
Furthermore, price Economic and market conditions tracking versus our competition and dynamic pricing aims to ensure that price competitiveness is maintained.
This, coupled Cost of products services utilities with a planning process which supports the business through new product launches, seasonal changes, extreme weather Competitor activity variations and a programme of promotional activity, seeks to reduce trading risk from increased competitive pressures.
Seasonality and or weather Sales in Argos are supported by our in-house Financial Services business, providing the option to promote on price and or credit.
UK-centric store network Cash generation is a key management objective see remuneration scheme metrics on pages 41 to 52 and we maintain good The Argos business review relationships with our banks and credit insurers.
pages 12 to 15 summarises We have a well-established operational improvement programme which constantly reviews and challenges the Groups cost trading performance.
base to maintain our low-cost operating model.
The Groups strategy is outlined on pages 5 and 6.
Our governance framework is instrumental in ensuring the delivery of Infrastructure all aspects of the strategic plan.
development projects Detailed planning, including review of any pilot learnings occurs prior to any subsequent roll-out.
The Group Executive Impact on costs and future capabilities Board and the Board receive regular progress updates on all major change programmes.
Post completion, major Delay or failure to manage and investments are subject to a post-investment review at various levels within the management structure.
implement major business and Argos is investing in the recruitment of digital engineers and specialists to deliver the transformation agenda.
Our infrastructure projects effectively in-house colleagues work alongside leading technology partners to enhance innovation and build the knowledge Reliance on third-party service infrastructure for a sustainable digital future in addition to managing the day-to-day IT operations.
providers The Group values its colleagues and their contribution to the success of the organisation.
Competitive remuneration Our colleagues packages, with oversight from the Remuneration Committee, in parallel with active succession planning, a strong focus Impact on service quality, innovation on learning and development and both A-Level and Graduate recruitment programmes enable the Group to both attract and costs and retain an engaged workforce.
Reliance on key personnel We regularly review remuneration, benefits and employment policies to ensure we are able to retain and attract Availability of specialist skills talented individuals.
Pension obligations In line with our strategy, colleagues continue to invest time in digital up-skilling which is also an enabler for workplace flexibility.
We are committed to open communications with colleagues at all times and monitor employee satisfaction through listening groups and employee forums.
A defined contribution pension scheme is accessible to all colleagues.
We have a good relationship with the Trustees of the Groups closed defined benefit pension scheme which helps to ensure that we manage the schemes obligations as efficiently as possible.
MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 22 20 05 2016 17:59 Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation annual report 2016 23 riSKS and UncertaintieS riSK management aPPrOacH Understanding our customers is essential to the success of our strategy.
We are investing to better understand our Our customers different customers so as to provide insight to enable us to improve our customer offering and Argos has introduced the Impact on sales, profit and growth Net Promoter Score NPS as a measure of customer satisfaction.
This measure has been included in the FY17 broadband potential bonus scheme see remuneration scheme metrics on page 45.
We continuously engage with our customers, increasingly Failing to meet customers existing via social media, to gather feedback.
and future expectations The launch of Argos Fast Track Delivery and Fast Track Collection, plus the expansion of our eBay partnership demonstrate Consumer preferences how we are responding to the increasing needs of customers by providing convenience options for greater choice in how Changing demographics and they shop.
behaviours The Group supports the Governments Go ON UK initiative, which aims to improve digital inclusion across society.
Argos significant change agenda puts pressure on day-to-day operations.
Retaining our core competencies for Operations competitive advantage is being achieved through executive oversight and cross-functional working parties.
Impact on costs and proposition Product availability remains a key priority.
We mitigate complex supply chain risks through robust processes and new delivery of a failure to ensure initiatives to enable product immediacy for customers on a wide range of products.
appropriate processes are in place to manage the complexity of operations, As we continue to invest in our digital capabilities our focus is also on the supporting infrastructure to ensure a leadingincluding supply chain, multi-channel edge, multi-channel proposition is maintained.
and customer service The Group has strong global sourcing capabilities and established buying operations in Asia and seeks further Sourcing, product opportunities for sourcing efficiencies to control the cost of goods sold which thereby benefits customers.
quality and safety The Group takes seriously the safety and quality of its products.
We have a robust risk-based approach to assurance and Impact on customers, costs and reputation are members of Sedex, a global audit data platform.
All of our own-brand direct-source factories are audited against our Product failures ethical standards using an accredited scheme.
We build successful partnership across our supply chain so that when Purchase of products whose cost issues are identified we can work collaboratively to drive improvements in productivity and benefit customers.
base of manufacture is in currencies With over a third of products imported, the volatility of the global economy exposes the Group to both currency other than sterling, principally fluctuations, particularly the US dollar, and changes in freight costs.
We hedge currency exposures and forward-buy the US dollar freight commitments where possible.
Good governance practices are important to the Group, demonstrated through membership of industry representation Regulatory environment groups, including the British Retail Consortium and ongoing engagement with regulatory bodies such as the Financial Impact on costs and reputation Conduct Authority FCA.
Changes to breach of UK We have specialists that ensure robust controls are in place to manage risks such as consumer law, health and safety, andoverseas legislation advertising standards, data protection and cyber security.
We have also complied with the requirements of the National andregulation, eg consumer Living Wage legislation and we maintain compliance with other existing regulations and also monitor future protection, environmental regulation developments through pro-active engagement with government and regulators.
Changes in UK fiscal employment As a leading retailer, the Group encourages diversity and equality.
policy, eg National Living Wage Our financial services products are regulated by the FCA and through our retail credit accreditation the Group has made Changes to breach of FCA significant progress during the year in developing the robust mechanisms which are in place to manage all risks, including requirements the approval of new products and its conduct towards customers, ensuring fair customer outcomes.
A major incident could impact the ability of the Group to continue trading.
We manage this risk by maintaining and Business interruption testing our business continuity plans regularly, investing in incident management training and establishing remote IT Impact on sales, costs and reputation disaster recovery capabilities.
The Argos website is a critical asset which is continuously monitored to maintain Cyber-attack terrorism acts of nature availability supported by incident management.
Failure or unavailability of operational Cyber security is of paramount importance to Argos given the volume of customer data that is handled on a daily basis.
and or IT infrastructure, eg website Specialist teams identify threats and potential vulnerabilities and deploy a variety of controls on a continuous and Delay or interruption in products or risk-based approach to mitigate the risks.
services provided by third-party The Group has robust contractual arrangements and comprehensive supplier management, particularly for key service suppliers partners.
We actively monitor the supply base to identify exposures and identify suitable contingency solutions, working towards a sustainable outcome for all parties when issues arise.
The process of separating Homebase from the Group is complex, involving the separation of significant business systems Transactional risks arising and operations.
We entered into a Transitional Services Agreement which identifies how services will be provided during from the disposal of the transition period.
Homebase The disposal of Homebase necessitates a significant cost reduction programme for the Retained Group.
There is a risk that Complex separation this cost reduction program takes longer than anticipated, which would have an adverse impact on profit.
We have already commenced this exercise and have a detailed plan to achieve the required savings in an appropriate period of time.
Smaller and less diverse Retained Group The reduction in size and diversification of the Group may increase the challenge of attracting and retaining talented colleagues.
Increased costs The purchasing power of the Group may be reduced going forward.
Although we have robust commercial relationships which we will leverage, the disposal of Homebase could prompt suppliers to seek to renegotiate supply arrangements.
Our exposure to seasonality risk has increased with the disposal of Homebase.
Argos sales are highest in the Christmas trading period, whilst Homebase was typically strongest in the summer trading period as a result of external DIY and garden categories.
The Group will no longer fully benefit from this seasonal diversification.
The proposed purchase of the Retained Group by J Sainsbury plc will be complex and will create uncertainty which could Risks arising from the increase the challenge of attracting and retaining talented colleagues, lead to an increase in costs, increase the difficulty proposed purchase of the of providing services to customers or disrupt relationships with suppliers.
There could also be a risk of lower levels of Retained Group by focus on delivering the Groups strategy in the period up to the possible transaction.
J Sainsbury plc Complex transaction Increased costs MSL HRG RA2016 FINAL 2005. indb 23 20 05 2016 17:59
