Strategic report Risk management & viability Managing risk on behalf of the Board The Audit Committee oversees the process of managing risk on behalf of the Board taking into account the Boards appetite for each specific risk the risks associated with the Delivery of Projects are no longer Introduction considered to be significant as the Inmaculada asset transitioned to As with all businesses, management of the Groups operations and a core operation in the second half of 2015: and execution of its growth strategies are subject to a number of risks, the Refinancing Risk has been removed as a significant risk following the occurrence of which could adversely affect the performance of the recovery in the commodities sector and the improvement in the Group.
The Groups risk management framework is premised on the Groups balance sheet.
continued monitoring of the prevailing environment, the risks posed by The year-on-year changes in the profile of specific risks can be it, and the evaluation of potential actions to mitigate those risks.
explained as follows: The Risk Committee is responsible for implementing the Groups policy Operational Performance risks are considered by the Board to have on risk management and monitoring the effectiveness of controls in reduced following the commencement of production at support of the Groups business objectives.
It meets four times a year Inmaculada: and and more frequently if required.
The Risk Committee comprises the CEO, the Vice Presidents and the head of the internal audit function.
A Community Relations, Safety and Legal Regulatory risks are live risk matrix is reviewed which maps the significant risks faced by regarded as having heightened due to a the above-mentioned the business and updated at each Risk Committee meeting and the transition of Inmaculada since the impact of those risks could most significant risks as well as potential actions to mitigate those become more severe in the context of an operating asset and b the risks are reported to the Groups Audit Committee, which has oversight changing social and political environment in the countries where of risk management on behalf of the Board.
In addition, in order to provide a more accurate view of the change in 2016 Risks the profile of  risks, the table below The key business risks affecting the Group set out in this report remain distinguishes between changes in the level of a the environmental largely unchanged compared to those disclosed in the 2015 Risk risks arising from operations, which are considered to have reduced in Management report with the exceptions that: light of the infrastructure work carried out during the year: and b the risks arising from regulatory action which are considered to have increased as a reflection of the regulators more stringent approach.
Financial risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Adverse movements in The focus on conserving capital and optimising cash flow Constant focus on maintaining a low Commodity precious metal prices could continued in 2016 through: all-in sustaining cost of production and an price materially impact the Group efficient level of administrative expense controlling operating and administrative costs: Change in risk in various ways beyond a Flexible hedging policy that allows the profile vs 2015: optimising sustaining capital expenditure: reduction in the results of Company to contract hedges to mitigate UNCHANGED reducing debt: and operations.
These include the effect of price movements taking impacts on the feasibility of into account the Groups asset mix and reducing working capital.
projects, the economics of forecast production In addition to the above, the Inmaculada mine, which the mineral resources and started commercial production in the second half of 2015, heightened personnel and See Our Market Review on pages 12 brought about a reduction in average production costs and sustainability related risks.
to 13 for further details diluted fixed costs.
Even though no part of 2017 production has been hedged, the Groups flexible policy enables the Board to approve hedging contracts to protect cashflow as and when appropriate.
com 35 Risk management & viability continued Operational risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Failure to meet production Close monitoring of operational 2016 budgets across the Group continued to focus on Operational targets and manage the cost performance, costs and capital expenditure maintaining controlled levels of administrative expenses performance base could adversely impact and sustaining capital expenditure.
Negotiation of long-term supply contracts Change in risk the Groups profitability.
where appropriate Production goals at all operations were met or, in the case profile vs 2015: of Inmaculada, exceeded with the focus on the extraction REDUCED of profitable ounces.
The Group benefited from operational flexibility through a full-years production at Inmaculada.
Management closely monitors the wide range of risks that could affect operational performance to, among other things, ensure the adequacy and safety of key mining components, such as tailing dams, waste rock deposits and pipelines to service ongoing operations.
Close liaison between relevant departments ensures that procurement, construction and any permitting are undertaken as appropriate.
Assets used in the Groups Insurance coverage to protect against In light of the transition of Inmaculada from project to core Business operations may break down major risks asset and the high proportion of production sourced from Interruption and cause stoppages with that asset, the change in the risk profile vs 2015 reflects its Management reporting systems to support Change in risk material effects.
appropriate levels of inventory profile vs 2015: Mitigating actions during the year include the following: HIGHER Annual inspections by insurance brokers and insurers with recommendations Insurance advisors conducted site visits and completed addressed in order to mitigate operational a full review of operational risks to ensure that adequate risks property damage and business interruption risk management processes and insurance policies are in place at our operations.
Management reporting systems ensured that an appropriate level of inventory of critical parts is maintained.
Adequate preventative maintenance programmes, supported by the SAP Maintenance Module, are in place at the operating units.
The Groups operating Implementing and maintaining an annual In 2016 all brownfield exploration goals were achieved, Exploration margins and future exploration drilling plan including the discovery of additional resources at the Pablo and Reserve profitability depend upon its vein at Pallancata.
Ongoing evaluation of acquisition and joint & Resource ability to find mineral venture opportunities to acquire additional The continued focus on cost control has resulted in our Replacement resources and to replenish ounces exploration activity being primarily focused on current Change in risk reserves.
High-end software programmes profile vs 2015: implemented to improve the estimate of In 2017, exploration of new projects and appraisal of UNCHANGED mineral resources acquisition joint venture opportunities restarted given the Groups improved financial position.
As mentioned in the CEOs statement, the Company has undertaken a conservative re-evaluation of its Reserves and Resources which a reflects lower commodity price assumptions and b excludes material that has a low probability of being mined.
Reserves stated in this Engagement of independent experts to The Group has engaged P&E Consultants to undertake the Annual Report are estimates.
undertake annual audit of mineral reserve annual audit of mineral reserve and resource estimates.
and resource estimates See pages 139 to 141 for further details Adherence to the JORC code and guidelines therein Inability to retain or attract The Groups approach to recruitment and The Group has continued with its initiatives to improve Personnel: personnel through a retention provides for the payment of the retention of employees.
These include the use of Recruitment shortage of skilled personnel.
competitive compensation packages, well non-financial benefits e. g. flexible working arrangements and retention defined career plans, and training and for Head Office staff and tailored personal development Change in risk development opportunities plans profile vs 2015: The improvement in the sector as a whole is the principal LOWER reason why the profile of this risk has reduced relative to 2015.
Failure to maintain good Development of a tailored labour relations Given the losses incurred in previous years by the Peruvian Personnel: labour relations with strategy focusing on profit sharing, working operating entity, there continues to be no statutory profit Labour workers and or unions may conditions, management style, sharing for Peruvian mineworkers.
relations result in work slowdown, development opportunities, motivation and Management has conducted monthly meetings with Change in risk stoppage or strike.
communication mineworkers and unions during 2016 to ensure a complete profile vs 2015: understanding of their requirements and concerns and to UNCHANGED keep all parties updated on the Groups financial performance with the aim of preparing the groundwork for the 2017 union negotiations.
36 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Macroeconomic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Changes in the legal, tax and Local specialist personnel continually As an electoral year, 2016 saw the mining industry in Peru Political, legal regulatory landscape could monitor and react, as necessary, to policy become the subject of heightened political debate.
In the and regulatory result in significant changes period leading to the elections and during the transition to Change in risk additional expense, a new administration, no new governmental measures Active dialogue with governmental profile vs 2015: restrictions on or were taken and various permitting processes saw their authorities HIGHER suspensions of operations timelines extended which continues to be the case.
Participation in local industry organisations and may lead to delays in the Even though the new government that assumed office in development of current July 2016 is supportive of business, the risk of social operations and projects.
conflicts has become heightened in certain parts of the country to which the authorities remain sensitive.
In addition, a number of new laws were introduced during the year relating to, among other things a the permissible limits of chemicals in stored tailings and b various aspects of health and safety at mining operations.
In Argentina, 2016 was marked by relative stability following the Presidential elections in October 2015 where the new government placed inward investment as a key priority.
With regards to specific developments: the Supreme Court agreed to hear the merits of the Companys claim challenging the constitutionality of a proposed Reserves tax which was subsequently withdrawn by the relevant Province: and in late 2016, the Argentinian Government removed the benefit received by those exporting through Patagonian ports.
Sustainability risks Risk Impact Mitigation Commentary Group employees working in Health and Safety operational policies and The change in risk profile vs 2015 primarily reflects: Health and the mines may be exposed procedures reflect the Groups zero safety the fact that Inmaculada was an operating asset for the to health and safety risks.
tolerance approach to accidents whole of 2016: and Change in risk Failure to manage these risks Use of world class DNV safety management profile vs 2015: the increased use of less mechanised processes at may result in occupational systems HIGHER Pallancata in light of the narrower veins being mined.
illness, accidents, a work Dedicated personnel to ensure the safety of In 2016, the Group achieved its on-going objective of Zero slowdown, stoppage or strike employees at the operations via stringent Fatalities for the third consecutive year.
As reported earlier and or may damage the controls, training and prevention in the Chairmans statement and Sustainability Report, the reputation of the Group and programmes Board was saddened to report the fatalities that occurred hence its ability to operate.
Rolling programme of training, at the Inmaculada mine in the first quarter of 2017. communication campaigns and other Further details on the accident and the steps being initiatives promoting safe working practices taken to reinforce the Groups safety values can Use of reporting and management be read in the Sustainability Report on page 30 information systems to monitor the incidence of accidents and enable preventative measures to be implemented www.
