Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Principal risks and uncertainties Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties HomeServe has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks.
These risks are assessed in relation to the Groups strategy, business performance and financial condition and a formal risk mitigation plan is agreed with clear ownership and accountability.
Risk management operates at all levels throughout the Group, across geographies and business lines.
Risks to HomeServes business are either specific to HomeServes business model, such as affinity partner relationships and underwriting, or more general, such as the impact of competition and regulatory compliance.
The table below sets out what the Board believes to be the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, the mitigating actions for each, and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the past year.
These should be read in conjunction with the Strategic Report.
Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not currently aware or which we currently believe are not significant may also adversely affect our strategy, business performance or financial condition in the future.
The Board believes that all identified risks carry equal importance and weighting as in the prior year with updates to the nature of those risks detailed below.
Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2015 Annual Report Commercial relationships We have regular contact and reviews While remaining a principal risk, we Underpinning the success in with the senior management of our have continued to sign and renew our chosen markets are close affinity partners to ensure that we affinity partnerships with utilities commercial relationships affinity respond to their needs and deliver the across the businesses.
partner relationships principally service that they expect.
In the UK, we have renewed the with utility companies and financial Across the Group, we are not six utility partner agreements that institutions.
The loss of one of dependent on any one single were due to renew during the year these relationships could impact partnership which mitigates, and this has been achieved on our future customer and policy in part, the impact of losing any substantially similar terms.
growth plans and retention rates.
In France, we now work with the two While the majority of these largest water utilities under long-term partnerships are secured under marketing agreements and continue long-term contracts, which to discuss further opportunities with increase the security of these additional partners across a number relationships over the mediumof channels.
term, they can be terminated in certain circumstances.
In the USA, we signed new agreements with 11 utilities during the year and also signed an agreement to acquire Utility Service Partners Inc, which brings with it around 300 partners and a proven track record of signing multiple partners every year.
In Spain, we continue to work closely with Endesa and our water partners and in Italy we continue to work with Enel as well as signing additional test agreements with other utilities.
28 | HomeServe plc Strategic report Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2015 Annual Report Competition The market and the activities of other There has been no significant change There are a number of businesses participants are regularly reviewed to in the competitive landscape in any of that provide services that are ensure that the strategies and offerings the countries in which we operate.
similar to those of the Group and of current and potential competitors are In the USA we participate in RFPs could therefore compete in one fully understood.
Both qualitative and requests for proposal that are or more of our chosen markets.
quantitative research is undertaken issued by utilities when they seek to Increased competition could to ensure that our products and start a programme.
While we see affect our ability to meet our services continue to meet the needs some other parties participating in expectations and objectives for of our customers whilst retaining a these tenders, we win the majority the business in terms of the competitive position in the market.
and we believe that, overall, the RFP number of customers, policies or We believe we have a compelling process is positive for our business the financial returns achieved.
proposition for customers, providing as it demonstrates an increased them with real value thereby helping awareness of our products and reduce the impact of increased services in the US market.
Customer loyalty retention Policy retention rate is one of our Key Retention remains high in all A key element of our business Performance Indicators.
movement is therefore carefully In the UK, the rate has decreased by Any reduction in the proportion investigated to assess the change in 1 percentage point to 82% compared of customers renewing their customer behaviour and to implement to the prior year, principally due to the policies could significantly impact corrective action where possible.
higher number of customers in their our revenues.
We have a wide range of tools available first renewal cycle.
Looking at those in to manage retention rates, including their second and subsequent cycle, specific retention propositions.
this has increased to 87%, reflecting the quality of the products, sales There are dedicated retention teams, channels, service delivery and pricing trained and experienced in talking to strategies adopted.
those customers who are considering not renewing their policy.
In the USA, the retention rate has been maintained at 82%, the same We regularly review our products as the prior year.
ensuring they provide the coverage that our customers demand and need.
We In France, we have maintained a also regularly review the methods by retention rate of 89%.
which we interact with our customers In Spain, retention decreased by ensuring their needs are met and 2 percentage points to 77%, driven providing them with updated tools to in large part by the number of purchase, renew and review their policy customers in their first renewal cycle.
holdings for example through our latest digital initiatives.
HomeServe plc | 29 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2015 Annual Report Marketing effectiveness The performance of each marketing During the year our marketing A significant reduction in the campaign and channel is regularly channels performed as we expected response rates on our marketing reviewed, with any significant deviation with direct mail response rates could have a significant impact on to the expected response rate quickly continuing to perform well.
identified and remedial action taken We continue to develop our digital for subsequent campaigns.
We record channels and work with our partners and review a number of telephone calls to offer our products in their call across all of our businesses.
Development of these two channels is serving to reduce our reliance on direct mail activity.
Exposure to legislation or We have regulatory specialists, All of our businesses have dedicated regulatory requirements compliance teams and Non-Executive experienced compliance specialists We are subject to a broad Directors in each of our businesses and during the year we have spectrum of regulatory to help ensure that all aspects of the appointed independent Nonrequirements in each of the legislative regime in each territory Executive Directors to chair the markets in which we operate, are fully understood and adopted compliance committees in each particularly relating to product as required.
of our businesses, with regular design, marketing materials, sales reporting back to the local company Specifically in the UK, we maintain processes and data protection.
regular dialogue with the FCA, while Failure to comply with the in the USA we have regular dialogue We have maintained appropriate regulatory requirements in any with the Attorneys General.
In our other dialogue with all relevant regulatory of our countries could result in businesses we maintain a dialogue bodies that govern or influence us having to suspend, either with local regulators.
our businesses and have sought temporarily or permanently, to engage, where possible, We keep up to date with changes in certain activities.
in regulatory and compliance government and regulatory policy, discussions around the development In addition, legislative changes which ensures that our products and of the markets in which we operate.
related to our partners may services are designed, marketed and change their obligations with sold in accordance with all relevant regard to the infrastructure they legal and regulatory requirements currently manage and hence the and that their terms and conditions products and services we can remain appropriate and meet the offer to customers.
It is possible such legislative changes could reduce, or even remove, the need for some of our products and services.
Quality of customer service We monitor customer service standards In FY16 we have continued to Our reputation is heavily at a number of different customer monitor customer satisfaction dependent on the quality of our contact points in each of our operations across all our operations at a customer service.
using both internal data and an number of different customer independent third party.
contact points, with improvements Any failure to meet our service seen in all of the businesses, the standards or negative media The results of these are reviewed details of which have been reported coverage of poor service could on a regular basis and action plans in the Strategic Report.
have a detrimental impact on produced to address the key issues.
Reflecting the importance of Processes have been established customer service to our business, to ensure that all directly employed all senior managers have customer engineers and sub-contractors meet service performance as a significant minimum standards.
These include component of their annual bonus criminal record checks and minimum opportunity.
30 | HomeServe plc Strategic report Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2015 Annual Report Availability of underwriters We use a number of underwriters, We continue to review our The policies that we market and with the main provider in the UK being underwriting relationships on a administer with customers are separate to those in the rest of Europe regular basis to ensure they provide each individually underwritten and the USA.
the best returns for customers and by third party underwriters, shareholders.
We have regular contact and reviews independent of HomeServe.
with the senior management of the During FY16, we reached agreement We act as an insurance underwriters to ensure that claims with Aviva to become our principal intermediary and do not take on frequencies, repair costs and service underwriter in the UK, and they any material insurance risk.
standards are in line with their commenced underwriting new expectations.
If these underwriters were unable or unwilling to underwrite these The principal underwriters are subject We have continued to develop our risks and we were unable to find to medium-term agreements, with the relationships with other providers alternative underwriters it would rates subject to regular review.
with the aim of having at least two require us to insure these risks underwriters willing and able to In addition, we maintain relationships directly, thereby exposing the underwrite policies for each of our with a number of underwriters who business to material insurance risk, businesses.
are willing and able to underwrite which is contrary to our preferred our business and regularly review operating model.
In addition, it the market to ensure we understand would take time to obtain the current market conditions, how these relevant regulatory approvals.
apply to our policies and how we can mitigate the loss of an existing underwriter.
Dependence on recruitment and Our employment policies, remuneration We have continued to strengthen retention of skilled personnel and benefits packages, and long-term our management teams across all Our ability to meet growth incentives are regularly reviewed our operations particularly in the expectations and compete and designed to be competitive with areas of IT, digital, compliance and effectively is, in part, dependent other companies.
on the skills, experience and Employee surveys, performance During the year, we have embedded performance of our personnel.
reviews and regular communication a People Charter in the UK and The inability to attract, motivate or of business activities are just some USA and the values of these retain key talent could impact on of the methods used to understand charters are now an integral part our overall business performance.
and respond to employees views of our recruitment, selection and and needs.
Processes are in place to identify high People Charter have also now been performing individuals and to ensure launched in France and Spain to that they have fulfilling careers, and follow in FY17.
we are managing succession planning effectively.
HomeServe plc | 31 Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2015 Annual Report Exposure to country and The criteria for entering a new country We have recently recommenced regional risk include a full assessment of the reviewing potential new territories In line with other businesses we stability of its economic and political and have appointed a dedicated are subject to economic, political situation, together with a review of person with significant experience and other risks associated with the manner and way in which business of working in an international operating in overseas territories.
environment to lead this activity.
A variety of factors, including When entering a new country, we We continue to monitor the changes in a specific countrys generally do so on a small scale test economic, political and regulatory political, economic or regulatory basis.
This low risk entry strategy environments where we operate.
requirements, as well as the minimises the likelihood of any During the year we ceased our potential for geographical turmoil significant loss.
including terrorism and war, could result in the loss of service.
Our IT systems become a The Group reviews its systems and We are replacing our core customer constraint to growth and drive processes on a regular basis.
As part IT system, the development of inefficiency instead of efficiency of these reviews it looks at the future which has progressed well and improvements plans of each of the businesses in is expected to go-live in the UK The Groups core IT system is terms of customer and policy growth, during FY17, at which point we used in each of our businesses.
product and process design and intend to commence the roll out to The system is now around 20 development requirements and the our business in the USA.
years old and has had a number potential impact on IT systems.
We have continued to invest in other of in house developments.
All system developments and new technologies that will allow us The system is dependent on enhancements undergo a rigorous to improve the products and service internal development resource financial review and the proposed we offer our customers.
benefits are monitored and subject to have included an innovative leak post implementation reviews.
detection device, further investment in a connected smart thermostat Our IT developments are subject to and initial funding of an app based a prioritisation process which takes home assistance service.
into account the availability of both internal and external resource and the proposed benefits of the project.
Information security We have a number of defensive and During the year we have undertaken In line with other businesses, proactive practices across the Group to a detailed review of our information we are subject to the increased mitigate the risk.
policy, practices and procedures, prevalence and sophistication of engaging a third party specialist We have a detailed information cyber attacks, which could result to lead a Group review.
We have security policy which is communicated in unauthorised access to dedicated internal resource across the Group and training provided customer and other data that we undertaking regular reviews at all of as required.
hold, or cause business disruption our businesses and specific cyber to our services.
This could result in assurance capability at Group with We continue to invest in IT security a loss of customers, legal liability, cyber forming part of our annual ensuring a secure configuration, access regulatory action or harm to assurance plan.
We continue to controls and data centre security.
invest in IT security and have layers of protection across our technology infrastructure.
32 | HomeServe plc Strategic report Content Section at start: Page Title at start: Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Impact Mitigation Change since 2015 Annual Report Financial strategy and Interest rate risk During the year we have secured treasury risk Our policy is to manage our interest 50m of fixed rate medium term The main financial risks are the cost using a mix of fixed and variable funding, repayable in 2022, and availability of short-term and longrate debts.
Where necessary, this is have continued to build relationships term funding to meet business achieved by entering into interest rate with a number of financial needs, the risk of policyholders swaps for certain periods, in which institutions that wish to provide debt not paying monies owed, and we agree to exchange, at specified finance to the Group.
fluctuations in interest rates and intervals, the difference between fixed Following the special dividend in exchange rates.
and variable rate interest amounts the year and the increase in the calculated by reference to an agreed Groups leverage we have continued notional principal amount.
These to monitor the need to fix the swaps are designated to hedge interest rate on some element of underlying debt obligations.
However, given the relatively stable interest rate environment, combined with the fixed rate debt secured during the year, we have not entered into any interest rate swaps during FY16.
Credit risk Cash and cash equivalents continue The risk associated with cash and to be deposited with reputable and cash equivalents is managed by only creditworthy banking institutions.
depositing funds with reputable and There has been no significant creditworthy banking institutions.
change in the level of mid-term The risk of a policyholder defaulting policy cancellations.
is mitigated as any policy cover will cease as and when any premium fails to be paid.
Liquidity risk Our banking facility was renewed in We manage liquidity risk by July 2014.
Our net debt at 31 March maintaining adequate reserves and 2015 was 169.5m, significantly banking facilities and continuously within the facility limit of 300m monitoring forecast and actual and the additional funding of 50m cash flows.
Foreign exchange risk During the year our adjusted Euro A clear treasury policy exists to profits have been impacted by address short term risk and this works 2.8m due to the weakening Euro with the natural hedging provided when compared to the prior year.
by the geographical spread of the However, this trend reversed during businesses.
While this will protect the second half of the year.
against some of the transaction The movement in the US Dollar rate exposure our reported results would was less significant in FY16 and still be impacted by the translation of generated an adjusted profit benefit our non-UK operations.
