22 Principal risks and uncertainties Howdens operates in an environment that creates different types of risk.
Our approach to risk is adaptive, and is designed to ensure that we are protecting what we have while also responding to opportunities to grow and create value.
This section outlines our approach to risk, our Opportunity risk is managed closely, and depends on risk management process and our principal risks.
our ability to understand and manage the key drivers At the heart of all of these is our analysis of our of success, whilst maintaining the delicate balance business model and culture, our strategy, and our between them.
To support this, our approach considers markets, which we present in detail on pages 8 to both short and long term risks within a timeframe of up 13.
We would encourage you to read this section to three years.
Our local builders rely on us to support in conjunction with that analysis.
They expect us to be flexible, so that they can meet the ever-changing needs of their customers.
OUR APPROACH TO RISK A culture of personal integrity, stock availability, business resilience and excellent levels of customer Our approach to risk aims to make sure that we service are all strategically important factors that we consider risk in all our business decisions whilst take into account in the risk management process preserving the Howdens business model and embedded across the business.
culture and achieving our long-term strategic objectives.
Our risk management approach Service availability risk is managed carefully, to reflects our business model of decentralised local ensure that the essential services the business autonomy and it benefits from the openness and relies upon heavily are available at all times.
This honesty of our culture.
Each division identifies includes our approach to supply risk and continuity risks through both bottom-up and top-down risk of stock servicing the depots, debt collection .
processes, and systems resilience measures to ensure that the stock, sales and cash can be accounted for and managed seamlessly.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Top-down RISK UNIVERSE Monitoring risk identification Setting risks risk appetite Facilitate identification of key risks Independent KEY RISK OPERATIONAL appraisal REGISTER RISK REGISTERS Review net risk score Review key risks Bottom-up Assessing Identify risk identification risk tolerances principal risks Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 23 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The main steps in the process are illustrated in the The Executive Committee then reviews this diagram on the previous page, and described below: Key Risk Register and provides their top-down strategic view of the risks they are managing to Operational Risk Registers are reviewed achieve our objectives.
quarterly by senior management within each The Board review the top-down and bottomdivision.
They consider the risks they are up views of the Group key risks twice yearly, managing and discuss the ways in which those and uses this information to select the Groups risks are being mitigated to arrive at the residual principal risks.
likelihood and impact of that risk to the division the net risk impact and likelihood.
Additionally, Long Term Viability is also considered in the they pay attention to the inherent impact the risk context of these risks, as described in the could have on the division if not controlled the Group Viability Statement on page 20. gross risk impact and likelihood.
The Group Risk Universe is then informed by this process to consolidate a Group view of the key risks identified by the divisions.
This includes reporting risks that have either a residual risk impact above our appetite, or inherent risks that are managed to within a tolerable level.
All of these risks are included in our Key Risk Register, which gives an overview of the main risks and how they are being managed.
RISK HEAT MAP To help visualise our risks, we plot them on the heat map below.
The highest level of risk is at the centre of the circle.
The yellow circle for each risk shows the current risk level and the grey circle shows the target risk level.
Culture & People Risk Cash Risk 1 Changes in market 5 1 conditions 2 Deterioration of business 5 3 model and culture 6 3 3 1 Failure to maximise growth potential 2 2 4 Interruption to 8 continuity of supply 5 5 Loss of key personnel 7 6 Credit control failure 5 4 8 7 Cyber security 4 7 incident 8 Product design relevance Product Supply Continuity Risk Margin Erosion Risk Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 24 Principal risks and uncertainties continued CHANGES IN MARKET CONDITIONS Risk Our products are mostly sold Impact Weaker market conditions can Mitigating factors We have a good track Change year to small builders and installed in affect our level of sales, while a lower record of dealing with changes in market on year owner-occupied and private and public exchange rate can increase our cost of conditions.
We maintain close relationships sector rented housing, mainly in the goods sold.
Without mitigating action, with our customers, who can give us early replacement market.
these can reduce our profitability and warning of market conditions changing, and cash flow.
we monitor activity in our depots closely.
As Our revenues are dependent on levels a result, we can take swift action to mitigate of activity in these markets, which are These risks were highlighted in 2016, the effects of changing market conditions, affected by many factors, including: when we saw softer market conditions including managing cost levels and consumer confidence and buying in the second half of the year, and a inventory.
Our unique service proposition behaviour: Government, local authority much weaker exchange rate against to the small builder means that we have and housing association decisions: both the euro and US dollar.
a good track record of managing prices to credit availability and interest rates: offset cost pressures.
With a significant proportion of the raw materials and finished products we buy being purchased from overseas, our costs of goods sold can be affected by exchange rate movements between the pound, and the euro and US dollar.
DETERIORATION OF BUSINESS MODEL AND CULTURE Risk Our future success depends on Impact If we lose sight of our model Mitigating factors The Howdens business Change year continuing to successfully implement and culture we will not successfully model and culture are at the core of our on year our unique business model and our service the needs of the local small activities and decision-making processes.
locally enabled, entrepreneurial builder and their customers, and our They are led by the actions of the Board culture.
The key to our trade-only long-term profitability may suffer.
The Board, the model is our local depots, who supply Executive and senior management teams the small builder, with product that regularly visit our depots and factories, our is held in stock.
Our aim is simple, logistics and support locations and reinforce to provide a local service to builders the importance of the model and culture saving them time, meeting their through frequent events.
needs through product availability and innovation.
The future success of the business depends on the continuing implementation of this model: and, on its locally enabled, entrepreneurial culture.
FAILURE TO MAXIMISE THE GROWTH POTENTIAL OF THE BUSINESS Risk As Howdens continues to Impact If we do not recognise, Mitigating factors We place continuing Change year expand, this brings both opportunities understand and exploit the potential focus on the opportunities and challenges on year and challenges to the business.
these opportunities offer, in line with related to growth.
We will continue to These opportunities include meeting our business model and risk appetite, focus on our people, service, systems, and customers changing expectations or do not align current structures and manufacturing and distribution capabilities.
and demands through product and skills to meet the challenges they Additionally, the builders requirement for services.
This requires us to identify present, this could affect our ability a local and convenient service provides a new market opportunities, continue to obtain maximum benefit from our significant opportunity for growth through to leverage the reach of the depot growth opportunities.
expansion of our depot network.
We have network and the performance of increased our investment in all of these existing depots.
Some challenges areas as we grow, and we will continue we may face in growth include the this investment in 2017. scalability of our supply chain, systems and personnel capabilities.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25 INTERRUPTION TO CONTINUITY OF SUPPLY Risk Howdens is an in-stock business.
Impact Any disruption to our Mitigating factors With suppliers, we Change year Our warehousing distribution and relationship with key suppliers have multiple sourcing strategies for on year manufacturing sites only supply or interruption to manufacturing our key products wherever possible, products to Howdens depots: the and distribution operations could to reduce the effect of a supply failure.
result is an efficient system with no adversely affect our ability to deliver Where appropriate we enter into long-term unnecessary waste of time, space or the in-stock business model and to contracts to secure supply of key products, product.
Our business model requires service our customers needs.
We build strong depots to be able to supply at once mutually supportive relationships focussed from local stock, and our customers on integrity, fairness and respect which expect this and rely on it.
remain worthwhile for all concerned.
We have invested heavily in our manufacturing operations and this investment gives us an enhanced disaster recovery capability.
We are also investing in new warehouse space to support our distribution capabilities, reducing our exposure to this risk.
LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL Risk The skills, experience and Impact The loss of a key member Mitigating factors We use the Change year performance of key members of of the Groups management team Remuneration Committee to ensure that on year our management team make a could adversely affect the Groups key team members are appropriately major contribution to the success operations.
compensated for their contributions and of thebusiness.
incentivised to continue their careers with us.
We will continue to focus on leadership development, succession planning and providing the best tools for our people to achieve their objectives.
CREDIT CONTROL FAILURE Risk When a builder comes into one of Impact Failure to provide, or Mitigating factors Howdens has an Change year our depots for the first time, we open a service these facilities could affect effective trade account policy used to agree on year nett monthly account for them, so they our ability to continue to support our terms with our customers and efficient can complete the job before paying customers, and potentially our ability processes for the collection of debt, which Howdens.
Our customers rely on our to collect debt.
This could have a are closely and regularly monitored.
These trade account facilities, as cash flow is direct impact on both our revenue are supported by robust systems and critical to their business.
Good personal relationships are maintained with customers, both at depot level and within the credit control department.
In addition, concentration of debt is limited, as debt exposure is spread across 400,000 customer accounts.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report 26 Principal risks and uncertainties continued CYBER SECURITY INCIDENT Risk We are dependent on a core Impact If we experienced a major Mitigating factors We employ complex Change year set of critical IT systems which security breach, this could result technical IT security controls to protect on year are fundamental to the day-to-day in a key system being unavailable our information and our key systems.
We running of the business.
Complex causing operational difficulties and adopt a continuous improvement approach systems are integral to our daily or sensitive data to be unavailable or to IT security and continue to invest in operations throughout the supply compromised.
This could also lead the security of our systems.
In addition, chain and are essential to support to loss of customer data and scrutiny we are also placing focus on the training business growth.
and development of our people, in cyber are at risk from increasingly security, as we recognise that Information sophisticated security threats.
Systems security risks are not always technical.
We regularly engage external specialists to validate the effectiveness of our controls against industry best practice.
Disaster recovery capability and business continuity plans are in place, and are tested periodically.
PRODUCT DESIGN RELEVANCE Risk Ensuring that we have products Impact If we do not support the Mitigating factors Our dedicated product Change year that meet the design, price and builder with new products that their team regularly refresh our range of kitchens on year quality needs of the small builder, customers want it could influence and appliances to meet builders and endand their customer, is a key focus of both their ability to generate revenue users expectations for design, price and the business model and is a critical and therefore our own.
We work with external design and element of our future success brand specialists and attend product design and growth aspirations.
Kitchen fairs to monitor likely future trends.
Our local technology and design do not stand depot staff have close relationships with still: consumer buying patterns are their account holders, and we actively gather changing, which is increasing the feedback from them about changes in trends.
need for our product to be aligned We work with our suppliers, to develop new to these expectations.
and improved products for the future, some of which are unique to Howdens.
A number of new products were introduced during the year across all product categories, and many more are already planned for 2017.
