Report of the Directors | Risk Top and emerging risks Risk Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and emerging Page risks is described on page 70.
During 2016, we made a number Our conservative risk appetite 64 of changes to our top and emerging risks to reflect our Top and emerging risks 64 assessment of the issues facing HSBC and their effect onthe Externally driven 64 Group, which are described on page 27.
Internally driven 66 Our current top and emerging risks are as follows.
Areas of special interest 67 Process of UK withdrawal from the European Union 67 Externally driven Oil and gas prices 68 Economic outlook and capital flows Risk management 68 Our risk management framework 68 Global economic growth remained muted in 2016, with headwinds adversely affecting both developed and emerging Our material banking and insurance risks 71 markets.
Credit risk management 73 Liquidity and funding risk management 75 The UK electorates vote to leave the European Union EU Market risk management 77 caused significant market volatility in its immediate aftermath, Operational risk management 80 and since then sterling has depreciated against major Regulatory compliance risk management 81 currencies.
Uncertainty regarding the terms of the UKs exit Financial crime risk management 81 agreement, its future relationship with the EU and its trading Insurance manufacturing operations risk management 82 relationship with the rest of the world may lead to economic Other material risks uncertainty and market volatility, which could affect both the Reputational risk management 83 Group and its customers.
Sustainability risk management 84 Following robust policy action during the course of 2016, Pension risk management 84 market concerns have eased over the extent of the slowdown Key developments and risk profile in 2016 85 ofthe mainland Chinese economy, and the potential for further Key developments in 2016 85 renminbi depreciation.
However, a prolonged or severe Credit risk profile 85 slowdown cannot be ruled out, which would have wider Liquidity and funding risk profile 106 ramifications for regional and global economic growth, and Market risk profile 114 global trade and capital flows, as a consequence.
Operational risk profile 121 While oil and gas prices have partly recovered from the lows of Insurance manufacturing operations risk profile 121 2015, global supply and demand imbalances continue to place considerable financial strain on some producers and exporters.
A continuation of low oil prices, particularly in conjunction with Our conservative risk appetite a low inflation environment and or low or negative interest rates, would adversely affect global growth prospects and, as Throughout its history, HSBC has maintained a conservative risk aconsequence, our results.
This is central to our business and strategy.
Mitigating actions The following principles guide the Groups overarching risk appetite and determine how its businesses and risks are We actively assess the impact of economic developments managed.
inkey markets on specific customers, customer segments orportfolios and take appropriate mitigating action that Financial position may include revising risk appetite or limits as Strong capital position, defined by regulatory and internal circumstances evolve.
We use internal stress testing and scenario analysis, as Liquidity and funding management for each operating entity, wellas regulatory stress test programmes, to evaluate on a stand-alone basis.
thepotential impact of macroeconomic shocks on our businesses and portfolios.
Analysis undertaken on our oil Operating model and gas lending portfolios are described on page 68, and Returns generated in line with risk taken.
our wider approach to stress testing is described on Sustainable and diversified earnings mix, delivering page70.
We have carried out detailed reviews of our wholesale credit portfolios, particularly across those sectors most affected by Business practice the UK referendum result.
We have also run a number of Zero tolerance for knowingly engaging in any business, stress tests on our wholesale and trading portfolios to activity or association where foreseeable reputational risk examine potential impacts under a range of possible exit ordamage has not been considered and or mitigated.
scenarios and develop a suite of possible mitigating actions.
No appetite for deliberately or knowingly causing detriment Geopolitical risk to consumers arising from our products and services or incurring a breach of the letter or spirit of regulatory Our operations and portfolios are exposed to risks arising from requirements.
political instability, civil unrest and military conflict in many parts of the world.
These may include physical risk to our staff No appetite for inappropriate market conduct by a member and or physical damage to our assets, disruption to our of staff or by any Group business.
operations and a curtailment in global trade flows.
The outcome of the US election has added to concerns about a rise in protectionism.
This has been accentuated in many parts of the world by rapid technological change and income inequality.
Any amplification of this trend could cause a curtailment in global trade, and thus impact HSBCs traditional lines of business.
64 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 European states are experiencing heightened political tension, Cyber threat and unauthorised access to systems reflecting concerns over migration, fears of terrorism, increased HSBC and other public and private organisations continue to be tension with Russia, and uncertainty about the future the targets of increasing and more sophisticated cyber attacks relationship between the UK and the EU.
Elections in France, that may disrupt customer services.
Germany, the Netherlands and possibly Italy in 2017 are adding Mitigating actions to the uncertainty.
We continue to strengthen and significantly invest in our In the Middle East, the terrorist group Daesh has come under ability to prevent, detect and respond to the ever-increasing increasing pressure as an international coalition recaptured and sophisticated threat of cyber attacks.
Specifically, we territory across Syria and Iraq.
Despite this, Daesh has proved capable of carrying out terrorist attacks both in neighbouring continue to enhance our capabilities to protect against increasingly sophisticated malware, denial of service attacks countries and further afield.
and data leakage prevention, as well as enhancing our In Asia, ongoing territorial disputes in the South China Sea security event detection and incident response processes.
anda region-wide build-up in military capability have strained Cyber risk is a priority area for the Board and is regularly diplomatic relations, and are testing the resolve of the US to defend freedom of navigation.
reported at Board level to ensure appropriate visibility, governance and executive support for our ongoing Mitigating actions cybersecurity programme.
We continually monitor the geopolitical outlook, in particular We participate in intelligence sharing with both law in countries where we have material exposures and or a enforcement and industry schemes to help improve our physical presence.
We established a new dedicated forum understanding of, and ability to respond to, the evolving tomonitor and advise senior management on global threats faced by us and our peers within our industry.
developments, including analysis on how the Groups strategy could be affected by geopolitical events.
Regulatory and technological developments with adverse impact on business model and profitability We have taken steps to increase the physical security of our premises and have enhanced our major incident response Financial service providers continue to face stringent regulatory capabilities, particularly in those geographical areas deemed and supervisory requirements, particularly in the areas of capital to be at a higher risk from terrorism and military conflicts.
and liquidity management, conduct of business, financial crime, operational structures, the use of models and the integrity of Our internal credit risk ratings of sovereign counterparties financial services delivery.
The competitive landscape in which take geopolitical factors into account and drive our appetite the Group operates may be significantly altered by future for conducting business in those countries.
Where regulatory changes and government intervention, which necessary, we adjust our country limits and exposures to couldbe introduced with different, potentially conflicting reflect our risk appetite and mitigate risks as appropriate.
requirements and to differing timetables by different regulatory We incorporate geopolitical scenarios, such as conflicts in regimes.
Regulatory changes may affect the activities of the countries where we have a significant presence or political Group as a whole, or of some or all of its principal subsidiaries.
developments that could disrupt our operations, into our While the rise of financial technology fintech presents a internal stress tests to assess their potential effect on our number of opportunities that we are actively engaging in, there portfolios and businesses.
is also a risk that it could disrupt financial institutions Turning of the credit cycle traditional business model.
Although the credit environment has stabilised in the latter part Mitigating actions of the year, due in part to further monetary loosening, there is a We are engaged closely with governments and regulators risk that the credit cycle could turn sharply in 2017 if economic inthe countries in which we operate to help ensure that and or geopolitical shocks unfold.
newrequirements are considered properly by regulatory Stress could appear across a wide array of credit segments, authorities and the financial sector and can be implemented particularly given the substantial amounts of external effectively.
refinancing due in emerging markets in 2017 and 2018.
We have strengthened governance and resourcing around Sentiment towards mainland China could also deteriorate amid regulatory change management.
Significant regulatory concerns over its increasing debt burden, or political events in programmes, such as the implementation of International the US, UK and EU could deliver negative economic outcomes.
Financial Reporting Standard 9, are overseen by the Group Impairment allowances could increase if the credit quality of Change Committee see Execution risk on page 67. ourcustomers is affected by less favourable global economic conditions in some markets.
Should oil prices remain low or fall, We are actively pursuing opportunities in the fintech space, our oil and gas portfolios would come under further pressure.
and have established HSBC Digital Solutions, a specialist team to design, build and run digital services.
We have also Mitigating actions established a technology advisory board to help ensure we We closely monitor economic developments in key markets are fully aware of, and respond to, industry developments as and sectors, taking portfolio actions where necessary, they arise.
including enhanced monitoring, amending our risk appetite Regulatory focus on conduct of business and and or reducing limits and exposures.
financialcrime We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify Financial institutions remain under considerable scrutiny sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with regarding conduct of business, particularly in relation to fair management actions being taken to manage risk appetite outcomes for customers and orderly and transparent operations wherenecessary.
in financial markets, as well as financial crime.
Regulators, Reviews of key portfolios are undertaken regularly to ensure prosecutors, the media and the public all have heightened that individual customer or portfolio risks are understood expectations as to the behaviour and conduct of financial and that the level of facilities offered and our ability to institutions, and any shortcomings or failure to demonstrate manage these through any downturn are appropriate.
adequate controls are in place to mitigate such risks could result in regulatory sanctions or fines.
This could also lead to HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk anincrease in civil litigation arising from or relating to issues Under the terms of the US DPA, upon notice and an opportunity which are subject to regulatory investigation, sanction or fine.
to be heard, the DoJ has sole discretion to determine whether HSBC has breached the US DPA.
Mitigating actions Mitigating actions We have created a new function, Financial Crime Risk, which brings together all areas of financial crime risk We continued to make progress during 2016 toward putting management at HSBC.
For further details, see Financial in place an effective and sustainable AML and sanctions crime risk management on page 81. compliance programme, including through the creation of anew Financial Crime Risk function and improvements in We have also continued to enhance our management of technology and systems to manage financial crime risk.
conduct in areas including the treatment of potentially vulnerable customers, market surveillance, employee We are working to implement the agreed recommendations training and performance management see Regulatory flowing from the Monitors previous reviews, and to compliance risk management on page 81. implement the agreed recommendations from the 2016 review.
US deferred prosecution agreement and related Internally driven agreements and consent orders HSBC is subject to a five-year deferred prosecution agreement IT systems infrastructure and resilience US DPA with the US DoJ and related agreements and HSBC continues to invest in the reliability and resilience of our consent orders with the FRB, the OCC and the FCA.
Under the IT Systems, to help ensure that disruption to customer services agreements entered into with the DoJ and the FCA in 2012, an resulting in reputational and regulatory damage does not occur.
independent compliance monitor the Monitor was appointed Mitigating actions in July 2013 for an expected five-year period to produce annual assessments of the effectiveness of the Groups anti-money We are part-way through a multi-year investment laundering AML and sanctions compliance programme.
programme that is transforming how technology is developed, delivered and maintained, with a particular focus The design and execution of the AML and sanctions on providing high-quality, stable and secure services.
As remediation plans to address the findings of the US DPA and part of this, we are simplifying our service provision and the Monitor are complex and require major investments in replacing older IT infrastructure and applications.
These people, systems and other infrastructure.
This complexity investments are designed to improve IT systems resilience.
creates significant execution risk that could affect our ability to effectively identify and manage financial crime risk and remedy During 2016, we continued to upgrade our IT Systems, AML and sanctions compliance deficiencies in a timely manner.
improve disruption free change, and materially reduce the This, in turn, could impact our ability to satisfy the Monitor or number of incidents relating to our critical business services.
comply with the terms of the US DPA and related agreements These enhancements led to a material improvement in and consent orders, and may require us to take additional service availability during the year and helped reduce impact remedial measures in the future.
These risks could befurther to our customers and colleagues by 45% when compared heightened if the Monitors reports were to become public.
In February 2017, the Monitor delivered his third annual followImpact of organisational change and regulatory up review report as required by the US DPA.
In his report, which demands on employees is discussed on page 82, the Monitor concluded that, in 2016, The cumulative workload arising from our regulatory reform and HSBC continued to make progress in enhancing its financial remediation programmes, together with those related to the crime compliance controls, including improvements to our delivery of our strategy, continues to place increasingly complex global AML policies and procedures.
However, the Monitor also expressed significant concerns about the pace of that progress, and conflicting demands on a workforce that operates in an employment market where expertise in key markets is oftenin instances of potential financial crime that the DoJ and HSBC short supply and mobile.
The scale of organisational change, arereviewing further and on-going systems and control including the establishment of the ring-fenced bank in the UK, deficiencies that in his view raised questions as to whether has increased pressure on employees and requires us to ensure HSBC is adhering to all its obligations under the US DPA.
The Monitor also found that there remain substantial challenges that key skills and experience are retained.
Furthermore, the outcome of the UK referendum on EU membership has led to forHSBC tomeet its goal of developing a reasonably effective some uncertainties regarding movement of labour.
and sustainable AML and sanctions compliance programme.
Inaddition, the Monitor did not certify as to HSBCs Mitigating actions implementation of and adherence to remedial measures We have enhanced our wellbeing programme to support specified in the US DPA.
ouremployees, particularly those affected by the Groups Potential consequences of breaching the US DPA could include considerable change agenda.
the imposition of additional terms and conditions on HSBC, an Risks related to organisational change are subject to close extension of the agreement, including its monitorship, or the management oversight.
A range of actions are being criminal prosecution of HSBC that could, in turn, entail further developed to address the risks associated with the Groups financial penalties and collateral consequences.
major change initiatives, including recruitment and extensive Moreover, HSBC Bank USA, as the primary US dollar relocation support to existing employees in the UK ringcorrespondent bank for the Group, is subject to heightened fenced bank.
financial crime risk arising from business conducted on behalf We continue to increase the level of specialist resource in of clients as well as its non-US HSBC affiliates.
If HSBC Bank key areas, and to engage with our regulators as they finalise USA fails to conduct adequate due diligence on clients, new regulations.
We use a broad array of talent-sourcing including its affiliates, or otherwise inappropriately processes channels, succession planning for key management roles, US dollar payments on behalf of non-US HSBC affiliates, it and heightened promotion of opportunities internally, with could be in breach of applicable US AML and sanctions laws particular attention in our more challenging markets.
and regulations, become subject to legal or regulatory enforcement actions by OFAC or other US agencies and be required to pay substantial fines or penalties.
In addition, any such breaches of US legislation could constitute a breach of the US DPA.
66 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 thecreation of centralised global analytical functions with Execution risk necessary subject matter expertise.
Execution risk remained heightened during 2016 as we We have hired additional subject matter experts within our continued to work towards delivering the strategic actions Independent Model Review sub-function and empowered announced at the Investor Update in June 2015 see page 12. the team to ensure appropriate challenge and feedback are These, along with the regulatory reform agenda and our given to models prior to and as part of their ongoing use.
commitments under the US DPA, require the management ofsignificant projects that are resource intensive and time We have strengthened the model risk policy and introduced sensitive.
Risks arising from the volume, magnitude and a Group-wide single model inventory system detailing key complexity of the projects underway to meet these demands metrics on all models, and an assessment of their relative may include regulatory censure, reputational damage or importance to the organisation.
Data management Mitigating actions The Group currently uses a large number of systems and We have strengthened our prioritisation and governance applications to support business processes and operations.
The Group Change Multiple data sources, including customer data sources, Committee GCC, chaired by the Group Chief Operating introduce the need for reconciliation to reduce the risk of error.
Officer, oversees the most significant programmes and Strong data governance and enhanced data quality are required provides regular updates to the Risk Management Meeting to meet our regulatory obligations relating to risk data of the GMB.
aggregation and risk reporting as set out by the Basel The GCC monitors the concentration of deliverables to Committee and our obligations under the US DPA, as well as to ensure that potential resource constraints over the medium service our customers more effectively and improve our product term are understood and addressed.
Mitigating actions Third-party risk management The Chief Information Officer continues to drive the We utilise third parties for the provision of a range of goods and Groupsefforts to enhance data governance, quality and services, in common with other financial services providers.
Global regulators have increased their scrutiny of these architecture.
These services underpin key programmes and initiatives, such as our Global Standards programme.
arrangements and expect firms to be able to demonstrate adequate control over the selection, governance and oversight We are significantly reducing the number of systems and of their third parties, including affiliates.
Any deficiency in our applications that support key business processes, which will management of third-party risk could affect our ability to meet streamline the number of data sources across the Group, strategic, regulatory or client expectations.
This may, in turn, particularly data used in our customer and transaction lead to a range of consequences, including regulatory censure screening processes.
We continue to make progress on key initiatives and Mitigating actions projects to implement our data strategy and work towards meeting our Basel Committee data obligations.
We are part-way through a multi-year strategic programme to enhance our third-party risk management capability.
This is designed to enable the consistent risk assessment of any Areas of special interest third-party service against key criteria, along with associated control monitoring, testing and assurance throughout the During 2016, we considered a number of particular areas third-party life cycle.
because of the effect they may have on the Group.
While these areas have been identified as part of our top and emerging A new Group policy and supporting framework was risks, further details of the actions taken during the year are published in December 2016.
The supporting delivery model provided below.
and technology will be developed and will start to deploy in the second half of 2017.
Process of UK withdrawal from the European Enhanced model risk management expectations Union The period of uncertainty and market volatility that followed the We use models for a range of purposes in managing our business, including regulatory capital calculations, stress UKs decision to leave the EU is likely to continue until the UKs future relationship with the EU and the rest of the world is testing, credit approvals, financial crime and fraud risk management, and financial reporting.
Given the time-frame and the complex negotiations for models are rapidly increasing and often fast-moving.
The involved, and assuming Article 50 is invoked by the end of March 2017, a clearer picture is not expected to emerge for scale and scope of model development expected by regulators pose significant execution challenges, especially where the some time.
HSBC is working with clients as they adapt to this new environment and plan for what might follow.
breadth and scope are beyond what has previously been expected of the Group.
Meeting our customers needs following the UKs departure Regulatory scrutiny and supervisory concerns over banks use from the EU will likely require adjustments to our cross-border banking model.
However, with Article 50 not yet invoked and ofmodels is considerable, particularly the internal models and assumptions used by banks in the calculation of regulatory formal negotiations not yet initiated, it is too early to determine precisely what will be required or what the likely effects on capital.
If regulatory approval for key capital models is not achieved in a timely manner, we could be required to hold HSBC might be.
Despite this uncertainty, use of HSBCs existing additional capital.
subsidiaries in France, Germany, Malta and Poland should help us more quickly and seamlessly adapt our banking model to this Mitigating actions new landscape.
Such changes could, among other things, We have strengthened our model risk governance increase our operating costs and require us to relocate staff framework by establishing additional global model oversight andbusinesses outside the UK to other jurisdictions.
committees and implementing policies and standards in Through this period of uncertainty, our priorities are to continue accordance with key regulatory requirements.
to support our clients, take appropriate actions to mitigate risks We have strengthened our governance over the and maintain stability, and deliver on our strategy.
We are development, usage and validation of models including actively monitoring our portfolio to identify areas of stress, with HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 67 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk vulnerable sectors subject to management review to determine Risk management if any adjustment to our risk policy or appetite is required.
As the UK's negotiating priorities and likelihood of achieving them This section describes the enterprise-wide risk management become clearer, we will continue to monitor developments and framework, and the significant policies and practices employed take actions required to meet these priorities.
by HSBC in managing its material risks.
Oil and gas prices Our risk management framework Oil prices improved throughout 2016 and in early 2017, We use an enterprise-wide risk management framework across particularly after Opec agreed to cut supply levels.
The improved the organisation and across all risk types.
It is underpinned by oil prices resulted in a decline in new loan impairments in the our risk culture and is reinforced by the HSBC Values and our second half of the year.
The mediumto long-term outlook Global Standards programme.
remains uncertain as technological change impacts the supply The framework fosters continuous monitoring of the risk side through cheaper methods of extraction and the demand environment, and an integrated evaluation of risks and their side through the development of renewable energy sources.
It also ensures a consistent approach to 31 December 2016, HSBCs overall portfolio directly exposed monitoring, managing and mitigating the risks we accept tooil and gas sector had drawn risk exposure of $28bn 2015: andincur in our activities.
The portfolio has the following credit quality distribution: strong and good 53% 2015: 56%, satisfactory The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects 28% 2015: 35%, sub-standard 15% 2015: 7% and impaired of the framework, including governance and structure, our risk 4% 2015: 2%, with the majority of the exposures located in management tools and our risk culture, which together help North America, Asia and Europe.
Loan impairment charges in align employee behaviour with our risk appetite.
The sector remains under enhanced monitoring with risk appetite and new lending significantly curtailed.
Key components of our risk management framework HSBC Values and risk culture The Board approves the Groups risk appetite, plans and performance targets.
It sets the tone from the top and is advised by the Group Risk Committee, The Board and its sub-committees the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, and the Conduct & Values Committee see page 132.
Governance Responsible for the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including key andstructure The Risk Management Meeting of the Group policies and frameworks for the management of risk within the Group see page 69.
The Global Standards Steering Meeting is responsible for the Management Board and its sub-committees management of financial crime risk see page 81.
Ensures appropriate oversight of and accountability for the management Risk governance framework of risk see page 68.
Our three lines of defence model defines roles and responsibilities for Three lines of defence model risk management see page 69.
Responsibilities An independent function to help ensure the necessary balance in risk return Global Risk function decisions see page 69.
Enterprise-wide risk management tools Processes to identify, monitor, mitigate and report risks to ensure Processes Risk appetite Top and emerging risks we remain within our risk appetite see pages 70 to 71.
Risk map Stress testing Material risks arising from our business activities that are measured, Banking and insurance risks monitored and managed see pages 71 to 72.
Set by risk stewards for each of our material banking and insurance risks Risk Policies and Practices Controls see pages 68 to 73.
The operational risk management framework defines minimum standards and Internal Controls processes for managing operational risks and internal controls see page 80.
Systems and tools managing risk, which helps to ensure that our risk profile Our risk culture remains in line with our risk appetite.
Risk culture refers to HSBCs norms, attitudes and behaviours We use clear and consistent employee communication on risk related to risk awareness, risk taking and risk management.
to convey strategic messages and set the tone from senior HSBC has long recognised the importance of a strong risk management.
We also deploy mandatory training on risk and culture, the fostering of which is a key responsibility of senior compliance topics to embed skills and understanding in order to executives.
Our risk culture is reinforced by HSBC Values and strengthen our risk culture and reinforce the attitude to risk in our Global Standards programme.
It is instrumental in aligning the behaviour expected of employees, as described in our risk the behaviours of individuals with our attitude to assuming and policies.
Mandatory training materials are updated regularly, 68 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 describing technical, cultural and ethical aspects of the various GRC, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee risks assumed by the Group and how they should be managed FSVC, and the Conduct & Values Committee CVC effectively.
We operate a global whistleblowing platform, HSBC seepage 82.
Confidential, allowing staff to report matters of concern Executive accountability for the monitoring, assessment confidentially.
We also maintain an external email address for andmanagement of risk resides with the Group Chief Risk concerns about accounting and internal financial controls or Officer.
He is supported by the Risk Management Meeting auditing matters @hsbc.
The Group ofthe Group Management Board RMM.
has a strict policy prohibiting retaliation against those who raise In the second half of 2016, we established a Financial Crime concerns by this route.
All allegations of retaliation reported are Risk FCR function and appointed a Group Head of FCR, who escalated to senior management.
For details on the governance reports to the Group Chief Executive and chairs the Global of our whistleblowing policy, see pages 140 and 144.
The FCR function is dedicated to Our risk culture is also reinforced by our approach to implementing the most effective global standards to combat remuneration.
Individual awards, including those for senior financial crime, as described under Financial crime risk executives, are based on compliance with HSBC Values and management on page 81. theachievement of financial and non-financial objectives, Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated whichare aligned to our risk appetite and global strategy.
tosenior managers with individual accountability for decision For further information on remuneration, see the Directors Remuneration making.
These managers are supported by global functions Report on page 153. asdescribed under Three lines of defence below.
Governance and structure We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effective ensure appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which management of risk and approves HSBCs risk appetite.
It is facilitates the reporting and escalation to the RMM.
This advised on risk-related matters by the Group Risk Committee structure is summarised below.
Governance structure for the management of risk Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Risk Management Meeting Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in exercising BoardoftheGroup Management delegated risk management authority Chief Legal Officer Board Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the enterpriseGroup Chief Executive wide risk management framework Group Finance Director Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing the All other Group Managing Directors possible risk impact and taking appropriate action Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct Global Risk Management Board Group Chief Risk Officer Supporting the Group Chief Risk Officer in providing strategic direction for the Global Risk function, setting priorities and providing Chief Risk Officers of HSBCs oversight globalbusinesses and regions Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and Heads of Global Risk sub-functions mitigation of, risk across the Global Risk function Global business regional risk Global Business Regional Chief Supporting the Chief Risk Officer in exercising Board-delegated risk management meetings RiskOfficer management authority Global Business Regional Chief Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing the Executive possible risk impact and taking appropriate action Global Business Regional Chief Implementation of risk appetite and the enterprise-wide risk Financial Officer management framework Global Business Regional Heads Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate ofglobal functions mitigating actions Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 140. andensuring that the right controls and assessments are Our responsibilities inplace to mitigate them.
All employees are responsible for identifying and managing The second line of defence sets the policy and guidelines riskwithin the scope of their role as part of the three lines of formanaging specific risk areas, provides advice and defence model.
guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first Three lines of defence lineof defence on effective risk management.
We use an activity-based three lines of defence model to The third line of defence is our Internal Audit function, delineate management accountabilities and responsibilities whichprovides independent and objective assurance of forrisk management and the control environment.
This theadequacy of the design and operational effectiveness createsa robust control environment to manage risks.
ofthe Groups risk management framework and control The model underpins our approach to risk management by governance process.
clarifying responsibility, encouraging collaboration, and Global Risk function enabling efficient coordination of risk and control activities.
We have a Global Risk function, headed by the Group Chief Risk Thethree lines of defence are summarised below: Officer, which is responsible for the Groups risk management The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible framework.
This responsibility includes establishing global foridentifying, recording, reporting and managing them, policy, monitoring risk profiles, and forward-looking risk HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 69 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk identification and management.
Global Risk is made up of subAn emerging risk is a thematic issue with large unknown functions covering all risks to our operations.
Global Risk forms components that may form and crystallise beyond a one-year part of the second line of defence.
It is independent from the time horizon.
If it were to materialise, it could have a material global businesses, including sales and trading functions, to effect on the Groups long-term strategy, profitability and or provide challenge, appropriate oversight, and balance in risk reputation.
Existing mitigation plans are likely to be minimal, return decisions.
reflecting the uncertain nature of these risks at this stage.
Somehigh-level analysis and or stress testing may have Enterprise-wide risk management tools beencarried out to assess the potential impact.
The Group uses a range of tools to identify, monitor and Our current top and emerging risks are discussed on page64.
The key enterprise-wide risk tools are summarised Stress testing below.
HSBC operates a comprehensive stress testing programme that Risk appetite supports our risk management and capital planning.
It includes The Groups risk appetite defines its desired forward-looking execution of stress tests mandated by our regulators.
Our stress risk profile, and informs the strategic and financial planning testing is supported by dedicated teams and infrastructure, and process.
Furthermore, it is integrated with other key risk is overseen at the most senior levels of the Group.
management tools, such as stress testing and our top and Our stress testing programme demonstrates our capital strength emerging risk reports, to help ensure consistency in risk and enhances our resilience against external shocks.
helps us understand and mitigate risks, and informs our The Group sets out the aggregated level and risk types it decisions about capital levels.
As well as taking part in accepts in order to achieve its business objectives in a risk regulators stress tests, we conduct our own internal stress appetite statement RAS.
This is reviewed on an ongoing tests.
basis, and formally approved by the Board every six months Many of our regulators especially the Bank of England BoE, onthe recommendation of the GRC.
the Federal Reserve and the HKMA utilise stress testing as an The Groups actual performance is reported monthly against essential prudential regulatory tool and the Group has focused theapproved RAS to the RMM, enabling senior management significant governance attention and resourcing to meet their tomonitor the risk profile and guide business activity to balance requirements.
We place particular emphasis on the global risk and return.
This reporting allows risks to be promptly enterprise-wide stress test run on the Group by the BoE, our identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted lead regulator.
remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.
In 2016, the results for HSBC as published by the BoE showed Global businesses, regions and strategically important countries that our capital ratios after taking account of CRD IV restrictions are required to have their own RASs, which are monitored to and strategic management actions exceeded the BoEs ensure they remain aligned with the Groups.
The results for HSBC included an assumed business activities are guided and underpinned by qualitative dividend payment in the first year of the severe stress projection principles see page 143.
Additionally, quantitative metrics are period.
defined along with appetite and tolerance thresholds for key risk This outcome reflected our conservative risk appetite, and areas.
diversified geographical and business mix.
It also reflected our Risk map ongoing strategic actions, including the sale of operations in Brazil, RWA reductions in GB&M and continued sales from our The Group risk map provides a point-in-time view of the risk profiles of countries, regions and global businesses across all US CML run-off portfolio.
These actions have materially reduced our RWAs, strengthened our capital position and made us even risk categories.
It assesses the potential for these risks to have a more robust under stress.
material impact on the Groups financial results, reputation and the sustainability of its business.
Risk stewards assign current Bank of England stress test results for 2016 and projected risk ratings, supported by commentary.
Risks The BoEs stress test in 2016 specified a global downturn with that have an amber or red risk rating require monitoring and severe effects in the UK, US, Hong Kong and China, which mitigating action plans to be either in place or initiated to accounted for approximately two-thirds of HSBCs RWAs at the manage the risk down to acceptable levels.
The assumed GDP growth rates are detailed in the Descriptions of our material banking and insurance risks are set out following table.
We estimated that the impact on global GDP in onpage 71. this scenario was about as severe as the global financial crisis Top and emerging risks of 2007 to 2009, but with a much greater focus on emerging markets.
This made it particularly severe for HSBC, given its We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forwardpriority markets in these areas.
looking view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to Assumed GDP growth rates in the 2016 Bank of England longterm.
stress test scenario We proactively assess the internal and external risk 2015 2016 2017 2018 environment, as well as review the themes identified across our % % % % regions and global businesses, for any risks that may require UK 2.2 4.3 1.1 1.7 global escalation, updating our top and emerging risks as USA 1.8 3.0 0.8 1.6 necessary.
China 6.7 0.5 4.2 5.6 We define a top risk as a thematic issue that may form and Hong Kong 1.9 7.4 1.5 2.7 crystallise in between six months and one year, and that has Source: Bank of England.
thepotential to materially affect the Groups financial results, PRA assumed GDP growth rates are shown in terms of fourth quarter on fourth quarter reputation or business model.
It may arise across any annual changes.
combination of risk types, regions or global businesses.
The impact may be well understood by senior management and The following table shows the results of the stress test for the some mitigating actions may already be in place.
Stress tests past three years, and reflects HSBCs resilience.
From a starting ofvarying granularity may also have been carried out to assess CET1 ratio of 11.9% at the end of 2015, the BoE showed the impact.
projected minimum stressed CET1 ratios of 7.6% and 9.1% beforeand after the impact of strategic management actions.
70 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 We conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group and, where Results of Bank of England stress tests for the past three years required, subsidiary entity level in order to understand which 2016 2015 2014 potential extreme conditions would make our business model % % % non-viable.
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses CET1 ratio at scenario start point 11.9 10.9 10.8 and vulnerabilities we might face, and helps inform early Minimum stressed CET1 ratio after warning triggers, management actions and contingency strategic management actions 9.1 7.7 8.7 plansdesigned to mitigate risks.
Fall in CET1 ratio 2.8 3.2 2.1 In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each Source: Bank of England.
major HSBC subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic Data is presented in terms of the minimum CET1 ratio reached net of strategic andevent-driven scenario analyses specific to its region.
They management actions as per the results published by the PRA.
also participate as required in the regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which they operate, such Internal stress tests are used intensively in our enterprise-wide asthe Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review and Doddrisk management and capital management frameworks.
Risks Frank Act Stress Test programmes in the US, and the stress to our capital plan are assessed through a range of scenarios tests of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
Global functions which explore risks that management needs to consider under and businesses also perform bespoke stress testing to inform stress.
They include potential adverse macroeconomic, their assessment of risks in potential scenarios.
geopolitical and operational risk events, and potential events The Group stress testing programme is overseen by the GRC that are specific to HSBC.
The selection of scenarios reflects and results are reported, where appropriate, to the RMM ourrisk appetite relating to metrics such as profitability, andGRC.
Stress testing analysis helps management understand the nature and extent of any vulnerability.
Using this Our material banking and insurance risks information, management decides whether risks can or should The material risk types associated with our banking and be mitigated through management actions or, if they were to insurance manufacturing operations are described in the crystallise, should be absorbed through capital.
This in turn following tables: informs decisions about preferred capital levels.
Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Credit risk see page 73 Credit risk is the risk of Credit risk arises Credit risk is: financial loss if a customer or principally from direct measured as the amount which could be lost if a customer or counterparty fails to counterparty fails to meet an lending, trade finance and make repayments: obligation under a contract.
leasing business, but also monitored using various internal risk management measures and within limits from certain other approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities: and products such as managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear guarantees and andconsistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers.
Liquidity and funding risk see page 75 Liquidity risk is the risk that Liquidity risk arises from Liquidity and funding risk is: mismatches in the timing we do not have sufficient measured using a range of metrics including liquidity coverage ratio and net stable of cash flows.
financial resources to meet funding ratio: our obligations as they fall Funding risk arises when monitored against the Groups liquidity and funding risk framework: and due or that we can only do illiquid asset positions managed on a stand-alone basis with no reliance on any Group entity unless preso at an excessive cost.
cannot be funded at the committed or central bank unless this represents routine established business-asexpected terms and when Funding risk is the risk that required.
funding considered to be sustainable, and therefore used to fund assets, is not sustainable over time.
Market risk see page 77 Market risk is the risk that Exposure to market risk is Market risk is: separated into two movements in market factors, measured in terms of value at risk VaR, which measures the potential losses on portfolios: such as foreign exchange risk positions over a specified time horizon for a given level of confidence, and trading portfolios: and rates, interest rates, credit assessed using stress testing: non-trading portfolios.
spreads, equity prices and Market risk exposures monitored using VaR, stress testing and other measures including the sensitivity of commodity prices, will reduce arising from our insurance net interest income and the sensitivity of structural foreign exchange: and operations are discussed our income or the value of our on page123.
managed using risk limits approved by the RMM and the risk management meeting portfolios.
Operational risk see page 80 Operational risk is the risk to Operational risk arises Operational risk is: from day-to-day operations achieving our strategy or measured using the risk andcontrol assessment process, which assesses the level or external events, and is objectives as a result of of risk and effectiveness of controls: relevant to every aspect of inadequate or failed internal ourbusiness.
monitored using key indicators and other internal control activities: and processes, people and Regulatory compliance risk managed primarily by global business and functional managers that identify and systems or from external and financial crime assess risks, implement controls to manage themand monitor the effectiveness of compliance risk are events.
these controls using theoperational risk management framework.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 71 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Description of risks banking operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Regulatory compliance risk see page 81 Regulatory compliance risk is Regulatory compliance risk Regulatory compliance risk is: the risk that we fail to observe is part ofoperational risk, measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments, regulatory the letter and spirit of all and arises from the risks feedback and the judgement and assessment of our Regulatory Compliance teams: relevant laws, codes, rules, associated with breaching monitored against our regulatory compliance risk assessments and metrics, the regulations and standards of our duty to clients and results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of defence good market practice, and other counter-parties, functions, and the results of internal andexternal audits and regulatory inspections: incur fines and penalties and inappropriate market and suffer damage to our business conduct and breaching managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, as aconsequence.
other regulatory training employees in them, and monitoring activity to help ensure their observance.
Proactive risk control and or remediation work is undertaken where required.
Financial crime risk see page 81 Financial crime risk is the Financial crime risk is part Financial crime risk is: riskthat we knowingly or of operational risk and measured by reference to identified metrics, incident assessments, regulatory unknowingly help parties arises from day-to-day feedback and the judgement and assessment of our Financial Crime Risk teams: tocommit or to further banking operations.
monitored against our financial crime compliance risk appetite statement and potentially illegal activity metrics, the results of the monitoring and control activities of the second line of through HSBC.
defence functions, and the results of internal andexternal audits and regulatory inspections: and managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and procedures, training employees in them, and monitoring activity to help ensure their observance.
Other material risks Reputational risk see page 83 Reputational risk is the risk of Primary reputational risks Reputational risk is: failure to meet stakeholder arise directly from an measured by reference to our reputation as indicated by our dealings with all expectations as a result of any action or inaction by relevant stakeholders, including media, regulators, customers and employees: event, behaviour, action or HSBC, its employees or monitored through a reputational risk management framework that is integrated inaction, either by HSBC itself, associated parties that are into the Groups broader risk management framework: and our employees or those with not the consequence of managed by every member of staff, and covered by a number of policies and whom we are associated, that another type of risk.
There is a clear structure of committees and individuals charged with might cause stakeholders to Secondary reputational mitigating reputational risk.
form a negative view of the risks are those arising Group.
indirectly and are a result of a failure to control any other risks.
Pension risk see page 84 Pension risk is the risk of Pension risk arises from Pension risk is: increased costs to HSBC from investments delivering an measured in terms of the schemes ability to generate sufficient funds to meet the the post-employment benefit inadequate return, adverse cost of their accrued benefits: plans that HSBC has changes in interest rates monitored through the specific risk appetite that has been developed at both Group established for its employees.
orinflation, or members and regional levels: and living longer than managed locally through the appropriate pension risk governance structure and expected.
Pension risk globally through the Global Pensions Oversight Committee and ultimately the RMM.
alsoincludes operational and reputational risk of sponsoring pension plans.
Sustainability risk see page 84 Sustainability risk is the Sustainability risk arises Sustainability risk is: riskthat financial services from the provision of measured by assessing the potential sustainability effect of a customers activities provided to customers by financial services to and assigning a Sustainability Risk Rating to allhigh risk transactions: theGroup indirectly result companies or projects monitored quarterly by the RMM and monthly by the Groups Sustainability Risk inunacceptable impacts on which indirectly result function: and people or the environment.
inunacceptable impacts managed using sustainability risk policies covering project finance lending and on people or on the sector-based sustainability policies for sectors and themes with potentially large environment.
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are regulated also subject to some of the same risks as our banking separately from our banking operations.
Risks in our insurance operations, which are covered by the Groups risk entities are managed using methodologies and processes that management processes.
are subject to Group oversight.
Our insurance operations are 72 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Description of risks insurance manufacturing operations Risks Arising from Measurement, monitoring and managementof risk Financial risk see page 123 Our ability to effectively match Exposure to financial risk Financial risk is: liabilities arising under arises from: measured i for credit risk, in terms of economic capital and the amount that insurance contracts with the market risk affecting the fair could be lost if a counterparty fails to make repayments: ii for market risk, in asset portfolios that back values of financial assets or terms of economic capital, internal metrics and fluctuations in key financial them is contingent on the their future cash flows: variables: and iii for liquidity risk, in terms of internal metrics including stressed management of financial risks operational cash flow projections: credit risk: and and the extent towhich these monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated authorities: liquidity risk of entities are borne by policyholders.
and notbeing able to makepayments to managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and policyholders as they consistent policies, principles and guidance.
This includes using product design, falldue.
asset liability matching and bonus rates.
Insurance risk see page 125 Insurance risk is the risk that, The cost of claims and benefits Insurance risk is: over time, thecost of the can be influenced bymany measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and economic capital allocated to contract, including claims and factors, including mortality and insurance underwriting risk: benefits, may exceed the total morbidity experience, as well monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated authorities: amount of premiums and as lapse and surrender rates.
managed through a robust risk control framework which outlines clear and consistent policies, principles and guidance.
This includes using product design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
Credit risk management Credit quality of financial instruments Details of changes in our credit risk profile in 2016 can be found on Audited page85, in Key developments and risk profile in 2016.
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based There were no material changes to the policies and practices approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to forthe management of credit risk in 2016. support calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement.
Credit risk sub-function The customer risk rating CRR 10-grade scale summarises a Audited more granular underlying 23-grade scale of obligor probability Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the of default PD.
All corporate customers are rated using the 10- Group Chief Executive together with the authority to subor 23-grade scale, depending on the degree of sophistication of delegate them.
The Credit Risk sub-function in Global Risk is the Basel II approach adopted for the exposure.
responsible for the key policies and processes for managing Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by credit risk, which include formulating Group credit policies and reference to long-run default rates for that grade, represented risk rating frameworks, guiding the Groups appetite for credit by the average of issuer-weighted historical default rates.
This risk exposures, undertaking independent reviews and objective mapping between internal and external ratings is indicative and assessment of credit risk, and monitoring performance and may vary over time.
The expected loss EL 10-grade scale for retail business The principal objectives of our credit risk management are: summarises a more granular underlying EL scale for this to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible customer segment.
This combines obligor and facility product lending, and robust risk policies and control frameworks: risk factors in a composite measure.
to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, For the five credit quality classifications defined, each implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite encompasses a range of granular internal credit rating grades under actual and scenario conditions: and assigned to wholesale and retail lending businesses, and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to debt to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit securities.
risks, their costs and their mitigation.
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, Concentration of exposure external ratings have been aligned to the five quality Audited classifications based upon the mapping of related CRR to Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of external credit rating.
The mapping is reviewed on a regular counterparties or exposures have comparable economic basis and the most recent review resulted in sovereign BBB characteristics, or such counterparties are engaged in similar and BBB exposures previously mapped to Credit Quality band activities or operate in the same geographical areas or industry Good being mapped to Credit Quality Band Strong.
Sovereign sectors so that their collective ability to meet contractual BB and BB exposures previously mapped to Credit Quality obligations is uniformly affected by changes in economic, band Satisfactory being mapped to Credit Quality Band Good.
We use a number of controls This represents a change in disclosure mapping unrelated to andmeasures to minimise undue concentration of exposure changes in counterparty creditworthiness.
Had this mapping inour portfolios across industries, countries and global been applied in 2015, sovereign exposures would be changed businesses.
These include portfolio and counterparty limits, as follows: Satisfactory $1.4bn decrease, Good $4.3bn approval and review controls, and stress testing.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 73 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Credit quality classification Sovereign debt Other debt securities securities Wholesale lending and bills and bills and derivatives Retail lending 12-month External credit External credit Internal credit probability of Internal credit rating rating rating default % rating Expected loss % Footnotes Quality classification 1, 2 Strong BBB and above A and above CRR1 to CRR2 0 0.169 EL1 to EL2 0 0.999 Good BB to BBB BBB to BBB CRR3 0.170 0.740 EL3 1.000 4.999 Satisfactory BBto B and BB to B and CRR4 to CRR5 0.741 4.914 EL4 to EL5 5.000 19.999 unrated unrated Sub-standard B to C B to C CRR6 to CRR8 4.915 99.999 EL6 to EL8 20.000 99.999 3 Impaired Default Default CRR9 to CRR10 100 EL9 to EL10 100 or defaulted 1 Customer risk rating.
3 The EL percentage is derived through a combination of probability of default PD and loss given default LGD, and may exceed 100% in circumstances where the LGD is above 100% reflecting the cost of recoveries.
Quality classification definitions Strong exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and or low levels of expected loss.
Good exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
Satisfactory exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average to fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
Sub-standard exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
Impaired exposures have been assessed as impaired, as described on page 90.
These also include retail accounts classified as EL1 toEL8 that are delinquent by more than 90 days, unless individually they have been assessed as not impaired: and renegotiated loans that have met the requirements to bedisclosed as impaired and have not yet met the criteria to be returned to the unimpaired portfolio see below.
following the provision of a renegotiated loan.
In our US CML Renegotiated loans and forbearance run-off portfolio in HSBC Finance, loans which are in the early Audited stages of delinquency less than 60 days delinquent and Where a loan is modified due to significant concerns about the typically have the equivalent of two payments deferred for the borrowers ability to meet contractual payments when due, a first time are not considered impaired, as the contractual range of forbearance strategies is employed in order to improve payment deferrals are deemed to be insignificant compared the management of customer relationships, maximise collection with payments due on the loan as a whole.
opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, foreclosure or Those loans that are considered impaired retain the impaired repossession.
classification for a minimum of one year.
Renegotiated loans Identifying renegotiated loans will continue to be disclosed as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant reduction in the risk of Loans are identified as renegotiated loans when we modify the non-payment of future cash flows the evidence typically contractual payment terms due to significant credit distress of comprises a history of payment performance against the the borrower.
Forbearance describes concessions made on the original or revised terms, and there are no other indicators of contractual terms of a loan in response to an obligors financial impairment.
In our US CML run-off portfolio in HSBC Finance, difficulties.
We classify and report loans on which concessions all modified loans with terms of more than two years are have been granted under conditions of credit distress as considered to be permanently impaired.
renegotiated loans when their contractual payment terms have been modified because we have significant concerns about the Renegotiated loans and recognition of impairment borrowers ability to meet contractual payments when due.
allowances When considering modification terms, the borrowers continued Audited ability to repay is assessed and where they are unrelated to payment arrangements, whilst potential indicators of For retail lending, renegotiated loans are segregated from other impairment, these loans are not considered as renegotiated parts of the loan portfolio for collective impairment assessment loans.
In HSBC Finance, loan modification and re-age policies, to reflect the higher rates of losses often encountered in these renegotiated real estate loans are not eligible for a subsequent segments.
renegotiation for six or 12 months depending upon the action, For wholesale lending, renegotiated loans are typically assessed with a maximum of five renegotiations permitted within a fiveindividually.
Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the impairment year period.
Loans that have been identified as renegotiated assessment.
The individual impairment assessment takes into retain this designation until maturity or derecognition.
A loan account the higher risk of the non-payment of future cash flows that is renegotiated is derecognised if the existing agreement inherent in renegotiated loans.
iscancelled and a new agreement is made on substantially Impairment assessment different terms or if the terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the renegotiated loan is substantially a Audited different financial instrument.
Any new loans that arise For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances following derecognition events will continue to be disclosed and financial investments, see Note 1 to the Financial asrenegotiated loans.
Credit quality of renegotiated loans Write-off of loans and advances On execution of the renegotiation, the loan will also be Audited classified as impaired if it is not already so classified.
In For details of our policy on the write-off of loans and advances, wholesale lending, all of the facilities with a customer, including loans which have not been modified, are considered impaired see Note 1 to the Financial Statements.
74 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 In HSBC Finance, the carrying amounts of residential mortgages limitsset by the GMB through the RMM and approved by the and second lien loans in excess of net realisable value are Board.
Our general policy is that each defined operating entity written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or should be self-sufficient in funding its own activities.
Where settlement is reached with the borrower.
If there is no transactions exist between operating entities, they are reflected reasonable expectation of recovery, and foreclosure is pursued, symmetrically in both entities.
the loan is normally written off no later than the end of the As part of our asset, liability and capital management ALCM month in which the loan becomes 180 days contractually past structure, we have established asset and liability committees due.
ALCO at Group level, in the regions and in operating entities.
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are The terms of reference of all ALCOs include the monitoring and generally written off at between 150 and 210 days past due.
control of liquidity and funding.
Thestandard period runs until the end of the month in which The primary responsibility for managing liquidity and funding the account becomes 180 days contractually delinquent.
Writewithin the Groups framework and risk appetite resides with the off periods may be extended, generally to no more than 360 local operating entities ALCOs, Holdings ALCO and the RMM.
days past due but, in very exceptional circumstances, to longer The remaining smaller operating entities are overseen by in a few countries where local regulation or legislation constrain regional ALCOs, with appropriate escalation of significant earlier write-off, or where the realisation of collateral for secured issuesto Holdings ALCO and the RMM.
real estate lending takes this time.
Operating entities are predominantly defined on a country For secured personal facilities, final write-off should generally basisto reflect our local management of liquidity and funding.
occur within 60 months of the default at the latest.
Typically, an operating entity will be defined as a single legal In the event of bankruptcy or analogous proceedings, write-off entity.
However, to take account of the situation where may occur earlier than the periods stated above.
Collection operations in a country are booked across multiple subsidiaries procedures may continue after write-off.
or branches: an operating entity may be defined as a wider subImpairment methodologies for available-for-sale assetconsolidated group of legal entities if they are incorporated backed securities ABSs inthe same country, liquidity and funding are freely fungible Audited between the entities and permitted by local regulation, and To identify objective evidence of impairment for available-forthe definition reflects how liquidity and funding are sale ABSs, an industry standard valuation model is normally managed locally: or applied which uses data with reference to the underlying asset an operating entity may be defined more narrowly as a pools and models their projected future cash flows.
The principal office branch of a wider legal entity operating in estimated future cash flows of the securities are assessed at the multiple countries, reflecting the local country management specific financial asset level to determine whether any of them of liquidity and funding.
are unlikely to be recovered as a result of loss events occurring The RMM reviews and agrees annually the list of entities it on or before the reporting date.
directly oversees and the composition of these entities.
The principal assumptions and inputs to the models are typically the delinquency status of the underlying loans, the probability of Key developments in 2016 delinquent loans progressing to default, the prepayment profiles On 1 January 2016, the Group implemented a new LFRF.
It uses of the underlying assets and the loss severity in the event of the liquidity coverage ratio LCR and net stable funding ratio default.
However, the models utilise other variables relevant NSFR regulatory framework as a foundation, but adds extra tospecific classes of collateral to forecast future defaults and metrics, limits and overlays toaddress firm-specific risks: recovery rates.
Management uses externally available data The LFRF is delivered using the following key aspects: andapplies judgement when determining the appropriate assumptions in respect of these factors.
We use a modelling stand-alone management of liquidity and funding by approach which incorporates historically observed progression operating entity: rates to default to determine if the decline in aggregate operating entity classification by inherent liquidity risk ILR projected cash flows from the underlying collateral will lead to a categorisation: shortfall in contractual cash flows.
In such cases, the security is considered to be impaired.
minimum LCR requirement depending on ILR categorisation: In respect of collateralised debt obligations CDOs, expected minimum NSFR requirement depending on ILR future cash flows for the underlying collateral are assessed to categorisation: determine whether there is likely to be a shortfall in the legal entity depositor concentration limit: contractual cash flows of the CDO.
three-month and 12-month cumulative rolling term When a security benefits from a contract provided by a contractual maturity limits covering deposits from banks, monoline insurer that insures payments of principal and deposits from non-bank financial institutions and securities interest, the expected recovery on the contract is assessed in issued: determining the total expected credit support available to the annual individual liquidity adequacy assessment by principal ABS.
operating entity: Liquidity and funding risk management minimum LCR requirement by currency: Details of changes in our liquidity and funding risk profile in 2016 can befound on page 85, in Key developments and risk profile in 2016. intra-day liquidity: and forward-looking funding assessments.
Liquidity and funding risk management framework The new internal LFRF and the risk tolerance limits were HSBC has an internal liquidity and funding risk management approved by the Board on the basis of recommendations made framework LFRF which aims to allow it to withstand very severe liquidity stresses.
It is designed to be adaptable to by the Group Risk Committee.
changing business models, markets and regulations.
Our annual individual liquidity adequacy assessment process aims to: The management of liquidity and funding is primarily undertaken locally by country in our operating entities in compliance with the Groups LFRF, and with practices and HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 75 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk identify risks that are not reflected in the LFRF, and, where borrowing receivables and derivative assets and Cannot be required, to assess additional limits required locally: and pledged as collateral.
validate the risk tolerance at the operating entity level by Liquidity behaviouralisation demonstrating that reverse stress testing scenarios are All stable deposits are assumed under the Groups frameworks acceptably remote and ensuring vulnerabilities have been to have a liquidity behaviouralised life beyond one year and to assessed through the use of severe stress scenarios.
represent a homogeneous source of stable funding.
The Management of liquidity and funding risk behaviouralisation of assets is far more granular and seeks to differentiate the period for which we must assume that we will Liquidity coverage ratio need stable funding for the asset.
The HSBC application of the LCR metric involves the following Funds transfer pricing two key assumptions about the definition of operational deposits and the ability to transfer liquidity from non-EU Our funds transfer pricing policies give rise to a two-stage funds legalentities: transfer pricing approach, reflecting the fact that we separately manage interest rate risk and liquidity and funding risk under we define operational deposits as transactional current different assumptions.
They have been developed to be accounts arising from the provision of custody services consistent with our risk management frameworks.
Each byHSBC Security Services or Global Liquidity and Cash operating entity is required to apply the Groups transfer pricing Management, where the operational component is assessed policy framework to determine for each material currency the to be the lower of the current balance and the separate most appropriate interest rate risk transfer pricing curve, a notional values of debits and credits across the account liquidity premium curve which is the spread over the interest inthe previous calculation period: and rate risk transfer pricing curve and a liquidity recharge we assume no transferability of liquidity from non-EU assessment which is the spread under or over the interest entities other than to the extent currently permitted.
Net stable funding ratio Repos and stock lending HSBC uses the NSFR as a basis for establishing stable funding GB&M provides collateralised security financing services to around the Group.
itsclients, providing them with cash financing or specific Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities securities.
When cash is provided to clients against collateral inthe form of securities, the cash provided is recognised on the Liquid assets are held and managed on a stand-alone operating balance sheet as a reverse repo.
When securities are provided entity basis.
Most are held directly by each operating entitys to clients against cash collateral, the cash received is Balance Sheet Management BSM department, primarily for recognised on the balance sheet as a repo or, if the securities the purpose of managing liquidity risk in line with the LFRF.
are equity securities, as stock lending.
The liquid asset buffer may also include securities in held-toEach operating entity manages its collateral through a central maturity portfolios.
To qualify as part of the liquid asset buffer, collateral pool, in line with the LFRF.
When specific securities held-to-maturity portfolios must have a deep and liquid repo need to be delivered and the entity does not have them market in the underlying security.
currently available within the central collateral pool, the Liquid assets also include any unencumbered liquid assets held securities are borrowed on a collateralised basis.
When outside BSM departments for any other purpose.
The LFRF securities are borrowed against cash collateral, the cash gives ultimate control of all unencumbered assets and sources provided is recognised on the balance sheet as a reverse repo of liquidity to BSM.
or, if the securities are equity securities, as stock borrowing.
Sources of funding Operating entities may also borrow cash against collateral in the form of securities, using the securities available in the central Customer deposits in the form of current accounts and savings collateral pool.
Repos and stock lending can be used in this way deposits payable on demand or at short notice form the to fund the cash requirement arising from securities owned significant part of our stable funding, and we place considerable outright by Markets to facilitate client business, and the net importance on maintaining their stability.
For deposits, stability cash requirement arising from financing client securities depends upon maintaining depositor confidence in our capital activity.
strength and liquidity, and on competitive and transparent pricing.
Reverse repos, stock borrowing, repos and stock lending are reported net when the IFRS offsetting criteria are met.
In We also access wholesale funding markets by issuing senior somecases, transactions to borrow or lend securities are secured and unsecured debt securities publicly and privately collateralised using securities.
These transactions are offand borrowing from the secured repo markets against highbalance sheet.
quality collateral, in order to obtain funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to align asset and Any security accepted as collateral for a reverse repo or stock liability maturities and currencies, and to maintain a presence borrowing transaction must be of very high quality and its value inlocal wholesale markets.
subject to an appropriate haircut.
Securities borrowed under reverse repo or stock borrowing transactions can only be Ordinary share capital and retained reserves, non-core capital recognised as part of the liquidity asset buffer for the duration instruments and total loss-absorbing capacity TLAC eligible of the transactions and only if the security received is eligible debt securities are also a source of stable funding.
under the liquid asset policy within the LFRF.
Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and Credit controls are in place to ensure that the fair value of any unencumbered assets and off-balance sheet collateral collateral received remains appropriate to collateralise the cash An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged as or fair value of securities given.
collateral against an existing liability and, as a result, is no HSBC Holdings longer available to the Group to secure funding, satisfy collateral HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are dividends received needs or be sold to reduce the funding requirement.
An asset istherefore categorised as unencumbered if it has not been from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-group loans and securities, and interest earned on its own liquid pledged against an existing liability.
HSBC Holdings also raises ancillary funds in the debt further segmented into four separate sub-categories: Readily capital markets through subordinated and senior debt realisable assets, Other realisable assets, Reverse repo stock 76 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 issuances.
Cash is primarily used for the provision of capital and measures used to monitor and limit exposures.
subordinated funding to subsidiaries, interest payments to debt holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
Trading risk Non-trading risk Foreign exchange and HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by Structural foreign commodities Risk types virtue of credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar exchange Interest rates 1 Interest rates contracts issued.
Such commitments and guarantees are only Credit spreads Credit spreads issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings ability to Equities finance the commitments and guarantees and the likelihood 2 2 GB&M, BSM, Global business GB&M and BSM ofthe need arising.
GPB, CMB and RBWM HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its VaR | Sensitivity | Stress VaR | Sensitivity | Stress Risk measure Testing Testing subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level.
During 2016, consistent with the Groups capital 1 The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued byHSBC Holdings is not included in the Group VaR.
The management of this risk is described on page106.
plan, the Groups subsidiaries did not experience any significant 2 BSM, for external reporting purposes, forms part of Corporate Centre while daily restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and operations and risk are managed within GB&M.
Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments.
However, the Where appropriate, we apply similar risk management policies ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to and measurement techniques to both trading and non-trading HSBC Holdings depends on, among other things, their portfolios.
Our objective is to manage and control market risk respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exposures to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and profile consistent with our established risk appetite.
The nature of the hedging and risk mitigation strategies None of the subsidiaries that are excluded from our regulatory performed across the Group corresponds to the market risk consolidation has capital resources below its minimum management instruments available within each operating regulatory requirement.
These strategies range from the use of traditional market instruments, such as interest rate swaps, to more Market risk management sophisticated hedging strategies to address a combination of Details of changes in our market risk profile in 2016 can be found on page risk factors arising at the portfolio level.
85, in Key developments and risk profile in 2016.
Market risk governance There were no material changes to our policies and practices for Audited the management of market risk in 2016.
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved Market risk in global businesses by the RMM for HSBC Holdings.
These limits are allocated The diagram below summarises the main business areas where across business lines and to the Groups legal entities.
trading and non-trading market risks reside, and the market risk GB&M manages market risk, where the majority of HSBCs total value at risk excluding insurance and HSBC Holdings Board almost all trading VaR resides, using risklimits approved by the RMM.
VaR limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with market liquidity being aprimary factor in determining the level of limits set.
Global Risk is responsible for setting market risk management policies and measurement techniques.
Group Chairman Each major operating entity has an independent market risk management and control sub-function which Group Chief Executive isresponsible for measuring market risk exposures, monitoring and reporting these exposures against the General prescribed limits on a dailybasis.
The market risk limits are governed according tothe framework illustrated measures Risk Management to the left.
Meeting of the GMB Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising on each product in its business and to transfer them to either its local GB&M unit for management, or to separate books managed under the supervision ofthe local ALCO.
Group traded risk Model risk is governed through Model Oversight Committees MOCs at the regional and global Wholesale Credit and Market Risk levels.
They have direct oversight and approval responsibility for all traded risk models used forrisk measurement and management andstress testing.
We are committed to the ongoing Entity risk management development of our in-house risk models.
committee The Markets MOC reports into the Group MOC, which oversees all model risk types at Group level.
The GroupMOC informs the RMM about material issues at least two times a year.
The RMM is the Groups Specific Designated Committee according to regulatory rules and has delegated day-to-day governance ofall Principal office manager measures traded risk models to the Markets MOC.
Global Risk enforces trading in permissible instruments approved for each site, new product approval procedures, restricting trading in the more complex derivative products only to offices with appropriate Business desk trader levels of product expertise and robust control systems.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 77 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and either Market risk measures incorporated directly in the VaR models, where possible, or Monitoring and limiting market risk exposures quantified through the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures test approach within the RNIV framework.
The outcome of the while maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk VaR-based RNIV is included in the VaR calculation and backappetite.
testing: a stressed VaR RNIV is also computed for the risk factors considered in the VaR-based RNIV approach.
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures including sensitivity analysis, value at risk and Stress-type RNIVs include a gap risk exposure measure to stresstesting.
capture risk on non-recourse margin loans and a fide-peg risk measure to capture risk to pegged and heavily-managed Sensitivity analysis currencies.
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of individual market Stress testing factor movements on specific instruments or portfolios, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated prices, such as the effect of a one basis point change in yield.
intoour market risk management framework to evaluate the We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk potential impact on portfolio values of more extreme, although positions within each risk type.
Sensitivity limits are set plausible, events or movements in a set of financial variables.
forportfolios, products and risk types, with the depth of the Insuch scenarios, losses can be much greater than those market being a principal factor in determining the level.
Value at risk Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall Group levels.
A set of scenarios is used consistently Audited across all regions within the Group.
Scenarios are tailored to Value at risk VaR is a technique for estimating potential capture the relevant potential events or market movements losses on risk positions as a result of movements in market ateach level.
The risk appetite around potential stress losses ratesand prices over a specified time horizon and to a given forthe Group is set and monitored against referral limits.
The use of VaR is integrated into market risk Market risk reverse stress tests are undertaken on the premise management and calculated for all trading positions regardless that there is a fixed loss.
The stress testing process identifies of how we capitalise them.
Where there is not an approved which scenarios lead to this loss.
The rationale behind the internal model, we use the appropriate local rules to capitalise reverse stress test is to understand scenarios that are beyond exposures.
In addition, we calculate VaR for non-trading normal business settings and could have contagion and portfolios to have a complete picture of risk.
Where we do not systemic implications.
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in the Stress testing section below.
Stressed VaR and stress testing, together with reverse stress testing and the management of gap risk, provide management Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation withinsights regarding the tail risk beyond VaR, for which which incorporate the following features: HSBCs appetite is limited.
historical market rates and prices are calculated with Trading portfolios reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities: Back-testing potential market movements utilised for VaR are calculated We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by backwith reference to data from the past two years: and testing them against both actual and hypothetical profit and loss against the corresponding VaR numbers.
Hypothetical VaR measures are calculated to a 99% confidence level and profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, use a one-day holding period.
commissions and revenues of intra-day transactions.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the We would expect, on average, to see two or three profits and underlying exposures.
The nature of the VaR models means that two or three losses in excess of VaR at the 99% confidence level an increase in observed market volatility will lead to anincrease over a one-year period.
The actual number of profits or losses in in VaR without any changes in the underlying positions.
excess of VaR over this period can therefore be used to gauge VaR model limitations how well the models are performing.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR should always be viewed We back-test our Group VaR at various levels that reflect a full in the context of its limitations.
For example: legal entity scope of HSBC, including entities that do not have use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events local permission to use VaR for regulatory purposes.
may not encompass all potential events, particularly extreme Structural foreign exchange exposures ones: Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net the use of a holding period assumes that all positions can investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, the beliquidated or the risks offset during that period, which functional currencies of which are currencies other than the may not fully reflect the market risk arising at times USdollar.
An entitys functional currency is that of the primary ofsevere illiquidity, when the holding period may be economic environment in which the entity operates.
insufficient to liquidate or hedge all positions fully: Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised the use of a 99% confidence level does not take into inOther comprehensive income.
We use the US dollar as our account losses that might occur beyond this level of presentation currency in our consolidated financial statements confidence: and because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at currency bloc in which we transact and fund our business.
Our the close of business and therefore does not necessarily consolidated balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange reflect intra-day exposures.
differences between the US dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying subsidiaries.
Risk not in VaR framework We hedge structural foreign exchange exposures only in limited The risks not in VaR RNIV framework aims to capture and circumstances.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are capitalise material market risks that are not adequately covered managed with the primary objective of ensuring, where in the VaR model, such as the LIBOR tenor basis.
78 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 practical, that our consolidated capital ratios and the capital The extent to which balances can be behaviouralised is driven ratios of individual banking subsidiaries are largely protected by: from the effect of changes in exchange rates.
the amount of the current balance that can be assessed as constant under business-as-usual conditions: and Interest rate risk in the banking book for managed rate balances, the historical market interest The Asset, Liability and Capital Management ALCM function rate repricing behaviour observed: or is responsible for measuring and controlling interest rate risk inthe banking book under the supervision of the RMM.
for non-interest bearing balances, the duration for which thebalance is expected to remain under business-as-usual The component of the interest rate risk in the banking book conditions.
This assessment is often driven by the reoutside Balance Sheet Management BSM or Global Markets investment tenors available to BSM to neutralise the risk that can be economically neutralised by fixed-rate government through the use of fixed-rate government bonds or interest bonds or interest rate derivatives is transfer priced to and rate derivatives, and for derivatives the availability of cash managed by BSM.
The banking book interest rate risk flow hedging capacity.
transferred to BSM is reflected in the Groups non-traded VaRmeasure.
Measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book BSM is overseen by the Market Risk and Product Control Interest rate risk in the banking book is measured and functions in exactly the same way as Global Markets.
controlled using three metrics: The price at which interest rate risk is transferred to BSM is non-traded VaR: determined by the entitys prevailing interest rate risk transfer net interest income sensitivity: and pricing curve defined by operating entities Asset and Liability Management Committee ALCO, in accordance with the economic value of equity.
Groups funds transfer pricing policies.
The transfer price seeks Non-traded VaR excludes the non-traded interest rate risk not to reflect the price at which BSM could neutralise the risk in the transferred to BSM and the non-traded interest rate risk of market at the point of transfer.
The banking book interest rate risk within HSBC Holdings is Net interest income NII sensitivity captures the expected nottransferred to BSM and is managed as an ALCO book.
impact of changes in interest rates on base case projected net Interest rate risk behaviouralisation interest income.
In assessing the banking book interest rate risk outside BSM Economic value of equity EVE captures the expected impact and Global Markets, interest rate repricing behaviouralisation of changes in interest rates on base case economic value.
It techniques are used where the interest repricing profile is captures all non-traded items irrespective of the profit and loss uncertain due to customer bank optionality or where nonaccounting treatment.
interest bearing balances are withdrawable.
Balance Sheet Management The maximum tenor to which any individual tranche of a nonEffective governance across BSM is supported by the dual interest bearing withdrawable repayable customer balance or reporting lines it has to the Chief Executive Officer of GB&M equity can be behaviouralised is 10 years.
The maximum andto the Group Treasurer.
In each operating entity, BSM is weighted average behaviouralised tenor for any portfolio is five responsible for managing liquidity and funding under the years.
Interest-bearing managed administered rate balances supervision of the local ALCO which usually meets on a arebehaviouralised to tenors less than one year, typically one monthly basis.
It also manages the banking book interest rate month or three months.
positions transferred to it within a Markets limit structure.
The maximum percentage of any portfolio that can be In executing the management of the liquidity risk on behalf of behaviouralised is 90% with the residual treated as contractual, ALCO, and managing the banking book interest rate positions meaning overnight.
transferred to it, BSM invests in highly rated liquid assets in line Unlike liquidity risk, which is assessed on the basis of a very with the Groups liquid asset policy.
The majority of the liquidity severe stress scenario, banking book interest rate risk is is invested in central bank deposits and government, assessed and managed according to business-as-usual supranational and agency securities, with most of the remainder conditions.
In many cases, the contractual profile of banking held in short-term interbank and central bank loans.
book assets liabilities arising from assets liabilities created Withdrawable central bank deposits are accounted for as cash outside Markets or BSM does not reflect the behaviour balances.
Interbank loans, statutory central bank reserves and observed.
loans to central banks are accounted for as loans and advances Where there is no certainty with regard to interest rate repricing to banks.
BSMs holdings of securities are accounted for as profile, behaviouralisation is used to assess the market interest available-for-sale or, to a lesser extent, held-to-maturity assets.
rate risk of banking book assets liabilities and this assessed Statutory central bank reserves are not recognised as liquid market risk is transferred to BSM, in accordance with the rules assets.
The statutory reserves that would be released in line governing the transfer of interest rate risk from the global with the Groups stressed customer deposit outflow businesses to BSM.
assumptions are reflected as stressed inflows.
Behaviouralisation is applied in three key areas: BSM is permitted to use derivatives as part of its mandate to the assessed repricing frequency of managed rate balances: manage interest rate risk.
Derivative activity is predominantly through the use of vanilla interest rate swaps which are part the assessed duration of non-interest bearing balances, ofcash flow hedging and fair value hedging relationships.
typically capital and current accounts: and Credit risk in BSM is predominantly limited to short-term bank the base case expected prepayment behaviour or pipeline exposure created by interbank lending, exposure to central take-up rate for fixed-rate balances with embedded banks and high-quality sovereigns, supranationals or agencies optionality.
which constitute the majority of BSMs liquidity portfolio.
BSM Interest rate behaviouralisation policies have to be formulated in does not manage the structural credit risk of any Group entity line with the Groups behaviouralisation policies and approved balance sheet.
at least annually by local ALCOs.
BSM is permitted to enter into single name and index credit derivatives activity, but it does so to manage credit risk on the HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 79 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk exposure specific to its securities portfolio in limited When assessing the sensitivity of economic value of equity to circumstances only.
The risk limits are extremely limited and interest rate movements, the timing of principal cash flows can closely monitored.
At 31 December 2016, BSM had no open vary but the amount remains constant.
Operating entities are required to monitor EVE sensitivity VaR is calculated on positions held in BSM and is calculated asapercentage of total capital resources and adjusted EVE byapplying the same methodology used for the Markets sensitivity as a percentage of the present value of future net business and utilised as a tool for market risk control purposes.
interest income base case EVE minus book value of equity under a managed run-off assumption.
The vast majority of BSMs VaR arises from banking book portfolios and is classified as non-traded VaR.
EVE can also be used for assessing the economic capital required to support interest rate risk in the banking book BSM is predominantly involved in managing liquidity in IRRBB : accordance with the LFRF, managing the daily cash position and managing the non-traded interest rate risk transferred to Where EVE under any scenario is higher than the current it, within non-traded market risk limits.
balance sheet carrying value of equity, the banking book income stream is positive i. e. profit and therefore capital Net interest income sensitivity accretive under that scenario and no economic capital for A principal part of our management of non-traded interest rate IRRBB is required.
risk is to monitor the sensitivity of expected net interest income Where EVE of any scenario is lower than the current balance under varying interest rate scenarios simulation modelling, sheet carrying value of equity, the banking book income where all other economic variables are held constant.
This stream is negative i. e. loss and therefore capital deductive monitoring is undertaken at an entity level by local ALCOs.
under that scenario and economic capital for IRRBB should Entities apply a combination of scenarios and assumptions be held against this loss.
relevant to their local businesses, and standard scenarios which Where banking book assets liabilities are fair valued through are required throughout HSBC.
The latter are consolidated to profit and loss or where the fair value changes impact capital illustrate the combined pro forma effect on our consolidated resources i. e. available for sale, economic capital for this netinterest income.
interest rate sensitivity is additionally assessed using a stressed Projected net interest income sensitivity figures represent the VaR approach.
effect of the pro forma movements in projected yield curves HSBC Holdings based on a static balance sheet size and structure assumption, other than instances where the size of the balances or repricing As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has is deemed interest rate sensitive non-interest bearing current limited market risk activity.
Its activities predominantly involve account migration and fixed rate loan early prepayment and maintaining sufficient capital resources to support the Groups where non-traded VaR is assumed to contractually run off.
This diverse activities: allocating these capital resources across effect, however, does not incorporate actions which would ourbusinesses: earning dividend and interest income on its probably be taken by BSM or in the business units to mitigate investments in our businesses: providing dividend payments the effect of interest rate risk.
In reality, BSM proactively seeks toits equity shareholders and interest payments to providers to change the interest rate risk profile to optimise net revenues.
ofdebt capital: and maintaining a supply of short-term capital The net interest income sensitivity calculations assume that resources for deployment under extraordinary circumstances.
interest rates of all maturities move by the same amount in the Itdoes not take proprietary trading positions.
Rates are not assumed to become negative The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed in the down-shock scenario unless the central bank rate is arebanking book interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
already negative and then not assumed to go further negative, Exposure to these risks arises from short-term cash balances, which may, in certain currencies, effectively result in nonfunding positions held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in parallel shock.
In addition, the net interest income sensitivity long-term financial assets and financial liabilities including debt calculations take account of the effect on net interest income of capital issued.
The objective of HSBC Holdings market risk anticipated differences in changes between interbank interest management strategy is to reduce exposure to these risks rates and interest rates over which the entity has discretion in andminimise volatility in capital resources, cash flows and terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk Economic value of equity appetite statement.
An economic value of equity EVE value represents the HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency present value of future banking book cash flows that could interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign bedistributed to equity providers under a managed run-off currency risk arising from its long-term debt issues.
scenario, which represents the current book value of equity plusthe present value of future net interest income under a Operational risk management managed run-off scenario.
The present value of net interest Details of our operational risk profile in 2016 can be found on page 121, in income under a managed run-off and under any interest rate Operational risk exposures in 2016. scenario can therefore be assessed by deducting the book valueof equity from the EVE value calculated.
Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with all HSBCs employees.
Specifically, all staff are required to manage An EVE sensitivity is the extent to which the EVE value will the operational risks of the business and operational activities change due to a pre-specified movement in interest rates, for which they are responsible.
where all other economic variables are held constant.
The EVE sensitivity represents the sensitivity of discounted net interest Overview income plus the sensitivity of the net present value of any The objective of our operational risk management is to manage transactions used to hedge the interest income earned on and control operational risk in a cost-effective manner within equity.
If the EVE sensitivity is adjusted to remove the sensitivity targeted levels of operational risk consistent with our risk in net present value of any transactions used to hedge the appetite, as defined by the GMB.
interest income earned on equity, the resulting adjusted EVE sensitivity represents the extent to which, under a managed run-off scenario, discounted net interest income is sensitive to apre-specified movement in interest rates.
80 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Key developments in 2016 Regulatory compliance risk management HSBCs operational risk management framework ORMF is Overview our overarching approach for managing operational risk, the The Regulatory Compliance sub-function RC provides purpose of which is to: independent, objective oversight and challenge and promotes identify and manage our non-financial operational risks in an  culture, supporting the business in effective manner: delivering fair outcomes for customers, maintaining the integrity of financial markets and achieving HSBCs strategic objectives.
remain within the Groups operational risk appetite, which helps the organisation understand the level of risk it is Key developments in 2016 willing to accept: and In the second half of 2016, we restructured part of our Global drive forward-looking risk awareness and assist Risk function.
The Financial Crime Compliance sub-function management focus during 2016. became part of our new Financial Crime Risk function, which reports directly to the Group Chief Executive see Financial Activity to strengthen our risk culture and better embed the use crime risk management below.
The RC sub-function remains of the ORMF was further implemented in 2016, in particular the part of Global Risk, and continues to oversee management of use of the activity-based three lines of defence model, which regulatory compliance risk.
sets out roles and responsibilities for managing operational risks on a daily basis.
Governance and structure Further information on the three lines of defence model can be found in The Global Head of RC reports to the Group Chief Risk Officer.
the Our risk management framework section on page 68.
To align with our global business structure and help ensure Governance and structure coverage of local regulatory requirements, RC is structured as aglobal function with regional and country RC teams, which The ORMF defines minimum standards and processes, and the support and advise each global business and global function.
governance structure for the management of operational risk and internal control in our geographical regions, global Key risk management processes businesses and global functions.
The ORMF has been codified We regularly review our policies and procedures.
Global policies in a high-level standards manual, supplemented with detailed and procedures require the prompt identification and escalation policies, which describes our approach to identifying, assessing, of any actual or potential regulatory breach to RC.
Reportable monitoring and controlling operational risk and gives guidance events are escalated to the RMM and the Group Risk on mitigating action to be taken when weaknesses are Committee, as appropriate.
Matters relating to the Groups identified.
regulatory conduct of business are reported to the Conduct Operational risk is organised as a specific risk discipline within &Values Committee.
Global Risk, and a formal governance structure provides Conduct of business oversight over its management.
The Global Operational Risk sub-function supports the Group Chief Risk Officer and the In 2016, we continued to take steps to raise our standards Global Operational Risk Committee.
It is responsible for leading relating to conduct, which included: the embedding of the ORMF and assurance of adherence to designing further global mandatory conduct training for associated policies and processes across the first and second delivery to all employees in 2017: lines.
It is also responsible for preparation of operational risk reporting at Group level, including reports for consideration incorporating the assessment of expected values and bythe RMM and the Group Risk Committee.
The Global behaviours as key determinants in recruitment, performance Operational Risk Committee meets at least quarterly to discuss appraisal and remuneration processes: key risk issues and review the effective implementation of the improving our Group-wide market surveillance capability: ORMF.
introducing policies and procedures to strengthen support Key risk management processes for potentially vulnerable customers: Business managers throughout the Group are responsible enhancing the quality and depth of conduct management formaintaining an acceptable level of internal control information and how it is used across the Group: commensurate with the scale and nature of operations, and implementing an assessment process to check the foridentifying and assessing risks, designing controls and effectiveness of our conduct initiatives across the Group: monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
The ORMF helps and managers to fulfil these responsibilities by defining a standard risk assessment methodology and providing a tool for the assessing conduct standards and practices within our key systematic reporting of operational loss data.
A centralised database is used to record the results of the The Board maintained oversight of conduct matters through the operational risk management process.
Operational risk and Conduct & Values Committee.
control self-assessments are inputted and maintained by Further information on our conduct is provided in the Strategic Report on business units.
Business and functional management and page 22 and www.
For conduct-related costs relating to business risk and control managers monitor the progress of significant items, see page 62. documented action plans to address shortcomings.
To help Financial crime risk management ensure that operational risk losses are consistently reported and monitored at Group level, all Group companies are required to Overview report individual losses when the net loss is expected to exceed In the second half of 2016, we established a Financial Crime $10,000, and to aggregate all other operational risk losses under Risk FCR function and appointed a Group Head of FCR, who $10,000.
Losses are entered into the Group operational risk reports to the Group Chief Executive and chairs the Global database and reported to the RMM on a monthly basis.
FCR is a global function that brings together all areas of financial crime risk management at HSBC and is dedicated to implementing the most effective global standards to combat financial crime.
The function has been set up to enable us to build on our achievements in managing financial crime risk effectively across the bank and HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 81 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk tocontinue to strengthen financial crime detection, and antiagreement and related agreements and consent orders money laundering AML, sanctions and anti-bribery and arediscussed in Top and emerging risks on page 64. corruption compliance.
Throughout 2016, the FSVC received regular reports on HSBCs relationship with the Monitor and its compliance with the US Key developments in 2016 DPA.
The FSVC received regular updates on the preliminary The FCR function encompasses FCR Assurance, Financial findings arising from the Monitors third annual review, and CrimeCompliance, Financial Crime Threat Mitigation, the hasreceived the Monitors third annual review report.
GlobalStandards programme, the Monitor Liaison Office, FCR Strategy Implementation, FCR Chief of Staff and FCR COO.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk management The structure has been designed around the following key principles: Details of changes in our insurance manufacturing operations risk profile in 2016 can be found on page 121, in Insurance FCR sets policy and standards, provides subject matter manufacturing operations risk profile.
expertise and guidance, drives execution at country level viaregions, and maintains line of business subject matter There were no material changes to our policies and practices for expertise in support of the global businesses.
the management of risks arising in our insurance manufacturing operations in 2016.
Country-level execution accountability is driven by a common set of global principles with material variations Governance managed by exception.
Audited Sub-functions within FCR are leveraged across the global Insurance risks are managed to a defined risk appetite, which function, ensuring consistency and utilising expertise and isaligned to the Group risk appetite and risk management resourcing.
framework, including the Group three lines of defence model.
Key risk management processes For details of the Groups governance framework, see page68.
The Group Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the We continue to embed policies and procedures, introduce new control framework globally and is accountable to the RBWM technology solutions and support the cultural change needed Risk Management Meeting on risk matters relating to the toeffectively manage financial crime risk.
during 2016 was the deployment of our global customer due diligence system to 35 markets for RBWM, 52 for CMB, 36 for The monitoring of the risks within the insurance operations is GB&M and two for GPB.
This, along with the enhanced financial carried out by insurance risk teams.
Specific risk functions, crime risk training that we have taken more than 3,500 senior including Wholesale Credit & Market Risk, Operational Risk, leaders through globally, will help ensure our people have the Information Security Risk and Financial Crime Risk, support guidance and tools that they need.
Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of expertise.
The Group Head of FCR attends the Financial System Stress and scenario testing Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC, which reports to the Board Audited on matters relating to financial crime and financial system Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management abuse and provides a forward-looking perspective on financial framework for the insurance business.
We participate in local crime risk, as well as cyber and information security.
In 2016, and Group-wide regulatory stress tests, including the Bank of the FSVC assumed responsibility from the CVC for oversight England stress test of the banking system, the Hong Kong ofcontrols relating to anti-bribery and corruption.
Monetary Authority stress test, the European Insurance and Throughout the year the Committee received regular reports Occupational Pensions Authority stress test, and individual from country chief executives on the actions being taken by country insurance regulatory stress tests.
management to address local financial crime risk issues and These have highlighted that a key risk scenario for the insurance vulnerabilities, and also received reports on specific issues.
business is a prolonged low interest rate environment.
In order The Monitor to mitigate the impact of this scenario, the insurance operations have a range of strategies that could be employed including the Under the agreements entered into with the DoJ and the FCA hedging of investment risk, repricing current products to reflect in2012, including the five-year US DPA, the Monitor was lower interest rates, improving risk diversification, moving appointed in July 2013 for an expected five-year period to towards less capital intensive products, and developing produce annual assessments of the effectiveness of the Groups investment strategies to optimise the expected returns against AML and sanctions compliance programme.
the cost of economic capital.
In February 2017, the Monitor delivered his third annual followup review report based on various thematic and country reviews Management and mitigation of key risk types he had conducted over the course of 2016.
In his report, the Market risk Monitor concluded that, in 2016, HSBC continued to make Audited progress in enhancing its financial crime compliance controls, including improvements to its Global AML policies and All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk procedures.
However, the Monitor also expressed significant mandates which specify the investment instruments in which concerns about the pace of that progress, instances of potential they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of financial crime that the DoJ and HSBC are reviewing further market risk which they may retain.
They manage market risk by andon-going systems andcontrol deficiencies that in his using, among others, some or all of the techniques listed below, viewraised questions as to whether HSBC is adhering to depending on the nature of the contracts written: itsobligations under the US DPA - a matter that would be For products with discretionary participating features determined by the DoJ in its sole discretion.
The Monitor DPF, adjusting bonus rates to manage the liabilities to alsofound that there remain substantial challenges for HSBC policyholders.
The effect is that a significant portion of the tomeet its goal of developing a reasonably effective and market risk is borne by the policyholder.
sustainable AML and sanctions compliance programme.
Inaddition, the Monitor did not certify as to HSBCs Asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are implementation of and adherence to remedial measures structured to support projected liability cash flows.
The group manages its assets using an approach that considers specified in the US DPA.
The US deferred prosecution asset quality, diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, 82 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 volatility and target investment return.
It is not always reinsurance which cedes risks above our acceptable possible to match asset and liability durations due to thresholds to an external reinsurer thereby limiting uncertainty over the receipt of all future premiums and the ourexposure.
timing of claims: and also because the forecast payment Reputational risk management dates of liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest dated investments available.
We use models to assess the There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the management of reputational risk in 2016. effect of a range of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ Overview the outcomes in determining how to best structure asset holdings to support liabilities.
Reputational risk relates to stakeholders perceptions, whether fact-based or otherwise.
Stakeholders expectations change Using derivatives to protect against adverse market constantly, and so reputational risk is dynamic and varies movements or better match liability cash flows.
between geographical regions, groups and individuals.
We have For new products with investment guarantees, considering an unwavering commitment to operating at the high standards the cost when determining the level of premiums or the we set for ourselves in every jurisdiction.
Any lapse in standards price structure.
of integrity, compliance, customer service or operating efficiency represents a potential reputational risk.
Periodically reviewing products identified as higher risk, which contain investment guarantees and embedded Governance and structure optionality features linked to savings and investment The development of policies, management and mitigation products.
ofreputational risk are coordinated through the Group Designing new products to mitigate market risk, such as Reputational Risk Policy Committee, which is chaired by changing the investment return sharing portion between theGroup Chairman.
In parallel, the Global Risk Resolution policyholders and the shareholder.
Committee, chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, is the highest decision-making forum in the Group for matters arising from Exiting, to the extent possible, investment portfolios whose clients or transactions that either present a serious potential risk is considered unacceptable.
reputational risk to the Group, or merit a Group-led decision Repricing premiums charged to policyholders.
toensure a consistent risk management approach across our Credit risk regions and global businesses.
Both committees keep the RMMapprised of areas and activities presenting significant Audited reputational risk and, where appropriate, make Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are responsible for recommendations to the RMM to mitigate such risks.
the credit risk, quality and performance of their investment Significant issues posing reputational risk are also reported portfolios.
Our assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers tothe Board and the Conduct & Values Committee, where and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally appropriate.
recognised credit ratings and other publicly available Key risk management processes information.
The External Affairs function maintains policies and gives policy Investment credit exposures are monitored against limits by our advice for the issues that might affect HSBCs reputation and local insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, and are aggregated standing with customers, employees, opinion formers and the and reported to the Group Insurance Credit Risk and Group public.
It oversees the identification, management and control Credit Risk functions.
Stress testing is performed by Group of reputational risk for all HSBC Group entities in the areas of Insurance on the investment credit exposures using credit media relations and engagement with non-governmental spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
organisations and other external stakeholders.
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk.
Our Reputational Risk and Client Selection RRCS team, which These include a credit report which contains a watch-list of is jointly managed by the Global Head of Financial Crime investments with current credit concerns.
The report is Compliance and the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance, circulated monthly to senior management in Group Insurance oversees the identification, management and control of all and the individual country chief risk officers to identify othersignificant reputational risks across HSBC Group.
It is investments which may be at risk of future impairment.
responsible for setting policies to guide the Groups reputational Liquidity risk risk management, devising strategies to protect against Audited reputational risk, and advising the global businesses and global functions to help them identify, assess and mitigate such risks, Risk is managed by cash flow matching and maintaining where possible.
It is led by a headquarters-based team.
This is sufficient cash resources, investing in high credit-quality supported by teams in each business line and region, which investments with deep and liquid markets, monitoring help ensure that issues are directed to the appropriate forums, investment concentrations and restricting them where that decisions are made and implemented effectively, and appropriate, and establishing committed contingency thatmanagement information is generated to aid senior borrowingfacilities.
management in the businesses and regions in understanding Insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete where reputational risk exists.
Each global business has quarterly liquidity risk reports for the Group Insurance Risk established a governance process that empowers the RRCSs function and an annual review of the liquidity risks to which committees to address reputational risk issues at the right level, they are exposed.
The global functions manage and escalate reputational risks within established Insurance risk operational risk frameworks.
HSBC Insurance primarily uses the following techniques to Our policies set out our risk appetite and operational procedures manage and mitigate insurance risk: for all areas of reputational risk, including financial crime product design, pricing and overall proposition management prevention, regulatory compliance, conduct-related concerns, for example, management of lapses by introducing environmental impacts, human rights matters and employee surrender charges : relations.
underwriting policy: We have taken, and are taking, measures to address the claims management processes: and requirements of the US DPA and enhance our AML, sanctions HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 83 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk and other regulatory compliance frameworks.
These measures Pension risk management should also enhance our reputational risk management in the There were no material changes to our policies and practices future.
For further details on our financial crime risk, see forthe management of pension risk in 2016.
Financial crime risk management on page 81.
Governance and structure Further details can be found at www.
A global pension risk framework and accompanying global Sustainability risk management policies on the management of risks related to defined benefit Overview and defined contribution plans is in place.
Pension risk is managed by a network of local and regional pension risk Assessing the environmental and social impacts of providing forums.
The Global Pensions Oversight Committee is finance to our customers is integral to our overall risk responsible for the governance and oversight of all pension management processes.
plans sponsored by HSBC around the world.
Key developments in 2016 Key risk management processes In 2016, we issued a revised mining and metals policy.
It Our global pensions strategy is to move from defined benefit replaced the one introduced in 2007, and responds to todefined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is increasing concerns regarding climate change by addressing considered competitive to do so.
thermal coal mining, and provides more details on how we deal with human rights issues in the sector.
In defined contribution pension plans, the contributions that HSBC is required to make are known, while the ultimate We also created a new training module for relevant relationship pension benefit will vary, typically with investment returns managers globally on our sustainability risk policies and their achieved by investment choices made by the employee.
While responsibilities, to ensure consistent implementation.
the market risk to HSBC of defined contribution plans is low, Furthermore, we continued to improve the way sustainability theGroup is still exposed to operational and reputational risk.
risk is recorded in our information management system.
In defined benefit pension plans, the level of pension benefit is Governance and structure known.
Therefore, the level of contributions required by HSBC The Global Risk function, with input from the Global Corporate will vary due to a number of risks, including: Sustainability function, is mandated to manage sustainability investments delivering a return below that required to risk globally, working through local offices as appropriate.
provide the projected plan benefits: Sustainability risk managers have regional or national responsibilities for advising on and managing environmental the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, thus triggering write-downs in asset values both and social risks.
equity and debt : Key risk management processes a change in either interest rates or inflation expectations, The Global Risk functions responsibilities in relation to causing an increase in the value of plan liabilities: and sustainability risk include: plan members living longer than expected known as Formulating sustainability risk policies.
This includes work longevity risk.
inseveral key areas: overseeing our sustainability risk Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model standards: overseeing our application of the Equator thattakes into account potential variations in these factors.
Principles, which provide a framework for banks to assess Theimpact of these variations on both pension assets and and manage the social and environmental impact of large pension liabilities is assessed using a one-in-200-year stress projects they provide finance to: overseeing our application test.
Scenario analysis and other stress tests are also used to of our sustainability policies, covering agricultural support pension risk management.
commodities, chemicals, defence, energy, forestry, freshwater infrastructure, mining and metals, UNESCO To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, World Heritage Sites and the Ramsar Convention on sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances Wetlands: undertaking independent reviews of transactions employees, make regular contributions in accordance with where sustainability risks are assessed to be high: and advice from actuaries and in consultation with the plans supporting our operating companies to assess similar risks trustees where relevant.
These contributions are normally set ofa lesser magnitude.
toensure that there are sufficient funds to meet the cost of theaccruing benefits for the future service of active members.
Building and implementing systems-based processes to However, higher contributions are required when plan assets ensure consistent application of policies, reduce the costs are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension ofsustainability risk reviews, and capture management liabilities.
Contribution rates are typically revised annually information to measure and report on the effect of our oronce every three years, depending on the plan.
lending and investment activities on sustainable development.
The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet Providing training and capacity building within our operating aplans liabilities.
Any changes in expected returns from the companies to ensure sustainability risks are identified and investments may also change future contribution requirements.
mitigated consistently to appropriate standards.
In pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation of the defined benefit plan assets between asset classes is established.
In addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as stock-market or property valuation indices.
The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every three years and more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances.
The process generally involves anextensive asset and liability review.
84 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Gross loans and advances declined by $67bn, mainly due to Key developments and risk profile in 2016 foreign exchange effects reducing balances by $68bn.
Loan impairment charges and other credit provisions for the Key developments in 2016 year were $3.4bn.
In 2016, HSBC undertook a number of initiatives to enhance In wholesale lending, balances declined by $33bn mainly due itsapproach to the management of risk.
These included: toforeign exchange movements of $41bn.
Excluding foreign Implementing a new internal liquidity and funding risk exchange movements, lending balances decreased in North management framework which uses the liquidity coverage America, and in Middle East and North Africa but were more ratio and net stable funding ratio regulatory framework as a than offset by increases in Asia and Latin America.
Europe foundation, as described on page 75 of the Liquidity and lending balances were broadly unchanged.
In personal lending, balances decreased by $34bn, mainly due Undertaking activities to strengthen our risk culture and to foreign exchange movements of $26bn and $13bn in North further embed the use of the operational risk management America largely due to continued repayments and loan sales framework, as described on page 81 of the Operational risk inthe US CML run-off portfolio.
Excluding foreign exchange management section.
movements and the US CML run-off portfolio, lending balances increased in Europe, Asia and Latin America and were offset by Implementing a number of initiatives to raise our standards a decrease in Middle East and North Africa.
in relation to the conduct of our business, as described on page 81 of the Regulatory compliance risk management Information on constant currency movements is provided on page 30. section.
Restructuring part of our Global Risk function.
The Financial Summary of credit risk Crime Compliance sub-function became part of our new 2016 2015 Financial Crime Risk FCR function.
The Regulatory $bn $bn Page Compliance sub-function remains part of Global Risk, and At 31 Dec continues to oversee management of regulatory compliance Maximum exposure to credit risk 2,898 2,947 86 risk.
total assets subject to creditrisk 2,205 2,234 Establishing an FCR function and appointing a Group Head off-balance sheet commitments of FCR, who chairs the Global Standards Steering Meeting 693 713 subjecttocredit risk and reports to the Group Chief Executive, to oversee all Gross loans and advances 958 1,024 areas of financial crime risk management at HSBC.
The FCR personal lending 340 374 101 function is dedicated to implementing the most effective wholesale lending 618 650 95 global standards to combat financial crime, as described on Impaired loans 18 24 90 page 81 of the Financial crime risk management section.
personal lending 6 12 Issuing a revised mining and metals policy and creating a wholesale lending 12 12 new training module for relevant relationship managers % % globally on our sustainability risk policies and their Impaired loans as a % of gross loans responsibilities, to ensure consistent implementation, andadvances asdescribed on page 84 in the Sustainability risk personal lending 1.8 3.1 management section.
wholesale lending 1.9 1.9 personal and wholesale lending 1.9 2.3 There were no material changes to our policies and practices $bn $bn forthe management of credit risk, market risk, insurance Impairment allowances 7.9 9.6 94 manufacturing operations risk, reputational risk and personal lending 2.0 2.9 101 sustainability risk in 2016. wholesale lending 5.9 6.7 96 Loans and advances net of Credit risk profile 950 1,015 impairment allowances For year ended 31 Dec Page Loan impairment charge 3.3 3.6 92 Credit risk in 2016 85 personal lending 1.7 1.8 Credit exposure 86 wholesale lending 1.6 1.8 Wholesale lending 94 Other credit risk provisions 0.1 0.1 Personal lending 100 3.4 3.7 HSBC Finance 102 Supplementary information 104 HSBC Holdings 105 Securitisation exposures and other structured products 105 Credit risk in 2016 Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a contract.
It arises principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but also from other products, such as guarantees and credit derivatives and from holding assets in the form of debt securities.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the management of credit risk is set out on pages 73 to 75.
The effect of commodity price movements in the oil and gas sectors is provided in Areas of special interest on page 67.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 85 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Gross loans to customers and banks over five years $bn Loan impairment charges by industry $bn Personal Wholesale 2016 2015 Unimpaired Impaired Loan impairment allowances over five years $bn Loan impairment charge over five years $bn Personal Wholesale Personal Wholesale Loan impairment charges by geographical region $bn Loan impairment allowances as Loan impairment a percentage of impaired loans allowances $bn Credit exposure Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited The table that follows provides information on balance sheet items, offsets, and loan and other credit-related commitments.
Commentary on balance sheet movements is provided on page42.
The offset on derivatives remains in line with the movements inmaximum exposure amounts.
The offset on corporate and commercial loans to customers 2016 2015 decreased by $17bn.
This reduction was mainly related to corporate overdraft balances where a small number of clients benefited from the use of net interest arrangements across overdrafts and deposits.
As a result, net risk exposures are usually stable, while gross balances can be volatile.
86 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Other credit risk mitigants Maximum exposure to credit risk table The following table presents our maximum exposure before taking While not disclosed as an offset in the following Maximum account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements unless exposure to credit risk table, other arrangements are in place such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements.
The which reduce our maximum exposure to credit risk.
These table excludes financial instruments whose carrying amount best include a charge over collateral on borrowers specific assets represents the net exposure to credit risk: and it excludes equity such as residential properties, collateral held in the form of securities as they are not subject to credit risk.
For the financial assets financial instruments that are not held on balance sheet and recognised on the balance sheet, the maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount: for financial guarantees and similar short positions in securities.
In addition, for financial assets contracts granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have heldas part of linked insurance investment contracts the risk topay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan commitments and ispredominantly borne by the policyholder.
See Note 30 and other credit-related commitments, it is generally thefull amount of the pages 198 and 201 of the Financial Statements for further committed facilities.
details of collateral in respect of certain loans and advances The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally andderivatives.
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk purposes.
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do notqualify for net presentation for accounting purposes.
No offset has been applied to off-balance sheet collateral.
In the case of derivatives the offset column also includes collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
Maximum exposure to credit risk Audited 2016 2015 Maximum Maximum exposure Offset Net exposure Offset Net $m $m $m $m $m $m Derivatives 290,872 262,233 28,639 288,476 258,755 29,721 Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost 861,504 33,657 827,847 924,454 52,190 872,264 personal 337,826 3,629 334,197 371,203 5,373 365,830 corporate and commercial 460,209 27,686 432,523 493,078 44,260 448,818 non-bank financial institutions 63,469 2,342 61,127 60,173 2,557 57,616 Loans and advances to banks held at amortised cost 88,126 248 87,878 90,401 53 90,348 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 160,974 4,764 156,210 146,255 900 145,355 Total balance sheet exposure to credit risk 2,204,751 300,902 1,903,849 2,234,409 311,898 1,922,511 Total off-balance sheet 692,915 692,915 712,546 712,546 financial guarantees and similar contracts 37,072 37,072 46,116 46,116 loan and other credit-related commitments 655,843 655,843 666,430 666,430 At 31 Dec 2,897,666 300,902 2,596,764 2,946,955 311,898 2,635,057 Concentration of exposure derivatives, see page 99 and Note 14 to the Financial Statements: and The geographical diversification of our lending portfolio, and ourbroad range of global businesses and products, ensured loans and advances by industry sector and by the location that we did not overly depend on a few markets togenerate ofthe principal operations of the lending subsidiary or, in growth in 2016. the case of the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle For an analysis of: East Limited and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the financial investments, see Note 15 to the Financial lending branch see page 94 for wholesale lending and page Statements: 100 for personal lending.
trading assets, see Note 10 to the Financial Statements: HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 87 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Credit quality of financial instruments of their credit quality grade.
Trading assets, financial assets designated at fair value and financial investments exclude Audited equity securities as they are not subject to credit risk.
The We assess the credit quality of all financial instruments that are changes to the mapping of sovereign external ratings to credit subject to credit risk.
Additional credit quality information in quality bands, described on page 73, mainly impacts the credit respect of our consolidated holdings of ABSs isprovided on quality of financial investments in 2016 with an increase in the page105.
Strong rating band and a decrease in the Good and Satisfactory rating bands.
Audited In North America, past due but not impaired balances Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments are those decreased, mainly due to the continued repayments and loan loans where, although customers have failed to make payments sales in the US CML run-off portfolio.
Past due but not impaired gross financial instruments by geographical region Audited North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 1,206 3,484 1,260 2,549 529 9,028 At 31 Dec 2015 1,599 3,444 1,263 5,474 1,250 13,030 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 89 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Ageing analysis of days for past due but not impaired gross financial instruments Audited Up to 29 30-59 60-89 90-179 180 days days days days days and over Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Loans and advances to customers and banks held at amortised cost 6,743 1,320 587 11 7 8,668 personal 3,696 986 380 5,062 corporate and commercial 2,593 316 201 11 7 3,128 financial 454 18 6 478 Assets held for sale 194 29 13 236 disposal group 11 3 3 17 non-current assets held for sale 183 26 10 219 Other financial instruments 70 18 10 12 14 124 At 31 Dec 2016 7,007 1,367 610 23 21 9,028 Loans and advances to customers and banks held at amortised cost 9,403 1,917 727 111 21 12,179 personal 5,665 1,401 502 7,568 corporate and commercial 3,432 505 225 93 19 4,274 financial 306 11 18 2 337 Assets held for sale 476 137 90 703 disposal group 476 136 89 701 non-current assets held for sale 1 1 2 Other financial instruments 80 35 14 10 9 148 At 31 Dec 2015 9,959 2,089 831 121 30 13,030 Impaired loans and advances more than 90 days past due unless they have been individually assessed as not impaired.
Audited Renegotiated loans and advances: loans where we Impaired loans and advances are those that meet any of the havechanged the contractual cash flows due to credit following criteria: distress of the obligor.
Renegotiated loans remain classified Wholesale loans and advances classified as customer risk as impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate rating CRR 9 or CRR 10: these grades are assigned when a significant reduction in the risk of non-payment of future HSBC considers that the customer is either unlikely to pay cashflows.
their credit obligations in full without recourse to security, In personal lending, the continued repayments and loan sales in oris more than 90 days past due on any material credit the US CML run-off portfolio reduced impaired loan balances by obligation to HSBC.
Retail loans and advances classified as expected loss EL 9 or EL 10: these grades are typically assigned to retail loans Movement in impaired loans by industry sector 2016 2015 Corporate and Corporate and Personal commercial Financial Total Personal commercial Financial Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1Jan 11,507 11,949 322 23,778 15,160 13,795 375 29,330 Classified as impaired during the year 3,521 6,032 133 9,686 5,995 5,469 96 11,560 Transferred from impaired to unimpaired 1,210 922 7 2,139 2,346 922 38 3,306 during the year Amounts written off 1,252 1,720 11 2,983 2,263 1,424 14 3,701 Net repayments and other 6,076 3,977 61 10,114 5,039 4,969 97 10,105 At 31Dec 6,490 11,362 376 18,228 11,507 11,949 322 23,778 90 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Impaired loans by industry sector and geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Non-renegotiated impaired loans 4,354 1,771 1,042 1,913 399 9,479 personal 1,239 453 459 1,043 220 3,414 corporate and commercial 3,029 1,291 582 865 179 5,946 financial 86 27 1 5 119 Renegotiated impaired loans 3,708 728 1,188 2,929 196 8,749 personal 648 113 72 2,213 30 3,076 corporate and commercial 2,868 614 1,052 716 166 5,416 financial 192 1 64 257 At 31Dec 2016 8,062 2,499 2,230 4,842 595 18,228 Impaired loans % of total gross loans and advances 2.3% 0.6% 5.5% 4.1% 2.9% 1.9% Non-renegotiated impaired loans 4,583 1,760 1,051 2,177 623 10,194 personal 1,361 385 475 1,786 211 4,218 corporate and commercial 3,135 1,368 552 389 411 5,855 financial 87 7 24 2 1 121 Renegotiated impaired loans 4,682 615 1,127 6,753 407 13,584 personal 878 131 41 6,208 31 7,289 corporate and commercial 3,607 480 1,086 545 376 6,094 financial 197 4 201 At 31 Dec 2015 9,265 2,375 2,178 8,930 1,030 23,778 Impaired loans % of total gross loans and advances 2.3% 0.6% 4.6% 6.5% 4.8% 2.3% Currency translation adjustment 1,170 22 194 12 162 1,536 31 Dec 2015 at 31 Dec 2016 exchange rates 8,095 2,353 1,984 8,942 868 22,242 Movement constant currency basis 33 146 246 4,100 273 4,014 31 Dec 2016 as reported 8,062 2,499 2,230 4,842 595 18,228 The following tables show the gross carrying amounts of Renegotiated loans and forbearance theGroups holdings of renegotiated loans and advances The most significant portfolio of renegotiated loans was in tocustomers by industry sector, geography, credit quality North America, substantially all of which were retail loans held classification and arrangement type.
by HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance.
The ongoing repayments and loan sales in the US CML run-off portfolio reduced renegotiated loans by $8.7bn during 2016.
Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by industry sector First lien Other Corporate Non-bank residential personal and financial mortgages lending commercial institutions Total $m $m $m $m $m Neither past due nor impaired 976 282 1,848 260 3,366 Past due but not impaired 346 78 301 725 Impaired 2,751 325 5,416 257 8,749 At 31 Dec 2016 4,073 685 7,565 517 12,840 Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 267 150 1,667 130 2,214 Neither past due nor impaired 3,973 716 2,152 391 7,232 Past due but not impaired 1,753 243 123 24 2,143 Impaired 6,556 733 6,094 201 13,584 At 31 Dec 2015 12,282 1,692 8,369 616 22,959 Impairment allowances on renegotiated loans 870 252 2,098 119 3,339 Renegotiated loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 5,855 1,046 1,871 3,736 332 12,840 At 31 Dec 2015 7,121 943 1,945 12,372 578 22,959 A range of forbearance strategies are employed in order to The tables below show renegotiated loans by arrangement type improve the management of customer relationships, maximise as a percentage ofthe total value of arrangements offered.
collection opportunities and, if possible, avoid default, Inpersonal lending, renegotiated loans have been allocated foreclosure or repossession.
tothe single most dominant arrangement type.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 91 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Impairment of loans and advances Renegotiated loans by arrangement type: personal lending Audited % For an analysis of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions Interest rate and terms modifications 21.9 by global business, see page38.
Payment concessions 14.3 Collection re-age 19.2 The tables below analyse the loan impairment charges for the year by industry sector for impaired loans and advances that are Modification re-age 34.6 either individually or collectively assessed, and for collective Other 10.0 impairment allowances on loans and advances that are At 31 Dec 2016 100.0 classified as not impaired.
Corporate renegotiated loans often require the granting of more than one arrangement type as part of an effective strategy.
The percentages reported in the table below include the effect ofloans being reported in more than one arrangement type.
Renegotiated loans by arrangement type: corporate and commercial, and financial % Maturity term extensions 37.3 Reductions in margin, principal forgiveness, debtequity 21.4 swaps and interest, fees or penalty payment forgiveness Other changes to repayment profile 19.4 Interest only conversion 9.3 Other 12.6 At 31 Dec 2016 100.0 Loan impairment charge to the income statement by industry sector North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Personal 162 264 226 219 832 1,703 first lien residential mortgages 1 1 10 149 7 166 other personal 161 265 216 70 825 1,537 Corporate and commercial 337 388 53 500 330 1,608 manufacturing and international trade and services 38 306 105 81 195 725 commercial real estate and other property-related 15 28 16 3 25 31 other commercial 314 110 36 416 110 914 Financial 34 2 13 10 39 At 31Dec 2016 533 654 292 709 1,162 3,350 Personal 109 309 276 157 983 1,834 first lien residential mortgages 8 1 50 70 41 152 other personal 117 310 226 87 942 1,682 Corporate and commercial 415 372 212 319 451 1,769 manufacturing and international trade and services 138 250 127 26 305 846 commercial real estate and other property-related 33 18 49 24 47 171 other commercial 244 104 36 269 99 752 Financial 14 18 7 11 At 31Dec 2015 538 681 470 469 1,434 3,592 Charge for impairment losses as a percentage of average gross loans and advances to customers by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total % % % % % % New allowances net of allowance releases 0.23 0.23 0.93 0.62 7.02 0.46 Recoveries 0.08 0.04 0.13 0.06 0.56 0.07 At 31 Dec 2016 0.15 0.19 0.80 0.56 6.46 0.39 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.26 0.14 0.84 0.48 2.99 0.32 New allowances net of allowance releases 0.26 0.23 1.35 0.41 5.37 0.48 Recoveries 0.11 0.05 0.14 0.06 0.50 0.09 At 31 Dec 2015 0.15 0.18 1.21 0.35 4.87 0.39 Amount written off net of recoveries 0.22 0.12 1.17 0.45 3.94 0.37 92 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Movement in impairment allowances by industry sector and by geographical region North Latin Europe Asia MENA America America Total $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 2016 3,477 1,525 1,810 2,041 720 9,573 Amounts written off Personal 412 358 208 284 340 1,602 first lien residential mortgages 10 6 3 142 12 173 other personal 402 352 205 142 328 1,429 Corporate and commercial 730 285 137 381 297 1,830 manufacturing and international trade and services 380 172 78 125 10 765 commercial real estate and other property-related 109 31 54 35 223 452 other commercial 241 82 5 221 64 613 Financial 1 5 18 24 Total amounts written off 1,143 648 363 665 637 3,456 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 225 124 34 54 78 515 first lien residential mortgages 3 4 26 8 41 other personal 222 120 34 28 70 474 Corporate and commercial 35 24 10 18 22 109 manufacturing and international trade and services 15 23 5 9 16 68 commercial real estate and other property-related 9 2 11 other commercial 11 1 5 7 6 30 Financial 1 1 1 3 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 261 149 44 73 100 627 Charge to income statement 533 654 292 709 1,162 3,350 Exchange and other movements 339 45 102 886 872 2,244 At 31 Dec 2016 2,789 1,635 1,681 1,272 473 7,850 Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 2,060 1,038 1,137 540 157 4,932 collectively assessed 729 597 544 732 316 2,918 Impairment allowances at 31 Dec 2016 2,789 1,635 1,681 1,272 473 7,850 At 1 Jan 2015 3,971 1,356 1,890 2,640 2,529 12,386 Amounts written off Personal 468 416 273 554 996 2,707 first lien residential mortgages 12 6 1 344 24 387 other personal 456 410 272 210 972 2,320 Corporate and commercial 644 179 235 106 309 1,473 manufacturing and international trade and services 233 149 215 28 213 838 commercial real estate and other property-related 244 5 8 57 30 344 other commercial 167 25 12 21 66 291 Financial 12 2 14 Total amounts written off 1,124 595 508 662 1,305 4,194 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous years Personal 320 135 50 57 119 681 first lien residential mortgages 6 4 26 17 19 other personal 314 131 50 31 136 662 Corporate and commercial 46 30 3 18 27 124 manufacturing and international trade and services 16 20 2 8 15 61 commercial real estate and other property-related 24 5 5 2 36 other commercial 6 5 1 5 10 27 Financial 2 1 3 Total recoveries of amounts written off in previous years 368 165 53 76 146 808 Charge to income statement 538 681 470 469 1,434 3,592 Exchange and other movements 276 82 95 482 2,084 3,019 At 31 Dec 2015 3,477 1,525 1,810 2,041 720 9,573 Impairment allowances against banks: individually assessed 18 18 Impairment allowances against customers: individually assessed 2,572 908 1,157 327 438 5,402 collectively assessed 905 617 635 1,714 282 4,153 Impairment allowances at 31 Dec 2015 3,477 1,525 1,810 2,041 720 9,573 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 93 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Movement in impairment allowances on loans and advances to customers and banks Audited 2016 2015 Customers Customers Banks Banks individually Individually Collectively individually Individually Collectively assessed assessed assessed Total assessed assessed assessed Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 Jan 18 5,402 4,153 9,573 49 6,195 6,142 12,386 Amounts written off 18 1,831 1,607 3,456 1,368 2,826 4,194 Recoveries of loans and advances 107 520 627 86 722 808 previously writtenoff Charge to income statement 1,831 1,519 3,350 11 1,516 2,087 3,592 Exchange and other movements 577 1,667 2,244 20 1,027 1,972 3,019 At 31 Dec 4,932 2,918 7,850 18 5,402 4,153 9,573 Impairment allowances % ofloans and 0.6% 0.3% 0.8% 0.6% 0.4% 0.9% advances causes of the decline were mainly in Turkey, where some Wholesale lending portfolios are being reduced, and in the UAE, where we sold Total wholesale lending balances declined by $33bn including loans and exited certain customer relationships.
These foreign exchange movements of $41bn, of which $31bn related decreases were partly offset by loan growth mainly in Egypt to the UK.
In North America, lending decreased by $6.1bn, andOman.
mainly in the US as paydowns and maturities exceeded new In Asia, lending balances increased by $13bn.
This reflected our efforts to improve returns strong credit growth in the fourth quarter of 2016 across a with more disciplined lending.
range of industries, and principally in Hong Kong, partly offset In Middle East and North Africa, overall lending fell by $5.8bn, by foreign exchange decreases of $3.8bn.
including $3.4bn of foreign exchange movements.
Europe, Asia and North America accounted for 97% of our total commercial real estate lending at 31 December Our commercial real estate lending disclosures focus on the 2016 31 December 2015: 97%.
regions containing the majority of our balances for loans and Commercial real estate lending of which: of which: 31 Dec 31 Dec 2016 North 2015 North Total Europe Asia America Total Europe Asia America $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Gross loans and advances Neither past due nor impaired 62,342 20,208 32,688 7,650 64,926 24,426 32,182 6,659 Past due but not impaired 221 41 88 89 454 89 119 212 Impaired loans 1,608 1,212 22 110 2,546 1,633 70 161 Total gross loans and advances 64,171 21,461 32,798 7,849 67,926 26,148 32,371 7,032 of which: renegotiated loans 1,525 1,117 118 2,134 1,586 6 150 Impairment allowances 660 403 11 67 1,212 613 35 76 Commercial real estate lending includes the financing of In more developed markets, our exposure mainly comprises the corporate, institutional and high net worth customers who are financing of investment assets, the redevelopment of existing investing primarily in income-producing assets and, to a lesser stock and the augmentation of both commercial and residential extent, in their construction and development.
The portfolio is markets to support economic and population growth.
In lessglobally diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, developed commercial real estate markets, our exposures theUK, the US and Canada.
comprise lending for development assets on relatively short tenors with a particular focus on supporting larger, better Our global exposure is centred largely on cities with economic, capitalised developers involved in residential construction or political or cultural significance.
In many less-developed assets supporting economic expansion.
markets, industry is moving from the development and rapidconstruction of recent years to an increasing focus on Commercial real estate lending was $3.8bn lower, largely investment stock consistent with more developed markets.
because of a fall in the value of sterling contributing to a foreign exchange movement of $4.0bn.
Total lending balances in Europe declined by $4.7bn, including foreign exchange movements of $3.5bn, partly offset by increases in lending inAsia and North America.
96 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Refinance risk in commercial real estate that a customer, being unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails to refinance it at commercial rates.
We monitor our Commercial real estate lending tends to require the repayment commercial real estate portfolio closely, assessing indicators of a significant proportion of the principal at maturity.
Typically, forsigns of potential issues with refinancing.
a customer will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a new loan to settle the existing debt.
Impairment allowances are calculated on a Collateral held is analysed separately for commercial real estate different basis, by considering other cash flows and adjusting and for other corporate, commercial and financial non-bank collateral values for costs of realising collateral as explained lending.
The following tables include sheet loan further on page 179. commitments, primarily undrawn credit lines.
Commercial real estate loans and advances The collateral measured in the following tables consists of fixedfirst charges on real estate, and charges over cash and The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined marketable financial instruments.
The values in the tables byusing a combination of external and internal valuations represent the expected market value on an open market basis: andphysical inspections.
For CRR 1-7, local valuation policies no adjustment has been made to the collateral for any expected determine the frequency of review on the basis of local market costs of recovery.
Marketable securities are measured at their conditions because of the complexity of valuing collateral fair value.
For CRR 8 and 9-10, almost all collateral would have been revalued within the last three years.
Other types of collateral such as unsupported guarantees and floating charges over the assets of a customers business are In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending to major not measured in the tables below.
While such mitigants have property companies to be either secured by guarantees or value, often providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value unsecured.
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are is not sufficiently certain and they are therefore assigned no generally not secured by a first fixed charge, and are therefore value for disclosure purposes.
For impaired loans, the collateral values cannot be directly compared with impairment allowances recognised.
For financing activities in other corporate and should it prove necessary to rely on them.
commercial lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated Accordingly, the table below reports values only for customers toprincipal repayment performance.
with CRR 8 to 10, recognising that these loans and advances generally have valuations that are comparatively recent.
In the UK, asingle large counterparty as loan and other credit-related commitments.
Depending balance was settled which partly reduced the CRR 9 balance.
on the terms of the arrangement, we may use additional credit mitigation if a guarantee is called upon or a loan Other credit risk exposures commitment is drawn and subsequently defaults.
In addition to collateralised lending, other credit enhancements For further information on these arrangements, seeNote33 onthe are employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising Financial Statements.
These are summarised below: Derivatives Some securities issued by governments, banks and other HSBC participates in transactions exposing us to counterparty financial institutions benefit from additional credit credit risk.
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of financial loss if enhancement provided by government guarantees the counterparty to a transaction defaults before satisfactorily thatcover the assets.
It arises principally from over-the-counter OTC Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions derivatives and securities financing transactions and is include ABSs and similar instruments which are supported calculated in both the trading and non-trading books.
by underlying pools of financial assets.
Credit risk Transactions vary in value by reference to a market factor associated with ABSs is reduced through the purchase suchas an interest rate, exchange rate or asset price.
ofcredit default swap CDS protection.
The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into Disclosure of the Groups holdings of ABSs and associated CDS protection account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions.
The adjustment to the fair value is known as the credit value Trading loans and advances mainly consist of cash collateral adjustment CVA.
posted to satisfy margin requirements.
There is limited credit For an analysis of CVAs, see Note 11 on the Financial Statements.
risk on cash collateral posted since in the event of default of The table below reflects by risk type the fair values and gross the counterparty these would be set-off against the related notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared through an liability.
Reverse repos and stock borrowing are by their exchange, central counterparty and non-central counterparty.
Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted tosell or repledge under these arrangements is described on page 231 of the Financial Statements.
commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis and The International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA excludes the effect of the ongoing run-off and loan sales in the Master Agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting US CML run-off portfolio.
It is common, and our preferred practice, Overall, personal lending increased by $5.6bn compared with forthe parties to execute a Credit Support Annex CSA in 31December 2015.
The growth was in mortgage balances conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, which increased by $7.5bn across the Group.
UK mortgage collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate the balances increased by $4.2bn as we grew our UK mortgage counterparty risk inherent in outstanding positions.
The market share through increased sales across various channels majorityof our CSAs are with financial institutional clients.
including the expanded use of broker relationships.
Mortgages We manage the counterparty exposure on our OTC derivative in Hong Kong and China grew by $4.5bn as a result of contracts by using collateral agreements with counterparties successful marketing campaigns and business growth and netting agreements.
Currently, we do not actively manage initiatives.
This growth was offset by a $1.4bn reduction in ourgeneral OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit Singapore, following a decision to continue to constrain the markets, although we may manage individual exposures in sizeof our mortgage portfolio.
The quality of both our Hong Kong and UK mortgage books We place strict policy restrictions on collateral types and as a remained high, with negligible defaults and impairment consequence the types of collateral received and pledged are, allowances.
The average LTV ratio on new mortgage lending in by value, highly liquid and of a strong quality, being Hong Kong was 47% compared with an estimated 29% for the predominantly cash.
The LTV ratio on new lending in the UK was 59% compared with the average of 40% for the total Where a collateral type is required to be approved outside the mortgage portfolio.
collateral policy, approval is required from a committee of senior representatives from Markets, Legal and Risk.
Group credit policy prescribes the range of acceptable residential property LTV thresholds, with the maximum upper See page 251 and Note 30 on the Financial Statements for details regarding legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty limit for new loans set at between 75% and 95%.
Specific LTV default and collateral received in respect of derivatives.
thresholds and debt-to-income ratios are managed at regional and country levels.
They must comply with the Groups policies, Personal lending strategy and risk appetite, but vary to reflect the local factors: On a reported basis, total personal lending reduced by $34bn, economic and housing market conditions, regulations, portfolio mainly due to foreign exchange movements of $26bn and the performance, pricing and product features.
ongoing repayments and loan sales of our US CML run-off Other personal lending balances declined by $1.9bn, mainly due portfolio in North America of $13bn.
to reductions resulting from the continued repositioning of the Loan impairment allowances reduced by $0.9bn, largely due Global Private Bank.
This was offset by growth in RBWM, in tothe reduction in our US CML run-off portfolio.
other personal lending products including $0.7bn in the UK and $0.5bn in Mexico.
Loan impairment charges for personal lending, remained flat at$1.7bn for 2016.
For further analysis of loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions by global business, seepage38.
Of total UK mortgage lending, interest-only mortgage products UK interest-only mortgage loans contributed $32bn, including $12bn of offset mortgages in First Direct and $1.2bn of endowment mortgages.
$m Expired interest-only mortgage loans 209 The following information is presented for HSBC Bank plc Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity interest-only mortgage loans with balances of $15bn at the end 2017 248 of 2016.
During the year, $0.17bn of interest-only mortgages 2018 517 matured.
Of these, 1,416 loans with total balances of $0.07bn 2019 567 were repaid in full, 106 loans with balances of $0.01bn have 2020 570 agreed future repayment plans and 529 loans with balances 2021-2025 3,071 of$0.09bn are subject to ongoing individual assessment.
Post 2025 9,347 At 31 Dec 2016 14,529 HSBC Finance Gross loan portfolio of HSBC Finance real estate secured balances Total Total nonTotal Total Impairment Modified renegotiated renegotiated gross impairment allowances Re-aged and re-aged Modified loans loans loans allowances gross loans $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % At 31 Dec 2016 876 1,015 75 1,966 3,688 5,654 190 3.4 At 31 Dec 2015 4,858 5,257 519 10,634 8,612 19,246 986 5.1 Residential mortgages, including second lien mortgages, Collateral and other credit enhancements held decreased by $14bn to $6bn at 31 December 2016.
In addition Audited to the continued loan sales in the US CML run-off portfolio, we The following table shows the values of the fixed charges we transferred a further $12bn to Assets held for sale during 2016, hold over specific assets where we have previously enforced, of which $1.6bn remained at the year end due to be sold in and are able to enforce, collateral in satisfying a debt because February 2017.
The average gain on sale of foreclosed the borrower has failed to meet contractual obligations, and properties that arose after we took title to the property was 2%.
where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an There was a decrease in impairment allowances from $1.0 bn established market.
at31 December 2015 to $0.2bn at the end of 2016, reflecting The collateral valuation excludes any adjustments for obtaining reduced levels of delinquency, and lower levels of both new and selling the collateral and, in particular, loans shown as not impaired loans and loan balances outstanding as a result of collateralised or partially collateralised may also benefit from continued liquidation of the portfolio.
other forms of credit mitigants.
Across the first and second lien residential mortgages in our USCML run-off portfolio, two months and over delinquent balances halved to $1.0bn during 2016.
Renegotiated real estate secured accounts in HSBC Finance reduced by $8.7bn or 82% and represented 67% at 31December 2016 2015: 91% of our total renegotiated loansin North America, of which $1.3bn were classified as impaired 2015: $5.1bn.
During 2016, the aggregate number ofrenegotiated loans in HSBC Finance reduced due to the portfolio repayments and further loan sales in the US CML portfolio.
104 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The credit quality of loans and advances and financial HSBC Holdings investments, both of which consist of intra-Group lending, Audited isassessed as strong or good, with 100% of the exposure Risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by the HSBC Holdings Asset being neither past due nor impaired 2015: 100%.
and Liability Management Committee Holdings ALCO.
Securitisation exposures and other structured products Themajor risks faced by HSBC Holdings are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk in the form of interest rate risk and foreign The following table summarises the carrying amount of our ABS exchange risk, of which the most significant is credit risk.
exposure by categories of collateral and includes assets held in theGB&M legacy credit portfolio with a carrying value of $11bn Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions 2015: $15bn.
with Group subsidiaries and from guarantees issued in support of obligations assumed by certain Group operations in the At 31 December 2016, the available-for-sale reserve in respect normal conduct of their business.
It principally represents of ABSs was a deficit of $749m 2015: deficit of $1,021m.
For claims on Group subsidiaries in Europe and North America.
2016, the impairment write-back in respect of ABSs was $121m 2015: write-back of $85m.
In HSBC Holdings, all financial instruments carrying amount represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
Derivatives have an offset balance of $1.8bn at 31December 2016 2015: $2.5bn.
Carrying amount of HSBCs consolidated holdings of ABSs Designated at Of which fair value held through Available Held to through profit Loans and consolidated Trading for sale maturity or loss receivables Total SEs $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Mortgage-related assets: Sub-prime residential 63 1,544 104 1,711 618 US Alt-A residential 1,453 5 39 1,497 1,382 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 247 13,070 12,788 26,105 Other residential 662 362 54 1,078 152 Commercial property 348 1,146 141 1,635 707 Leveraged finance-related assets 175 1,284 70 1,529 735 Student loan-related assets 140 2,865 11 3,016 2,616 Other assets 1,278 730 19 48 2,075 404 At 31 Dec 2016 2,913 22,454 12,793 19 467 38,646 6,614 Mortgage-related assets: Sub-prime residential 73 2,247 1 132 2,453 1,075 US Alt-A residential 1,989 7 55 2,051 1,796 US Government agency and sponsored enterprises: MBSs 166 15,082 13,997 29,245 Other residential 812 780 108 1,700 253 Commercial property 590 2,308 201 3,099 1,656 Leveraged finance-related assets 240 2,294 149 2,683 1,310 Student loan-related assets 236 2,991 25 3,252 2,679 Other assets 1,184 880 23 128 2,215 565 At 31 Dec 2015 3,301 28,571 14,004 24 798 46,698 9,334 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 105 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Net stable funding ratio Liquidity and funding risk profile The Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR requires institutions to Page maintain sufficient stable funding relative to required stable Liquidity and funding risk in 2016 106 funding, and reflects a banks long-term funding profile funding with a term of more than a year.
It is designed to complement Management of liquidity and funding risk 106 the LCR.
Sources of funding 107 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered At 31 December 2016, the Groups principal operating entities 108 assetsand off-balance sheet collateral were within the NSFR risk tolerance level established by the Contractual maturity of financial liabilities 111 Board and applicable under the LFRF.
HSBC Holdings 112 The table below displays the NSFR levels for the principal HSBCoperating entities.
Liquidity and funding risk in 2016 Our NSFR levels were not disclosed at the last year-end, so A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the there are no comparatives.
management of liquidity and funding risk is set out on page 106.
The liquidity position of the Group remained strong in 2016.
Operating entities NSFRs Theamount of our unencumbered liquid assets was $560bn.
At We recognised $447bn of these liquid assets for the purposes 31 Dec 2016 of theGroup consolidated LCR, which was 136%.
Footnotes % Management of liquidity and funding risk 47 HSBC UK liquidity group 116 Liquidity coverage ratio The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation HongKong Branch 48 157 The Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR aims to ensure that a bank The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation has sufficient unencumbered high-quality liquid assets HQLA Singapore Branch 48 112 to meet its liquidity needs in a 30-calendar-day liquidity stress HSBC Bank USA 120 scenario.
HQLA consist of cash or assets that can be converted 49 HSBC France 120 into cash at little or no loss of value in markets.
We reported a Hang Seng Bank 162 Group European Commission EC LCR at 31December 2016 49 HSBC Canada 139 of 136% 31 December 2015: 116% to the PRA.
HSBC Bank China 149 We assume no transferability of liquidity from non-EU entities HSBC Middle East UAE Branch 141 other than to the extent currently permitted.
This results in HSBC Mexico 128 $113bn of HQLA being excluded from the Groups LCR.
HSBC Private Bank 155 The ratio of total consolidated HQLA to the EC LCR denominator at 31 December 2016 was 171% 31 December 2015: 142%, Depositor concentration and term funding maturity reflecting the additional $113bn 31 December 2015: $94bn concentration ofHQLAs excluded from the Group LCR.
The LCR and NSFR metrics assume a stressed outflow based At 31 December 2016, all the Groups principal operating ona portfolio of depositors within each deposit segment.
The entities were within the LCR risk tolerance level established by validity of these assumptions is challenged if the portfolio of the Board and applicable under the Groups internal liquidity depositors is not large enough to avoid depositor concentration.
and funding risk management framework LFRF.
Operating entities are exposed to term re-financing concentration risk if the current maturity profile results in future The liquidity position of the Group can also be represented by maturities being overly concentrated in any defined period.
the stand-alone ratios of each of our principal operating entities.
The Board and RMM decide the criteria for categorising an At 31 December 2016, all principal operating entities were operating entity as a principal entity.
The main criterion is a within the risk tolerance levels set for depositor concentration material balance sheet size.
The following table displays the and term funding maturity concentration.
These risk tolerances individual LCR levels for our principal operating entities on were established by the Board and are applicable under the anEC LCR basis.
The ratios for operating entities in non-EU LFRF.
jurisdictions can vary from local LCR measures due to Liquid assets of HSBCs principal operating entities differences in the way non-EU regulators have implemented theBasel III recommendations.
The table below shows the unweighted liquidity value of assets categorised as liquid, which is used for the purposes of Operating entities LCRs calculating the LCR metric.
At Dec This reflects the stock of unencumbered liquid assets at the 2016 2015 reporting date, using the regulatory definition of liquid assets.
Footnotes % % The amount recognised by entity at the Group level is different 47 HSBC UK liquidity group 123 107 from the amount recognised at a solo entity level, reflecting The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking where liquidity cannot be freely transferred up to Group.
185 150 Corporation Hong Kong Branch 48 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 154 189 Corporation Singapore Branch 48 HSBC Bank USA 130 116 49 HSBC France 122 127 Hang Seng Bank 218 199 49 HSBC Canada 142 142 HSBC Bank China 253 183 HSBC Middle East UAE Branch 241 HSBC Mexico 177 HSBC Private Bank 178 For footnotes, see page 126.
106 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Liquid assets of HSBCs principal entities 31 Dec 2016 Recognised at Group Recognised at entity and entity level level only Footnotes $m $m 47 HSBC UK liquidity group Level 1 143,884 143,884 Level 2a 2,085 2,085 Level 2b 7,663 7,663 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong Branch Level 1 48,342 98,963 Level 2a 23,790 23,790 Level 2b 3,450 3,450 HSBC Bank USA Level 1 53,409 72,931 Level 2a 14,995 14,995 Level 2b 10 10 Hang Seng Bank Level 1 21,798 37,525 Level 2a 1,474 1,474 Level 2b 199 199 50 Total of HSBCs other principal entities Level 1 74,239 90,579 Level 2a 6,240 6,240 Level 2b 226 226 For footnotes, see page 126.
Sources of funding Funding sources and uses Audited 2016 2015 Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts $m $m and customer savings deposits payable on demand or at short Sources notice.
We issue wholesale securities secured and unsecured Customer accounts 1,272,386 1,289,586 to supplement our customer deposits and change the currency Deposits by banks 59,939 54,371 mix, maturity profile or location of our liabilities.
Repurchase agreements non-trading 88,958 80,400 The following Funding sources and uses table provides a Debt securities in issue 65,915 88,949 consolidated view of how our balance sheet is funded, and Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 2,790 36,840 should be read in light of the LFRF, which requires operating Subordinated liabilities 20,984 22,702 entities to manage liquidity and funding risk on a stand-alone Financial liabilities designated at fair value 86,832 66,408 basis.
Liabilities under insurance contracts 75,273 69,938 The table analyses our consolidated balance sheet according to Trading liabilities 153,691 141,614 the assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the repos 1,428 442 sources of funding primarily supporting these activities.
Assets stock lending 3,643 8,859 and liabilities that do not arise from operating activities are settlement accounts 15,271 10,530 presented as a net balancing source or deployment of funds.
other trading liabilities 133,349 121,783 In 2016, the level of customer accounts continued to exceed the Total equity 182,578 197,518 level of loans and advances to customers.
The positive funding At 31 Dec 2,009,346 2,048,326 gap was predominantly deployed in liquid assets cash and Uses balances with central banks and financial investments as Loans and advances to customers 861,504 924,454 required by the LFRF.
Loans and advances to banks 88,126 90,401 Reverse repurchase agreements non-trading 160,974 146,255 Loans and advances to banks continued to exceed deposits by Assets held for sale 4,389 43,900 banks, meaning the Group remained a net unsecured lender to Trading assets 235,125 224,837 the banking sector.
reverse repos 4,780 438 For a summary of sources and utilisation of repos and stock lending, see stock borrowing 5,427 7,118 the Risk Management section on page 68. settlement accounts 17,850 12,127 other trading assets 207,068 205,154 Financial investments 436,797 428,955 Cash and balances with central banks 128,009 98,934 Net deployment in other balance sheet assets and liabilities 94,422 90,590 At 31 Dec 2,009,346 2,048,326 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 107 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Wholesale term debt maturity profile The balances in the table are not directly comparable with those in the consolidated balance sheet as the table presents gross The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt obligations is cash flows relating to principal payments and not the balance set out in the following table Wholesale funding cash flows sheet carrying value, which include debt securities and payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining subordinated liabilities measured at fair value.
The fair value of The table on page 110, Analysis of on-balance sheet any such collateral actually sold or re-pledged was $157bn encumbered and unencumbered assets, summarises the total 2015:$150bn.
We are obliged to return equivalent securities.
on-balance sheet assets capable of supporting future funding These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and collateral needs, and shows the extent to which they are and customary to standard reverse repo, stock borrowing and currently pledged for this purpose.
This disclosure aims to derivative transactions.
facilitate an understanding of available and unrestricted assets The fair value of collateral received and re-pledged in relation to that could be used to support potential future funding and reverse repos, stock borrowing and derivatives is reported on a collateral needs.
The related balance sheet receivables and payables During 2016 cash collateral given and reported within loans and are reported on a net basis where required under IFRS offset advances to banks and customers, reflecting initial and variable criteria.
As a consequence of reverse repo, stock borrowing and cash margins, was reclassified from unencumbered assets to derivative transactions where the collateral received could be encumbered assets to align with our Pillar 3 disclosure.
sold or re-pledged but had not been, we held $112bn Furthermore a portfolio of mortgages, classified as 2015: $78bn of unencumbered collateral available to unencumbered assets in 2015 was reclassified to Assets support potential future funding and collateral needs at positioned at central banks i. e. pre-positioned plus 31December 2016. encumbered in 2016.
Comparative data have been restated.
Under the terms of our current collateral obligations under derivative contracts which are ISDA compliant CSA contracts Under Off-balance sheet collateral below we discuss the offbalance sheet collateral received and re-pledged, and the level and contracts entered into for pension obligations, and based on an estimate of the positions at 31 December 2016, we of available unencumbered off-balance sheet collateral.
calculate that we could be required to post additional collateral For a summary of our policy on collateral management and definition of of up to $0.3bn 2015: $0.4bn in the event of a one-notch encumbrance, see the Risk Management section on page 68. downgrade in third-party agencies credit rating of HSBCs debt.
This would increase to $0.8 bn 2015: $0.7bn in the event of a two-notch downgrade.
108 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Encumbered and unencumbered assets Definitions of the categories included in the table Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets: Assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks as a result of covered bonds are any assets on our balance sheet pledged against our covered bonds issuance with a counterparty which is not central bank and as a result the assets are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks as a result of securitisation are any assets on our balance sheet pledged against securitisations with a counterparty which is not central bank including asset-backed commercial paper, collateralised debt obligations, residential mortgage-backed securities, or structured investment vehicles paper and as a result the assets are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks Other are assets on our balance sheet other than covered bonds and securitisation above which have been pledged with a counterparty which is not central bank as a collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Examples include assets pledged for sale and repurchase and stock lending transactions and certain property assets.
Assets positioned at central banks i. e. pre-positioned plus encumbered are any assets that are eligible for emergency central bank liquidity funding or under central bank pre-existing arrangements for funding without further due diligence work required.
Any transferable customer loan that is central bank eligible such as pre-positioned central bank UK mortgages and US mortgages accepted by the Federal Reserve Bank and assets on our balance sheet which have been pledged with central bank as collateral against an existing liability, and as a result are assets which are unavailable to the bank to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
Unencumbered readily available assets are assets considered by the bank to be readily available in the normal course of business to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes.
Unencumbered other assets capable of being encumbered are assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but they are not readily realisable in the normal course of business in their current form.
Unencumbered reverse repo stock borrowing receivables and derivative assets are assets related specifically to reverse repo, stock borrowing and derivative transactions.
They are shown separately as these on-balance sheet assets cannot be pledged but often give rise to the receipt of non-cash assets which are not recognised on the balance sheet, and can additionally be used to raise secured funding, meet additional collateral requirements or be sold.
Unencumbered cannot be encumbered are assets that have not been pledged and which we have assessed could not be pledged and therefore could not be used to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements.
An example is assets held by theGroups insurance subsidiaries that back liabilities to policyholders and support the solvency of these entities.
Historically, the Group has not recognised any contingent liquidity value for assets other than those assets defined under the LFRF as being liquid assets, and any other negotiable instruments that under stress areassumed to be realisable after three months, eventhough they may currently be realisable.
This approach has generally been driven by our appetite not to place any reliance on central banks.
In a few cases, we have recognised the contingent value of discrete pools of assets, but the amounts involved are insignificant.
As a result, we have reported the majority of our loans and advances to customers and banks in the category Other realisable assets as management would need to perform additional actions in orderto make the assets transferable and readily realisable.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 109 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets Assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties Unencumbered assets not Assets other than central banks positioned at central banks positioned at central Reverse banks repos stock As a i. e. preAssets Other assets borrowing result of As a positioned readily capable receivables Assets that covered result of plus available for of being and derivative cannot be bonds securitisations Other encumbered encumbrance encumbered assets encumbered Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and balances at 10 82 123,363 326 4,228 128,009 central banks Items in the course of collection from other 5,003 5,003 banks Hong Kong Government certificates of 31,228 31,228 indebtedness Trading assets 62,962 2,504 131,420 7,419 10,207 20,613 235,125 treasury and other 981 2,150 11,309 11 14,451 eligible bills debt securities 34,144 354 59,231 318 7 94,054 equity securities 2,645 59,394 1,565 63,604 loans and advances to 10,532 1,331 1,910 5,386 5,610 24,769 banks loans and advances to 14,660 155 3,615 4,821 14,996 38,247 customers Financial assets 835 20 23,901 24,756 designated at fair value treasury and other 150 54 204 eligible bills debt securities 442 3,747 4,189 equity securities 243 20 20,021 20,284 loans and advances to 79 79 banks and customers Derivatives 290,872 290,872 Loans and advances to 1 3,903 6,719 2,051 50,824 2,045 22,583 88,126 banks Loans and advances to 6,258 8,365 10,425 67,208 15,941 732,242 4,027 17,038 861,504 customers Reverse repurchase 160,974 160,974 agreements non-trading Financial investments 16,537 17,983 331,154 10,765 60,358 436,797 treasury and other 537 3,766 93,566 1,143 214 99,226 eligible bills debt securities 16,000 14,217 236,003 7,904 58,780 332,904 equity securities 1,585 1,718 1,364 4,667 Prepayments, accrued 2,358 8,368 27,099 26,084 63,909 income and other assets Current tax assets 1,145 1,145 Interest in associates and 345 62 19,329 293 20,029 joint ventures Goodwill and intangible 21,346 21,346 assets Deferred tax 6,163 6,163 At 31 Dec 2016 6,258 8,366 96,540 94,496 613,194 848,024 468,125 239,983 2,374,986 110 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Analysis of on-balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets continued Assets encumbered as a result Unencumbered assets not of transactions with counterparties other than central banks positioned at central banks Assets Reverse positioned repos stock at central borrowing As a banks Other assets receivables result of As a i. e. preAssets readily capable Assets that and derivative covered result of positioned plus available for of being cannot be bonds securitisations Other encumbered encumbrance encumbered Total assets encumbered $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and balances at 98 95,545 350 2,941 98,934 central banks Items in the course of collection from other 5,768 5,768 banks Hong Kong Government certificates of 28,410 28,410 indebtedness Trading assets 56,188 1,573 138,070 8,269 7,520 13,217 224,837 treasury and other 1,099 984 5,618 128 7,829 eligible bills debt securities 25,890 492 72,377 233 46 99,038 equity securities 4,616 59,430 2,445 66,491 loans and advances to 10,410 456 2,890 2,763 5,784 22,303 banks loans and advances to 14,173 97 189 2,573 4,757 7,387 29,176 customers Financial assets 1,775 1,244 20,833 23,852 treasury and other 258 138 396 eligible bills debt securities 1,327 265 2,749 4,341 equity securities 178 979 17,838 18,995 loans and advances to 12 108 120 banks and customers Derivatives 288,476 288,476 Loans and advances to 1,329 2,900 1,702 2,054 61,602 815 19,999 90,401 banks Loans and advances to 6,947 15,288 9,769 64,984 15,730 790,929 1,531 19,276 924,454 customers Reverse repurchase 146,255 146,255 agreements non-trading Financial investments 25,078 8,150 325,101 14,753 55,873 428,955 treasury and other 509 3,675 98,866 1,177 324 104,551 eligible bills debt securities 24,561 4,475 224,355 11,124 54,054 318,569 equity securities 8 1,880 2,452 1,495 5,835 Prepayments, accrued 1,188 4,685 65,190 27,235 98,298 income and other assets Current tax assets 1,221 1,221 Interest in associates and 51 18,794 294 19,139 joint ventures Goodwill and intangible 24,605 24,605 assets Deferred tax 6,051 6,051 At 31 Dec 2015 6,947 16,617 95,123 76,507 583,011 961,131 444,597 225,723 2,409,656 A maturity analysis of repos and debt securities in issue Contractual maturity of financial liabilities included in trading liabilities is presented in Note 29 on the The balances in the table below do not agree directly with those Financial Statements.
in our consolidated balance sheet as the table incorporates, on In addition, loans and other credit-related commitments, an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and financial guarantees and similar contracts are generally not future coupon payments except for trading liabilities and recognised on our balance sheet.
The undiscounted cash flows derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives.
Undiscounted potentially payable under financial guarantees and similar cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities contracts are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can areclassified according to their contractual maturities.
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the On demand time bucket and not by contractual maturity.
Undiscounted cash flows Liquidity risk in HSBC Holdings is overseen by Holdings ALCO.
payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified This risk arises because of HSBC Holdings obligation to make according to their contractual maturities.
Derivatives not treated payments to debt holders as they fall due.
The liquidity risk as hedging derivatives are included in the On demand time related to these cash flows is managed by matching external bucket.
debt obligations with internal loan cash flows and by In addition, loan commitments and financial guarantees and maintaining an appropriate liquidity buffer that is monitored similar contracts are generally not recognised on our balance byHoldings ALCO.
The undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under The balances in the table below are not directly comparable financial guarantees and similar contracts are classified on with those on the balance sheet of HSBC Holdings as the table thebasis of the earliest date on which they can be called.
incorporates, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating 112 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities Audited On Due within Due between Due between Due after demand 3 months 3 and 12 months 1 and 5 years 5 years $m $m $m $m $m Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,051 105 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 314 960 11,964 25,665 Derivatives 3,841 592 592 Debt securities in issue 157 478 8,393 19,164 Subordinated liabilities 196 598 4,461 20,899 Other financial liabilities 1,343 164 3,841 4,061 2,200 25,515 66,320 Loan commitments Financial guarantees and similar contracts 7,619 At 31 Dec 2016 11,460 4,061 2,200 25,515 66,320 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 257 1,375 424 110 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 1,145 655 5,202 20,779 Derivatives 2,065 213 Debt securities in issue 15 47 250 1,176 Subordinated liabilities 229 699 5,149 25,474 Other financial liabilities 1,426 152 2,322 4,190 1,977 10,924 47,429 Loan commitments Financial guarantees and similar contracts 68,333 At 31 Dec 2015 70,655 4,190 1,977 10,924 47,429 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 113 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk In China, the prospect of a slowdown in the economy in the first Market risk profile half of 2016, and uncertainty around the trade relationship with the US, following the elections, led to further depreciation of Page therenminbi.
Chinese policymakers will attempt to keep this Market risk in 2016 114 process gradual in order to avoid disruptive capital outflows.
Trading portfolios 114 Non-trading portfolios 115 In the UK, following the decision to leave the EU, concerns Market risk balance sheet linkages 116 persist about the upcoming exit negotiations and the ultimate nature of the EU-UK relationship.
Structural foreign exchange exposures 116 Net interest income sensitivity 117 Capital flows to the emerging markets remained weak, with Sensitivity of capital and reserves 118 some central banks increasing local interest rates to reduce Third-party assets in BSM 118 reserve outflows.
Defined benefit pension schemes 118 Trading value at risk VaR spiked in quarter one, due to higher Additional market risk measures 118 market volatility impacting the foreign exchange and credit applicable only to the parent company spread asset classes.
For the remainder of the year, exposures in all asset classes were managed down.
Non-trading VaR Market risk in 2016 increased during the year as higher interest rates, especially inUS dollars, caused the duration of non-trading assets to Market risk is the risk that movements in market factors, such increase.
as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices and commodity prices, will reduce our income or the Trading portfolios value of our portfolios.
Exposure to market risk is separated Value at risk of the trading portfolios intotwo portfolios: Trading VaR predominantly resides within Global Markets.
It trading portfolios: and was relatively stable at 31 December 2016 compared with non-trading portfolios.
During the year, the trading VaR composition changed in that interest rate trading VaR increased Market risk exposures arising from our insurance manufacturing but was offset by decreases in both credit spread and equity operations are discussed on page 82. trading VaR components.
A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the The daily levels of total trading VaR over the last year are set management of market risk is set out on page 77. outin the graph below.
Global markets were influenced by the increase in US interest rates in line with market expectation.
Bond yields continued to rise and global stock markets continued to be supported by expectations of fiscal expansion in the US in the wake of the new US presidential elections.
The US monetary tightening contrasts with the ECB extending its quantitative easing programme, highlighting the divergence in monetary policies during the year.
Daily VaR trading portfolios, 99% 1 day $m Trading VaR IR trading Equity trading CS trading FX trading Diversification 114 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Back-testing Non-trading portfolios In 2016, the Group experienced two back-testing exceptions Value at risk of the non-trading portfolios against hypothetical profit and loss: a loss exception in Non-trading VaR of the Group includes contributions from all February, driven by Libor against overnight index spread global businesses.
There is no commodity risk in the nonwidening on long positions: and a profit exception in June, trading portfolios.
The increase in non-trading VaR during 2016 driven by significant devaluations in sterling and the euro was due primarily to the lengthening of the duration in the nonagainst the US dollar resulting from the UKs referendum on trading book from higher interest rates, especially US rates.
The increase in non-trading interest rate was offset by a There was no evidence of model errors or control failures.
decrease in the credit spread VaR component and an increase The back-testing result excludes exceptions due to changes in inportfolio diversification effects.
Non-trading VaR includes the interest rate risk in the banking book transferred to and managed by Balance Sheet Management BSM and the non-trading financial instruments held by BSM.
The management of interest rate risk in the banking book and the role of BSM are described further in Interest rate risk in the banking book section below.
Non-trading VaR excludes the insurance operations which are discussed further on page 121 and the interest rate risk in the banking book arising from HSBC Holdings.
The daily levels of total non-trading VaR over the last year are set out in the graph below.
Daily VaR non-trading portfolios, 99% 1 day $m Non-trading VaR IR non-trading CS non-trading Diversification HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 115 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk The Group non-trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Non-trading VaR excludes equity risk on available-for-sale For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments securities, structural foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk at fair value, see Note13 on the Financial Statements.
on fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Holdings.
This section Structural foreign exchange exposures and the sections below describe the scope of HSBCs management of market risks in non-trading books.
For our policies and procedures for managing structural foreign exchange exposures, see page78 of the Risk management section.
Equity securities classified as available forsale HSBCs structural foreign exchange exposures are represented by the net asset value of its foreign exchange equity and Fair value of equity securities subordinated debt investments in subsidiaries, branches, Audited jointventures and associates with non-US dollar functional 2016 2015 currencies.
Gains or losses on structural foreign exchange Footnotes $bn $bn exposures are recognised in other comprehensive income.
54 Private equity holdings 1.2 1.9 55 Investment to facilitate ongoing business 1.5 1.9 Net structural foreign exchange exposures Other strategic investments 2.0 2.1 2016 2015 At 31 Dec 4.7 5.9 $m $m For footnotes, see page 126.
Currency of structural exposure Hong Kong dollars 32,472 28,270 The table above sets out the maximum possible loss on 1 Pound sterling 27,527 32,701 shareholders equity from available-for-sale equity securities.
Chinese renminbi 24,504 24,117 The fair value of equity securities classified as available for sale Euros 17,397 19,966 reduced from $5.9bn to $4.7bn.
The decrease in private equity Indian rupees 3,901 3,645 holdings was largely due to fund distributions and the Mexican pesos 3,826 4,228 reclassification of the investment in certain funds as an Canadian dollars 3,734 3,595 associate investment.
The decrease in business facilitation Saudi riyals 3,690 3,109 equities was largely due to the sale of the Visa investment.
Swiss francs 2,226 2,642 Market risk balance sheet linkages Malaysian ringgit 2,079 1,994 Below are the balance sheet lines in the Groups consolidated UAE dirhams 2,073 1,898 position that are subject to market risk.
Singapore dollars 1,995 1,454 Taiwanese dollars 1,753 1,702 Trading assets and liabilities Australian dollars 1,667 1,396 The Groups trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases Indonesian rupiah 1,439 1,303 originated by GB&M.
These assets and liabilities are treated as Korean won 1,260 1,296 traded risk for the purposes of market risk management, other Argentine pesos 860 875 than a limited number of exceptions, primarily in Global Banking Brazilian real 755 2,865 where the short-term acquisition and disposal of the assets are Turkish lira 734 1,006 linked to other non-trading related activities such as loan Thai baht 736 662 origination.
Others, each less than $700m 5,728 6,038 Derivative assets and liabilities At 31 Dec 140,356 144,762 We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: 1 During 2016, we entered into new forward exchange contracts amounting to tocreate risk management solutions for clients, to manage the $1.5bn 2015: $2.6bn in order to manage our sterling structural foreign exchange exposure.
portfolio risks arising from client business, and to manage and hedge our own risks.
Most of our derivative exposures arise Shareholders equity would decrease by $2,247m 2015: fromsales and trading activities within GB&M, and are treated $2,633m if euro and sterling foreign currency exchange rates astraded risk for market risk management purposes.
weakened by 5% relative to the US dollar.
The assets and liabilities included in trading VaR give rise to a large proportion of the income included in net trading income.
As set out on page184, HSBCs net trading income in 2016 was $9,452m 2015: $8,723m.
Adjustments to trading income such as valuation adjustments do not feed the trading VaR model.
116 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The structural sensitivity is positive in a rising rate environment Net interest income sensitivity and negative in a falling rate environment.
The sensitivity of The following table sets out the assessed impact on our thefunding of the trading book is negative in a rising rate basecase projected net interest income NII for 2016 environment and positive in a falling rate environment, and excluding insurance of a series of four quarterly parallel shocks interms of the impact on profit the change in NII would be of 25 basis points to the current market-implied path of interest expected to be offset by a similar change in net trading income.
rates worldwide at the beginning of each quarter from The sensitivity of BSM will depend on its position.
Typically, 1January 2017. assuming no management response, the sensitivity of BSM is The sensitivities shown represent our assessment as to the negative in a rising rate environment and positive in a falling change in expected base case net interest income under the rate environment.
two rate scenarios, assuming that all other non-interest rate The NII sensitivity figures also incorporate the effect of any riskvariables remain constant, and there are no management interest rate behaviouralisation applied and the effect of any actions.
In deriving our base case net interest income assumed repricing across products under the specific interest projections, the repricing rates of assets and liabilities used rate scenario.
They do not incorporate the effect of any arederived from current yield curves, thereby reflecting current management decision to change the HSBC balance sheet market expectations of the future path of interest rates.
scenarios therefore represent interest rate shocks to the current market implied path of rates.
The NII sensitivity in BSM arises from a combination of thetechniques that BSM use to mitigate the transferred interest The NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on rate risk and the methods they use to optimise net revenues in simplified scenarios, including the assumption that the balance line with their defined risk mandate.
The figures in the table sheet size and structure remains static, other than instances below do not incorporate the effect of any management where the size of the balances or repricing is deemed interest decisions within BSM, but in reality it is likely that there would rate sensitive non-interest bearing current account migration be some short-term adjustment in BSM positioning to offset and fixed rate loan early prepayment and where non-traded theNII effects of the specific interest rate scenario where VaR is assumed to contractually run off.
The limitations of this necessary.
analysis are discussed within the Risk management section on The NII sensitivity arising from the funding of the trading book page68.
is comprised of the expense of funding trading assets, while the Assuming no management response, a sequence of such rises revenue from these trading assets is reported in net trading up-shock would increase expected net interest income for income.
This leads to an asymmetry in the NII sensitivity figures 2016 by $1,709m 2015: $1,251m, while a sequence of such which is cancelled out in our global business results, where we falls down-shock would decrease planned net interest include both net interest income and net trading income.
likely, therefore, that the overall effect on profit before tax of the The NII sensitivity of the Group can be split into three key funding of the trading book will be much less pronounced than components: the structural sensitivity arising from the four the figures in the following table.
global businesses excluding BSM and Markets, the sensitivity ofthe funding of the trading book Markets and the sensitivity of BSM.
56 Net interest income sensitivity Audited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in 2016 net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 605 47 504 280 61 212 1,709 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 1,024 41 797 292 261 9 2,406 Change in 2015 net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 410 72 217 369 135 49 1,251 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 691 74 645 290 528 30 2,258 For footnote, see page 126.
We expect NII to rise in the rising rate scenario and fall in the upward shock of 200 basis points bps up 200bps and an falling rate scenario.
This is due to a structural mismatch immediate parallel downward shock of 200 basis points down between our assets and liabilities on balance we would expect 200bps to the market-implied path of interest rates worldwide our assets to reprice more quickly, and to a greater extent, than on 1 January 2017. our liabilities.
The economic value of equity remains higher than the book Economic value of equity value of equity under base case, up 200bps and down 200bps scenarios.
The table below sets out the assessed impact on our base case economic value of equity EVE of an immediate parallel HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 117 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Economic value of equity Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Change in economic value of equity as at 31 Dec 2016 arising from an immediate shift in yield curves of: 200 basis points 1,616 596 1,492 103 684 597 1,128 200 basis points 7,455 531 2,591 159 792 58 10,408 assessing the expected reduction in valuation of cash flow Sensitivity of capital and reserves hedges due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in Under CRD IV, available-for-sale AFS reserves are included as all yield curves.
These particular exposures form only a part of part of CET1 capital.
We measure the potential downside risk to our overall interest rate exposure.
the CET1 ratio due to interest rate and credit spread risk in the The following table describes the sensitivity of our cash flow AFS portfolio by the portfolios stressed VaR, using a 99% hedge reported reserves to the stipulated movements in yield confidence level and an assumed holding period of one quarter.
curves and the maximum and minimum month-end figures At December 2016, the stressed VaR of the portfolio was during the year.
The sensitivities are indicative and based on $3.2bn.
We monitor the sensitivity of reported cash flow hedging reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly basis by Sensitivity of cash flow hedging reported reserves to interest rate movements Maximum Minimum impact impact $m $m $m At 31 Dec 2016 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,051 1,173 1,051 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.6 % 0.7 % 0.6 % 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,080 1,080 1,145 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.6% 0.6% 0.7% At 31 Dec 2015 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,235 1,259 1,137 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.66 % 0.67 % 0.60 % 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,224 1,232 1,133 As a percentage of total shareholders equity 0.65% 0.65% 0.60% Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management Defined benefit pension schemes For our BSM governance framework, see page 79 of Risk management.
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that the obligations of the schemes are not fully Third-party assets in BSM increased by 9% during 2016. matched by assets with determinable cash flows.
Deposits with central banks increased by $28bn, predominantly For details of our defined benefit schemes, including asset allocation, see in North America and Europe, due to deployment of increased Note 5 on the Financial Statements, and for pension risk management commercial surplus, partly offset by decrease in the UK due to seepage 84. foreign exchange movements as sterling depreciated against Additional market risk measures applicable only to the the US dollar.
parent company Financial investments increased by $17bn due to increases in The principal tools used in the management of market risk are Europe and Asia, as commercial surplus was deployed into VaR for foreign exchange rate risk and the projected sensitivity government bonds.
of HSBC Holdings net interest income to future changes in yield curves and interest rate gap repricing tables for interest Third-party assets in Balance Sheet Management rate risk.
2016 2015 Foreign exchange risk $m $m Total foreign exchange VaR arising within HSBC Holdings Cash and balances at central banks 98,996 71,116 in2016 was as follows: Trading assets 414 639 Loans and advances: HSBC Holdings foreign exchange VaR to banks 37,287 42,059 to customers 2,564 2,773 2016 2015 Reverse repurchase agreements 35,143 29,760 $m $m Financial investments 352,419 335,543 At 31 Dec 32.1 45.6 Other 4,555 4,277 Average 44.4 42.3 At 31 Dec 531,378 486,167 Minimum 32.1 32.9 Maximum 58.2 47.1 The foreign exchange risk largely arises from loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature that are not denominated in the functional currency of either the provider or the recipient and which are accounted for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying amount of these loans due to foreign exchange rate differences are taken directly to HSBC Holdings income 118 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 statement.
These loans, and most of the associated foreign HSBC Holdings future NII over a five-year time horizon of exchange exposures, are eliminated on consolidation.
incremental 25 basis point parallel falls or rises in all yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each quarter during the Sensitivity of net interest income 12 months from 1January 2016.
HSBC Holdings monitors NII sensitivity over a five-year time Assuming no management actions, a sequence of such rises horizon reflecting the longer-term perspective on interest rate would increase planned NII for the next five years by $746m risk management appropriate to a financial services holding 2015: increase of $247m, while a sequence of such falls would company.
These sensitivities assume that any issuance where decrease planned NII by $723m 2015: decrease of $266m.
HSBC Holdings has an option to reimburse at a future call date is called at this date.
The table below sets out the effect on 56 Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements US dollar bloc Sterling bloc Euro bloc Total $m $m $m $m Change in projected net interest income as at 31 Dec arising from a shift in yield curves 2016 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 84 6 0 90 2-3 years 299 20 6 325 4-5 years 304 20 8 332 of -25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 84 4 88 2-3 years 299 13 312 4-5 years 304 19 1 324 2015 of 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 57 15 72 2-3 years 118 43 7 168 4-5 years 23 43 12 8 of -25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 0-1 year 57 14 6 77 2-3 years 118 43 22 183 4-5 years 23 43 15 5 For footnote, see page 126.
The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above are indicative Changes to assumptions concerning the risk profile over the andbased on simplified scenarios.
The figures represent next five years can have a significant impact on the NII hypothetical movements in NII based on our projected yield sensitivity for that period.
However, the figures do not take curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings current interest rate risk profile intoaccount the effect of actions that could be taken to mitigate and assumed changes to that profile during the next five years.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 119 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Interest rate repricing gap table on a repricing gap basis.
The interest rate repricing gap table below analyses the full-term structure of interest rate The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC mismatches within HSBC Holdings balance sheet.
Holdings is not included within the Group VaR but is managed Repricing gap analysis of HSBC Holdings Up to From over 1 From over 5 More than Non-interest Total 1 year to 5 years to 10 years 10 years bearing $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings Derivatives 2,184 2,184 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 77,680 72,288 279 405 4,708 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 3,555 2,675 731 8 141 Investments in subsidiaries 96,183 96,183 Other assets 1,488 105 1,383 Total assets 181,090 74,963 1,115 413 104,599 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,157 105 2,052 Financial liabilities designated at fair values 30,145 1,109 7,344 12,588 6,422 2,682 Derivatives 5,018 5,018 Debt securities in issue 21,824 4,199 2,997 11,708 3,916 996 Other liabilities 1,628 1,628 Subordinated liabilities 15,200 3,267 2,000 9,445 488 Total equity 105,118 105,118 Total liabilities and equity 181,090 5,413 13,608 26,296 19,783 115,990 Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate sensitivity 57,089 13,608 26,296 13,441 3,743 Net interest rate risk gap at 31 Dec 2016 12,461 1,115 413 6,342 7,647 Cumulative interest rate gap 12,461 13,576 13,989 7,647 Cash at bank and in hand: balances with HSBC undertakings 242 242 Derivatives 2,467 2,467 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 44,350 42,661 279 405 1,005 Financial investments in HSBC undertakings 4,285 2,985 731 569 Investments in subsidiaries 97,770 97,770 Other assets 1,080 109 971 Total assets 150,194 45,888 388 1,136 102,782 Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 2,152 781 1,371 Financial liabilities designated at fair values 19,853 1,741 3,239 7,032 4,312 3,628 Derivatives 2,278 2,278 Debt securities in issue 960 963 3 Other liabilities 15,895 3,374 3,500 9,119 98 Subordinated liabilities 1,642 1,642 Total equity 107,414 107,414 Total liabilities and equity 150,194 2,522 6,613 11,495 13,332 116,232 Off-balance sheet items attracting interest rate sensitivity 22,748 5,351 10,722 5,763 912 Net interest rate risk gap at 31 Dec 2015 20,618 874 363 7,569 12,538 Cumulative interest rate gap 20,618 19,744 20,107 12,538 120 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operational risk profile Insurance manufacturing operations risk profile Operational risk is the risk to achieving our strategy or Page objectives as a result of inadequate or failed internal processes, Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2016 121 people and systems or from external events.
It arises from dayHSBCs bancassurance model 121 to-day operations or external events, and is relevant to every Measurement 121 aspect of our business.
Key risk types 123 Responsibility for minimising operational risk lies with HSBCs Market risk 123 staff.
All staff are required to manage the operational risks of Credit risk 124 the business and operational activities for which they are Liquidity risk 124 responsible.
Insurance risk 125 A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the management of operational risk is set out on page 80.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2016 Operational risk exposures in 2016 The majority of the risk in our insurance business derives from manufacturing activities and can be categorised as financial risk HSBC continued to strengthen those controls that manage our or insurance risk.
Financial risks include market risk, credit risk most material risks in 2016.
Among other measures, we: and liquidity risk.
Insurance risk is the risk, other than financial further embedded Global Standards into the operational risk, of loss transferred from the holder of the insurance riskmanagement framework to ensure that we know our contract to the issuer HSBC.
customers, ask the right questions and escalate concerns A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the toprevent financial crime: management of insurance risk is set out on page 82. implemented a number of initiatives to raise our standards HSBCs bancassurance model in relation to the conduct of our business, as described on page 81 of the Regulatory compliance risk management We operate an integrated bancassurance model that provides section: insurance products principally for customers with whom we have a banking relationship.
increased monitoring and enhanced detective controls tomanage those fraud risks which arise from new The insurance contracts we sell relate to the underlying needs technologies and new ways of banking: of our banking customers, which we can identify from our point-of-sale contacts and customer knowledge.
The majority strengthened internal security controls to prevent cyberofsales are of savings and investment products and term and attacks: credit life contracts.
improved controls and security to protect customers when By focusing largely onpersonal and SME lines of business, we using digital channels: and are able to optimise volumes and diversify individual insurance enhanced third-party risk management capability to enable risks.
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in the consistent risk assessment of any third-party service.
HSBC subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk appetite.
Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain Further information on the nature of these risks is provided in the risks and rewards associated with writing insurance Topand emerging risks on page64.
contracts by keeping part of the underwriting profit and Operational risk losses in 2016 investment income within the Group.
Operational risk losses in 2016 are lower than in 2015, reflecting We have life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in nine a reduction in losses incurred relating to large legacy conductcountries Argentina, mainland China, France, Hong Kong, related events.
Conduct-related costs included in significant Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Singapore and the UK.
We also have items are outlined on page 62.
The profile of operational risk life insurance manufacturing associates in Saudi Arabia and losses below shows the distribution of losses for 2015 and 2016 India.
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale tobe an effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a Operational risk losses handful of leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance products to our customers through our 2016 2015 banking network and direct channels.
These arrangements % % aregenerally structured with our exclusive strategic partners Business disruption and system failures and earn the Group a combination of commissions, fees and a Clients, products and business practices 57 74 share of profits.
We distribute insurance products in all of our Damage to physical assets geographical regions.
Employee practices and workplace safety 1 1 Execution, delivery and process management 34 13 Insurance products are sold through all global businesses, but predominantly by RBWM and CMB through our branches and External fraud 8 11 direct channels worldwide.
Internal fraud 1 Total 100 100 The sale of our Brazilian insurance operations completed on 1July 2016.
These operations were reported as part of the disposal group held for sale at 31 December 2015.
Measurement Audited The risk profile of our insurance manufacturing businesses is measured using an economic capital approach.
Assets and liabilities are measured on a market value basis, and a capital requirement is defined to ensure that there is a less than one in HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 121 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk 200 chance of insolvency over a one-year time horizon, given The business has a current appetite to remain above 140% the risks that the businesses are exposed to.
The methodology witha tolerance of 110%.
In addition to economic capital, the for the economic capital calculation is largely aligned to the regulatory solvency ratio is also a metric used to manage risk pan-European Solvency II insurance capital regulations, which appetite on an entity basis.
The economic capital The tables below show the composition of assets and liabilities coverage ratio economic net asset value divided by the by contract type and by geographical region.
economic capital requirement is a key risk appetite measure.
In addition, in some scenarios the asset returns Key risk types can become insufficient to cover the policyholders financial The key risk for the insurance operation is market risk, followed guarantees, in which case the shortfall has to be met by HSBC.
Credit and liquidity risk, while significant for Reserves are held against the cost of such guarantees, the bank, are minor for our insurance operations.
Market risk Where local rules require, these reserves are held as part Audited ofliabilities under insurance contracts.
Any remainder is accounted for as a deduction from the present value of in-force Description and exposure PVIF long-term insurance business on the relevant product.
Market risk is the risk of changes in market factors affecting The table below shows the total reserve held for the cost of HSBCs capital or profit.
Market factors include interest rates, guarantees, the range of investment returns on assets equity and growth assets, spread risk and foreign exchange supporting these products and the implied investment return rates.
that would enable the business to meet the guarantees.
Our exposure varies depending on the type of contract issued.
The cost of guarantees decreased to $625m 2015: $748m Our most significant life insurance products are contracts with primarily due to changes to the profit-sharing mechanism on discretionary participating features DPF issued in France and DPF contracts with guarantees in Hong Kong, which primarily Hong Kong.
These products typically include some form of reduced the cost of guarantees on portfolios reported in the capital guarantee or guaranteed return on the sums invested 2.1% to 4.0% category.
In addition, there was a movement in bythe policyholders, to which discretionary bonuses are added cost of guarantees from the 2.1% to 4.0% category, to the 0.1% ifallowed by the overall performance of the funds.
These funds to 2.0% category due to reducing average guarantees on certain are primarily invested in bonds, with a proportion allocated to portfolios.
The real annual return guarantees reported in 2015 other asset classes to provide customers with the potential for relate to insurance operations in Brazil, which were sold on enhanced returns.
DPF products expose HSBC to the risk of variation in asset returns, which will impact our participation in the investment HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 123 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne remains, as fees earned are related to the market value of the bythe policyholder, but some market risk exposure typically linked assets.
63 Financial return guarantees Audited 2016 2015 Investment Investment returns returns Cost of Cost of implied by Current implied by Current guarantee yields guarantees guarantee yields guarantees Footnotes % % $m % % $m Capital 0.0 0.0 3.0 59 0.0 0.0 3.8 85 Nominal annual return 0.1 2.0 3.7 3.8 64 0.1 1.9 3.9 3.9 4 65 Nominal annual return 2.1 4.0 3.0 4.4 426 2.0 4.0 3.8 4.0 603 Nominal annual return 4.1 5.0 3.0 4.1 76 4.1 5.0 3.8 4.1 28 66 Real annual return n a n a n a 0.0 6.0 5.9 6.1 28 At 31 Dec625748 For footnotes, see page 126.
Sensitivities not symmetrical on the upside and downside.
The sensitivities are stated before allowance for management actions which may Changes in financial market factors, from the economic mitigate the effect of changes in the market environment.
The assumptions in place at the start of the year, had a negative sensitivities presented allow for adverse changes in policyholder impact on reported profit before tax of $386m 2015: $13m behaviour that may arise in response to changes in market negative.
The following table illustrates the effects of selected rates.
interest rate, equity price and foreign exchange rate scenarios on our profit for the year and the total equity of our insurance Interest rate movements have a greater impact on total equity manufacturing subsidiaries.
as changes in market value of available-for-sale bonds are not recognised in profit after tax.
Where appropriate, the effects of the sensitivity tests on profit after tax and equity incorporate the impact of the stress on the Changes in sensitivity compared to 2015 were primarily driven PVIF.
The relationship between the profit and total equity and by the impact of decreasing yields in France on the projected therisk factors is non-linear, therefore the results disclosed cost of options and guarantees and by the adoption of a more should not be extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different market-aligned PVIF methodology in Singapore.
For the same reason, the impact of the stress is Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors Audited 2016 2015 Effect on Effect on Effect on profit Effect on profit after tax total equity after tax total equity Footnote $m $m $m $m 100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves 63 494 39 474 67 100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves 182 490 213 404 10% increase in equity prices 189 190 176 176 10% decrease in equity prices 191 191 158 158 10% increase in US dollar exchange rate compared with all currencies 19 19 16 16 10% decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared with all currencies 19 19 16 16 For footnote, see page 126. Credit risk exposure is primarily related to liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment contracts and shareholders funds.
Audited The credit quality of insurance financial assets is included in Description and exposure thetable on page 88. Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or Liquidity risk counterparty fails to meet their obligation under a contract.
It Audited arises in two main areas for our insurance manufacturers: Description and exposure risk of default by debt security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a return for policyholders and Liquidity risk is the risk that an insurance operation, though shareholders: and solvent, either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet its obligations when they fall due, or can risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and nonsecure them only at excessive cost.
reimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
The following table shows the expected undiscounted cash The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect flows for insurance liabilities at 31 December 2016.
The liquidity ofthese items are shown in the table on page 122. risk exposure is wholly borne by the policyholder in the case of The credit quality of the reinsurers share of liabilities under unit-linked business and is shared with the policyholder for noninsurance contracts is assessed as satisfactory or higher as linked insurance.
defined on page 74, with 100% of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired 2015: 100%.
Credit risk on assets supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly borne by the policyholder: therefore, our 124 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 The profile of the expected maturity of insurance contracts at The remaining contractual maturity of investment contract 31December 2016 remained comparable with 2015. liabilities is included in Note 29.
Insurance risk Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts beingwritten.
For a portfolio of term assurance, an increase in Description and exposure lapse rates typically has a negative effect on profit due to the Insurance risk is the risk of loss through adverse experience, in loss offuture income on the lapsed policies.
However, some either timing or amount, of insurance underwriting parameters contract lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the non-economic assumptions.
These parameters include existence of policy surrender charges.
We are most sensitive mortality, morbidity, longevity, lapses and unit costs.
toa change in lapse rates on unit-linked and universal life contracts in Hong Kong and Singapore, and DPF contracts The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of the inFrance.
contract, including claims and benefits, may exceed the total amount of premiums and investment income received.
Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the cost ofadministering insurance contracts.
To the extent that The tables on pages 122 and 123 analyse our life insurance risk increased expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, exposures by type of contract and by geographical region.
anincrease in expense rates will have a negative effect on The insurance risk profile and related exposures remain largely ourprofits.
consistent with those observed at 31 December 2015.
Sensitivities Sensitivity analysis Audited Audited The table below shows the sensitivity of profit and total equity 2016 2015 to reasonably possible changes in non-economic assumptions $m $m across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries.
Effect on profit after tax and total equity at 31 Dec Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life 10% increase in mortality and or morbidity rates 71 70 insurance contracts.
The effect on profit of an increase in 10% decrease in mortality and or morbidity rates 75 75 mortality or morbidity depends on the type of business being 10% increase in lapse rates 80 90 written.
Our largest exposures to mortality and morbidity risk 10% decrease in lapse rates 93 102 exist in Hong Kong and Singapore.
10% increase in expense rates 89 85 10% decrease in expense rates 87 83 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 125 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Risk Capital Footnotes to Risk Liquidity and funding 47 The HSBC UK Liquidity Group shown comprises four legal entities: HSBC Bank plc including all overseas branches, and SPEs consolidated by HSBC Bank plc for Financial Statement purposes, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc, HSBC Private Bank UK Ltd and HSBC Trust Company UK Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the UK PRA.
48 The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Hong Kong branch and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Singapore branch represent the material activities of the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
Each branch is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
49 HSBC France and HSBC Canada represent the consolidated banking operations of the Group in France and Canada, respectively.
HSBC France andHSBC Canada are each managed as single distinct operating entities for liquidity purposes.
50 The total shown for other principal HSBC operating entities represents the combined position of all the other operating entities overseen directly by the Risk Management Meeting of the GMB.
Market risk 51 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
52 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types.
It represents the reduction in unsystematic market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types: for example, interest rate, equity and foreign exchange, together inone portfolio.
It is measured as the difference between the sum of the VaRby individual risk type and the combined total VaR.
A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio diversification.
As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit for these measures.
53 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
54 Investments in private equity are primarily made through managed funds that are subject to limits on the amount of investment.
Potential new commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the valuation of the investments within the portfolio.
55 Investments held to facilitate ongoing business include holdings in government-sponsored enterprises and local stock exchanges.
56 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, we group our interest rate exposures into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely to move together.
See page 281, Cautionary statement regarding forwardlooking statements.
Risk management of insurance operations 57 Other Contracts includes term assurance, credit life insurance, universal life insurance and investment contracts not included in the Unit-linked or With DPF columns.
58 At 31 December 2015, Shareholder assets and liabilities included assets and liabilities classified as held for sale in respect of the disposal of operations in Brazil, which was completed on 1 July 2016.
The assets, comprising mainly debt and equity securities and PVIF, were reported within Other assets and investment properties and totalled $4.1bn.
The liabilities classified as held for sale, comprising mainly liabilities under insurance contracts and liabilities under investment contracts, were reported within Other liabilities and totalled $3.7bn.
No assets and liabilities relating to insurance businesses wereheld for sale at 31 December 2016.
59 Financial investments held to maturity HTM and available for sale AFS.
60 Comprise mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and inter-company balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
61 Present value of in-force long-term insurance business.
62 Deferred tax includes the deferred tax liabilities arising on recognition of PVIF.
63 Does not include associated insurance companies SABB Takaful Company and Canara HSBC Oriental Bank of Commerce Life Insurance Company Limited.
64 HSBC has no insurance manufacturing subsidiaries in Middle East and North Africa or North America.
65 A block of contracts in France with guaranteed nominal annual returns in the range 1.25%-3.72% is reported entirely in the 2.1%-4.0% category in line with the average guaranteed return of 2.6% offered to policyholders by these contracts.
66 Real annual return guarantees provide the policyholder a guaranteed return inexcess of the rate of inflation, and are supported by inflation-linked debt securities with yields that are also expressed in real terms.
67 Where a -100 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve would result in a negative interest rate, the effects on profit after tax and total equity have been calculated using a minimum rate of 0%.
126 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
