Strategic Report Risk overview We actively manage risk to protect and enable the business.
Managing risk HSBC has maintained a conservative It is articulated in our Risk Appetite participated in the annual stress test and consistent approach to risk Statement, which is approved by by the Bank of England, our lead throughout its history, helping the Board.
Key elements include: regulator, and again exceeded its to ensure we protect customers requirements comfortably.
This reflected risks that we accept as part of doing funds, lend responsibly and support our conservative risk appetite, and business, such as credit risk and economies.
By carefully aligning our our diversified geographical and market risk: risk appetite to our strategy, we aim to business mix.
It also reflected our risks that we incur as part of doing deliver long-term shareholder returns.
ongoing strategic actions, including business, such as operational risk, the sale of our operations in Brazil, RWA All employees are responsible for the which are actively managed to remain reductions in GB&M and continued management of risk, with the ultimate below an acceptable tolerance: and sales from our US CML run-off portfolio.
accountability residing with the Board.
risks for which we have zero tolerance, Our internal stress test scenarios include We have a strong risk culture, which such as knowingly engaging in potential macroeconomic, geopolitical is embedded through clear and activities where foreseeable and operational risk events, and events consistent communication and reputational risk has not that are applicable to HSBC.
The results appropriate training for all employees.
help management understand material A comprehensive risk management risks and consider potential mitigants.
We operate a comprehensive stress framework is applied throughout the testing programme to help ensure the Group, with effective governance Our risk management framework and risks strength and resilience of HSBC, taking associated with our banking and insurance and corresponding risk management part in regulators as well as our own manufacturing operations are described on pages tools.
This framework is underpinned 68 and 82 respectively.
In 2016, we by our risk culture and reinforced by the HSBC Values and our Global Standards programme.
Key risk appetite metrics Our Global Risk function oversees the framework, and is led by the Component Measure Risk appetite 2016 Group Chief Risk Officer, an executive Returns Return on average ordinary shareholders equity 10.0% 0.8% Director.
It is independent from the global businesses, including our sales Capital Common equity tier 1 ratio CRD IV end point basis 11.0% 13.6% and trading functions, to provide HSBC consolidated balance sheet challenge, appropriate oversight, Liquidity 90% 67.7% advances-to-deposits ratio and balance in risk reward decisions.
Loan impairment charges as % of advances: RBWM 0.50% 0.37% Loan HSBCs risk appetite defines its impairment Loan impairment charges as % of advances: desired forward-looking risk profile, charges 0.45% 0.27% wholesale CMB, GB&M and GPB and informs the strategic and financial planning process.
Top and emerging risks Our top and emerging risks framework risks were to occur, they could have thematic issue have already materialised helps enable us to identify current and a material effect on HSBC.
and are therefore reported through other forward-looking risks so that we may reporting channels.
In addition, three During 2016, we made two changes take action to either prevent them thematic risks were renamed to better to our top and emerging risks to reflect materialising or limit their effect.
reflect the challenges facing HSBC.
our assessment of their effect on HSBC.
We use the new names in the table Top risks are those that may have a Firstly, IT systems infrastructure and that follows.
material impact on the financial results, resilience was added as a new risk reputation or business model of the due to the need to ensure core banking Our current top and emerging risks are Group in the year ahead.
Emerging systems remain robust as digital and summarised on the next page and discussed risks are those that have large mobile banking services continue to in more detail on page 64. unknown components and may form evolve.
Secondly, Dispute risk was Our approach to identifying and monitoring top and emerging risks is described on page 70. beyond a one-year horizon.
If these removed as the key drivers of this 26 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk overview Risk Trend Mitigants Externally driven Economic outlook We are actively monitoring our wholesale credit and trading portfolios to identify areas of and capital flows stress following the UK electorates vote to leave the European Union.
We have also undertaken stress tests on our businesses and portfolios to assess potential impacts under a range of possible exit scenarios.
Geopolitical risk We have increased physical security at our premises where the risk of terrorism is heightened and have enhanced our major incident response capabilities.
Turning of the credit cycle A number of sectors remain under enhanced monitoring with risk appetite and new lending significantly curtailed, including our oil and gas and commodities lending portfolios.
Cyber threat and We have brought all cybersecurity initiatives together under one programme in order to unauthorised access strengthen our resilience and defence capabilities.
We have revised our cybersecurity risk to systems appetite to reflect our evolving defence approach.
Regulatory and technological We are actively engaged with regulators and policy makers to help ensure that new regulatory developments with adverse requirements are considered fully and can be implemented in aneffective manner.
We have impact on business model established a specialist digital solutions team to lead our response to new technologies.
and profitability Regulatory focus on We created a new function, Financial Crime Risk, which brings together all areas of financial conduct of business crime risk management at HSBC and continued to enhance our management of conduct in areas and financial crime including the treatment of potentially vulnerable customers, market surveillance, employee training and performance management.
US deferred prosecution We are continuing to take concerted action to remediate anti-money laundering and sanctions agreement and related compliance deficiencies and to implement Global Standards.
agreements and consent orders Internally driven IT systems infrastructure We have invested in specialist teams and are upgrading our systems capability to enhance data and resilience and digital capabilities and help ensure strong delivery quality and resilience to customers.
Impact of organisational We have increased our focus on resource planning and employee retention and well-being, and change and regulatory are developing initiatives to equip line managers with skills to both manage change and support demands on employees their employees.
Execution risk The Group Change Committee monitored the progress of the high priority programmes across the Group that support the strategic actions, reviewing progress on deliverables and addressing resource prioritisation issues as they arose.
Third-party risk management To help enable a consistent risk assessment of the third-party services that the Group utilises, we are implementing a framework to provide a holistic view of third-party risks, which assesses third parties against key criteria, combined with associated control monitoring, testing and assurance throughout the third-party lifecycle.
Enhanced model risk We have implemented a new global policy on model risk management and updated the model management expectations governance framework to address key internal and regulatory requirements.
Additional resources have also been recruited to support the independent model review function.
Data management We continued to enhance our data governance, quality and architecture to help enable consistent data aggregation, reporting and management.
Risk heightened during 2016 Risk remained at the same level as 2015 Thematic risk renamed during 2016 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review S St tr ra ate tegi gic c R Re ep po or rt t
