RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT ROLES & RESPONSIBILITIES THE BOARD HAS DEFINED RISK MANAGEMENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES AS ILLUSTRATED BELOW.
BOARD Determines the Groups risk appetite and culture Sets the risk management framework Ensures the risk management processes and internal controls are effective AUDIT COMMITTEE Controls the Groups risk management processes Reviews business risks Gains assurance that the risk management processes and controls are effective ASSURANCE INTERNAL AUDIT DEPARTMENT Reviews internal controls and risk management processes for their existence, relevance and effectiveness.
Actions are recommended and graded in terms of importance and timeliness for change.
CENTRAL & REGIONAL MANAGEMENT Establishes detailed Group policies and procedures Manages centrally controlled risks Reviews local business risks LOCAL MANAGEMENT Ensures Group policies and procedures are applied Manages locally controlled risks Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 30 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Introduction levels, and identifies matters requiring approval or notification to The oil and gas industry is tightly regulated and demands high central management or to the Board.
Included within the Group specification products, which meet stringent quality criteria, Manual are policies covering a range of areas including general given the challenging environments in which these products are finance requirements, taxation responsibilities, information on used.
Huntings risk management and internal control processes Huntings internal control and risk management framework are therefore designed to appropriately mitigate the risks inherent andgovernance.
Compliance is also monitored and subject to by operating in this sector while allowing the Group to achieve its scrutiny by the Internal Audit function.
strategic objectives and deliver value to shareholders.
Central and regional management are responsible for ensuring The Board the risk management processes established by the Audit The Board of Hunting has responsibility for developing and Committee are implemented across the Group.
Central maintaining a robust risk management framework and for management is also responsible for managing group-wide monitoring the Groups system of internal control to ensure treasury related risks such as currency and interest rate itremains effective and fit for purpose.
The Board is also exposures and managing the global insurance programme.
responsible for developing the Groups strategic objectives.
Thebalance between the Boards desire to meet these strategic Local Management objectives and its appetite for risk creates the risk culture within The management of each business unit has the responsibility of the Group.
establishing an effective system of controls and processes for their business which, at a minimum, meets the requirements set The Boards appetite for risk is key to establishing effective out in the Group Manual and complies with any additional local systems of internal control and risk management processes.
Local management is empowered under Huntings Byreviewing and debating the relevant evidence, the Board fide-centralised philosophy to manage the risks in their market.
develops an appreciation of the contributory factors that generate a particular risk.
Subsequently, through delegation, Assurance theBoard establishes the extent to which the risk should be The Board use a number of functions and reporting procedures mitigated and at what cost to the Group.
The Board, for example, to provide assurance that the risks identified by management has little appetite for high levels of exposure to geopolitical risk areappropriate and proportionate for the Group as a whole.
and consequently the Groups expansion strategy has avoided Huntings Internal Audit function covers the Groups businesses countries that are considered to be significantly unstable or too addressing the following operational areas, raising control high risk to maintain a physical presence, notwithstanding the improvement recommendations where necessary: potential benefits that may be generated.
inventory management: Advice on risk management is sought by the Board from both purchasing supply chain: internal and external sources.
The risk management processes large project risk: are further supported by: IT controls: customer credit risk: and understanding the current and evolving market environment: ethics compliance, including bribery and corruption.
challenging executive management on new growth opportunities: reviewing proposed new product developments and capital The Groups risk management processes are further supported investment projects.
by an internal Quality Assurance department that is headed by aHSE and Quality Assurance Director who reports directly to the Audit Committee Chief Executive.
This department also undertakes periodic audits Local management establishes and undertakes risk that monitor quality control within the Groups product lines.
management processes that are relevant to the distinct risk profile of each business unit.
These are reported to central Hunting also receives guidance from a number of external management three times a year from which a Group Risk advisers.
In particular, guidance from the Groups principal Register is maintained covering the key risks to the Group, insurance broker, which arranges worldwide credit insurance including all financial, operational and compliance matters.
forthe Group, has been implemented throughout the business Onbehalf of the Board, the Audit Committee seeks to ensure units with respect to, for example, vetting new customers that risk management processes are established within the andmaintaining appropriate creditworthiness data that further framework set out by the Board and, as part of this assessment, strengthens the Groups credit management processes.
Huntings it conducts a formal review of the Groups Risk Register three external auditors provide assurance to the Board oftheaccuracy times a year.
The Groups Principal Risks are disclosed on pages and probity of Huntings financial statements.
In addition, once a year, the Audit Committee seeks alsoreads all of Huntings non-financial statements, including assurance with regard to the effectiveness of the internal financial governance disclosures included in theAnnual Report, and controls based on a self-assessment exercise carried out by local provides recommendations on the financial controls in operation management.
The appropriateness of the self assessments is across the Group, based on theexternal audit.
checked by Internal Audit, on a sample basis, following its programme of work.
Huntings legal advisers assist in ensuring that Hunting is compliant with the UKLAs Listing Rules, Disclosure Guidance The Internal Audit department reports directly to the Audit and Transparency Rules sourcebook and UK Company Law, and Committee.
The relationship with external audit is also controlled that there is an understanding across the Group of its obligations by the Audit Committee, including the annual review of under current sanctions legislation.
onmarket and investor advice from its corporate brokers and financial advisers.
Refer also to the Audit Committee Report on pages 57 to 60 The Board is satisfied that the above sources of assurance have Central and Regional Management sufficient authority, independence and expertise to enable them Hunting requires that all Group business units operate in to provide objective advice and information to the Board and also accordance with the Hunting Group Manual, which sets out takes this into account when assessing the robustness of the risk Group policies and procedures, together with related authority management and control process.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 31 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES THE BOARD HAS REVIEWED ITS RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES AND CONFIRMS THAT THE PROCEDURES IN PLACE ARE ROBUST AND PROPORTIONATE TO HUNTINGS GLOBAL OPERATIONS AND POSITION IN ITS CHOSEN MARKET.
Huntings internal control system, which has been in place The Groups consolidation process is maintained and regularly throughout 2016 and up to the date of approval of these updated, including distribution of a Group Manual to all accounts, is an ongoing evolutionary process designed to reportingunits.
All data is subject to review and assessment by identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks to which management through the monitoring of key performance ratios theGroup is exposed.
and comparison to targets and budgets.
The Group monitors and reviews new UK Listing Rules, the Disclosure Guidance This system of internal control is designed to manage rather than andTransparency Rules sourcebook, accounting standards, eliminate risks, therefore it can only provide reasonable, but not interpretations and amendments, legislation and other statutory absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss in the requirements.
financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
Strategic Planning and Budgeting The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Strategic plans, annual budgets and long-term viability financial system of internal control and have taken into account feedback projections are formally presented to the Board for adoption and from the Audit Committee for the period covered by the financial approval and form the basis for monitoring performance.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified are supported by regularly updated forecasts that project for a in the review process.
12-month period beyond the date of preparation.
The key elements to understanding, establishing and assessing Quality Assurance Huntings internal control system are as follows: Most of the business sectors within which the Group operates are highly regulated and subsidiaries are invariably required to be Business Risk Reporting accredited, by the customer or an industry regulator, to national Three times a year, local management formally reviews the or international quality organisations.
These organisations specific risks faced by their businesses, based on current undertake regular audits and checks on subsidiary procedures trading, future prospects and the local market environment.
and practices ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements.
The review is a qualitative assessment of the likelihood of a risk The Board monitors compliance by receiving Quality Assurance materialising and the probable financial impact if such an event reports at each meeting from the Director of Quality of Assurance were to arise.
All assessments are performed on a preand who also reports directly to the Chief Executive.
The Group has post-controls basis, which allows management to continually received accreditations from many organisations including the assess the effectiveness of its internal controls with separate American Petroleum Institute for example API Spec 5CT regard to mitigating the likelihood of occurrence and the probable andAPISpec Q1 certifications, the International Organisation financial impact.
The risks are reported to central management.
forStandardisation for example ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 The local risks that have the greatest potential impact on the certifications and the Occupational Health and Safety Group are identified from these assessments and incorporated Assessment Series for example OHSAS 18001 certification.
into the Group Risk Register, which is also reviewed by the Audit Committee three times a year.
An appropriate Director, together Health, Safety and Environment HSE with local management, is allocated responsibility for managing All facilities have designated HSE personnel appointed to ensure each separate risk identified in the Group Risk Register.
the Groups policies and procedures are adopted and adhered to.
All local HSE personnel report to the Groups HSE and Financial Controls Self-assessment QualityAssurance Director, who in turn reports to the Chief Local management completes an annual self-assessment of the Executive.
Allfacilities arrange regular training and review financial controls in place at their business units.
The assessment sessions to ensure day-to-day risks are managed and shared is qualitative and is undertaken in context with the recommended with the wider workforce.
controls identified within the Group Manual.
Gaps between therecommended controls and those in place are assessed Expenditure Assessment and Approval Limits andimprovements are actioned within a targeted time frame All significant capital investment business acquisitions and when these are identified as a necessary requirement.
Results assetpurchases and capital divestments must be approved by ofthe assessments are summarised and presented to the the Chief Executive.
Major capital expenditures or divestments AuditCommittee.
require approval by the Board.
Detailed compliance and assurance procedures are completed during a capital investment Reporting and Consolidation programme and project reviews and appraisals are completed to All subsidiaries submit detailed financial information in ensure each capital investment has delivered the forecast value accordance with a pre-set reporting timetable.
This includes for the Group.
weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury reports, annual budgets, monthly management accounts, periodic extended Updates to the Groups policies and procedures are forecasts giving a medium term view, together with half-year communicated to the relevant personnel by way of periodic andannual statutory reporting.
revisions to the Group Manual, which is issued to all business units.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 32 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CURRENT STATUS OF THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS Investment Spend The status of Huntings exposure to each of its principal risks, At 31 December 2015, the Groups principal risks included themovement in these risks post-controls during the year and aninvestment risk associated with company acquisitions the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in mitigating andorganic capital investment.
Given the significant reduction risks are summarised in the accompanying two graphs.
ininvestment spend by the Group, largely associated with theindustry downturn, this is no longer considered to be a The extent of Huntings exposure to any one risk may increase principalrisk.
ordecrease over a period of time.
This movement is due either toa shift in the extent of the risk arising from external influences, UK leaving the European Union or is due to a change in the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board has considered the consequences to the Group control processes in mitigating the risk.
oftheUnited Kingdoms decision to withdraw from the European Union and has concluded that, given its limited exposure to this Detailed descriptions of each principal risk, the controls and market, Brexit will not have a material impact onthe business.
actions in place and the movement in the year are given in the Consequently, this is not a principal risk to theGroup.
EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROLS MOVEMENT IN RISKS POST-CONTROLS DURING THE YEAR 1 2 3 6 6 6 1 1 7 2 2 3 3 3 4 4 4 4 5 5 5 7 7 Low Probability High Low Probability High Current status Prior year status Post-control status Pre-control status 1 Commodity prices 3 Competition 5 Geopolitics 7 Investment 2 Shale drilling 4 Key executives 6 HSE Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 33 Low Financial Impact High Low Financial Impact High RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED BELOW.
WHILE WE HAVE PRESENTED THESE AS SEPARATELY IDENTIFIED RISKS, DISCRETE EVENTS WILL OFTEN AFFECT MULTIPLE RISKS AND THIS IS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD WHEN ASSESSING THE IMPACT ON THE GROUP.
No movement in risk Increase in risk Decrease in risk 1.
KEY EXECUTIVES Nature of the risk Nature of the risk Nature of the risk Nature of the risk Hunting is exposed to the influence of oil and gas prices as the The Group provides products to the oil and gas shale drilling The provision of goods and services to oil and gas drilling The Group is highly reliant on the continued service of its key supply and demand for energy is a key driver of demand for industry.
Although shale drilling is now an established activity companies is highly competitive.
In current market conditions executives and senior management, who possess commercial, Huntings products.
inthe US, significant sections of the public continue to there are considerable pressures to reduce prices.
Competitors engineering, technical and financial skills that are critical to the viewitashigh risk.
Any consequent moratorium or new laws may also be customers and or suppliers which can increase the success of the Group.
Oil and gas exploration companies may reduce or curtail mayunfavourably impact shale drilling activity levels and risk of any potential impact.
operations if prices become, or are expected to become, subsequently reduce demand for the Groups products that uneconomical and therefore continuation of prices above service the operators in this industry.
Technological advancements in the oil and gas industry theselevels is critical to the industry and the financial viability continue at pace and failure to keep ahead will result in lost ofthe Hunting Group.
In addition, oil and gas produced from shale is a relatively revenues and market share.
Consequently, shale drilling Adverse movements in commodity prices may also heighten is more sensitive to a decline in commodity prices compared Looking further ahead, advancements in alternative energy the Groups exposure to the risks associated with shale drilling with conventional sources so it is more likely to be curtailed sources are considered a possible risk to the oil and gas market see the risks associated with shale drilling.
andtherefore negatively impact what has become a steadily in the long term.
increasing revenue stream for the Group seethe risks associated with commodity prices.
Movement in the year Movement in the year Movement in the year Movement in the year Huntings exposure to this risk remains as high as last year due Huntings exposure to this risk remains unchanged from last During the year, the competitive environment within the markets Although the turnover of Huntings key personnel is small, to the low activity levels as a result of low commodity prices.
year due to the impact of continuing low commodity prices that Hunting serves remained strong.
Continued downward current trading conditions, recent cuts in the workforce and affecting the shale drilling activity particularly in the US and the pressure on prices, combined with reduced activity levels, freezing of remuneration packages have increased pressure publics appetite for shale drilling has remained unchanged.
particularly in offshore markets, has consequently heightened onthe remaining personnel and the Board recognises that competition risk.
therisk of losing key executives has heightened as a result ofthese changes.
Controls and actions Controls and actions Controls and actions Controls and actions Working capital, and in particular inventory levels, are closely The Board monitors public and political opinion and Hunting has a number of high specification proprietary products Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed to ensure that managed to ensure the Group remains sufficiently adaptable maintainsan awareness of the potential for changes to that offer operational advantages to its customers.
The Group key executives are remunerated in line with market rates.
legislation, especially with regard to the US where the continually invests in research and development that enables External consultants are regularly engaged to provide guidance Groupismainly exposed.
itto provide technological advancement and a strong, ever on best practice.
The Group maintains three operating platforms: the Well widening, product offering.
Hunting continues to maintain its Construction and Well Completion segments expect to The Group maintains a diverse portfolio of products that standards of delivering high quality products which has gone Senior management regularly reviews the availability of the benefitwhen exploration companies are active in their extends beyond supplying the shale drilling industry, including some way in sheltering the pricing pressure impact on margins.
necessary skills within the Group and seek to engage suitable drillingoperations, and the Well Intervention segment benefits products for conventional drilling and the manufacture of high staff where they feel there is vulnerability.
when wells are subject to maintenance or require testing or precision and advanced technology components for both the Huntings operations are established close to their markets, repairwork.
which enables the Group to offer reduced lead times and a focused product range appropriate to each region.
Local The sustained decline in oil and gas prices has impacted the Many of the Groups facilities have the flexibility to re-configure management maintains an awareness of competitor pricing industry worldwide.
Huntings management has mitigated the their manufacturing processes to meet a change in the pattern andproduct offering.
In addition, senior management maintains impact by introducing a number of cost reduction programmes of demand.
close relationships with key customers and seeks to maintain throughout the Group and continues to adapt the business the highest level of service to preserve Huntings reputation tomeet new challenges generated by the current trading forquality.
The Group has a wide customer base that includes environment, for example by developing new product lines many of the major oil and gas service providers and no one asdescribed within the Business Model and Strategy.
customer represents an overly significant portion of Grouprevenue.
Alternative energy sources have been considered but are not believed to be a threat within the short to medium term.
FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE MOVEMENT IN COMMODITY THE GROUPS OPERATING ACTIVITIES ARE DESCRIBED THE GROUPS OPERATING ACTIVITIES ARE DESCRIBED DETAILS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION ARE PRICES DURING THE YEAR IS DETAILED ON PAGE 9.
PROVIDED IN THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT ON PAGES 73 AND 74.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 34 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 1.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 35 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS THE GROUPS PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED BELOW.
No movement in risk Increase in risk Decrease in risk 6.
PRODUCT QUALITY ENVIRONMENT HSE Nature of the risk Nature of the risk Nature of the risk The locations of the Groups markets are determined by the Due to the wide nature of the Groups activities, it is subject to a The Group has an established reputation for producing high location of Huntings customers drill sites Huntings products relatively high number of HSE risks and the laws and regulations quality products capable of withstanding the hostile and must go where the drilling companies choose to operate.
To issued by each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
corrosive environments encountered in the wellbore.
compete effectively, Hunting often establishes a local operation in those regions, however, significantly volatile environments The Groups exposure to risk therefore includes the potential A failure of any one of these products could adversely impact areavoided.
forthe occurrence of a reportable incident, the financial risk the Groups reputation and demand for the Groups entire range ofabreach of HSE regulations, and the risk of unexpected of products and services.
The Board has a strategy to develop its global presence and compliance expenditure whenever a law or regulation is diversify geographically.
Operations have been established in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa, recognising the high growth potential these regions offer.
The Group carefully selects which countries inthese regions to operate from, however, these operations willface a higher economic and geopolitical risk than the established businesses in North America and Europe.
Movement in the year Movement in the year Movement in the year Geopolitical issues remain a feature of the modern world in The Groups manufacturing and other operating processes The risk of poor product quality or reliability has remained which the Hunting Group operates.
Notwithstanding the recent have not materially changed during the year notwithstanding unchanged during the year with no significant issues raised developments in the global political environment, including the the scaling down in activity levels.
Consequently, the Groups bythe Groups customers or during the Boards internal UKs Brexit vote, the potential policy changes following the potential exposure to HSE incidents remains materially monitoring process.
USpresidential elections, and the continuation of quantitative unchanged.
The Group experienced a small number of easing by the European Central Bank, among other events, minorHSE incidents in the year, which is significantly below theBoard does not consider these to have a material adverse theindustry average and is similar to the Groups record in impact on the Groups trading activities.
theBoard has concluded that there has been no reportable movement in the Groups geopolitical risk.
Controls and actions Controls and actions Controls and actions Areas exposed to high political risk are noted by the Board and The Board targets to achieve a record of nil incidents and full Quality assurance standards are monitored, measured and are strategically avoided.
Management and the Board closely compliance with the laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in regulated within the Group under the authority of a Quality monitors projected economic trends in order to match capacity which the Group operates.
Assurance Director, who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
Every Group facility is overseen by a health and safety officer with the responsibility for ensuring compliance with current and newly issued HSE standards.
The Board receives a Group HSE compliance report at every Board meeting.
THE DIVERSITY OF THE GROUPS EXPOSURE TO DIFFERENT THE GROUPS HSE PERFORMANCE IS DETAILED ON PAGE 41.
THE GROUPS COMMITMENT TO PRODUCT QUALITY IS GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS IS DESCRIBED ON PAGES 20 AND 21.
FURTHER COMMENT ON HSE IS PROVIDED ON PAGES 18 AND 19.
FURTHER COMMENT ON THE GROUPS COMMITMENT TO PRODUCT QUALITY IS PROVIDED ON PAGE 19.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 36 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 6.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 37 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED VIABILITY ASSESSMENT AND GOING CONCERN BASIS Viability Assessment In addition, the three-year financial projections were stress tested Hunting has a wide global customer base underpinned by strong, to simulate a further deterioration in market conditions.
The Group provides a large range of products and services through its manufacturing and distribution Conclusion facilities, which are located in a number of countries across Despite the current downturn within the oil and gas industry, the theglobe.
Board believes that the Groups strategy for growth, its diverse customer and product base, and the positive outlook for the oil In considering the Groups long-term viability, the Board regularly and gas industry in the medium-term provide Hunting with a assesses the risks to its business model, strategy, future strong platform on which to continue its business.
The Directors performance, solvency and liquidity.
These assessments are therefore have a reasonable expectation that Hunting will be able supported by the risk management processes described on to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due page 32 and include a review of the Groups exposure to the over the three-year period of their assessment.
oiland gas industry, competitor action, customer plans and therobustness of the supply chain.
Going Concern Basis The Groups principal cash outflows include capital investment, Assessment Period labour costs and inventory purchases.
The timing and extent of The Groups customers are principally involved in the exploration these cash flows are controlled by local management and the for and production of oil and gas.
Given the nature of the industry Board.
The Groups principal cash inflows are generated from the and the planning cycles involved, these activities can cover sale of its products and services, the level of which is dependent periods of no more than several weeks up to several years from on the variety of its products and ability to retain strong customer start to end.
Huntings management works closely with its relationships.
Cash inflows are further supported by the Groups customers over this period, discussing their operational plans credit insurance cover against customer default that, at and reviewing their longer-term capital expenditure programmes.
31 December 2016, covered the majority of its trade receivables, subject to certain limits.
Current and forecast cash debt balances The outlook for the Group beyond this period is generated from are reported on a weekly basis by each of the business units to a managements assessment of industrial data and projections centralised treasury function that uses the information to manage published by industry commentators and analysts, including the Groups day-to-day liquidity and longer-term funding needs statistics on exploration and production expenditure, footage through effective cash management programmes.
The Board believes that a three-year forward looking period, commencing on the date the annual Due to the losses made during 2016, the Groups $350m accounts are approved by the Board, is the appropriate length revolving credit facility was re-negotiated on 20 July 2016. oftime to reasonably assess the Groups viability.
The Groups Consequently, total committed facilities were reduced to $200m annual budget process and mid-term projections cover this and the EBITDA and interest cover measures were temporarily period and help to support the Boards assessment.
suspended and replaced with balance sheet based covenants.
Further details of the amendment are provided in note 27.
In Consideration of Principal Risks addition, the Board undertook an equity placing, raising a net consideration of $83.9m which completed on 31 October 2016, The nature of the Groups operations exposes the business to a variety of risks, which are noted on pages 33 to 37.
The Board further strengthening the balance sheet.
regularly reviews the principal risks and assesses the appropriate controls and further actions as described on pages 30 to 32.
The Group continues to have access to sufficient financial resources, including $200m of secured committed facilities TheBoard has further considered their potential impact within the context of the Groups viability.
ofwhich $179.5m was undrawn at 31 December 2016.
At31December 2016, the Group had sufficient headroom overallthe covenants and the Groups internal financial Assumptions projections indicate that this will remain the case over the In assessing the long-term viability of the Group, the Board made next12months and beyond.
the following assumptions: Review The raw material pricing environment within the energy industry remains weak in the short-term and becomes positive In conducting its review of the Groups ability to remain as a going concern, the Board assessed the Groups recent trading in the medium to long-term, given the global outlook for oil and gas demand, which is driven by growth within emerging performance and its latest forecasts, and took account of reasonably predictable changes in future trading performance.
markets and sustained demand from developed markets.
These are the fundamental drivers of Huntings core business The Board also considered the potential financial impact of the estimates, judgements and assumptions that were used to of manufacturing, supplying and distributing products and services which enable the extraction of oil and gas.
The Board is satisfied that allmaterial uncertainties have been identified.
Actions taken over the past two years to reduce the Groups cost base enable the business to endure the period of weak commodity prices andreduced shale drilling activity.
Conclusion The development of the global shale drilling industry The Board is satisfied that it has conducted a robust review of remains focused in the US where government support the Groups going concern and has a high level of confidence remains positive.
that the Group has the necessary liquid resources to meet its The Group will continue to have a medium to low exposure liabilities as they fall due.
Consequently, the Board considered to higher risk countries given the proportion of its current itappropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting revenues and profits derived from politically stable regions inpreparing these consolidated financial statements.
such as North America, Europe and South East Asia.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 38 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE BOARD IS SATISFIED THAT IT HAS CONDUCTED A ROBUST REVIEW OF THE GROUPS GOING CONCERN AND HAS A HIGH LEVEL OF CONFIDENCE THAT THE GROUP HAS THE NECESSARY LIQUID RESOURCES TO MEET ITS LIABILITIES AS THEY FALL DUE.
Hunting PLC 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 39
