Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 30 Financial review continued The Group is subject to two financial Table 2: Financial covenants non-statutory covenants.
At 31 December 2016, there was significant headroom on both Position at Covenant Definition Requirement 31 December 2016 requirements.
Consolidated net debt Ratio of consolidated net debt to 3.5:1 1.2:1 In March 2017, the Group successfully consolidated adjusted EBITDA refinanced its debt arrangements, to agree Interest cover Ratio of consolidated adjusted EBITDA 4:1 23:1 a 250 million RCF with six major banks at to consolidated interest expense improved interest terms.
The newly agreed debt arrangements contain covenant requirements in line with those of the Table 3: Earnings per share old debt.
2015 Exchange rates 2016 restated Statutory basic EPS 22.3p 32.6p The Group is exposed to movements in exchange rates when translating the results Adjusted basic EPS 18.1p 16.5p of the US operations from US Dollars to UK Sterling.
Sterling depreciated against the Dollar during 2016.
As noted above, the In 2015, the impacts of acquiring the Taxation impact of this was a 1.5 million benefit to operating entities in February 2015, which The Groups taxation charge was 20.5 adjusted EBITDA in 2016. resulted in negative goodwill of 115.7 million in the year ending 31 December million restated, together with acquisition 2016, resulting in an effective tax rate of related expenses 10.4 million, were Corporate overheads 18.5%.
This was lower than the standard classified as exceptional.
Additionally, IPO As the Group makes a full transition to rate of UK taxation of 20.0% due to the costs totalling 13.7 million in the year a listed business, we are experiencing reducing deferred taxation rate applied.
ended 31 December 2015 were similarly greater stability in the central overhead classified as exceptional.
In 2015, the Group recognised a tax credit costs incurred.
Incremental plc costs of 7.7 million restated on Group pre-tax As management has a newly defined of 3.4 million were incurred in 2016, profits of 86.3 million restated.
Negative programme of surplus property disposals, increasing the total from 0.7 million to goodwill restated, other exceptional items we have taken the decision to include the 4.1 million, including share-based and the impact of future tax rate changes gain upon disposal in our adjusted payment expenses of 1.9 million.
The on the deferred tax provision in 2015 all measures in the current year since we increase in 2016 primarily reflects a full had a significant impact on the effective expect similar items to recur regularly in 12-months of costs in 2016, compared to tax rate.
These represent a gain of a little over two months in the prior year 0.6 million in 2016. following our listing in late October 2015.
Earnings per share We anticipate a similar level of cost in 2017.
The loss on disposal and asset The statutory basic EPS was 22.3 pence impairments of 1.4 million in the prior The following commentary relates to our in 2016.
The movement in statutory basic period was recorded as an exceptional statutory performance for the period.
EPS in 2015 is distorted by the significant item.
Exceptional items are analysed in exceptional non-trading items occurring Note 5 to the Group consolidated Exceptional items during 2015, as described in table 3 above.
In line with our accounting policy for Our adjusted EPS metric removes the Finance costs exceptional items, we have excluded impact of exceptional non-trading items, certain items from our adjusted results.
Finance costs of 4.4 million were as described above.
Additionally, the fair incurred in the year ending 31 December The non-cash pension curtailment gain value uplifts resulting from our acquisition 2016, significantly below the level of the arising on the closure of the Groups UK accounting have been removed from the comparative period.
Finance costs for defined benefit pension scheme, adjusted EPS calculation along with the period ended 31 December 2015 of discussed below, along with associated non-cash interest impacts.
The changes 69.4 million are as a result of the costs, has been classified as exceptional to our measure for 2016 are described in acquisition of the operating entities from in the current year.
Note 11 to the Group consolidated financial CRH in February 2015, along with the statements.
The adjusted EPS figures have subsequent refinancing at the time of been included to provide a clearer guide as the IPO.
to the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31 Within our US segment, certain Additionally, as noted in our Viability Dividend employees are members of two multiStatement on page 37, the Directors have A final dividend of 5.3 pence per share employer post-employment schemes.
performed a comprehensive assessment 2015: 4.4 pence is being recommended At 31December 2016, a liability of of the Groups viability as a business over for payment on 9 June 2017 to shareholders 9.4 million 2015: 8.0 million has been a longer period and concluded that the on the register at the close of business on recognised in relation to these schemes, Group reasonably expects to continue in 12 May 2017. with a large element of the increase operation and meet its liabilities as they fall resulting from the movement in exchange due over that three-year timeframe.
This is in addition to our interim dividend rates in the year.
paid in September 2016 of 2.4pence per share and is line with our dividend policy, Risks and uncertainties Further details are provided in Note 21 to which is based on a pay-out ratio of the Group consolidated financial The Board continually assesses and 40-50% of adjusted profit after taxation statements.
monitors the key risks impacting our over a business cycle.
Whilst the list is not intended to Prior period adjustment be exhaustive, and some risks are outside Pensions of the Groups control, the principal risks During 2016 management identified a and uncertainties that could have a material During 2016, the Group operated a defined misstatement related to information impact on the Groups performance are set benefit scheme in the UK, which closed presented within the 2015 Annual Report & out in detail in our Risk management report to new members in 2011, together with a Accounts.
The restatement resulted in the on pages 34 to 36. number of defined contribution schemes.
recognition of an additional deferred At 31 December 2016, the defined benefit Kevin Sims taxation liability at the date of acquisition Chief Financial Officer scheme was in an actuarial accounting and a corresponding reduction in negative 7 March 2017 deficit position of 28.7 million following goodwill.
As a result, the comparative minimum funding requirement liability amounts for the prior period have been recognition of 14.2 million 2015: restated within the financial statements.
8.0 million restricted to 0.3 million Further detail is set out in Note 1 to the against pension liabilities at the year-end Group consolidated financial statements.
The increase in liabilities principally Subsequent events resulted from the movement in corporate bond yields during the year offset by the Along with the proposed dividend, the curtailment gain, whilst asset levels Group refinanced its debt arrangements in increased to 684 million 2015: 559 March 2017 as described in Note 34 to the million due to positive asset returns.
Group consolidated financial statements to a 250 million RCF replacing the facilities in In August 2016, the Group announced its place at 31 December 2016.
There have intention to conduct a consultation with been no further events subsequent to the UK defined benefit scheme members, 31December 2016, which management regarding a proposal to close the scheme believe require adjustment or disclosure.
to future accrual for all active members.
The schemes active members all Going concern and longerconsented to this change in December term viability 2016 and, from 1 February 2017, have joined the UK defined contribution scheme.
The Group continues to meet its day to day working capital and other funding This decision has resulted in costs requirements through a combination of associated with the closure of 1.6 million, long-term funding and cash deposits.
As which are classified as exceptional in our noted, above, the Groups banking facilities 2016 results.
Upon closure, a non-cash are a five-year 250 million RCF replacing curtailment gain of 30.3 million has also the five-year 200 million loan and a been recognised and treated as 40million committed RCF undrawn at exceptional.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 32 Risk management The Groups risk management process includes both top-down and bottom-up elements to the identification, evaluation and management of risks.
Risk arises from the operations of, As noted in our 2015 Annual Report & Following the Risk Committees meeting, and strategic decisions taken by, Accounts, the Audit Committee had a Group risk assessment was formulated every business and our approach to commissioned a third party review of the and validated by the Executive Directors risk management is not to eliminate Groups internal control processes.
This prior to approval by the Board.
This formed risk entirely, but rather provide the independent health-check of the Groups a key component of the Directors robust structural means to identify, prioritise risk management was completed during assessment of the principal risks facing the and manage the risks involved in our the first half of 2016 and concluded that the Group including those that would activities.
The Board of Directors is Groups internal control framework was fit threaten its business model, future ultimately responsible for the Groups for purpose.
The exercise helped establish performance, solvency or liquidity.
These risk management processes and a base line of internal controls and are set out in the table on pages 34 to 36. internal control systems.
subsequently RSM LLP were appointed The Audit Committee supports the Board as the Groups outsourced Internal Audit The Board has considered the nature and in monitoring the risk exposures and is provider to deliver a programme of internal extent of risks it is willing to take in pursuit responsible for reviewing the effectiveness audits to continue to monitor the processes of the Groups strategic objectives.
It has of our risk management and internal and controls in operation.
assessed the Groups risk appetite, which control systems.
During 2016, no is set to balance opportunities for business The outsourced provider designed an significant failings or weaknesses in the development and growth in areas of independent programme of audits, which Groups internal controls were found.
potentially higher risk, whilst maintaining was approved by the Audit Committee, The Audit Committee is assisted in our reputation and high levels of customer and commenced these audits in the evaluating the design and operating satisfaction.
second half of the year, supplementing the effectiveness of our risk strategies and Groups own operational audit activities.
In considering the Groups appetite for risk, the internal controls implemented by this is set depending upon the particular Risk matrices are maintained and reviewed management by the Groups outsourced risk associated to our Group strategy: by each subsidiary entity within the Group.
These matrices are the result of input and n Safety there is a zero tolerance for The structure of our Group risk management challenge undertaken by the senior health and safety related risks or process is illustrated opposite.
managers within the entity and the Groups non-compliance with related legislation Executive Directors, and are refreshed at and statutory requirements: least once per annum.
At a Group level, n Invest the criteria for investment the Board reviews these matrices and the allocates the Groups resources in a analysis of potential exposures which exist manner consistent with the Groups within them.
Risks are continually evaluated strategy and planned internal rates of using consistent measurement criteria.
return: and During the year, the Audit Committee n Innovate whilst delivering activity approved a Group Risk Committee aimed at introducing innovative products, comprising senior managers from across the Group accepts short-term margin the Group.
The Committee participated dilution, but aims for market-leading in a risk workshop facilitated by the operating margins and returns on capital.
Groups outsourced Internal Auditor, and considered the risk matrices prepared: The Groups risk management process ranked the identified risks at a Group level: includes both top-down and bottom-up and determined the extent of Group-wide elements to the identification, evaluation mitigating actions currently being and management of risks.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33 Risk management framework To effectively manage risk, operational Board level controls are embedded across Ultimate responsibility the Group and form a key part of day to day processes.
During 2016, a key component of the Directors assessment of the risk was managements review of the risk matrices Group Management Team prepared by each subsidiary entity, which Support for the Board Internal Oversight, were monitored in conjunction with the Reporting Audit direction Groups outsourced Internal Audit function.
and Independent and escalation The Board maintained its ultimate assurance governance responsibility for the Groups control monitoring and provided direction to Audit Committee management in its assessment of Review effectiveness Group-wide risk.
Operation level controls embedded across the Group Day to day activities to identify and manage risk Managing risk Impact The Group uses a heatmap to provide a Low Significant Major Critical Catastrophic visual, holistic view of the risk environment and assist in the management of risks.
1 2 Almost The heatmap gives the Directors 3 7 10 certain assessment of the gross risk together with the residual risk following mitigation 9 6 and reduction of the risk through the 2 7 internal control actions established by 11 Likely 1 the Group.
5 3 12 1 Economic conditions 8 10 4 Possible 2 Government action and policy 12 3 Government regulation 4 Customer relationships and reputation 5 Business disruption 5 9 6 6 Recruitment and retention of key personnel Unlikely 7 Input prices 8 11 4 8 Product quality 9 Financial risk management 10 Pension obligations 11 Cyber security Rare 12 Brexit Inherent risk Residual risk Likelihood Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 34 Risk management continued Principal risks Description Mitigation 1 Economic conditions The Groups business could be materially impacted by changes in the The Group analyses construction statistics for the past five years and, macroeconomic environment in the UK and the US.
using independent forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts future demand with the aim of anticipating market movements.
Specifically, demand for the Groups products is strongly correlated with residential construction and renovation activities and non-residential The Group has historically flexed capacity and its cost base where possible construction, together with the supply chains attitude to stock levels, during economic downturns to allow more of the Groups manufacturing which are cyclical.
plants to remain open and viable, maintaining skills, development and training.
The Group believes that this maintained employee morale and high levels of customer service through the last economic downturn.
It also allows the Group to respond more rapidly to increases in demand and keep customers satisfied.
The Groups RMI and specification product ranges diversify end-use exposure and provide greater resilience in light of changing market demand in any of its end-use markets.
2 Government action and policy The Group has an exposure to both UK or US political developments.
The Group analyses construction statistics for the past five years and, Material reductions in Government spending, or changes in Government using independent forecasts of construction statistics, forecasts demand policy, could have a material effect on demand for the Groups products for the next five years with the aim of anticipating market movements.
reducing sales and affecting the Groups financial results.
The change in climate post 2015s UK General Election and Autumn Budget are favourable to housing, as well as recent changes to developing brownfield land and the 200,000 affordable homes the Government is targeting to be built by 2020.
These measures, in addition to the National Planning Policy Framework NPPF and Help to Buy scheme, show the Governments current commitment to house building.
The UK Governments white paper Fixing our broken housing market of February 2017 is also supportive of housing.
However, the Group recognises the risk which can result from political changes or economic uncertainty.
RMI and new housing demands are, to a certain extent, counter-cyclical to each other, providing some balance to the portfolio of offerings for the Group.
3 G overnment regulation and standards relating to the manufacture and use of building products The Groups production, manufacturing and distribution activities are The health and wellbeing of our employees is fundamental to our subject to health and safety risks.
We have stringent Health and Safety policies and monitor compliance regularly.
The Group is subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and these may change.
These laws and regulations could We have also invested considerable resources in employee training across cause the Group to make modifications to how it manufactures and prices our manufacturing processes.
We have invested heavily in safe systems its products.
They could also require that the Group make significant and facilities to protect our employees.
capital investments or otherwise increase its costs or could result in The Group actively monitors for any legislative changes which it may need liabilities.
Failure of the Group to comply with the relevant regulations could result in the Group being liable to fines or a suspension of operations, which would impact the Groups financial results.
Movement of risk: Increase Decrease No change Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 35 Description Mitigation 4 Customer relationships and reputation The Group receives a significant portion of its revenue from key customers The Group has a service-led ethos with many top customer relationships and the loss of any such customer could result in a significant loss of lasting over 40 years.
The Groups customer focus is supported by a revenue and cash flow.
Further, the Group does not have long-term commitment to quality, service and consistency.
contracts with its customers and the Groups revenue could be reduced The Groups sales and production teams are highly integrated to ensure if its customers switch some or all of their business with the Group to that production aligns with customers needs.
Sales teams receive in-depth other suppliers.
technical training and are assisted by a design support service team as well as targeted marketing materials to assist with specification and selection.
All four of the Groups primary businesses have their own sales teams aligned by customer group and region in order to focus on key decisionmakers and customers.
Key account management is supervised at a senior level where long-term relationships benefit from the continuity of senior management who have the ability to liaise across the Groups businesses.
The Group has a broad spread of customers and no single customer comprises more than 10% of the total Group revenue.
5 Business disruption A material disruption at one of the Groups manufacturing facilities or The Group has the ability to transfer some of its production across its quarries, or at one of the Groups suppliers facilities, could prevent the network of plants and is able to engage subcontractors to reduce the Group from meeting customer demand.
impact of certain production disruptions.
The Group depends on efficient and uninterrupted operations of its In relation to supplier disruption or failure, further third party suppliers have information and communication technology, and any disruption to or been identified who can maintain service in the event of a disruption.
interruptions in these operations could have a material adverse effect In relation to IT, a major incident action plan has been developed and the on the Groups operations and financial performance.
Group maintains data backups and a comprehensive disaster recovery Additionally, the Group is exposed to the impact of unexpected or plan see also Risk 11, overleaf.
prolonged periods of bad weather, which could adversely affect Although weather conditions are completely beyond the Groups control, construction activity and, as a result, demand for the Groups products.
in both the UK and US in 2016 adverse weather did not impact on trading in the context of the full year.
Management do not underestimate the potential impact that future prolonged periods of bad weather could have.
The Groups wide geographical spread allows it to manage its production facilities to mitigate the impact of such disruption.
6 Recruitment and retention of key personnel The Group is dependent on qualified personnel in key positions and We ensure that we recognise the changing labour markets, and packages employees having special technical knowledge and skills.
Any loss of for key and senior staff remain competitive.
such personnel without timely replacement could significantly disrupt The Group believes that it is essential to protect and develop the business operations.
management team, where appropriate ensuring that the team is structured in a way which best takes advantage of the available skills and robustly identifies the team and structure for the future.
Extensive succession plans are in place, which is key to ensuring a managed transfer of roles and responsibilities.
Apprenticeship schemes are in operation with a yearly intake across the business engineering and technical based.
High potential individuals are identified with development plans formulated.
External recruits are brought in where any skill gaps are identified and to enhance the talent pool.
7 Input prices The Groups business may be affected by volatility in extraction expenses Significant input costs are under constant review, with continuous and raw material costs.
Risks exist around our ability to pass on increased monitoring of raw material costs, energy prices and haulage expenses, costs through price increases to our customers.
with the aim of achieving the best possible prices and assuring stability of supply.
The Groups business may also be affected by volatility in energy costs or disruptions in energy supplies.
As competitors of the Group are likely to experience similar levels of input price increases, we aim to have appropriate pricing policies to remain Significant changes in the cost or availability of transportation could affect competitive within our markets and pass on significant increases in input the Groups results.
costs to our customers wherever possible.
