ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 16 ICAPs risk profile STRATEGIC REPORT ICAP recognises nine core risk categories: strategic, operational, liquidity, reputation, credit, legal and regulatory, cross-risk, RISK market and financial.
ICAPs profile of these risks is continually evolving, driven by: changes in the markets within which we operate: MANAGEMENT ICAPs strategies and business objectives: and ICAPs business operating models.
ICAP seeks to generate attractive returns through informed risk taking and robust risk management.
As such the effective management and control of both the upside of risk taking and its potential downside is a fundamental core competency of the Group.
Protecting revenue and reputation The Group does not intend or expect to take material losses during the ordinary course of its activities.
This is because of its fee and commission earning business model which is predominantly based on customer activity and usage of its services.
ICAP does not wish to expose itself to material credit or market risks and does not intentionally hold or deal in assets that stay on its balance sheet for any longer than the normal settlement cycle on the occasions when it is involved in matched principal or exchange-traded broking.
The Group proactively seeks to invest in, and develop, innovative products and services.
Wendy Phillis Risk appetite Chief Risk and Compliance Officer The board sets and monitors risk appetite through the nine core risk categories.
Each year ICAPs risk appetite statements and respective limits are set alongside its strategic plans, recognising the key drivers of the risks ICAP expects to face as a Group in During the past financial year the coming 12 months.
our risk and compliance focus The board has overall responsibility for the governance of ICAPs risk management and ensures there are adequate and effective has included the strengthening internal systems of control with clear responsibilities for the setting of risk appetites, the identification and assessment of of our capability to manage risks, their monitoring, reporting and mitigation.
emerging technology risks, including cyber risk, managing the risks Strategic change of strategic change and the ICAP engages in diverse operations in a complex, often further embedding of employee regulated environment and recognises that material changes to and or expansion of any our businesses present conduct and responsibilities opportunities and risks.
The Group allows business divisions and Group functions autonomy to pursue initiatives and within the organisation.
We recognise, however, the need for assessment and, where necessary, additional review, Looking forward to 2016 17 the risk focus will be on: approval, and transparency to Group management to ensure monitoring market conditions, especially the impact of oil strategic, operational and risk alignment within the Group.
prices and considerations of a potential UK exit from the EU: identifying growth and business opportunities through the The largest strategic change for the Group this year implementation of regulatory changes such as MiFID II: is the Transaction with Tullett Prebon.
Our ability to managing the change risks associated with the Transaction: manage this strategy and execute the operational further enhancing of our risk capital modelling: and changes is a key competency of the Group and a focus enhancing risk managements business intelligence capability.
The Groups significant business initiative approach requires that the Groups principal risks and impacts on our risk appetite are explicitly considered as a part of strategic transactions.
The assessment of these risks and the mitigation of them through the change process has been a key focus of the Group during 2015 16 and will continue throughout the coming year.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 17 Risk management framework ICAPs risk management framework identifies, assesses, Cyber security monitors, reports and mitigates the risks that could impact the ability to execute our strategy and meet our stakeholders A global upsurge of cyber attacks in recent years has received expectations.
To ensure a consistent risk management approach much attention in the press as well as in boardrooms.
Private globally, the framework is used across all risk disciplines with individuals, government entities and commercial enterprises the following pillars: have been among the victims.
Attacks are perpetrated by a variety of malicious parties, from hacktivists to organised Governance: in addition to appropriate governance at all criminals to state-sponsored entities.
levels of the Group, as detailed in the corporate governance statement, this pillar incorporates risk appetite responsibilities, ICAP is very aware of the threat this poses to its business the completeness of our risk taxonomy, roles and responsibilities and the evolving landscape, with the board and executive within three lines of defence and the continued fostering of the management devoting time and attention to cyber risk corporate risk management culture.
ICAP maintains active links with peer provides the structure for the assessment of the sustainability associations and appropriate government agencies to keep of the ICAP business model, capital adequacy and the capability abreast of developments and has timely access to cyber of the Group to withstand and react to extreme events.
Supporting this network, a new framework assessments are described in more detail in the principal risks has been developed and adopted across ICAP to actively table on pages 18 and 19 and set the basis of the viability monitor and manage these risks with formal monitoring statement on page 58. a part of the standard risk management activity.
Policy and methodologies: clear, principle-based policies for our risk types reflecting the boards risk appetite, supported by clear standards for the identification, evaluation and treatment of risk.
Third line of defence: internal audit provides independent Operating requirements: these include the procedural testing and verification of business line compliance as well as guidance for the effective execution of our risk policies, assurance that the risk management process is functioning organisational responsibilities, design and use of our risk as designed.
management systems and reporting and escalation of risk.
A key aspect of the three lines of defence model is that Three lines of defence senior management, in particular those with responsibility The Groups governance structure is designed such that the for front office, support functions and Group functions, have business is the first line of defence, the risk management full accountability for the management of the risks in their and compliance departments the second line of defence specific businesses.
This is done within the limits and the with internal audit as the third line of defence.
control environment established by the Group.
First line of defence: the business is responsible for the identification, control and management of its own risks.
All staff and managers are required to take a prudent approach Second line of defence: risk management and compliance to risk taking and to review regularly the effectiveness of their ensure that well designed risk and compliance frameworks control environment and compliance with the Groups risk are in place to facilitate risk management responsibilities appetite.
The Groups risk management processes are dynamic, and provide independent oversight and challenge of the reflecting changes in the Groups strategies and the external risk execution and risk profile of the business.
drivers in the global market in which it operates.
ICAPs risk management framework Our Our Risk strategies values appetites and goals Our current and How we operate Respect for Third line of defence future targets control Governance Second line of defence Risk management framework Risks we face external Policies and methodologies Risks we face internal Risks we take Policy standards, guidance and training First line of defence Operating requirements: roles and responsibilities, supervision, procedures, systems and controls ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 18 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued The following table summarises the risks of principal importance to ICAP over the financial period, our appetite, their drivers and key mitigating actions.
These principal risks are monitored and assessed throughout the organisation and at the Risk Committee, via the Groups risk appetite approach.
Additionally, stress testing of the sustainability of ICAPs business plan is undertaken through the assessment of extreme impact events tail-risk events to provide an understanding of those risks that have the potential to make the business model unviable.
Principal risk type Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation Strategic risk The risk arising To ensure ICAP remains competitive in its chosen Regulatory Business case and risk assessment from inappropriate strategic markets, identifying and optimising landscape of significant business initiatives.
strategic decisions commercial opportunities requires ICAP to assess impacting our Defined product, country that fail to reflect the risks, rewards and costs associated with each.
business or our and customer strategies.
the full business customers Strategic risks generally manifest over operating businesses.
Surveillance of market, regulatory a medium time frame allowing corrective environment, and or landscape and customer demand.
Commercial full impacts on market Risk scenario contingency planning.
execution, or fail to Appetite: ICAP will innovate and grow through conditions.
adequately or timely considered initiatives and acquisitions that are identify changes to scalable, experience positive switching network Internal business the business model.
effects or show a competitive advantage.
Operational risk The risk of loss While ICAPs reputation is built on strong Internal business The Group maintains an operational resulting from execution of service, ICAP actively identifies, operating model.
risk framework, with independent inadequate or monitors and controls the risk that its people, risk function oversight.
failed internal processes or systems fail leading to a reduction Timely escalation and mitigation processes, people in the quality of service to our customers and Market of risk events.
and systems, or an increase in our operating costs.
Provision of training and guidance.
Operational risks could manifest themselves across any time frame.
Appetite: ICAP will take measures to identify and proportionally manage operational risk to a desired Cyber security programme, level through mitigating systems, processes and including penetration testing.
controls, but recognises operational risk is inherent Critical technology monitoring.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the ICAP has short-term liquidity requirements Operational risk.
Periodic reviews including risk that the Group arising from settlement and clearing going concern assessments.
Credit risk or any of its entities arrangements, in the form of collateral and events.
Use of financial institutions for do not have sufficient margin requirements for clearing houses or clearing access.
liquid resources or financial institutions providing clearing access.
Operating are unable to deploy It is possible large liquidity demands may business model.
$250 million of committed liquidity such resources to arise on the same or next day, due to reasons held centrally for same and next meet their actual or beyond ICAPs direct control.
The Group ensures day utilisation.
potential obligations adequate liquidity resources are maintained Contingency funding arrangements in a timely manner to meet these requirements in support of its and procedures in place.
Longer-term requirements arise in relation to the timing of the Groups operating cash inflows against outflows, principally for capital expenditure and dividends.
The Group maintains a diversified funding base with sufficient committed headroom to forecast requirements.
Appetite: ICAP will have sufficient financial resources to ensure there is no significant risk that it is unable to access and utilise these resources to meet financial obligations as they fall due.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 19 Principal risk type Importance to ICAP Key drivers Mitigation Reputation risk The risk that the ICAP remains focused on maintaining and Operational risk.
Active assessment via investor Group fails to meet constantly strengthening relationships with relationship surveys, media surveys Regulatory risk expectations of shareholders, customers, regulators, lenders, and employee statistics.
stakeholders, is clearing and settlement providers, market Culture and conduct initiatives.
unable to build or infrastructure providers and employees.
sustain relationships Reputation risk can manifest over the near with customers, term with long-term impacts.
incurs regulatory censure or Appetite: ICAP will adhere to its core values and experiences more fulfil its corporate responsibilities by ensuring it costly access to acts responsibly, ethically and with integrity.
Credit risk The risk of a financial While ICAP enters into transactions only when Market Counterparty due diligence.
loss due to the failure executing on behalf of customers, providing conditions.
of a customer to customer access to clearing, or provides Counterparty meet its obligation additional fee-based services to customers, Risk scenario and stress credit to settle outstanding there does exist short-term credit exposure contingency planning.
prior to clearing and settlement, and outstanding receivables risk that ICAP manages.
Appetite: ICAP will only engage in activities which it believes will not result in loss due to significant credit risk.
Legal and regulatory risk Legal risk can arise ICAP operates in multiple jurisdictions and Multiple ICAP has internal legal and from defective remains focused on ensuring it recognises and and dynamic compliance departments which transactions, failing respects the rules and laws to which it is held.
regulatory act as independent advisory and to take appropriate ICAP also recognises that the conduct of the regimes.
investigation functions to enable and measures to protect Group and its employees is of paramount defend the Groups strategic aims.
Regulatory risks assets, changes importance to its strategic aims and reputation.
Both legal policies and compliance conduct risk.
in law and or breach risk management frameworks Legal and regulatory risk can manifest over the of law or acceptable strengthen this defence.
practice, and claims, Advice is taken regularly from resulting in a liability Appetite: ICAP will have in place processes, appropriately qualified external or loss to a controls and frameworks to comply with legal advisors and professionals.
company ies and regulatory requirements and will use within the Group.
appropriate external legal advisors for Training is provided to staff contentious matters and litigation.
For the on an ongoing basis.
Regulatory risk is the avoidance of doubt, ICAP has no appetite risk of material loss, Culture and conduct initiatives.
for material legal or regulatory breaches.
regulatory sanction, or reputational damage arising from the failure to comply with relevant regulatory requirements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 20 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued In addition to the principal risks, the Group also recognises, and actively manages the following Group risks: Other Group risks Importance to ICAP Key risk drivers Mitigation Cross risk The risk that the In support of achieving its commercial targets, ICAPs credit Predictability of earnings Group and its ICAP works diligently with all stakeholders to worthiness.
discipline is applied to existing divisions fail to identify threats and opportunities.
financial performance and new Market maintain its business proposals.
Appetite: ICAP will monitor its internal and external competition.
commercial targets environment in order to maintain stable and Maintenance of ICAPs external due to either internal robust financial performance over the long term.
Market risk The risk of losses in ICAP does not actively take market risk.
Volume and Monitoring and timely mitigation on and off-balance Where it does arise this is due to failures in complexity of of unmatched positions.
sheet positions arising our expected business processes, systems trade booking.
from adverse or human error.
As such it is identified and Market movements in treated as operational risk.
Appetite: ICAP will not engage in proprietary liquidity.
trading or actively seek market exposure and will actively reduce any incidental market exposure resulting from its activities as soon as reasonably practicable.
Financial risk The risk that the Interest rate risk from the Groups exposure to Market rates.
Details of the Groups management Group is exposed rate fluctuations on cash balances and borrowings.
of interest rate and currency risks Trading volume.
to significant losses are contained in notes 9 and 27 Currency translation risk arising from the conversion due to adverse Geographic to the financial statements.
of foreign currency results to pound sterling for movements in profile.
the preparation of ICAP plcs consolidated Established Group policies for the interest and financial statements.
management of interest rate and Regulatory and exchange rates.
working capital Currency risk for the Groups entities arising from requirements.
transactions, assets or liabilities denominated Long-term debt raised with fixed in a foreign currency for an individual entity.
rates with the option to swap to variable rates.
Appetite: ICAP will manage its financial risks in accordance with approved policies for the Group.
Quarterly review of currency exposures and hedging levels.
Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions ICAP plc Annual Report 2016 21 While facing the same inherent risks to which the Group as a whole is exposed, the business models, markets and risk profiles of the divisions are unique.
ICAPs risk management and governance frameworks are designed to support the top-down assessment of risk for the Group, as well as supporting relevant business decision making and risk management of the revenue generating entities.
Each division is responsible for the management of its risks.
The risk and compliance functions provide independent oversight and subject matter challenge to the first line of defence in support of its risk management responsibilities.
The key risks faced by each division in the 2015 16 financial year are set out below: Business risk drivers Key changes Risks Electronic Markets Relationships customers, New products hybrid exchanges.
Strategic reputation risk failure to deliver existing employees.
Infrastructure including for Operational risk failure in its technology provision Regulatory landscape.
Protect and grow market share.
Operational risk failure of cyber security measures to withstand external attacks.
Credit liquidity risk material intra-day liquidity Short-term credit exposure demands for settlement margin.
to customers prior to clearing.
Legal and regulatory risk maintaining and receiving Liquidity to settle trades licence to operate in chosen jurisdictions.
Post Trade Risk and Information Relationships customers, Volume growth.
Operational risk failure to manage market and employees.
customer data, and or batch processes completely, New product development.
Operational risk failure of cyber security measures External cyber security threats.
Legal and regulatory risk upstream requirements e. g. MiFID II.
Global Broking Relationships customers, Stressed market conditions.
Strategic risk market consolidation, reducing margin.
Focus on niche products markets.
Operational risk failure of cyber security measures Infrastructure including for to withstand external attacks.
Credit liquidity risk material intra-day liquidity Internal consolidation.
Credit risk stressed market conditions.
Short-term credit exposure to Legal and regulatory risk upstream requirements customers in the settlement e. g. MiFID II, conduct risk.
Liquidity to settle trades and meet margin calls.
