MANAGING OUR RISKS Our strategy depends on the effective management of our business risks.
By identifying the nature and potential impact of these risks, we can design and operate processes that ensure our risks are effectively controlled and mitigated.
Over time, we have developed a robust and consistent Risk Management Framework that we continually seek to improve.
In this section we explain how we manage risk in accordance with our risk appetite which is underpinned by the Groups Risk Management Framework.
We also explain in detail the key risks we face, our governance structure for risk management and the reporting cycle that we use to monitor and report on risk.
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK EVALUATING PRINCIPAL RISKS ANDSETTING OUR RISK APPETITE The diagram to the right sets out the framework for the Board and Executive Committees, independent control functions and The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management and ongoing business operations that exercise governance over risk.
Risk management is an integral part of the Groups activities.
This starts with evaluating the principal risks to which the Group is  the Boards risk appetite.
Our Risk Management The risk appetite defines the amount of risk the Board is prepared to accept, both on an individual risk and aggregate basis, in Framework provides the pursuit of its business objectives and strategic goals.
Board with assurance that we Risk is assessed across the Group using a clearly defined risk management frameworkwhich incorporates both internal and have evaluatedand managed external factors.
The Group has a set of Key Risk Indicators KRIs which balance our risks as far as possible, quantitative and qualitative measures to provide an indication of increasing or declining risk levels over an appropriate timescale within appropriate predefined and provides parameters within which the business can operate.
To establish effective governance over risk, we have developed a Risk Management Framework to identify, measure, manage and monitor the risks faced by the business.
It comprises our Risk Governance Framework and Risk Reporting Cycle.
RISK REPORTING CYCLE Risk monitoring and reporting in IG is undertaken daily with several daily reports covering key market, credit and liquidity metrics.
Formal risk reporting comprises the following key risk reports: REPORT FORUM FREQUENCY CONTENT Market, credit, liquidity and operational risk exposures EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE WEEKLY DASHBOARD including stress testing results, review of high risk clients and summary of operational incidents.
BOARD RISK REPORT MONTHLY Capital and liquidity metrics: summary of market, credit and operational risk profile: conduct and regulatory risk summary: information security and cyber risk.
ICAAP ILAA REVIEW QUARTERLY Review of regulatory capital and liquidity position of the Group, including review of Pillar 2 risks and temporary capital add-ons held in respect of specific risk issues.
44 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT THE BOARD Evaluates risk and determines risk governance arrangements Reviews and challenges the system of internal controls and risk management Sets and reviews the risk appetite and the key risk indicators Reviews and challenges capital and liquidity stress-testing Reviews and challenges updates from the Board Risk Committee Approves the Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES BOARD RISK COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Sets out IGs Values Evaluates risks and determines risk Oversees the execution of the IG Strategy on behalf management arrangements of the Board Considers the risk appetite and KRIs for the current Agrees and recommends the Business Plan to the and future strategyand recommends for approval by Board and manages the delivery of the agreed the Board Business Plan Reviews and challenges the Internal Capital Adequacy Defines and allocates overall budgets and resources Assessment Process ICAAP, Internal Liquidity to ensure the organisation has the capabilities and Adequacy Assessment ILAA and Recovery Plan resources to deliver the objectives in the Business Plan, and oversees the control of costs Ensures rigorous stress-testing and scenario-testing of Ensures there is an effective management structure and the Groups business organisation within the Group which is consistent with Ensures a sufficient level of risk mitigation is in place the effective delivery of the Business Plan Reviews the Groups major risk exposures Oversees performance across IG including performance Considers the adequacy and effectiveness of against agreed Key Performance Indicators in all the technology infrastructure and supporting aspects of IGs operations documentation in the Risk Management Framework Reviews and approves major change and key investment initiatives and, where required, submits for Provides input to the Remuneration Committee on Board approval the alignment of the remuneration policy to risk Discusses any matter which any member of the performance Committee believes to be of such importance that it should be brought to the attention of the Committee REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Reviews the structure and level of remuneration EXECUTIVE RISK COMMITTEE throughout the business and assesses the impact of Oversees the day-to-day risk management activity remuneration on risk across the Group Evaluates the risks in the context of Groups risk appetite AUDIT COMMITTEE Maintains the Risk Management Framework Receives, analyses and evaluates risk MI Receives annual reporting from the Board Risk Deals with specific risk issues as they arise Committee on the Groups internal controls and Risk Analyses the regulatory environment for Management Framework forthcoming changes Reviews an assessment of the control environment, via Evaluates new business transactions internal audit reports, and progress on implementing both internal and external audit recommendations ICAAP AND ILAA COMMITTEE Monitors and reviews the internal audit functions Oversees the results of the ongoing stress-testing effectiveness in the overall context of the Groups and scenario-testing process, ensuring that risks are internal controls and risk-management systems continuously identified and assessed Considers the impact on capital and liquidity of changes NOMINATION COMMITTEE in strategy or the operating environment Reviews the KRIs on a quarterly basis Identifies and recommends suitable candidates for appointment to the Board to ensure that its CLIENT MONEY COMMITTEE composition meets Groups needs Oversees the processes and controls over segregating Ensuresthat succession plans are in place client funds and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA s client assets CASS operational oversight function Monitors and reviews the levels of prudent margin in the UK and buffers in client money pools outside the UK CONTROL FUNCTIONS Additional levels of assurance are provided by control functions, which are independent of the business operations namely finance, risk, compliance, legal and internal audit.
The control functions provide periodic reporting to the Board and Executive Committees as appropriate.
INTERNAL AUDIT |FINANCE | RISK | COMPLIANCE | LEGAL BUSINESS OPERATIONS In addition to the control functions, we have embedded risk management into our underlying business operations.
Heads of departments are responsible for maintaining risk registers and, where necessary, taking action to mitigate risks and enhance the control environment.
The risk and compliance control functions use these registers in coordinating the identification, measurement and monitoring of risk across the business.
INTERNAL CONTROLS IMPLEMENTED BY MANAGEMENT 45 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company.
This is a continual process particularly in the regulatory environment under which we operate.
We prepare an ICAAP, ILAA and Recovery and Resolution Plan each year all of which focus on the risks we face, stress-testing of our business model and projections to ensure the business is solvent, liquid and viable.
Our principal risks and the mitigation actions taken are detailed below: KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO CHANGE FROM COMMENTARY STRATEGY LAST YEAR REGULATORY RISK Regulatory risk is one of our most We engagewith regulators and policymakers in the jurisdictions we operate or intend The industry continues to witness increased levels of government and regulatory to expand our product offering into, as part of policy consultations and by investing intervention in the financial sector with increasing regulatory rules and laws both in significant risks and we look at it from in public relations programmes ensuring we have access to up-to-date information on the UK and overseas affecting the Groups operations.
We are closely monitoring three different angles: regulatory change.
this and working with the respective regulators.
Change risk We participatein discussions with regulators that are considering changing their regulations As our business becomes more complex and geographically diverse, this risk also is the risk that one of our regulators in order to allow retail derivative trading.
grows, and we remain committed to increasing our investment in our framework to introduces new regulations or the manage risk controls.
Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust line of defence, ensuring that our regulatory environment itself changes processes and controls are effective in ensuring compliance with regulatory obligations.
During the year, the Group has successfully undergone a number of external reviews impacting on the way we operate into key areas such as client money and information security, giving us assurance We workclosely with our regulators to ensure that we operate to the highest regulatory our business.
that we are managing and controlling breach risk well.
standards and can adapt quickly to regulatory change.
Expansion risk Details with respect to the results of the UK EU Referendum are also covered in the We arecommitted to engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, continuing CEOs statement.
is the risk that policy and regulation in to support changes which promote protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks they face.
Further details and examples of our Change risks on pages 52to 53. jurisdictions where we do not currently operate remain onerous and closed to our business model.
Breach risk is the risk that we breacha regulation that applies to our business, leading to a client or market detriment, sanctions, fines, reputational damage or, in extreme situations, loss of license.
OPERATIONAL AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IT RISK This is therisk of financial loss, We have designed and implemented a system of internal controls to manage operational The aim of the Groups operational risk management is to manage operational risks risk in line with the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management Framework.
in line with pre-defined appetites, and to protect both customers and the Group disruption or damage to our reputation whilst delivering sustainable growth.
due to inadequate or failed internal We runa complete disaster recovery solution to ensure we provide clients with a consistent and uninterrupted level of service.
All our IT and data security systems conform to the ISO 27001:2005 Information processes and IT systems.
We operate afully functional secondary site with real-time replication of all systems across These risks can also arise from human the two locations and fully independent power supplies.
We support these systems with IG is heavily dependent on technology to enable its processes to operate effectively error or external events that we on-going businesscontinuity planning and regular testing.
as well as providing innovative products to its clients.
Hence outages can have a cannot influence.
Coreup-time over a rolling 12-month period is currently running at We investsignificantly in the technology infrastructure to ensure that these platforms are Cyber risk is a constant threat in the 99.96% against a tolerance of 99.80%.
This represents a total outage time over the operationally stable, with system access being centrally controlled.
previous 12 months of 1 hour 40 minutes.
Our investment supports the resilience and reliability of the platform, ensuring low levels The reliability of our client trading As with many companies we are periodically subject to attempts to gain access to of latency, maintaining and testing system capability under significant load and conducting platforms is key to delivering our systems from the exterior including distributed denial of service DDOS attacks.
Our systems are constantly monitored and tested by our cyber security team and we our strategy.
The Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk Indicators on a monthly basis, a process have withstood these attempts throughout the year.
which includes monitoring levels of core system uptime and deal latency.
Each year we physically locate the UK office to our offsite disaster recovery location We have a dedicated team which has implemented a robust, multi-layered system, and this process continuedto operate without issues again this year.
providing round-the-clock monitoring and intruder-prevention controls.
MARKET RISK This is therisk that the fair value of This is managed on a real-time basis, monitoring all client positions against market risk Our market risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
limits set by the Board for operational efficiency.
financial assets and financial liabilities Risk limits are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain appropriate, and real-time will change due to movements in We hedge most ofour residual market risk exposure, not taking proprietary positions monitoring of compliance with risk limits is monitored by the Risk team, with market prices.
based on an expectation of market movements.
However, not all net client exposures are escalationto the Executive Risk Committee for exceptions.
hedgedand thereforethe Group may have a residual net position in any of the financial IG takes market risk in order to facilitate markets in which it offers products up to the market risk limit.
real-time client dealing and as such, We investin technology that enables real-time and constant monitoring of our market taking market risk is inherent to exposure.
If exposures exceed our pre-agreed limits, our risk-management policy requires delivering quality service to clients.
the positions hedged to bring the exposure back into line with these limits.
46 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ADDRESS OUR CLIENTS ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN STRENGTHEN DELIVER QUALITY SUSTAIN NEEDS OVER THEIR OR EXTEND MARKET GLOBAL REACH SERVICES TO OUR TECHNOLOGY LIFE CYCLE, BE THEY LEADERSHIP IN CLIENTS LEADERSHIP ACTIVE TRADERS OUR CHOSEN OR SOPHISTICATED INVESTMENT NICHE INVESTORS KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO CHANGE FROM COMMENTARY STRATEGY LAST YEAR REGULATORY RISK Regulatory risk is one of our most We engagewith regulators and policymakers in the jurisdictions we operate or intend The industry continues to witness increased levels of government and regulatory to expand our product offering into, as part of policy consultations and by investing intervention in the financial sector with increasing regulatory rules and laws both in significant risks and we look at it from in public relations programmes ensuring we have access to up-to-date information on the UK and overseas affecting the Groups operations.
47 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO CHANGE FROM COMMENTARY STRATEGY LAST YEAR CREDIT RISK This is the risk that a counterparty Our credit risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
Financial institutions credit risk fails to perform its obligations, Margin rates are regularly reviewed to ensure they appropriately reflectthe risk of All financial institutions are subject to ongoingcredit review.
resulting in financial loss to the Group.
trading, while also remaining competitive.
Exposure limits are set and approved by the Executive Risk Committee.
The principal sources of credit risk We continue to monitor our overall credit exposure against our risk appetite on a We regularly monitorkey metrics, including balances held andchanges in short-term and are from financial institutions and daily basis.
Individual client credit risk Individual client credit risk can arise where there are significant, sudden Only clients that pass certain suitability criteria are accepted.
movements in the market, due to high We run training programmes to educate clients in aspects of trading and risk management, general market volatility or specific as well as encouraging them to collateralise their accounts to an appropriate level.
volatility relating to an instrument in We conduct a pre-deal credit check on every client order.
which the client has an open position.
We operate anumber of risk management tools for clients to manage their exposures, This can lead to a clients deposited including: guaranteed and non-guaranteed stops, limit orders, extended trading hours, funds being insufficient to cover trading via mobile platforms.
Our overall credit risk exposure is managed through real-time monitoring of client positions via our close-out monitor COM and through the use of tiered margining.
The COM is an automated process whereby accounts which have fallen below the liquidation threshold are automatically identified and closed.
We only grant credit against unrealised losses for a very small number of generally long-standing clients, with credit terms such that any losses arising are payable immediately on the closure of transactions.
COMPETITOR RISK This is the risk that the market We recognise that we operate in a highly competitive industry and the emergence of Our market share of theleveragedbusiness sector has remained strong in particular smaller firms domiciled in less regulated environments brings a variety of risks.
in our well established markets such as the UK and Australia: spread betting in UK proposition of our competitors is at 44% 2015: 40%, CFD in the UK at 29% 2015: 26% while in Australia our CFD more compelling, leading to a loss We continuously monitor our competitor activity, pricing and operations including through market share remained flat at38% compared to data released in September2015, of clients and revenue for the Group.
having increased from 33% in the previous year as per Investment Trends reports.
Additionally, this is a risk that the We monitor the potential impact of key innovation from our competitors as well as poor During the past 18 months we have expanded our product offering becoming more actions of our competitors affects competitor activity which may have consequences with our regulators.
appealing to a wider customer base and we continue to focus on strengthening our the way that our regulators view brand in those markets.
The Group remains focused on the development of our leading market position, continuously investing in our products and services, and the infrastructure to support them.
LIQUIDITY RISK This is the risk that we will be unable Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets and liabilities, we do not have any Total available liquidity, including committed unsecured facilities and after material mismatches in our liquidity maturity profiles.
Short-term liquidity gaps can arise, accounting for broker margin, at 31 May 2016 was 786.7million 2015: 724.0 to meet payment obligations as they due to our commitment to segregate all client funds.
This includes the liquid assets buffer, which consists of 80.6million of UK fall due.
government securities held, as required by the FCA as part of the ILAA process, to Total available liquidity is monitored on a daily basis, including the committed unsecured provide a safeguard in times of stress.
Our unsecured banking facilities amountto 160.0million 2015: 200.0 million at Daily stress tests are carried out and the level of committed unsecured bank facilities is year-end.
This was reduced from 200.0 million in July 2015 following aninternal validated by stress testing our three year liquidity forecast.
review of the Groups required facility levels.
In times of extreme market volatility we have drawn down the facility as a precautionary measure.
48 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ADDRESS OUR ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN STRENGTHEN DELIVER QUALITY SUSTAIN CLIENTS NEEDS OVER OR EXTEND MARKET GLOBAL REACH SERVICES TO OUR TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BE LEADERSHIP IN CLIENTS THEY ACTIVE TRADERS OUR CHOSEN OR SOPHISTICATED INVESTMENT NICHE INVESTORS KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO CHANGE FROM COMMENTARY STRATEGY LAST YEAR CREDIT RISK This is the risk that a counterparty Our credit risk profile remains largely unchanged in the past year.
49 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO CHANGE FROM COMMENTARY STRATEGY LAST YEAR CONDUCT RISK This is the risk that the Groups conduct Our Group conduct risk strategy puts consumer and market outcomes at the heart of IG has a very low tolerance for poor customer outcomes and therefore we are the business.
All client calls are recorded and our compliance team monitor these on a committed to investing in process, training and culture to mitigate the risks.
Where poses to the achievement of fair regular basis.
our monitoring system detects an unfair outcome, we will act swiftly to remedy and outcomes for consumers or to the prevent reccurrence.
sound, stable, resilient and transparent Training is being rolled out to fully embed the conduct riskstrategy into the current business practices and culture of the Group.
operation of the financial markets.
We evaluate suitability and only offer access to products where knowledge and wealth considerations have been evaluated.
REPUTATIONAL RISK This is the risk of damage tothe We actively monitorsteps and changes being made by regulators and the industry ensuring Given the diversity of sources from which it can arise, the Groups objective is to that the Group remains compliant.
This includes ongoing training for all employees.
identify these risks and ensure theyare duly attended to so that their probability is perception of the Group by public reduced and the eventual impact is mitigated.
opinion, its customers, investors or any We have a dedicated investor relation team dealing with shareholders, journalists and other interested party.
themembers of the public on all mattersthat may affect the reputation of the Group.
The Group had no significant operational losses within the year.
We continue to embed a culture and tone from the top of doing the right thing for our clients, our staff and our industry.
PEOPLE RISK This is the risk that the Group has We regularly review the Groups resource requirements, talent mapping and succession The departure of previous CEO & CFO has resulted in the change of key-personnel planning including the most appropriate locations to deploy our staff.
within the business, but the swift appointment of a new internally experienced CEO an incorrect level and mixof people and a newly appointed CFO has helped to reduce thisrisk.
to execute its business strategy, We operate a remuneration system which is linked to revenue performance and a bi-annual combined with the inability to attract, appraisal system to provide regular assessment of individual performance and identification The responses from employees following the recent annual employee survey shows of training and development needs.
that flexible working and flexible benefits are highly rated.
As a result, the Group develop, motivate and retain talented isaddressing these issues througha new flexiblebenefits scheme.
Benchmarking of remuneration packages of all employees is undertaken annually.
The Group invites all employees to participate in the annual employee survey to gauge employees satisfaction and feedback on improvements.
We continue to invest in the developmentof our people with tailored training to meet their needs.
50 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT ADDRESS OUR DELIVER QUALITY ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN STRENGTHEN SUSTAIN CLIENTS NEEDS OVER OR EXTEND MARKET GLOBAL REACH SERVICES TO OUR TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP THEIR LIFE CYCLE, BE LEADERSHIP IN CLIENTS THEY ACTIVE TRADERS OUR CHOSEN OR SOPHISTICATED INVESTMENT NICHE INVESTORS KEY RISK MITIGATING ACTIONS LINK TO CHANGE FROM COMMENTARY STRATEGY LAST YEAR CONDUCT RISK This is the risk that the Groups conduct Our Group conduct risk strategy puts consumer and market outcomes at the heart of IG has a very low tolerance for poor customer outcomes and therefore we are the business.
51 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 REGULATORY CHANGE RISKS As the regulatory environment continues to evolve, there are a number of events, policy initiatives and proposals in development that may impact or have already impacted our sector as described below.
CHANGE AND IMPACT ON GROUP IMPACT STATUS AND LEVEL MITIGATING ACTIONS UK EU Referendum a change to the UKs membership in the European We expect there to be Union:The Groups business in continental Europe is offered pursuant to the EU a period before any passporting regime for financial services.
On 23 June 2016, the UK elected for the changes are effective, that UK to leave the European Union.
Any change to the UKs membership status of the will allow for alternative HIGH European Union could have an impact on how the Group is able to operate in the options to be considered European Union.
We continue to monitor developments carefully.
ESMA committee on speculative products:A committee of the European regulator We have expended ESMA European Securities and Markets Authority has been established to consider significant efforts the marketing and selling of speculative products CFDs, forex and binaries to retail throughout the year to clients across the European Union under MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments understand the many Directive.
The intention of the committee is to ensure that there is regulatory stakeholders interests.
Guidelines on the marketing and selling of We continue to monitor MEDIUM speculative products have been issued and we expect further clarifying practices to developments carefully.
We do not consider that our interpretation of MiFID and its requirements is materially different to ESMAs interpretation.
However, any material change in interpretation or the introduction of any new requirements by ESMA in relation to how our industry should market or sell its products across the European Union may have a material impact on our European business.
French marketing restrictions and Belgianmarketing and product restrictions: We have expended significant efforts InFrance, there are proposed measures that would restrict the ability for our products throughout the year to to be advertised electronically to retail clients.
A proposed law has been submitted understand the many for consideration and the impact will depend on whether the measures are introduced stakeholders interests.
and, if so, the form in which they are introduced.
MEDIUM We continue to monitor In Belgium, a regulation has been passed, but is yet to be approved, restricting developments carefully.
the types of products that can be offered to retail clients and marketing practices in relation to those products.
We believe the proposed restrictions are aimed at providers with a presence in Belgium and therefore will not impact our business.
Financial Transactions Tax FTT in the European Union:The Enhanced Cooperation We continue to monitor FTT effort, involving 10 of the 28 member states, has continued this year.
unclear what the ultimate outcome of the Enhanced Cooperation FTT will be.
Progress to this point has been extremely slow.
There remains the political willwithin a group MEDIUM of member states for the introduction of an Enhanced Cooperation FTT, although this group has decreased in number since last year.
The lack of detail makes the potential impact on our revenue from Europe difficult to assess.
Markets in Financial Instruments II Directive MiFID II :The MiFID II dossier has We continue to monitor continued to develop this year.
The MiFID II and Markets in Financial Investments MiFID II carefully Regulation MiFIR Level One texts have been adopted and the majority of the and to take part in detailed Level Two texts will be finalised shortly.
The application of MiFID II will be industry consultations delayed by oneyear from January 2017 to January 2018.
MiFID II provides new where appropriate.
MEDIUM powers to regulators to intervene in certain circumstances and prohibit or restrict the marketing, distribution or sale of financial products.
The exercise of these powers in relation to our products by a regulator would have a negative impact on our business.
Other than the potential exercise of these powers, we remain of the view that MiFID II is unlikely to pose a threat to our UK and European businesses.
52 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHANGE AND IMPACT ON GROUP IMPACT STATUS AND LEVEL MITIGATING ACTIONS European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR : The main impact of this The remaining rules are legislation on our business is increased reporting requirements to trade repositories.
In close to being finalised.
the medium-to-longer term the risk mitigation measures for over the counter trading The risk mitigation LOW will increase slightly IGs margin requirements with some of our hedging brokers.
measures are not expected to impact us until September 2020.
Packaged Retail and Insurance Based Investments Products Regulation PRIIPS : We are putting together a This will impose an obligation on us from January 2017 to provide our UK and Key Investor Information European clients with information about our products in a standardised form.
We do Document KIID which LOW not anticipate this having a negative impact on our business.
will be provided to UK and European clients from January 2017.
Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV and Capital Requirements Regulation We have modelled CRR : The European Union began implementing these rules from 1 January 2014 and the impact of these further requirements are to be introduced in the coming years.
The most significant changes through to changes for IG relate to changes in capital requirements and liquidity requirements full implementation of that are being phased in.
There are also new corporate governance and remuneration requirements in 2020 LOW obligations that are not expected to have a significant impact.
and do not expect any significant impact to our capital or liquidity positions.
Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS regulatory framework for margined We believe that the derivatives: As previously reported, in 2013 the MAS confirmed that it would push majority of IGs revenue forward with its proposal to increase margin requirements for non-accredited investors currently comes from on a forex trade from 2% to 5%, thereby reducing leverage from 50 times to 20 clients who would qualify times.
Although these rules have not yet been introduced, we considerthere is a LOW for accredited investor good possibility they will be introduced in the future.
If introduced, it is intended that status.
In addition, the the rules will not apply to accredited investors, defined by virtue of their wealth or use of guaranteed stops income level.
enables clients to further manage leverage levels.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS : The Organisation for Economic We will continue to Cooperation and Development OECD has developed proposals to address monitor the impact of perceived international tax avoidance by high profile multinationals.
The final the implementation proposals for each focus area of the BEPS action plan have been agreed.
Countries LOW of the BEPS proposals will now implement the proposals and have agreed to continue work on BEPS until in countries where 2020.
None of the action plans are expected to significantly impact the Groups we operate.
53 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 VIABILITY STATEMENT The Group believes it adequately manages and mitigates its principal risksthrough the arrangements described above.
In addition, there are further relevant Group business planning and reviewprocesses that we operate.
Business planning process The Groups formalised forecasting and planning cycle consists of a strategic plan, an annual budget for the current year and financial projections for a further two years.
The three year forecasting period ending 31 May 2019is the length of time over whichthe Board strategically assesses the business:the period of time the Board would typically look to payback of investments: and is the period over which the Group reviews its regulatory capital requirements.
The first year of the planning period has a greater degree of certainty and is, therefore, used to set detailed financial targets across the Group it is also used by the Remuneration Committee to set targets for the annual incentive scheme.
The three-year period provides less certainty of outcome, but provides a robust planning tool against which strategic decisions can be made and addressesthe requirements for the ICAAP evaluation and reporting.
These forecasts are also considered when setting targets for the executive and senior management share plans.
The key  the forecasts is the ongoing supportive regulatory environment in which the Groupoperates.
Stress testing The Group undertakes stress testing to provide the Board with a robust assessment of the potential consequences ofprincipal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
The types of scenarios used include the collapse of a major financial services firm: major currency appreciation: cyber-attacks: and the loss of regulatory licences.
Additionally, the Group has undertaken reverse stress testing to understand what scenarios break the business model.
With appropriate management actions, the Group was resilient to all severe, but plausible, scenarios.
Statement Overall the Directors consider the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, having taken into account the current economic outlook, the consequences ofprincipal risks facing the business in severe but plausible scenarios, and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
On the basis of these and other matters considered and reviewed by the Board during the year, the Directors have reasonable expectations that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period ending 31 May 2019.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis as explained in note 40to the accounts.
54 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTENTS CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 57 Statement of Compliance 57 THE BOARD 58 Leadership 60 Effectiveness 63 Accountability 66 Remuneration 66 Engagement with shareholders 67 NOMINATION COMMITTEE 68 Chairmans overview 68 Membership and attendance 68 Role of the Nomination Committee 68 Main activities during the financial year 68 Committee evaluation 69 Diversity statement 69 Committee allocation of time 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 70 Chairmans overview 70 Directors remuneration policy 72 Annual report on remuneration audited 81 AUDIT COMMITTEE 90 Chairmans overview 90 Role of the Audit Committee 90 Membership and attendance 91 Main activities during the financial year 91 Committee effectiveness 94 Committee allocation of time 94 BOARD RISK COMMITTEE 95 Chairmans overview 95 Role of the Board Risk Committee 95 Membership and attendance 95 Main activities during the financial year 96 Committee allocation of time 97 DIRECTORS REPORT 98 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 101 Responsibility statement 101 55 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
