40 IMI plc Principal risks and uncertainties Our risk management processes were significantly updated in 2015 and are now well embedded in all our businesses.
These processes identify, evaluate and manage the risks which could impact the performance or reputation of IMI and its ability to implement its growth strategy.
The Board determines the Groups risk appetite and reviews Our risk management processes are embedded in all parts of the Groups risks formally throughout the year.
Responsibility for our operations and our bottom up risk management framework, implementing and monitoring internal controls and other elements which is described below, ensures that the Board and the senior of risk management, is delegated to the Group Chief Executive leadership team is able to actively assess risks and monitor the and the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee operates measures used to mitigate, transfer or avoid such risks.
alongside the Audit Committee, which has primary responsibility All of the Groups manufacturing operations are required to for oversight of financial controls, the Nominations Committee, maintain an up-to-date risk profile which identifies the key which has primary responsibility for succession risk, and the risks facing the business, assesses the mitigating processes Remuneration Committee which has primary responsibility and controls in place to manage the risk and monitors for remuneration and incentive structure risk.
and measures the effectiveness of those controls.
The risk profile enables management to identify issues and areas that Risk appetite require improvement and to efficiently develop remediation action plans.
During the year, the formality and rigour of risk The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of assessment within our manufacturing businesses was enhanced the principal risks it is prepared to accept to achieve the Groups principally through incorporating it into each business monthly strategic objectives.
Specific risk exposures and appetites vary management reporting procedures.
This monthly review according to the nature of the risk, including the organisations increases management ownership and accountability, ability to mitigate its impact.
both of which are crucial to ensuring an effective risk management framework.
Risk appetite Prudent Balanced Receptive Bi-annually each manufacturing operation uploads its risk profile to the Group intranet.
Each of our three divisions review and Strategic risk consolidate their most significant site level risks and mitigation Operational risk strategies into a summarised divisional risk profile, which includes any additional divisional level risks as appropriate.
Financial risk The divisional risk profiles are then consolidated into a single Compliance risk Group risk profile using the same methodology.
Both the divisional and Group risk profiles are presented and reviewed by the Executive Committee twice a year.
The Executive Details on risk appetite are communicated to the Divisional Committees review, which includes a detailed analysis of the Managing Directors and the Groups Executive Committee to Group risk profile, the supporting divisional summaries and ensure that decision making and behaviours across the business actions undertaken to ensure compliance with the enhanced are consistent with the guidance set by the Board.
requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, are all submitted to the Board.
Risk management The key strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks The risk management processes we operate ensure that we facing the Group, in order of priority, are shown in the table on have a common, Group-wide approach to the identification, the following pages.
This analysis includes why we think the risk assessment and quantification of risks and the way in which is important, how we are mitigating the risk, our perception of they are managed, mitigated and monitored.
whether the risk has increased or not, and the main changes during 2016.
Identify and assess the risks In addition to strategic, operational and compliance risks, the Group is also exposed to broader financial market risks, in Monitor improvement Identify existing mitigating particular, currency exchange rate volatility following the Brexit actions and report actions and controls referendum.
A description of these risks and our centralised approach to managing them is described in Section 4.4 of the financial statements.
Assess if further controls Identify monitors to are required and initiate confirm controls are improvement actions operating effectively Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION MACRO-ECONOMIC The Group operates in global markets and Divisional management monitor key customers and respond quickly to INSTABILITY demand for our products is dependent on changes in customer demand.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC OR economic and sector-facing environments.
Our core forecasting process utilises early indications of reduced demand POLITICAL INSTABILITY A downturn in a global regional economy and ensures operational output can be right sized appropriately.
IMPACTING THE GROUPS or political instability could impact endThe Group operates across a range of regional markets and our strategy ABILITY TO ACHIEVE market demand and the Groups ability FORECAST AND MARKET is to ensure that we have a balanced portfolio with no single dependency to achieve market expectations.
The risks EXPECTATIONS on a single market sector or geography.
associated with Brexit are not considered Enhanced stress testing and sensitivity analysis of business plans with as material to the Group.
regular reviews of key market and sector metrics.
RISK MOVEMENT Increased investment in new product development, enhanced operation performance to improve competitiveness.
CHANGES DURING 2016 Economic and market conditions have remained challenging throughout 2016.
Critical Engineering experienced reduced activity in Oil & Gas and Power generation as the effects of the low oil price continue to impact these and related sectors.
Precision Engineering was affected by lower demand in Europe and Asia for Industrial Automation and the Commercial Vehicle market was significantly down in the Americas.
The Group has continued to increase investment in new product development, enhanced operational performance and increased value engineering initiatives to improve competitiveness.
To mitigate the impact of current market weakness, all three divisions have implemented significant cost-reduction programmes which will be executed in the early part of 2017.
MAJOR PROJECT The Group is undertaking a number of major Continued management of resources to execute projects.
IMPLEMENTATION change projects to adjust to the changing Detailed plans with clear and measurable milestones reviewed by the economic conditions including: business FAILURE TO DELIVER MAJOR Divisional Managing Directors to track progress.
TRANSFORMATIONAL PROJECTS reorganisations and implementation of new Regular review of major project progress by the Executive Committee.
ON TIME AND ON BUDGET IT systems.
Failure to deliver the desired Enhanced risk assessment process including full mitigation action plans objectives on time and on budget and failure for all major change projects.
to react quickly enough to changing market RISK conditions, could have an adverse financial Specialist IT and Group Assurance reviews of major IT projects.
MOVEMENT impact on the Group.
CHANGES DURING 2016 In response to adverse market developments, the Group continues to execute major change projects relating to business reorganisations.
The continued ERP investment programme will also see a number of complex IT system implementations.
All significant projects during 2016 have received substantial senior management oversight in the form of bi-weekly Executive project reviews to ensure they are appropriately resourced and remain on track to deliver the objectives that were approved at project initiation.
PRODUCT QUALITY The Groups investment in innovative Adherence to Group-wide standard for Advanced Product Quality engineering solutions will continue to be a Planning process APQP.
QUALITY ISSUES LEADING TO PRODUCT FAILURE, RECALL, priority across all three divisions.
The quality Continued focus on quality management systems, including audits to WARRANTY ISSUES, INJURY, and safety of our products is of the highest appropriate quality standards.
DAMAGE OR DISRUPTION TO importance and failure to deliver the quality Testing of finished product and customer sign off on the most critical CUSTOMERS BUSINESS required would result in negative financial of products.
Targeted lean events to improve quality and application of problem RISK solving tools.
MOVEMENT Upgrade of talent and focus on excellence in quality and product development.
The Group has continued to implement lean manufacturing methodology to improve how we create value, reduce waste and CHANGES DURING 2016 improve performance.
Lean assessments continue to show significant improvements in 2016.
In order to extend the benefits of sharing Group-wide best practice, management have instigated a combined metric which consists of the lean assessment, the Health, Safety and Environment assessment and five key performance indicators: cost of quality, on time delivery, productivity, inventory turns and Lost Time Accidents.
In addition, the APQP process introduced in 2015 now underpins new product development across all divisions and manufacturing operations.
ACQUISITION RISK An integral part of the Groups strategy is Central M&A function, suitably resourced, working with divisions to to make value enhancing acquisitions that identify hard and soft synergies within targeted acquisition opportunities.
FAILURE TO INTEGRATE complement our product portfolio.
Failure to ACQUISITIONS SUCCESSFULLY Formalised acquisition approval, due diligence and post-acquisition AND DELIVER THE REQUIRED deliver the post integration strategy would integration processes.
SYNERGIES reduce the value of acquired businesses.
Documented process and toolkit to monitor and effectively manage 100 days post-acquisition integration.
RISK MOVEMENT CHANGES DURING 2016 The revised and formalised integration process used in the acquisition of Bopp & Reuther has been further enhanced.
This process results in a mix of divisional and Group resources being assigned to ensure the right skills and people across all disciplines are available to successfully project manage acquisition integration.
42 IMI plc Principal risks and uncertainties contd RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION REGULATORY BREACH IMI has established a framework which Commitment to good governance practices which are embodied in instigates the highest standards to ethics and the IMI Way.
FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH LEGISLATION OR A BREACH OF regulatory compliance across our business.
Continued enhancement of the internal controls declaration process OUR OWN HIGH STANDARDS As we expand our operations to achieve and continued rigorous financial audits by our Group Assurance team.
OF ETHICAL BEHAVIOUR growth it is important that we maintain these The annual IMI Way Day was held in June across the Group and standards.
Legislative requirements around included ethics training for all employees.
tax, anti-bribery, fraud and competition law RISK require rigorous monitoring and training to Policies, manuals and guidelines are available to all employees under MOVEMENT avoid financial and reputational damage.
the legal, compliance and financial sections of the IMI global intranet.
Group, division and specific territory resources dedicated to legal and regulatory compliance.
Training of employees focusing on how to apply the IMI Way in everyday situations and key risk areas such as competition law, fraud and antibribery and corruption.
The confidential IMI hotline to report concerns.
Group standard operating procedures are available on the intranet and increased rigour around core legal and compliance processes.
Third party agent due diligence and approval procedures, standard agency agreements and terminated non-compliant agents.
CHANGES DURING 2016 IMI has a zero appetite for compliance risk and the challenging market and regulatory environment demands the very highest standards of conduct.
Our processes and procedures have continued to strengthen and embed throughout the business.
During 2016 we trained over half our workforce on anti-bribery and a third of our employees on competition law using eLearning modules hosted on our new IMI Learn platform.
This system provides the ability to target particular employee groups and tracks completion of required compliance training.
The introduction of stringent new procedures and processes to operate in high risk territories ensures compliance when we address future business opportunities in these regions.
SUPPLY CHAIN The Group has a significant number of Monitoring of risks and development of contingency plans to mitigate the contracts with a broad base of suppliers.
impact of a supplier failure or increased prices.
FAILURE TO MANAGE Failure to meet customers requirements in THE SUPPLY CHAIN Preferred supplier lists for all major materials and components in each respect of quality or delivery, could have a of the divisions.
material impact on the Groups results.
Adequate safety stock and or dual supply for critical components.
RISK MOVEMENT Supplier scorecard process to monitor performance, capability and resilience.
The implementation of a supply scorecard.
The supplier risk assessment selection tool and introduction of commodity experts, CHANGES DURING 2016 has resulted in a reduction in the likelihood of a critical, strategic supplier failure.
Preferred suppliers lists have been produced to concentrate strategic purchasing with certified and approved suppliers.
Framework agreements have been introduced to increase formality in standard purchase agreements.
CYBER SECURITY Unapproved access to IT systems could IT Security Improvement programme underway across the Group.
result in loss of intellectual property, fraudulent UNAUTHORISED ACCESS IT security steering group comprising representatives from all divisions TO OUR IT SYSTEMS activity, theft and business interruption.
with corporate sponsorship and oversight.
Cyber security awareness training for all employees, particularly with RISK regard to fraud.
MOVEMENT Disaster recovery plans instigated on all critical IT assets.
CHANGES DURING 2016 The Group is in the second year of a three year Group-wide Security Improvement Programme and during 2016, a 24 7 security operation centre was established to monitor and resolve security incidents.
The programme includes deployment of consistent anti-virus, firewalls, intruder detection, device control and encryption software across the Group.
Combined with greater cyber risk awareness and behaviours from our employees, these developments have helped mitigate the increasing cyber threat to a level consistent with 2015.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISK RISK DESCRIPTION AND POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION COMPETITIVE MARKETS Increased volatility and slowdown in major Competitor tear-down and value engineering procedures.
economies could result in increased INCREASINGLY COMPETITIVE Review of site capacity as part of the lean benchmarking to better utilise competition, leading to loss of customers MARKETS LEADING TO facilities and improve productivity.
PRICING PRESSURES OR and or pricing pressures leading to lost Standard costings to ensure thorough understanding of product cost.
LOSS OF CUSTOMERS sales and reduced profits.
Monitoring of markets to ensure cost competitiveness and market shares.
RISK Formal market, competitor and peer reviews undertaken quarterly.
MOVEMENT Improvements in operational capabilities, routine tear-down testing and competitive benchmarking of competitor products in CHANGES DURING 2016 all three divisions has underpinned new product development and value engineering initiatives.
These procedures have proved crucial success factors in winning business, particularly in the Critical Engineering division.
The APQP process is also producing tangible benefits across the Group following its successful introduction in 2015.
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT The Groups strategy for sustainable Five year technology roadmaps included in divisional strategies.
long-term growth will be achieved in part Continued investment in research and development to ensure we by delivering a pipeline of innovative new target the most profitable opportunities.
Failure to deliver market leading MOVEMENT Centres of design and technological excellence established with products will impact our ability to grow.
dedicated teams to monitor progress.
New product introduction procedures in place.
Tracking of key performance metrics level of sales from new products and level of research and development spend against sales.
CHANGES DURING 2016 The APQP process launched in 2015 is now operating effectively across all three divisions.
Hydronic Engineering, the division which pioneered the process, continued to benefit from the pipeline of new products, generating 30m of sales in 2016 30m in 2015.
New product development is now an integral component of the five year strategic planning cycle and establishes commercial priorities and development roadmaps for all the Groups principal markets.
44 Corporate Governance 46 The Board 48 Letter from the Chairman 49 Corporate Governance Report 55 Audit Committee Report 58 Nominations Committee Report 59 Directors Remuneration Report Engineering GREAT the IMI Way A Life Sciences customer in India uses Precision Engineerings products in a medical device Introduction Strategic Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
