REGULATOR EXTERNAL AUDIT RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy and Our ability to achieve our strategic objectives related risk appetite.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the and capitalise on growth opportunities effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems, with the Audit Committee assisting in the discharging of these requires effective management of the risks responsibilities.
We define risks as anything that The OPEX Operating Executive is responsible for the operational could prevent the achievement of our stewardship of the business, including the ownership of the Group strategic objectives.
risks and related assurance activities.
OPEX ensures the successful and effective alignment of functional business plans to the Group strategy, with business unit and functional management responsible APPROACH for the delivery of operational performance and the management Risk is an inherent part of our operating environment.
The VUCA of the inherent risks.
These management teams are responsible for volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous world in which we operate ensuring that the Groups strategic objectives are achieved in line requires effective management and monitoring of known risks, along with Group policies and standards, and that we conduct business with the identification and assessment of emerging risks, to achieve in compliance with our Code of Conduct.
Central to this approach is the clear understanding that risk management is the responsibility The Groups functional and divisional management structures, of all our people.
led by our OPEX, enable a continuous process for the identification, evaluation and management of significant risks to the achievement The approach seeks to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of of business objectives at both a Group and local level, enabling failure to achieve our strategic objectives and can only provide effective and timely identification of actual and emerging risks reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and responses to mitigate impacts or realise opportunities.
A key enabler of our risk management approach is the deployment nd of Centres of Expertise 2 line.
These are central functions RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK employing technical experts with the knowledge and practical skills The Groups risk management framework, aligned to the operating to develop and provide appropriate policy, process, control structures, model, is an integrated approach based upon the three lines of st and support to local management 1 line within our global business defence.
The structure encourages the communication and to enable the consistent application of policy.
escalation of risk and control related matters across the Groups diverse geographic footprint.
THREE LINES OF DEFENCE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE OPEX AND LEADERSHIP TEAM MEETINGS THREE LINES OF DEFENCE 1ST LINE 2ND LINE 3RD LINE Markets Clusters Centres of Expertise Internal Audit Divisions Factories CoEs or committees Own risk accountable Set framework of policies, Audit effectiveness of risk for identification and procedures, and controls management and control management of risks compliant with legislation framework Guide Support & Oversee Perform front line controls in Provide guidance, advice, Provide independent line with policies and support, training, and share assurance to Audit Committee procedures best practice and Board Monitoring of control Reflect risks in Constructively challenge and effectiveness and related business plans issue recommendations performance VALUES & CODE OF CONDUCT 26 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 26 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS An example of this is our Finance function.
This has responsibility for accountability to provide information in keeping with our policies, the financial policies and standards adopted within the Group.
It also procedures and internal best practices as documented in our Group manages our financial reporting processes to ensure the timely and Finance Manual.
accurate provision of information, which enables the Board to The design of the Groups operating model supports the ability of our discharge its responsibilities, including the production of our half operational teams to manage commercial, legal and regulatory risk at yearly and annual accounts.
a local level in a consistent manner.
Each business unit is responsible The central Finance function is supported by a network of finance for identifying, evaluating and monitoring the risks faced by their managers throughout the Group who have the responsibility and part of the business, and for ensuring compliance to policy and local legal requirements.
ASSESSMENT OF RISKS AND INTERNAL CONTROL COMPLIANCE RISK In accordance with the recommendations of the FRCs UK IDENTIFICATION Corporate Governance Code formerly known as the combined code for Directors, the Groups systems of internal control are designed and operated to support the identification, evaluation and management of risks affecting the Group.
They facilitate the effective and efficient operation of our business, provide assurance regarding the integrity of our internal reporting and ASSESSMENT F FOCUS WITHIN OCUS WITHIN are designed to comply with relevant laws and regulations, across MONITOR AND BUSINE BUSINES SS PLANNING S PLANNING COMMERCIAL EVALUATION all areas of operations.
These systems are subject to continuous AND F AND FORE OREC CA AS STING TING IMPACT OF RISK AND review as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
PR PROCE OCES SSE SES S OPPORTUNITY Risk Identification Embedding of risk foresight within the business is facilitated by the completion of formal risk assessment updates by business units on a quarterly basis aligned to our key planning and EFFECTIVE forecasting cycles, ensuring that risks are considered on a timely RISK and ongoing basis.
MITIGATION Assessment and Evaluation Risk assessments are completed by operational management are required to complete key control assessments on a half across the business, with consideration of both Group and local yearly basis.
The key controls highlighted within the assessment risks required.
These are reviewed and considered by senior also support operational management to understand their management as part of their monitoring of the underlying responsibilities and accountabilities for the delivery of results drivers of business performance.
in line with the Groups risk appetite, and highlight areas of best Additionally, key Centres of Expertise provide an evaluation of practice that can be shared across the business.
the results of the assessments, and provide valuable insight into Additionally, a year end certification process is completed, under the potential impact of changes in the regulatory environment which management confirms that risk mitigation controls have which are confirmed in local risk registers and appropriate operated effectively throughout the year and that entities have actions planned.
complied with our policies, including the Code of Conduct and The results of the bottom-up risk assessment are reviewed by, and anti-bribery requirements, as well as fraud prevention processes.
The top-down calibration of risks by the Monitor Commercial Impact Board and OPEX ensures a consistent top-down method in the The results of these assessments are provided to our Centres agreement, assessment and prioritisation of risks, as well as the of Expertise to enable any individual control trends to be resolved assessment of our existing measures to manage and mitigate on a Group basis, to enable targeted support to individual those risks and consideration of wider strategic impacts.
locations, and to provide feedback on the responses provided The Board receives the consolidated view of the bottom-up and relative to the work CoEs complete as part of their ongoing role.
top-down inputs, and confirms its acceptance of these risks, The results of the control assessments are provided to our Internal and their alignment with the Groups risk appetite.
This provides the opportunity for an independent The principal risks arising from the consolidated risk assessment verification of the responses through the testing completed by are provided on pages 28 to 31.
Internal Audit as part of their annual plan and is an input to the development of that risk based plan.
The results of Internal Audit Effective Risk Mitigation reviews are shared across the business in order to provide an The management of operational risk and compliance to the independent opinion on both compliance to, effectiveness and Groups key control requirements is the responsibility of business appropriate design of our internal control framework unit and operational management.
Policies, standards, processes The risk approach embeds the assessment of risk into the Groups and related training are developed by subject matter experts in ongoing performance and business planning cycle.
This enables the Groups CoEs that assist in ensuring the business remains the assessment of risk based root cause analysis to be performed compliant with Group requirements.
and timely understanding of the potential future impacts and As part of the communication and monitoring of internal control opportunities arising.
By continuing to develop this foresight compliance our senior management within markets and factories we seek to reduce the probability of unforeseen events.
Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 27 www.
