PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES As a multi-national organisation, a large amount of the Groups RISK PROFILE revenue in the year was generated in markets outside the UK and the Group is therefore exposed to movements in foreign exchange rates The results of the risk assessment completed during the business planning process have not highlighted any significant which could impact the Groups financial results which are reported in pounds sterling.
Additionally, the Group is also exposed to movements changes from the previous year.
The risks and their relative probability and impact remain materially consistent.
The only in foreign exchange rates due to its foreign subsidiaries, its commercial trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies and foreign significant change in the strategic risks is the reduction in the impact of mergers and acquisitions in the year resulting from currency cash deposits, borrowings and derivatives.
the successful integration of the US business.
BREXIT All principal risks identified through the risk assessment process, There are a number of uncertainties in connection with the and agreed by the Board, have a potential impact in achieving future of the UK and its relationship with the EU.
strategic objectives in the next 12 months, with an additional impact We have considered the consequences that Brexit could have assessment considered over a longer three year horizon.
upon the business and have concluded that it does not raise In the following section we highlight the principal risks we face and any new risks but does impact a number of our existing risks identify the mitigations that we have in place to manage the impact on an individual basis e. g. exchange rate risk, product of these risks upon the business.
Not all of these factors are within regulatory change, change in excise duty, illicit trade, our direct control, and the list cannot be considered to be exhaustive, availability of liquidity.
Accordingly, the approach we have as other risks and uncertainties may emerge in a changing adopted is to consider the impact of Brexit in those risks.
By aligning the management of the outcomes to existing risk As is common with most large organisations, the Group is subject to responsibilities this provides a more effective and operationally general commercial risks: for example, socio-economic, cyber-security focused mitigation of these impacts on an ongoing and breaches, failure of our IT infrastructure, liabilities arising from defined timely basis.
benefit pension schemes, the impact of change programmes, the cost of our raw materials, and the impact of competition.
Reduction in size of the legitimate tobacco market Strategic priority Strengthening our portfolio, Developing our footprint What affects us Potential consequences What we do Product regulatory change Changes in legislation can have a negative effect We engage with authorities to provide informed input Regulatory restrictions exist on consumer choice, reducing consumption to unintended consequences of disproportionate in many of our markets which levels, and revenues.
impact our consumers by Compliance with regulation has an associated Regulatory changes are proactively managed to influencing availability, cost.
Changes in regulation increase compliance ensure that the business is commercially positioned demand and freedom to requirements and can therefore result in an to positively manage the risks and opportunities use our products.
increase in costs, potentially impacting profits.
The Groups expertise and resources are prioritised according to the relevant key regulatory issues.
Cross-market liaison is promoted within the Group to ensure best practice and opportunities from markets already impacted are identified, understood and applied.
Change in excise duty Increased cost to the consumer could potentially We engage with authorities to provide informed input Adverse changes in the level or reduce purchase volumes.
to unintended consequences of disproportionate structure of excise duties as changes in excise.
Any inability to pass on an increase in excise governments seek to raise could result in lower product margins.
We take commercial steps to ensure strategic price public funds.
and product offerings exist in the context of the The widening price differential between tobacco excise duty structures in each market.
products in neighbouring countries increases the attractiveness to the consumer of purchasing non-domestic duty paid product.
28 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 28 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Reduction in size of the legitimate tobacco market continued Strategic priority Strengthening our portfolio, Developing our footprint What affects us Potential consequences What we do Counterfeit and illicit non-duty Counterfeit and illicit trade reduces Specialist teams are employed to support the business, paid product in market the size of the legitimate market.
governments, and law enforcement agencies with targeted The consequence of excise solutions to illicit trade.
The sale of counterfeit product and and regulatory regimes is a smuggled illicit whites in our markets We maintain strong standards and controls for our widening gap between the price of acts as a direct competitor to legitimate business and our first-line customers to prevent diversion legitimate and illegitimate product.
domestic duty paid, travel retail and of our products.
As a result the legitimate tobacco duty free products, eroding our industry continues to be subject to We seek to partner with governments and law enforcement volumes and market shares.
the significant impact and agencies around the world on anti-illicit trade initiatives.
increasing threat of illicit trade.
Counterfeit product is not subject to We work alongside the European Commissions Anti-Fraud the stringent quality requirements Office OLAF and law enforcement agencies.
Customer perception of inferior quality could impact the reputation of genuine product and damage our brands.
Macro-economic conditions in Any material change in the economic We continually monitor and analyse consumption patterns key markets circumstances of, and or our and economic indicators in order to ensure that our current The Group has a significant performance in, our key markets may and future portfolio provides the consumer with a range of presence in mature European affect our future profit development products across different price points.
This analysis is markets and the US.
Increased and have an adverse impact on the completed at both a local and Group level and provides a economic uncertainty, related Groups revenue or profits.
key input to our product development, business planning austerity measures, or geo-political and pricing strategies.
pressures in those markets could Our international footprint and comprehensive portfolio lead to a reduction in consumption provide an increasingly balanced exposure to both EU and of legitimate product.
Optimising market share Strategic priority Strengthening our portfolio, Developing our footprint What affects us Potential consequences What we do Brand equity Adverse impact upon planned sales We have a consistent strategic marketing approach across Failure to maintain and grow volumes and revenues resulting from markets, supported by monitoring of our brand equity.
brand equity or an inability to utilise a reduction in customer brand loyalty.
Brand migrations support the strategy to simplify the portfolio, that brand equity as a result of reducing complexity in the supply chain and providing cost disproportionate product regulatory savings that can in turn be reinvested in the brand propositions.
changes such as plain packaging.
Market trends and competitor innovations are monitored in order to ensure we maintain the strength and relevance of our brand offerings.
We employ experts to ensure that the intellectual property of our brands is appropriately protected.
Product quality Brand and reputational damage Quality control testing and monitoring is a core part of our Product fails to meet regulatory resulting in reduced sales volumes.
manufacturing and supply chain processes, with robust or consumer requirements.
regulatory compliance completed on a continual basis.
Potential financial penalty and regulatory censure resulting from Customer complaints monitoring and escalation processes failure to maintain appropriate exist across our markets, ensuring that customer feedback product standards.
is acted upon and any quality issues are managed in an effective and appropriate manner.
In the event of the requirement to recall product, effective processes exist to mitigate the risks to our supply chain.
Speed of response Failure to maximise opportunities Product innovation and customer propositions are monitored The Group fails to respond in markets.
Customer trends and choices are to market dynamics in a analysed at both a local and Group level, with effective Reduction in sales volume or revenues timely manner.
processes in place to support innovation.
resulting from failure to maintain portfolio in line with changing consumer demands.
29 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 www.
com 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Access to funding Strategic priority Capital discipline What affects us Potential consequences What we do Financial market risk A fall in certain of our credit ratings We have a strong focus on cash generation and the reduction We have a significant level of would raise the cost of our existing in our debt over time.
committed debt, financed in the committed funding and could raise Our Treasury Committee TC oversees the operation of the debt capital markets and bank loan our cost of future funding and affect Treasury function in accordance with the terms of reference markets.
We expect any future our ability to raise debt from the set out by the Board.
required refinancing of this debt current breadth of funders.
prior to maturity to be obtained The TC sets out a framework for the Treasury function to Approximately 71 per cent of the from these markets and for us to be operate within.
The framework, which is periodically fully Groups net debt is currently at fixed able to rely on funds being available reviewed, covers, amongst other things, financing, liquidity levels of interest, and therefore the from our bank counterparties when and risk management, which includes interest rate, foreign Group is exposed to movements in requested to be drawn.
The TC receives regular interest rates which could result in reporting on matters covered by the framework.
higher funding costs and cash outflows on the remainder.
Cash flows, financing requirements and key rating agency metrics are regularly forecast and updated in line with We also place cash deposits and enter business performance.
This information is considered into derivative financial transactions alongside conditions in the debt capital and bank loan markets with a diversified group of financial to ensure we are well placed to meet the future financing institutions and we would be affected needs of the Group and optimise its cost and availability.
if those counterparties did not honour their commitments.
For significant acquisitions of overseas companies, borrowings are raised in the appropriate currency or are swapped via derivatives into the appropriate currency to minimise the balance sheet foreign exchange translation risk.
Cost optimisation and strategic change initiatives Strategic priority Cost optimisation, Capital discipline What affects us Potential consequences What we do Cost optimisation Failure to align cost base results in Continued focus upon cost and cash agenda embedded Failure to achieve expected cost reduced profit and cash available for within the business planning and operational processes.
The Groups investment appraisal process provides robust and Reduction in stakeholder confidence effective assessment and challenge of investment requests.
as a result of failure to achieve Monitoring of cost and cash form a key part of business committed cost savings.
Operating model and other The implementation of change To support the successful delivery of material initiatives strategic change initiatives initiatives could involve particular within the organisation the Group has developed and In order to achieve our strategic challenges and require management implemented a standardised project management process objectives, the Group may be attention that would otherwise be that provides a robust framework to enable effective required to undertake material devoted to running our business.
initiatives, including change We may be unable to realise the The majority of the Groups material change programmes programmes and acquisitions.
anticipated benefits of change are coordinated under a single umbrella programme, programmes and within the ensuring alignment of deliverables, management of timeframe contemplated.
interdependencies, and limiting the impact of change upon our operational activities.
Any inability to deliver change programmes to either intended scope, The Operating Executive receives regular reporting on cost or time could have an adverse the progress of key projects.
This provides a continuing effect on cost, cash and profit.
assessment of deliverables in changing markets, and the evaluation of interdependencies across the business.
Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 30 30 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements Strategic priority Developing our footprint What affects us Potential consequences What we do Failure to comply with legislation This may cause damage to our The Groups policies and standards, including our Code Failure to comply with local and reputation and has the potential for of Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply international laws including financial and criminal penalties for with legislation relevant to a UK listed company and in the sanctions may result in both the Group and individuals.
countries in which they operate.
E-learning and courses are investigations.
provided to management and relevant employees to ensure The cost of responding to any understanding of key regulatory and compliance requirements.
investigations can be substantial and require significant resource Senior management certify the compliance of their area of and management focus.
the business with the Code of Conduct as part of an annual certification process.
Exceptions are reported and mitigating actions taken.
We closely monitor developments in international sanctions and actively seek external advice to ensure that we remain compliant with them.
Centres of Expertise and steering groups exist for key areas of legal compliance to provide expert advice in the development of policy, process, training and monitoring of compliance.
Tobacco litigation To date, no tobacco litigation claim We employ internal and external lawyers specialising in the Tobacco litigation claims are brought against the Group has been defence of product liability litigation to provide advice and pending against the Group successful and or resulted in the guidance on defence strategies and to direct and manage in a number of countries.
litigation risk and monitor potential claims around the Group.
More claims may be brought in the If any claim were to be successful, it The US cigarette brands have been acquired without historic future, including claims for personal might result in a significant liability product liabilities and with an indemnity from Reynolds injury and the recovery of medical for damages and might lead to further American in respect of any liabilities relating to the period costs allegedly incurred in treating claims against us.
Regardless of the prior to acquisition.
The US, the jurisdiction outcome, the costs of defending such with the greatest prevalence of claims can be substantial and may smoking and health-related not be fully recoverable.
litigation, is also now a key country for the Group.
Significant market positions Any allegation of inappropriate market The Groups policies and standards, including our Code of Our significant market position behaviour creates the risk of financial Conduct, mandate that all employees must comply with in certain countries could result penalty, and or regulatory censure, competition laws in the countries in which we operate.
in investigations and adverse and negative publicity.
We provide training and guidance to relevant employees regulatory action by relevant detailing the obligations and requirements of competition authorities.
We employ experienced internal and external lawyers specialising in competition laws to provide advice and guidance regarding interpretation and compliance with competition laws.
In the event of any investigation which may or may not result in actions being brought against us, we cooperate fully with the relevant authority making the investigation and will continue to do so.
31 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 www.
com 31 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED VIABILITY STATEMENT Whilst the Board has no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, the period over which the Board considers it The Board has assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longerperiod than the 12 months required by the going concern requirements term viability, based on the risk and sensitivity analysis undertaken, of the Code.
This longer-term assessment process supports the is the three-year period to September 2019.
This reflects the period Boards statements on both viability, as set out below, and going used for the Groups business plans and has been selected because, concern, made on page 19. together with the planning process set out above, it gives management The Groups annual corporate planning processes include completion and the Board sufficient, realistic visibility on the future in the of a strategic review, preparation of a three-year business plan and a context of the industry environment.
The Board has considered rolling re-forecast of current year business performance and prospects.
whether it is aware of any specific relevant factors beyond the three-year horizon and confirmed that there are none.
The plans and projections prepared as part of these corporate planning processes consider the Groups cash flows, committed The Board confirms that its assessment of the principal risks facing funding and liquidity positions, forecast future funding requirements, the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, banking covenants, and other key financial ratios, including those future performance, solvency and or liquidity, and which are set out relevant to maintaining our investment grade ratings.
in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 28 to 31, was robust.
Where appropriate, sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the resilience of the Group and its business model to the potential On the basis of this robust assessment of the principal risks facing impact of the Groups principal risks, or a combination of those risks.
the Group, and on the assumption that they are managed or mitigated This stress-testing takes account of the availability and effectiveness in the ways disclosed, the Boards review of the business plan and of the mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid other matters considered and reviewed during the year, and the or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In results of the sensitivity analysis undertaken and described above, considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over and internal control systems, as described on page 27, are taken the period to September 2019. into account.
32 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 32 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2016
