Risk management By managing our risks in a professional and consistent way, we operate with true peace of mind.
Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM is our Group-wide Inchcape Peace of Mind our approach risk management and governance framework which to risk focuses on empowering each and every one of our Knowing that we have in place the right procedures, colleagues to consider the risks associated with the processes and frameworks to prevent risks from decisions they take and to balance the potential impacting our business, or to enable us to respond consequences of their actions or inactions as they promptly and decisively when they do, gives us take them.
Embedded in our day-to-day confidence in our ability to achieve our strategic management practices, iPOM helps us identify, objectives and support the long-term sustainable manage and reduce our risks, raise awareness growth of our business.
through education and training, give guidance and direction, encourage open and honest Our reputation as a global automotive Distributor and Retailer is built on our ability to take calculated communication and engage our colleagues with the understanding of risks and how to manage risks to create value for the Company and its shareholders, at the same time evaluating and them, no matter where they are in the world.
managing those risks to protect the long-term value and reputation of the Group.
Risk management governance structure Internal Audit Direction & Board Review of internal Oversight Responsible for determining the Group risk appetite and oversight of controls, monitoring principal risks to the Groups strategic objectives Policy, risk capture and Framework, mitigating actions Tools Audit Committee Delegated responsibilities from the Board for risk management, internal Corporate Assurance controls, compliance and whistleblowing Leading continuous improvement in our risk management practices and risk Group iPOM Committee mitigation techniques Day-to-day risk management oversight sits with the Group iPOM Committee Risk Information Functional Assurance Identification, providers Evaluation, Functional assurance Market iPOM Committees Management, teams provide in-market In each market, a Market iPOM Committee ensures that risk management Mitigation, challenge to internal remains a priority.
Meetings and outputs are aligned with the Group iPOM Monitoring controls and risk Committee, Audit Committee and Board meetings mitigation plans Management Teams Risk owners 32 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Independent Review and Challenge STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A compliance programme is in place in all Risk management in action markets and offices that meets or exceeds The Board During the year, the Board carried out a external benchmarks and is appropriate in risk review for the purpose of determining the Group terms of legal requirements, content, sector, cost principal risk footprint and to confirm the Groups and resources: current and ongoing processes to identify, review, Internal controls are appropriate, well designed, agree and monitor risk.
Risks are also considered and operating consistently across the Group: and throughout the year as part of the Boards review of each strategic objective of the Ignite strategy.
The Groups fraud and whistleblowing programme Further information on strategy is set out on pages 2 is appropriately managed to reduce the risk of to 15 and the key risks are given on page 34.
Further fraud, or respond quickly and decisively in the information on risk management is given on pages event the Group falls victim to fraud.
The Board also reviewed and approved The Market iPOM Committees are the representative the viability statement including its assessment of of iPOM in each of our markets.
The Market iPOM the methodology used by management to reach Committees have primary responsibility to identify its conclusion.
The viability statement is given on and control market risks, maintain local risk registers, page 38. regularly update mitigation plans and update the The Audit Committee During the year, the Committee Groups risk mitigation monitoring system.
The reviewed, assessed and challenged management Committees meet quarterly to review all systemic on the risk management and internal control and dynamic risks and ensure that the mitigation framework in place throughout the year to enable plans are up to date.
Evaluation of each risks the correct risk appetite and culture to be potential impact and likelihood is defined by embedded throughout the Group.
The Committee guidelines issued by the Group Corporate Assurance chair reports to the Board after each meeting to team and are consistent across the Group.
ensure full oversight of the risks within the Groups operations.
Further information on the work of the Audit Committee can be found on pages 50 to 53.
The Group Executive Committee During the year, the Group Executive Committee undertook a routine evaluation of the principal risk footprint, based on A case study in our approach to data various inputs including the risk registers maintained In response to a key risk identified on the risk footprint, within each of our markets.
This evaluation the Group iPOM Committee commissioned a project comprised a review of the impact and likelihood of to review our overall approach to data management the principal risks the Group faces, the underlying and data protection.
The project was co-sponsored by causal factors, and the mitigating actions required Internal Audit and the Group Chief Information Officer, to address those factors.
The resulting changes to the who is also the executive responsible for this risk at risk footprint were agreed with the Board.
Working with external consultants, the footprint and associated mitigating actions will objectives were to: continue to be monitored by the Group Executive Assess our ability to comply with prevailing Committee on an ongoing basis.
Risks facing the legislation including readiness for the General Data Group are discussed on an ongoing basis at both Protection Regulation 2018 Market and Group level through the iPOM Committee framework with the most pressing issues Identify and prioritise our core information assets escalated to the Group Executive Committee and including confidential and sensitive data the Board as appropriate.
Evaluate, challenge, and benchmark our current data protection arrangements including physical The Group iPOM Committee meets a minimum of six and logical security times a year to manage oversight of risk, at Group level and throughout the markets.
The remit of the Investigate our IS estate for evidence of attack iPOM Committee is broad, but its core focus areas breach, either current or historic are to ensure: The results of the project have been analysed at the There is an appropriate mechanism in place to Group Executive and Group iPOM Committees as well identify the risks the Group faces: as by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The conclusions have been fed into a series of Management teams have the correct focus on improvement projects to be implemented in 2017. those risks and, in particular, action plans to mitigate or respond to those risks: inchcape.
com 33 Risk management continued Inchcape principal risk footprint The principal risk footprint comprises the most pressing risks that would cause the most damage to the reputation or financial strength of the Company if they are not effectively evaluated, understood and managed.
The risk footprint is distilled from Group-wide risk registers and iPOM Committee discussions and is regularly reviewed by the Group Executive Committee, the Group iPOM Committee and the Board.
The key risks, which are given in detail on pages 36 and 37, are a subset of our principal risks which we believe would have the most immediate and damaging impact and therefore are of particular focus.
Each of the key risks is overseen by an allocated member of the Group Executive Committee.
We recognise, and are actively managing, further risks both at Group level and within individual business units as identified by our comprehensive risk management process, but these are deemed less material than the 16 principal risk factors noted on the footprint.
Given the size and geographical diversity of our business, we understand there may be additional risks not currently known to management and we continuously improve our iPOM processes to identify, evaluate and mitigate these risks.
As a Group, we continue to experience an ever-changing, dynamic risk environment where economic, political, environmental, social, legal and technological changes present a complex risk landscape which threatens our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.
However, we believe that our diversity of brand portfolio and geographic spread, combined with our strong balance sheet, cost control and risk-aware decisionmaking processes, make us resilient to all but the most significant and persistent risks.
Principal risks The principal risks to achievement of our strategy are: Key risks Loss of distribution contract with major brand partner 1 Significant retrenchment of credit available to customers, dealer network or Inchcape plc 2 Brand failure or major interruption to OEM operations or product 3 Major loss of confidential or sensitive data 4 Failure to extract value from acquisitions 5 Impact of disruptive technologies and or methods of engaging the next generation of customers 6 Fluctuations in exchange rates with negative impact on financial performance 7 Other principal risks Interruption to iPower, or major systems failure 8 Failure to safeguard our customers and employees by not consistently applying EH&S standards 9 across the Group Internal controls failure sufficient to affect reputation 10 Individual governments increasing restrictions on cross-border currency movements leading to higher 11 incidents of trapped cash across the Group Dynamic changes in local or international tax rules e. g. changes to transfer pricing rules as a result of 12 the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Initiative Social, political and regulatory instability in Emerging Markets 13 Changes in legislation directly affecting customer demand 14 Non-compliance with dynamic changes in laws and regulations 15 Failure to attract, retain and develop our people 16 34 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Existing risk 1 2 3 4 3 New or amended risk 5 4 4 Previous risk position 8 9 15 10 11 16 6 7 12 13 14 Low Medium High Likelihood Following an in-depth review of the principal risk footprint, by the Group Executive Committee and Board, the following changes have been made during the year, to best reflect the current principal risks facing the Group.
To reflect the instability in Ethiopia and the reach Additions of the Russian political economic problem, we The Board decided to add one risk to the combined into a single risk Social, political and footprint during 2016 Fluctuations in exchange regulatory instability in Emerging Markets.
rates with negative impact on financial performance.
This reflects the experience of How our footprint has changed currency fluctuations that have affected our The 2015 risk footprint included a risk relating to business, particularly the fall of sterling in H2 the shared service centre strategy and the 2016 and our transactional exposure to increase in the number of single points of failure.
Japanese Yen, and the continuing uncertainty This has been removed for 2016, as we have over exchange rates.
successfully completed the implementation of Shared Service Centres into our UK business.
Amendment consolidations These centres are now operating on a business The risks of Brand failure globally and Major as usual basis and we therefore do not believe interruption to OEM operations have been that there is sufficient risk to be included in the consolidated into a single risk as the underlying principal risk footprint.
factors, the outcomes, and the mitigation plans are fundamentally the same.
We increased the likelihood of Major loss of confidential or sensitive data to Medium, following enhanced awareness of this risk.
We combined the risk of OEM data ownership and Growth in new routes to market and methods of engaging the customer into a single risk Impact of disruptive technologies and or methods of engaging the next generation of customers as the underlying factors and outcomes are fundamentally the same and mitigation plans are most efficiently addressed concurrently within the Ignite strategy.
com 35 Impact Low Medium High Risk management continued Key risks Loss of distribution contract with major brand partner Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Distribution and Retail contracts are fundamental to our business Loss of significant High quality operational, commercial and model.
contribution to digital standards with multi-channel revenue and assessments.
Although our brand diversification strategy is designed to mitigate operating profit.
this risk, an event which leads to any of these contracts being In-depth, regular performance reporting cancelled, or not renewed, will have a significant long-term impact Significant impact on and business performance reviews.
These causal factors could include but are not reputation.
Clear compliance and risk management limited to: Cost of business framework in place including Minimum Major fraud, bribery, data security or other systemic compliance interruption closure Control Framework to address failure.
and staff termination compliance issues.
Consistent failure to deliver to targets or standards in major Strong anti-fraud procedures including markets or across multiple markets.
Failure to deliver value proposition to brand partners.
Dedicated in-house business development function overseeing M&A Failure to deliver on growth strategy or defend our business model and strategic direction.
Connected customers a core element of Failure to connect with the next generation of customers.
Significant retrenchment of credit available to customers, dealer network or Inchcape plc Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Another economic crash may lead to a significant constriction in Adverse impact on Maintenance of accounts with global liquidity, so that funding is unavailable to Inchcape plc, floor retail volumes.
plan financing disappears and customer credit dries up.
Dealers unable to Continuous monitoring of credit lines New Vehicle sales volumes rely on our customers both end users finance inventory, to customers and independent dealer and dealers being able to access affordable credit lines.
Credit availability globally, whilst improving, remains uncertain and a Close management of credit extended to significant retrenchment would adversely impact New Vehicle independent dealer network including volumes.
Underlying factors include: Cash reserves maintained.
Difficulty in securing credit for customers and floor plan financing.
Headroom funding model to monitor cash flow.
Independent dealers face challenges obtaining credit.
Funding unavailable, or unaffordable, for Inchcape Group either from commercial lenders or from supplier-related funding.
Brand failure or major interruption to OEM operations or product Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity A major reputational disaster at one of our brand partners could Loss of reputation of Internal monitoring process and response lead to complete commercial failure of that partner.
product leading to plan for major incidents.
significantly reduced For example: Brand diversification strategy.
A major recall or similar event causes loss of product reputation Monitoring procedures to anticipate Loss of company and severe drop off in customer demand.
product recalls and quality issues.
reputation leading to An event of sufficient significance could also affect the reputation Monitoring of product recall events and failure of brand of our brand partners to the extent that viability of that brand is continuous liaison with brand partners partner.
regarding quality competitiveness of Adverse impact on product line-up.
Interruptions to our supply chain or an event which adversely supply of inventory.
impacts the reputation of the products we sell could have a Diversification of suppliers where possible.
Adverse effect on knock-on effect on our revenues, margins or reputation.
Incident response and business continuity volumes, margin and Specific incidents could include: plan in place.
Damage to product reputation in light of product recalls.
Lobbying and communication with OEM regarding competitiveness of models.
Significant failure in the supply chain for key components or products.
36 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Major loss of confidential or sensitive data Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity As a business we hold a large amount of confidential data Impact on customer Clearly understood data protection pertaining to ourselves, as well as our customers and brand partners.
relationship and standards and processes.
Whilst we only hold and use this data for the purposes of Global cyber security steering committee continuously improving the customer experience, we recognise our Adverse financial in place.
responsibility to protect this information and preserve its integrity.
impact as a result of Information assets defined and security fines and sanctions.
Failure to protect confidential or sensitive data, whether held controls benchmarked to ensure best electronically or otherwise, could result in significant operational and practice.
Clear IT security policies and procedures.
Minimum standards developed and implemented.
Failure to extract value from acquisitions Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Inchcape complements its organic growth agenda by pursuing Inefficient or ineffective Business Development team run inorganic growth through acquisition.
Failure to identify and acquire the right targets, and efficiently Lost revenue Central synergy plan developed to integrate new businesses into our operation will adversely impact our opportunities.
inform business development activity ability to recognise the synergies and benefits from those and due diligence.
Due diligence performed in advance on all acquisitions.
Post-acquisition reviews and detailed integration processes.
Impact of disruptive technologies and or methods of engaging the next generation of customers Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity The growth of online platforms to interact with customers presents in Volume and margin Connected customer a core part of equal terms real opportunity to improve the customer offering, whilst are adversely strategy, including controlled use of social at the same time presenting new risks around data protection, impacted across our media as a communications channel.
maintenance of standards and customer engagement through, for markets.
Business performance reviews and regular example, social media.
Adverse impact on margin monitoring.
Digital platforms also allow our brand partners to reach out to our value of Retail sites.
Continuous review of operating customer base directly, in effect bypassing the relationship between Reduced ability to procedures and commercial offering to the retailer and even the distributor in favour of a direct relationship drive demand ensure potential is maximised.
This may impact the quality and intensity of the margin.
Continuing dialogue with OEM partners to relationship that we as an intermediary hold with our customers and Loss of customer build awareness of the commercial impact our ability to drive demand and margin.
relationships and benefit of our involvement in the process.
Over the longer time horizon, major new competitors are likely to possibly reduction Close monitoring of developments in new enter the automotive market from the technology sector as the lines in loyalty.
technologies alongside our brand between automotive and technology become ever more blurred, partners.
changing attitudes to vehicle ownership and threatening the existing Review investment opportunities in Retail model.
Fluctuations in exchange rates with negative impact on financial performance Causal factors Impact Mitigating activity Inchcape has a broad geographical footprint and therefore many of Negative transactional Centralised Group Treasury function our subsidiaries operate with functional currencies that are not GBP.
impact on trading responsible for ensuring that foreign profits.
currency exchange risks are identified Given recent economic and political events, coupled with and managed.
continuing uncertainty over the strength of the global economy, Adverse translational we have seen increasing volatility in currency rates over the course impact on profitability.
Hedging of net currency flows.
com 37 Risk management continued The Board has prioritised a subset of these principal Viability statement risks for the purposes of assessing the longer-term The Groups business model and strategy are viability of the Group.
The three risks modelled for the outlined on pages 2 and 15 and the long-term purpose are: viability of the Group is intrinsically linked to delivery of this strategy and the cash-generative nature of the loss of distribution contract with major brand this business model.
partner: brand failure or major interruption to OEM It is in the nature of our business that our continued operations or product: and viability is dependent upon the continuation of our relationships with Original Equipment Manufacturers a significant retrenchment of credit available to OEMs.
Based on the longevity of our relationships customers, dealer network or Inchcape.
shown below, it is reasonable for us to expect that, Sensitivity analysis is undertaken to stress-test the when viewed across a three year time horizon, a resilience of the Group and its business model.
For sufficient number of those contracts will be renewed, the purposes of viability testing we modelled both such that the Company will continue in viable the loss of a distribution contract with a major brand operation.
partner and the failure or major interruption to OEM In seeking to become and remain the OEMs partner operations or product.
The third risk, liquidity credit of choice, we expect to continue to build on the shock, has been modelled as a sensitivity on top of long-term strategic relationships we have developed both of these risks.
with our OEM partners over the years to grow our The recent successful refinancing of the Group, both businesses together over a far longer timeframe.
in the US Private Placement market and through our The plans and projections prepared as part of the syndicate of relationship banks, coupled with the Groups annual strategic planning process consider existing cash-generative nature of our business the Groups cash flows, committed and model, combine to generate sufficient cash flow uncommitted funding positions, forecast future headroom under the extreme scenarios tested.
funding requirements and lending covenants.
On the basis of an assessment of the critical risks, As a component part of the strategic planning and on the assumption that the principal risks set process, the Board adopts a rigorous approach to out on pages 34 to 37 are managed and mitigated the identification of the principal risks facing the in the ways described, and based on the Boards Group and to the monitoring of the actions taken to review of the strategic plan, and the results of the mitigate these risks as outlined in this Report.
sensitivity analysis undertaken, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to December 2019.
of years 50 49 46 40 30 29 28 27 24 20 10 0 38 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our corporate responsibility Building a trusted business In 2016 we launched Ignite, our new strategy centred on trust.
This launch provided an opportunity for us to review and align our corporate responsibility CR approach and initiatives to our strategic purpose, and embrace CR as a critical business process.
We believe that this re-focus of our CR strategy will enable the delivery of our five key objectives and ultimately supports our vision to become the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer.
Through this review we have identified five major CR priorities that will underpin our trust ambition and Lead in enable the delivery of our strategy: customer experience 1.
Growing sustainable talent Leveraging our capability and best practices to accelerate our growth.
Driving a Health and Safety culture accelerate the OEMs Adopting global standards and processes for Health To be the growth partner and Safety.
worlds most of choice trusted 3.
Building sustainable communities automotive Distributor & Working with our local communities to make Retailer a difference.
List ening to our customers and OEM Leverage Deliver full brand partners our global potential on all Continuing to forge trusting relationships scale our revenue through listening.
Managing our business sustainably Measurement and management of carbon emissions for our global business.
Governance CR at Inchcape is governed by the CR Committee which meets twice annually, and is supported by a Group operational team and a network of CR champions across our portfolio of 29 markets.
The CR Committee is chaired by Till Vestring, Non-Executive Director, and its members are Inchcapes Chairman, Ken Hanna, Non-Executive Director Coline McConville, Group CEO Stefan Bomhard and Chief Human Resources Officer, Alison Clarke.
Maintaining a robust and transparent approach to CR is important for the long-term sustainability of our business, and we take our responsibilities towards all our stakeholders and the world at large seriously.
The next few pages contain some of the ways in which we try to make a positive difference at Inchcape.
Read the CR Committee shareholder letter on page 56 inchcape.
com 39 Our responsibility continued This framework was developed using inputs from 1.
Growing sustainable talent colleague and customer focus groups, and In the first half of 2016 we conducted a global talent incorporates our OEM brand partners existing review of the top 200 senior leaders, the people that frameworks of skills and behaviours to ensure we can are responsible for driving performance for the deliver against all our stakeholders expectations in business across our 29 markets.
The aim of the review support of our trust ambition.
was to understand the strength and depth of the capability of our people, to ensure we have the DRIVE5 is being rolled out across the Inchcape rightresource in the right place to deliver our Group in a series of workshops by our executive strategic priorities.
leadership team and is designed to ensure that all our employees are aligned with and capable of The outcome of this review provided insights on how delivering our strategy.
We believe this will stepwe can leverage our global capabilities.
In light of change our performance for all of our stakeholders.
these insights we have created a global succession plan for our senior leaders, and created a training In 2016 we also undertook a review of our technician and development framework to maximise the programmes to ensure we have the best technical contribution of all of our employees.
We have also capability available in our markets and as a result made a number of promotional moves around the we have strengthened our apprenticeship world to share best practice across our markets.
The review has also provided the opportunity to set new performance expectations, behaviours and values for all of our people through the design of ournew performance and talent framework Case study: Sunday Times Best called DRIVE5.
Companies to Work For At Inchcape we continue to measure and focus on the engagement and commitment of our employees.
In 2016 Inchcape UK, using an external Case study: Technicians benchmarking review, entered The Sunday In the UK we have set ourselves the goal of becoming Times Best Companies to Work For: the the employer of choice within the motor industry for Company was awarded first place in the technician talent.
We held a number of focus groups Times Top 25 Big Companies to Work For, with technicians across the country to understand having risen from eighth place in 2015.
A their key drivers of engagement, covering every cross-section of employees was surveyed by element of their career within Inchcape including Best Companies and the results showed reward, recognition, communication and how employees feel about working for development.
Feedback and learning from the focus Inchcape UK as an organisation: the groups will result in a significant re-design of all support with which they are provided and elements of our reward, incentive and recognition the development they receive was programmes in 2017. considered to be amongst the best.
While In Ethiopia, we run an Apprentice Technician we are proud of this recognition, more Programme.
This involves selecting candidates from importantly we take it as an encouragement well-known technical schools for a two year on-the-job to strive for further improvements in our training programme, partnering them with more practices and our culture.
After two years they are evaluated and, subject to vacancy, are then recruited as Junior Technicians on a permanent basis.
Further, all our technicians develop and progress through the 2.
Building a Health & Safety Culture Company as they gain experience, which helps with We believe that health, safety and well-being are retention and supports our internal succession critical contributors to our future commercial planning.
As a result, we do not recruit senior success.
We care about our people and customers technician roles from outside the Company.
In 2016 and are committed to the promotion of safe, healthy we had 88 trainee technicians in our Ethiopian behaviours and practices to help them avoid illness operations, 46 of whom started with the Company or injury whilst on our sites or in our care.
Our in 2015. ambition is for zero avoidable safety incidents, and we believe we will achieve this by continually 40 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS challenging our existing efforts, building on existing Progress against country and global action plans will best practices and committing resource and be measured and reviewed regularly at iPOM investment where needed.
See page 33 for more information on the iPOM Committee.
In 2016, we identified the need to move on from simply managing health and safety and instead focus on developing a Health & Safety Culture across the Group.
Case study: Australasia We identified the following criteria to assess our Health & Safety performance to year ending 2016 current state and undertook a detailed review of all resulted in Australasia achieving greater than three countries performance against these elements: years lost time injury free, which means that no employee has been injured and not been able to management focus and culture return to work within the same day.
policy, procedure and practice As a result of changes to H&S practices, Australasia resources, training and competence has saved AUS$6.4 million on workers compensation compliance, reporting and monitoring premium costs over a period of four years.
incident management At the end of 2016, 70 key managers have been In each case the review was driven by the country credited with tertiary qualifications in work Health & head, demonstrating top level ownership.
Training was run in-house from the Health & the review, the Group Executive Committee identified Safety department who are government accredited, specific action plans for every country developing resulting in an internal community of new policies and practices to achieve our newly H&S professionals.
defined standards that were developed in partnership with our brokers.
These global standards and processes will help us to achieve our objective of becoming the worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer.
Building sustainable communities From that work, we identified leading Health & Safety Inchcape aspires to support and develop the practices for Inchcape to continue to pursue: communities in which it operates.
Working with our local communities makes business sense and develop and maintain a safety first culture across supports our strategic vision by generating trust for our business with demonstrable leadership the brand.
maintain a consistent standard across all of our Working with local charities is a great way to get markets which meets or exceeds local regulations involved in communities, understanding whats ensure that all of our staff understand and important to them and the challenges they face.
embrace the right practices and behaviours Charitable work also builds employee engagement, ensure we are devoting sufficient resources to empowering colleagues to make a difference and identifying and addressing safety concerns support causes close to their hearts.
In line with this, build awareness of Health & Safety risks through every year colleagues from each Inchcape country training and employee development or region vote for a charitable cause to support over the year.
identify and act upon hazards and incidents proactively The short case studies that follow demonstrate some help us learn effectively from our mistakes when of the ways in which our colleagues fulfil this incidents do occur to prevent future recurrence important aspect of our business.
Globally we have also identified three key areas of focus to deliver these objectives: Regular internal inspections alongside independent assessment with clear action planning assessed against our scorecard KPIs Best practice sharing to leverage our global scale Centre of excellence to further improve global Health & Safety standards wherever we operate inchcape.
com 41 Our responsibility continued As well as working proactively with charities, Inchcapes market operations have also mobilised to Case study: MCRC, Ethiopia & Head Office assist when communities are affected by Inchcape is the distributor for Toyota in Ethiopia.
The organisation is called MOENCO and is run by Chris fide Muynck.
When they arrived in Ethiopia, Chris and his wife Jutta were moved by the poverty in the local area and decided to help the community by Case study: Thailand floods setting up the Mother and Child Rehabilitation Centre In December 2016, southern Thailand was to provide food, shelter, education, medical care and hit by severe flooding, destroying homes and therapy for disadvantaged children from Addis Ababa displacing thousands of families.
Our team and its surrounding areas.
In 2016, Inchcapes Head from Jaguar Land Rover in Bangkok Office in London adopted MCRC as its charity partner, mobilised a fleet of Land Rover and Range raising over 2,200 from employee fundraising, as well Rover vehicles to distribute 1,000 cases of as a corporate donation of 25,000.
This was added to bottled water and other much needed nearly 80,000 donated by MOENCO over the course supplies to stricken villages and a school.
The Group Executive Committee visited the Mr. Charnchai Mahantakhun, Inchcape centre to learn more about the operation, meet some Thailands JLR Managing Director, said: We of the children and present Jutta fide Muynck with the planned on being the givers on this trip but I funds raised.
feel that we received more than we gave.
We learned about the lives of the villagers, and we saw the smiles of our team members and of the villagers affected by the flood.
Case study: Macmillan, UK With a very high proportion of people diagnosed with 4.
Listening to our customers and OEM or otherwise personally affected by cancer, the UK team selected Macmillan Cancer Support to work brand partners with in 2016.
Having had a very successful and highly We believe that the sustainability of our business engaging year working in partnership with Macmillan, relies upon honest and trusting relationships with all they have now extended this for a further year in 2017. stakeholders.
Creating a relationship built upon trust During the past year employees from all over the with our customers means listening to and country played a very active part in cycling events, understanding their needs, and then working in fun runs and bake-offs which managed to raise close partnership with our OEM partners to enable 74,000 for the charity.
Macmillan Cancer Support is us to improve what we do every day.
delighted and so are our teams.
We have spent much of 2016 listening to our customers to inform and help to shape how we can better interact with them, ensuring that the Ignite objective to Lead in Customer Experience becomes a reality.
This year we listened to 5,000 members of the car-buying public right across our global network, Case study: Singapore Childrens Society, getting feedback on their experiences, what we are Singapore good at and areas where they wanted us to improve.
In August 2016, we renewed our long-term partnership The insights from these interviews and surveys with Singapore Childrens Society, which seeks to underpin our plans to continue to provide leading provide support on three fronts: fund raising and customer experience.
donations, career placement for beneficiaries and employee volunteering.
In November Borneo Motors, Our interaction with customers extends beyond Inchcapes Singapore business, co-sponsored the strategic projects however.
We continue to receive th 27 Toyota Classics Music that Moves Lives charity many hundreds of positive contacts from our concert.
Through this sponsorship the Company customers each year, by letter, email and telephone, donated SGD$100,000, and over the course of the and many of these have been featured and fed year donations totalled nearly SGD$320,000.
back to the whole Company through our weekly internal emails highlighting customer service.
This is 42 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS an initiative that we are looking to evolve during the The GHG Inventory stated in the table below for the year in line with the Ignite customer current and previous years has been adjusted and experience strategy.
re-stated to ensure consistency with the existing protocols.
This change in representation has been 5.
Managing our business sustainably made following the review of carbon accounting processes undertaken in the last year as This has always been a focus for Inchcape, but this described here.
year we have reviewed our approach to strengthen measurement and management of carbon Building on this work, Inchcape is now working with emissions around the world.
To support us in this the Carbon Trust to look at the opportunity to set a review we engaged the Carbon Trust, independent science-based target for carbon emissions specialists on carbon reduction and reduction.
This would ensure that operations are resource efficiency.
directly aligned with the reductions that the best available science says will be necessary to keep The first part of the review involved engaging 25 global warming well below 2C above the preindividual regional contacts to improve data sources Industrial average.
This will put Inchcape within a and standardise collection processes.
Following their small and exclusive group of sustainability leaders feedback, a bespoke and easy-to-use carbon currently numbered at just over 200, including footprint tool was developed by the Carbon Trust, some of the worlds largest companies that have which integrates reporting across all international committed to objectively adequate goals on operations.
The tool is aligned with best practice addressing climate change.
reporting guidance under the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard, as well as meeting the Reviewing our approach to corporate responsibility mandatory non-financial reporting requirements on has helped us to improve our focus on the issues greenhouse gases for listed UK companies.
The new and provide greater clarity in our reporting.
We have carbon footprint tool has been rolled out globally evolved our strategy and aligned it with our strategic with a series of training webinars and the data for objectives: our five CR priorities build on the 2016 has been captured under the new system.
successful initiatives of previous years, but this tighter alignment to our business strategy will refine and Through putting in place a state-of-the-art carbon sharpen the impact of our initiatives, and we will be accounting system Inchcape can gather credible able to demonstrate clear, measurable business and robust data on key impact areas such as site outcomes as a result.
energy use, logistics and staff travel.
As well as improving the quality of environmental reporting, We look forward to reporting further on our progress when analysed this can reveal opportunities for in corporate responsibility in next years annual report.
greater efficiency and cost saving across our global operations.
It allows for benchmarking against competitors and provides a unified framework for driving continual improvement across multiple regions.
Total emissions GHG Emissions tonnes CO e 2 Year ended Year ended Change in Scope 1 and 2 emissions 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Emissions Scope 1 Direct emissions from combustion of fuels and operation of facilities 11,760 13,000 -10% Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 44,795 49,360 -9% Total scope 1 and 2 emissions 56,555 62,360 -9% Year ended Year ended Operational Emissions Intensity 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Change 1 Intensity Metric Total Revenue m 7,838 6,836 15% Total scope 1 and 2 emissions tonnes CO e 56,555 62,360 -9% 2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions per m tCO e m 7.2 9.1 -21% 2 1 Stated at actual rate.
