STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES SUPPORTING GROWTH THROUGH EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT isk-taking is inherent in pursuing opportunities for regularly.
The material control governance process has been growth, whether those opportunities are found in mapped and quarterly monitoring and reporting will be initiated new markets, through deploying new technology, by the Risk Committee in 2017.
R bychanging organisational structures or hiring new Financial controls are consistent with the Group authority colleagues.
As Informa seeks to achieve long-term framework and are implemented by the Group finance team, sustainable growth under the Growth Acceleration Plan, theDivisional Finance teams, Group tax and treasury and the effectiverisk management is essential to achieving the Shared Service Centres.
The financial reporting processes Groupsstrategic objectives.
andcontrols are the subject of internal and external audit.
Throughout the Group, risk management is based on the principle Compliance reports are made to the Group Risk Committee that we should only take risks that are relevant to our strategic andthe Board.
goals, and that risks should be balanced with proportionate reward.
We actively and transparently manage, monitor and DEVELOPMENTS IN 2016 report on risks that arise from internal and external sources, There were several developments around how the Group andcontinuously make improvements with the goal of moving manages and mitigates risk during the year.
The Board formally towards a mature risk culture where risk management isused considered and articulated its risk appetite the amount of risk tooptimise growth and performance.
itis willing to take in pursuit of the Groups objectives and its risk tolerance the degree of variation from desired risk levels the Informas Risk Committee plays a key role in the Groups risk Board is prepared to bear.
This guidance was announced across management framework.
The Committee reviews Divisional risk the Group and published internally.
The tolerances used to rate registers created by each Division for emerging or developing risks have been aligned to the Boards risk tolerance.
risks, adding the most significant risks, based on impact, likelihood and frequency to the Group Risk Register, from A new and consistent reporting format for Divisional risk registers whichprincipal risks are identified.
Principal risks are the was introduced, which has increased transparency and made mostsignificant risks the Board is willing to take in pursuit iteasier for the Risk Committee to challenge risk ratings and ofitsobjectives, and are listed on pages 25 to 31. assess the efficiency of controls.
How Risk is controlled After analysis of risk registers in this new format, three new principal The Board monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risks were recognised by the Board: market risk, ineffective change risk management and internal control systems.
This oversight management and the inability to attract and retain key talent.
These isconducted through the Risk Committee, Audit Committee, are detailed in the principal risks section starting on page 25, along executive management team and in some cases, directly.
with information on the initiatives to mitigate specific items.
Operational, financial and compliance controls are identified The behaviour of colleagues plays an important role in managing onour risk registers and are monitored through our operations, and mitigating risk and, in 2016, additional risk management executive and governance bodies.
Development continues training was introduced for Divisional risk managers.
Compliance tostrengthen monitoring and reporting of material controls controls were strengthened using a best practice approach.
In particular, it was recognised that the Arefreshed code of conduct, global policies and an updated monitoring process can be improved and reported on more breach management and investigation framework will be launched to colleagues in early 2017.
22 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS REPORTING & ESCALATION AS APPROPRIATE RISK MANAGEMENT GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK Informa Divisions FIRST LINE Each Division identies, assesses and monitors risks specic to its business.
OF DEFENCE They maintain risk registers which capture controls and actions for specic risks.
The Divisional risk registers are reported to the Risk Committee quarterly.
Risk & Compliance functions Provides reports and specialist knowledge to the Risk Committee.
Supports the Divisions to implement the Goups risk management framework and compliance programmes.
SECOND LINE OF DEFENCE Risk Committee Reports to the Audit Committee and comprises the CFO of each Division, the Group CIO, General Counsel and Director of Talent & Transformation.
It is chaired by the Group FD and meets quarterly.
It oversees the effectiveness of risk management and compliance.
Internal Audit Provides assurance to the Audit Committee and Board that controls are adequate to manage risks or highlights if they require improvement.
THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE Audit Committee Oversees the Risk Committee and provides assurance on risk management activities and controls to the Board.
The Board Determines risk appetite and reviews the nature and extent of the most significant risks principal risks it is willing for the Group to take.
It monitors the Groups risk management OVERSIGHT and internal control systems through the activities of the Risk and Audit Committees.
The Board tables discussions on specic risks and receives risk papers.
Over the year, the Risk Committee and Board also specifically New leadership in the US has the potential to add to the uncertain considered the impact of the UKs decision to leave the European macro-economic environment, as described in Our Markets on Union Brexit, on the Group.
Informa is an international company pages 12 to 15.
Informa has an increasing presence in the US, with its listing in the UK and operations around the world.
The and the US administrations strong emphasis on supporting US Board identified two key impacts from Brexit: currency fluctuation, economic growth could provide new opportunities.
Any new specifically in the relative value of Sterling and the US Dollar, and governmental initiatives or directives will be monitored as they dampened demand from business in certain regions, for instance areset out and introduced: itis too early topredict all the factors lower attendance at conferences.
that might impact the Groups US operations at this stage.
Looking at the broad nature of the Groups business and the 2017 FOCUS limited nature of these impacts to date, the Board determined Work will continue in 2017 to move the Group towards a mature that Brexit should be considered as part of the principal risk of risk culture where good risk management practice is viewed as economic instability and not as a separate risk.
The effects of the abusiness enabler.
UK leaving the European Union on the Group will be monitored There will be focus on strengthening how the Groups material as policy unfolds and analysed alongside other ongoing controls the controls that manage our principal risks are macro-economic risks.
monitored and reported to ensure the Board receives a holistic view of those controls, wherever responsibility for executing themresides.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 GOVERNANCE AND MANDATE FOR RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The Risk Committee, and Group and Divisional risk management To make this assessment, the Groups growth drivers, forecast will be deployed in the way Penton is combined into Informa over revenue, operating profits, EBITDA and cash flows over the the year.
This will involve a risk management framework for the assessment period were subject to robust downside testing.
integration, including monitoring and reporting of integration risks, Modelled outcome analysing how any risks inherent to Penton are identified and Other than the immediate consequence of a major incident, the incorporated into the Groups current Divisional risk registers, risks modelled were strategic ones.
The scenarios were modelled andlooking at any training or engagement campaigns required against a base case that reflects the businesss current financial for new colleagues joining from Penton.
and operating position, and assumes the business undertakes With change management now recognised as a principal risk, further acquisitions funded by existing facilities.
there will be new focus on using risk management methodologies The breadth and diversity of the markets, sectors and to identify and mitigate change management and acquisition geographies the Group operates in builds a level of resilience in integration risks.
The Group risk team also intends to extend its the business, better positioning Informa to manage the impact work with specific functions, operations and projects, to build ofan adverse scenario arising in any one location or vertical than resilient risk management practice across the Group if the portfolio was more focused.
Read more in the Audit Committee Report on page 85.
Statement Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable VIABILITY STATEMENT expectation that the Group will be able to continue to operate Taking into account Informas current position, following the and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to acquisition of Penton and the Groups principal risks described December 2019.
In making this assessment, the Directors on pages 25 to 31, the Directors have assessed the Groups havealso made the key assumption that funding will be available prospects and viability.
The Directors have specifically assessed in the form of the capital markets or bank debt in all plausible Informas viability over the next three years, to December 2019, market conditions.
which they believe is an appropriate timeframe since it is consistent with our three-year business planning horizon PRINCIPAL RISKS, UNCERTAINTIES AND THEIR anditsassociated three-year financial forecast.
FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS Principal risks are risks the Group considers would have the most Basis of evaluation impact on Informas strategic objectives.
They have been robustly We evaluate the potential effects of our principal risks assessed in the context of the external and internal risk and materialising over a three-year period to understand how this control landscape.
The Board of Directors has reviewed and could impact the Groups long term viability.
The evaluation is approved thePrincipal Risks, and considered them in the based on reasonable worst case scenarios.
These scenarios formulation of the Viability Statement.
encompass what could reasonably go wrong, also described asa foreseeable perfect storm.
The Group has 12 principal risks eight strategic, three operational and one relating to governance that represent the To make the evaluation, each principal risk and the mitigations risks which would most impact Informas strategic objectives, inplace are evaluated for the estimated financial impact that performance, future prospects and reputation.
They arise from could occur.
Wider consideration is given to other risks which the external market as well as internal business operations.
arenot recognised as principal risks but may contribute to a reasonable worst case scenario.
Multi-scenario stress testing, where three principal risks materialise together, isalso applied.
When the financial impacts of these scenarios are considered topose a material impact over the next three years, they are modelled to assess their financial impacts.
The results of the modelling form the foundation for making the Viability Statement.
24 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC RISKS Failure to deliver anticipated growth under the Growth Acceleration Plan DESCRIPTION Growth under the Growth Acceleration Plan may not be delivered within the expected timeline or at a rate that will not deliver targeted returns on investment.
LINK TO STRATEGY Relates to the Groups overall growth strategy and the GAP investment programme.
IMPACT Negative impact on the Groups ability to deliver its corporate growth objectives, and potential for reputational damage within the equity investor community, impairing ability to obtain future funding.
IMPACT TO The reasonable worst case scenario of a delayed go-live for multiple projects was assessed for its GROUP VIABILITY estimated financial impact, and was not material enough over a three-year period to be included as asensitivity in the viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER Many projects are now being executed or have been implemented.
Each Division reports monthly to 2016 thecentral GAP project management office and presents its portfolio of projects to the central design authority quarterly, focusing on operating metrics and benefits.
MITIGATING The investment programme under GAP has a defined governance structure to monitor projects closely.
ACTIVITIES A steering committee directs the overall programme to ensure its focus on achieving accelerated growth isunderpinned by operational fitness, strengthened capabilities and better customer experience.
Benefits and costs are tracked and reported at each steering committee, executive management team and Board meeting.
A central design authority controls project financing, releasing funds only as projects pass through stage gates, and also scrutinises project quality.
There are Group and Divisional architecture review boards who meet bi-weekly and escalate significant risks, issues and dependencies, especially those around changes to expected costs, timelines and benefits.
Sub-optimal acquisitions DESCRIPTION Acquisitions which do not deliver the expected business case.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to GAP acquisition strategy.
IMPACT Value destructive acquisitions would weaken Informas brand and reputation and provide poor return on investment.
The failure to identify and or integrate key acquisitions successfully could lead to lower than expected profits, inefficient business processes and inconsistent corporate culture.
Sub-optimal acquisitions may lead to impairment charges and the inability to obtain future funding.
IMPACT TO We modelled the financial impact of a reasonable worst case scenario using sponsoring banks downside GROUP VIABILITY case for Pentons future growth as an estimate.
The impacts were material over a three-year period and are therefore included as a sensitivity in the Groups viability model.
As a result of the scale of the 2016 Penton acquisition, exposure to the risk of poor acquisition integration CHANGE OVER 2016 has increased.
A Group-wide toolkit was rolled out in March 2016 to improve acquisition integration and has been used extensively during the Penton combination.
The Penton integration has also comprised additional governance, including a steering committee of Divisional, Group and Penton senior managers.
MITIGATING From the start of GAP, Informa has sought to take a disciplined approach to identifying and testing ACTIVITIES acquisitions to ensure they are appropriate, a strategic and culture fit, and earnings enhancing.
This process is led by the Director of strategy and business planning.
The Group strategy defines capital allocation for acquisitions on a division-by-division basis.
Targets are analysed by the Group corporate development, finance and legal teams, with detailed due diligence carried out at a Divisional and Group level.
Each Division develops an integration plan that is reviewed and challenged by the Group teams.
This is supported by detailed technology and shared service centre integration plans.
The post-acquisition review process includes analysis of actual benefits against valuation criteria.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Ineffective change management DESCRIPTION Informas growth strategy involves measured change across many parts of the Group and requires theassimilation of new ways of working and different corporate cultures.
LINK TO STRATEGY Relates to the Groups overall growth strategy.
The failure to manage change effectively could lead to increased colleague turnover, disengagement, IMPACT poorproject delivery and, ultimately, failure to deliver growth and the Groups strategic objectives.
IMPACT TO We considered the scenario that ineffective change management delayed a major project by one year.
GROUP VIABILITY The estimated financial impact was not material enough to be included as a dynamic in viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER This risk was re-rated as a principal risk in 2016 to recognise the complexity involved in executing change 2016 well and its relevance to all Divisions.
MITIGATING There are well defined governance, management and reporting structures in place for acquisitions and ACTIVITIES projects that create change.
For significant change and major projects in the Group, project management teams oversee and coordinate change delivery and ensure implementation plans are in place, with operational teams responsible for implementation.
A change delivery office within Global Support is beingestablished in 2017 to share expertise across the Group.
The wider cultural impacts of change are also recognised.
As of 2016, each Division has an internal communications function to support and promote information sharing and engagement, and monitor colleague sentiment to help enable cultural change.
The focus for 2017 is to better understand this risk, how it is currently managed and share knowledge and best practice.
Inability to attract and retain key talent DESCRIPTION The inability to attract, recruit and retain key colleagues, and inadequate succession planning at senior management levels.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to the GAP management model.
IMPACT Increased costs due to high levels of colleague turnover.
If the Group has insufficiently skilled or motivatedcolleagues, or too few, it may not be able to deliver its stated corporate strategy.
IMPACT TO We cannot foresee a reasonable worst case scenario that would lead to a material increase in the GROUP VIABILITY financialimpact from this risk, and it has not been included as a sensitivity in the viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER This risk emerged as a principal risk in 2016 and is recorded here for the first time.
2016 MITIGATING The Group invests in creating a culture in which colleagues have opportunities to participate and ACTIVITIES contribute, and continuously reviews the financial and non-financial benefits and recognition on offer.
Moreinformation can be found in the Our Talented People section starting on page 34.
Talent mapping and succession planning is in place for Group and Divisional senior managers, overseen by the Director of talent and transformation and Divisional HR Directors.
For 2017, an improved appraisal process has been introduced to better recognise individual performance, discuss future plans and align objectives to strategic goals.
Over the coming year, action plans based on findings from the Inside InformaGroup-wide discussion will be implemented to deliver on colleague feedback.
26 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Economic instability DESCRIPTION The arrival, or impending arrival, of an economic downturn or period of uncertainty affecting customer appetite for discretionary expenditure.
A period of economic instability could lead to reduced discretionary spending that would directly impact IMPACT the profitability of one or more of the Groups products and services.
Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect the strength the Groups reported earnings.
IMPACT TO We have used previous impacts from economic downturns as a basis for a reasonable worst case GROUP VIABILITY scenario but assumed slower recovery rates.
The estimated financial impacts over a three-year period have been included as a sensitivity in our viability model.
CHANGE OVER The Board considered the impacts of major macro-economic events, including potential impacts arising 2016 from the UKs decision to leave the European Union.
MITIGATING The increased balance and breadth of the Group portfolio, and its diversification across markets, ACTIVITIES geographies and products reduces the corporate impact of a downturn in any single sector or region.
It would not be possible to mitigate the impact of such a period entirely but Divisions consider the wider economic impact on their strategies as part of the budgeting process.
The economic environment is constantly monitored as part of the Groups business planning cycle and budgeting, enabling a degree of forward planning in the event of a period of economic instability.
Financial planning and modelling is overseen by the Group Finance Director in close co-ordination with each Division to pinpoint trends likely to impact business activities.
The Groups monthly financial reporting process highlights any leading indicators of economic risk.
The Group has a high level of recurring and more predictable revenue streams from subscription and subscription-like products.
This, plus credit control functions that ensure advance payment is received for many services, and close monitoring of trade receivables by shared service centres and exchange rate risk by Group treasury, are mitigating activities.
Currency fluctuations are hedged so that our net debt profile is proportionate to our exposure to currency fluctuations in EBITDA.
Market risk DESCRIPTION Customer demands can change quickly and the Group may not keep pace with demand or customer behaviours.
Competitors may offer preferable products and services.
Market disruptors may enter and suddenly change markets in which we operate.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to the GAP operating model and the overall growth strategy.
IMPACT Revenues and margins could be negatively impacted if products and services lose must-have status, withbrands weakened.
IMPACT TO We considered potential vulnerability of specific areas of our business to market pressure to form a GROUP VIABILITY reasonable worst case scenario.
The estimated financial impacts over a three year period have been included in the Groups viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER This risk has been separated from economic instability as a principal risk for the first time, 2016 to acknowledge the rapidity with which customer demand can change.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Market risk continued MITIGATING Market risk is considered Divisionally and at a Group level.
Commercial strategies and product ACTIVITIES development are reviewed within business planning and the annual strategy and budget setting process, and discussed within quarterly product, people and products meetings.
Our brands and intellectual property rights are actively managed and protected.
The GAP investment programme was introduced to deliver enhancements to our products, services and their delivery, particularly in a digital format, to keep pace with customer needs.
Several GAP investment projects are focused on achieving better customer insight data as well as improving customer experience.
Each Division actively researches and analyses customer behaviour and preference as well as conducting market research and competitor analysis, with post event reviews carried out with exhibitors and delegates by Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking.
Reliance on key counterparties DESCRIPTION The overreliance on, or loss of, key counterparties.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to the overall growth strategy and to the overall funding discipline under GAP.
IMPACT This could impact the Groups ability to enter or remain in certain markets and disrupt trading, revenues and customer service levels.
IMPACT TO Key counterparties have been identified and reasonable worst case scenarios that involve the failure or GROUP VIABILITY disruption to these counterparties were considered.
The estimated financial impacts over the three-year period were not material enough to be included as a sensitivity in our viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER The identification of financial vulnerabilities to key counterparties has been included in the Groups annual 2016 risk review.
MITIGATING Processes are in place to manage and monitor exposure to significant counterparties centrally and ACTIVITIES withinDivisions.
This includes regular engagement with key suppliers to understand their strategies.
The Group diversifies its reliance on key counterparties where possible, and our treasury policy ensures we are not over reliant on a particular financing partner.
For the Groups most significant counterparties, specific mitigations are in place, including accelerated payments where exposure is particularly high at specific times of the year.
Cyber breach DESCRIPTION Major information security breach or cyber-attack resulting in loss or theft of data, content or intellectualproperty.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to overall growth strategy.
IMPACT In the event of such a breach, Informa could suffer reputational damage, fines, business interruption andlitigation.
Any breach requires time and resource to rectify.
IMPACT TO The financial impacts from a cyber-attack have been analysed and estimated in a reasonable worst GROUP VIABILITY casescenario.
Those impacts are not material enough to be included in the Groups viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER This risk continues to be the subject of a high degree of monitoring through the Risk Committee.
2016 TheGroups breach management escalation process was reviewed and refreshed.
28 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Cyber breach continued MITIGATING The risk of cyber-attack is continuous, and we actively monitor, assess and look to maintain the ACTIVITIES Groupsresilience against ever more sophisticated threats.
There is a formal structure in place to govern information security as well as policies and standards.
Thereis a Group chief security architect, and each Division has information security representatives as well as achief technology officer, with collaboration and co-ordination created through the Group-wide information protection management forum and technology leadership forum.
Financial technology systems are tested annually by internal and external parties.
The Groups standard controls include upholding a secure IT estate perimeter, application access control, filters for email malware, device security controls, vendor assurance and vulnerability testing.
There is a defined processfor reporting, responding to, and escalating incidents.
The behaviour of colleagues also has a key role to play in maintaining resilience and protecting information and data.
Colleagues are made aware of their responsibilities on joining, and there are regular communications and training programmes to support this.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Technology failure DESCRIPTION A major technology infrastructure failure or the prolonged loss of critical systems, networks and similarservices.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to the GAP operating structure.
IMPACT Disruption to the delivery of products and services.
A prolonged interruption could inhibit the hosting ofevents and transaction of business, reducing revenues and damaging reputation.
IMPACT TO After analysis of the financial impacts and the business continuity plans in place to mitigate disruption, GROUP VIABILITY ithas been judged that the financial impact is not material to the Groups viability, and has not therefore formed part of viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER The Group continued to embed its Cloud First strategy that favours cloud based solutions, which can 2016 enhance resilience against technology failure and minimise business interruption.
MITIGATING The Group is strengthening its technology capabilities at a management, infrastructure and process level.
ACTIVITIES There is continuous investment in internet and electronic delivery platforms, networks and distribution systems centrally and Divisionally, with proactive prevention measures including monitoring, software patching and security testing and a defined set of minimum standards for technology-related controls across the Group.
A technology leadership forum is responsible for setting and implementing technology strategy, withchief technology officers and information security professionals in each division.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Health and Safety incident DESCRIPTION A significant accident or incident at an exhibition, event or business premises, or an incident that affects colleagues when travelling on company business.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to the GAP operating structure and the principle of working responsibly.
Potential physical harm to colleagues, customers and others.
A safety-related incident could lead to IMPACT significant reputational damage to the Group, enforcement action, fines and multiple claims for damages.
IMPACT TO The Group takes the potential impact of health and safety incidents on individuals very seriously, including GROUP VIABILITY the possible and grave implications of personal injury.
At a Group level, the impacts of a reasonable worst case scenario were not financially material to the companys viability and arenot therefore part of viability modelling.
CHANGE OVER Our health and safety procedures were reviewed, including processes for reporting issues, with 2016 enhancements being implemented in 2017.
A Group-wide travel management system was implemented to improve oversight and support to colleagues travelling on business.
MITIGATING The Risk Committee oversees health and safety within the Group, which includes near misses as well ACTIVITIES asany incidents, and is part of a framework that includes mandatory policies and procedures.
Global Exhibitions and Knowledge & Networking have dedicated health and safety resources because their primary activities include events, and training was delivered to relevant event-focused colleagues in 2016.
There is a dedicated health and safety manager to oversee procedures within the Groups offices.
The Group maintains insurance coverage in respect of health and safety matters.
Major incident DESCRIPTION A significant event with the potential to cause harm to colleagues and customers.
IMPACT The inability to respond appropriately or in a timely manner could exacerbate a major incident, leadingtosignificant business disruption, diversion of management time and reputational damage.
IMPACT TO The potential financial impacts of a major incident are material and are included as a sensitivity in the GROUP VIABILITY Groups viability modelling.
We based our reasonable worst case scenario on losing revenue from ourhighest grossing geography for a particular month, with costs still incurred.
CHANGE OVER Business continuity plans were refreshed and a Group-wide travel management system implemented 2016 toprovide vital information in the event of a major incident.
MITIGATING By their nature major incidents are unpredictable and it is impossible to have a detailed crisis management ACTIVITIES plan for all potential situations.
The ultimate mitigation is management judgement, speed of reaction and quality of communication in a crisis.
Divisional business continuity plans are in place and regularly reviewed and strengthened.
Local crisis management sits with the local management who can best gather, escalate and disseminate information.
A Group crisis communications manual and associated materials are in place to enable timely response tomajor incidents, with specific roles and an escalation procedure assigned.
30 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 www.
com STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE RISKS Changes to regulation and inadequate regulatory compliance DESCRIPTION There are regulations with which the Group must comply.
We could be adversely affected by changes inlegislation and regulation impacting the Group or customers and by enforcement activities.
LINK TO STRATEGY Related to overall growth strategy and the principle of working responsibly.
IMPACT Compliance failures could lead to criminal and civil prosecution, including fines, censure, reputational damage and the inability to trade in certain jurisdictions.
A regulatory breach could also result in the Group defaulting on financial undertakings, such as its revolving credit facility.
IMPACT TO After analysis of the financial impacts of non-compliance with regulations and the controls in place, it has GROUP VIABILITY been judged unlikely that a material financial impact would arise.
This risk has therefore not formed part ofour viability modelling.
The compliance programme was strengthened during the year, and plans put in place to meet new CHANGE OVER 2016 compliance regulations being introduced in 2017.
MITIGATING The Groups legal and compliance team continuously monitors changes in regulations and emerging best ACTIVITIES practice in the sector and key policy areas, with support from external specialists where necessary.
This team is responsible for enacting an appropriate compliance framework, with effective policies, processes and reporting, with each Division having individuals responsible for embedding regulatory compliance.
Divisional teams are also aware of developments in their particular sector and area of expertise.
The Group has systems to detect and report non-compliance, with an improved whistleblowing facility putin place for 2017 that is available to colleagues and third parties.
Training is provided to colleagues onan ongoing basis, and completion rates are tracked.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016
