50 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT MITIGATING UNCERTAINTY The implementation of the new risk assessment and mitigation process started RISK FRAMEWORK in 2016 with risk workshops with the Executive Management team, resulting in Effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to meet both our a top down risk register and risk matrix.
This risk assessment complemented the short-term and longer-term strategic objectives.
Risk comes hand-in-hand business area risk assessments which led to identified strategic risks which are with business opportunity.
Risk is not something that should be driven out of shown overleaf.
The strategic risks are not new to the Group as they were mainly the business but rather something to be identified, intelligently assessed and reflected in the Groups principal and secondary risks identified in last years managed.
The aim is not to eliminate all risks, but to foster a culture supportive Annual Report and reflected in the 2016 quarterly results reporting.
of effective risk management by encouraging appropriate risk taking in order The Board regularly and as part of the year end process, reviews the Groups to achieve the Companys objectives.
The Groups approach to risk is brought principal risks and the actions being taken to mitigate those risks.
As part of together in an overarching risk management policy.
This policy together with the Long Range Business Plan and Risk Management processes particularly, the risk assessment and mitigation process, have been updated in order to the Board will determine the level of risk carried and the extent of mitigating evolve risk management into more focus on strategic and business objectives, activity required to deliver an acceptable level of risk.
The Board defines the focus on mitigation of the largest risks, and to comply with ISO27001 in support risk governance framework and sets the overall risk strategy and the Audit of that Cyber security project.
The policy sets out the Groups risk appetite Committee reviews the risk management framework and the effectiveness as well as roles and responsibilities.
The Board believes that the behaviour of internal controls particularly with regard to financial controls.
This includes of individuals across the business is key to under-pinning an effective risk reviewing the internal audit programme and related reports to ensure that management culture.
Across the Group, use of the Inmarsat Values is helping all key mitigating controls are being periodically reviewed and where issues promote the right set of values to support effective risk management.
are identified that they are being addressed on a timely basis.
Assurance on As required by the policy, management operates a risk management process broader risk controls is provided by a combination of internal management to identify, assess, mitigate and report significant risks within the business and information, internal audits, external audits and Board oversight.
There is to report to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Risks are initially also an externally supported whistleblowing facility.
identified and reviewed in each business area, then on a quarterly basis risk The management of risk is embedded in our everyday business activities and reports are formally reviewed by senior management on a central Risk culture, with all our employees and contractors having an important role to Committee represented by each component part of the business.
The diligence applied by our workforce to consider risk is reflected in are assessed and consolidated in a systematic way to identify the Groups business cases which are submitted for approval and ongoing projects have principal risks.
The Groups principal risks are further discussed and reviewed risks reported on a regular basis.
by the Executive Management team, and each quarter, the resulting risk report is distributed to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board, who has overall responsibility for the risk management framework.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS INMARSAT PLC BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD Defines the risk governance framework, risk Reviews the risk management framework and Reviews the risk management framework and culture and principles the effectiveness of internal controls, risk the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management systems and major risk management systems and major risk Sets overall risk strategy and policy initiatives initiatives across the Group Approves risk levels Reviews the internal audit programme and Responsible for an effective system reports of internal controls Approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities CENTRAL RISK COMMITTEE Reviews the risk profile against risk appetite and makes recommendations to management in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls Reviews the sustainability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies Assesses major risk-related projects BUSINESS OPERATIONS Implement migration strategies STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 51 Our principal risks are discussed on the next few pages and are as summarised PRINCIPAL RISKS in the Preliminary Results Statement distributed on 8 March 2017.
These have The Group faces a number of risks that may adversely affect our strategic been subject to robust assessment and review.
This summary, however, is not and business objectives, operations, liquidity, financial position, reputation or intended to be an exhaustive analysis of all risks and uncertainties affecting future performance, not all of which are wholly within our control or known to us.
our business and are not listed in any order of priority.
Some such risks may currently be regarded as immaterial and could turn out to In identifying the principal risks set out below we have disclosed those risks be material.
We accept risk is an inherent part of doing business.
We manage that we currently consider to be the most significant to the Group at the date the risks based on a balance of risk and reward determined through careful of this Annual Report.
Compared to last year, we decided to have a single list of assessment of both the potential probability and impact as well as risk appetite.
principal risks rather than divide the largest risks of the Group into principal and Risk appetite is considered as part of the compilation of business cases, annual secondary risks.
business plan and budget and long range business plan.
There will be a balance of risk and opportunity considered as we take our investment decisions.
The risk trend for each principal risk at the date of this Annual Report has been We consider reputational as well as financial impact, recognising the value assessed as either stable, increasing or reducing in size, measured in both net attributable to our brand.
The Group faces a number of ongoing operational impact and net probability.
The principal risks are identified below and we have risks including litigation, credit and foreign exchange risk and the risks indicated against each risk how it principally relates to our strategy, noting that associated with dealing with tax authorities in multiple jurisdictions.
all risks will impact the strategy to some extent.
The importance of these risks will vary over time and will be kept under constant review.
Although many of the risks influencing our performance are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of businesses generally, others are particular to our operations in mobile satellite services.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Board has taken into consideration the principal risks in the context of determining whether to adopt the going concern basis of accounting and when assessing the prospects of the Company for the purpose of preparing the Viability Statement which can be found on page 55.
The Going Concern statement is provided on page 61 in the Directors Report.
STRATEGIC PILLARS: MOVEMENT DURING YEAR: PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES BEST NETWORKS INCREASED RISK IN 2016 We show against each risk how it links to our strategy see page 18 and the BEST SOLUTIONS NO CHANGE IN 2016 movement of each risk during the year.
BEST DISTRIBUTION DECREASED RISK IN 2016 BEST WORKPLACE Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 1.
Failure to expand into We may fail to critically assess our market, technological We have professional, experienced teams who focus on the broadband market by changes, customer requirements and competitors large scale programmes and develop close relationships attracting new customers strategy and to exploit market opportunities.
We may fail with third parties we use to deliver them.
We critically and successfully migrating to effectively address the significant changes going on in review our detailed business cases before we proceed existing L-band customers the industry, eg price and capacity, plus a greater focus and regularly assess our progress against the original on digital enablement.
We may develop next generation business cases.
We thoroughly review and approve Link to strategy: broadband services that will not meet these market major development of new services or technology.
opportunities, or these developments could have delays We work closely with our partners to ensure our services, or cost overruns impacting on our market position, technology and capacity meet the demand from our revenue or returns on investment.
We seek to identify new customers and to migrate existing customers who would benefit from our new services.
We establish the necessary focused sales and marketing capability to effectively deliver a good business opportunity for Inmarsat and its partners.
We have started to focus on digital offerings as an additional value add to customers.
52 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 2.
Failure to at least We may not be able to maintain our market share of We have professional, experienced teams who focus on maintain our existing L-band business or we may fail to keep up with the large scale programmes and develop close relationships L-band business business needs of our customers.
The L-band business with the third parties we use to deliver them.
currently makes up a large portion of our revenue stream Link to strategy: We carefully review our detailed business cases before and is vital to the continued growth of the business.
we proceed and regularly assess our progress against We may fail to correctly assess our market, technological the original business cases.
We thoroughly review major changes, customer requirements and competitors developments of new services or technology before they strategy and therefore not target market opportunities.
We work closely with our partners to ensure our services and technology meet the demand of our customers, and identify new customers as well as migrate existing customers who would benefit from our new services.
We are carefully investing in the next generation of L-band satellites Inmarsat-6 and in L-band product innovation, seeking to ensure that our product offering remains relevant to our customers.
We are reviewing market opportunities to create new business streams which will continue to use our L-band services.
Failure to successfully We may fail to carefully assess our market, technological We work closely with our partners to ensure our services seize the Aviation changes, customer requirements and competitors and technology meet the demand of our customers and passenger connectivity strategy and to exploit the aviation in-flight connectivity that we can identify demand from new customers.
We have established the necessary sales and marketing Link to strategy: Our competitors may provide better products to the capability to effectively deliver an unparalleled IFC market sooner than us.
Our access to the market may experience for airlines and passengers.
We will ensure be restricted by regulatory and capacity issues.
that the EAN ground network is operational on a timely basis with the satellite component provided by Inmarsat and the ground to air capability from Deutsche Telekom as an expert delivery partner.
We also plan for the scenario that extra capacity may have to be added to meet customer demands.
Failure to maintain and We may not be able to grow our existing levels of revenue We work closely with our partners to ensure our services grow our Maritime business in the maritime industry through either competitor and technology meet the demand of our customers, pressure, further decline in the overall maritime sector and to identify new customers as well as migrate existing Link to strategy: or our inability to identify adequate opportunities in customers who would benefit from our new services.
We have well-established business relationships with The Maritime business currently makes up a large portion partners and have signed some significant strategic of our revenue stream and is vital to the continued growth alliance agreements with well known and respected of the business.
maritime organisations for long-term Fleet Xpress commitments.
We may fail to critically assess our market, technological changes, customer requirements and competitors We have new products which are being launched to support strategy and to exploit market opportunities.
smaller fishing vessels and also offering cyber as a service which both provide additional market opportunities for us.
We are investing in a differentiated platform and service offering designed to provide both additional value to our customers and enhance our customer relationships.
Failure to deliver the We are aiming to implement a new solutions-based We will build partnerships with software and application Solutions strategy strategy rather than being a product-only based developers to deliver value added solutions for use on solution.
There is a risk that the transition to offer our platforms.
Link to strategy: solutions and digital services may not go smoothly We are able to encourage these relationships through and we may fail to meet targets on our new solutionsoffering open source technology which attracts a wide based revenue.
range of interest from different technology partners.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 53 Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 6.
Failure of satellites or We face risks when we launch our satellites and while they We have a highly experienced quality assurance team networks are in operation.
There are only a few companies who at satellite manufacturing sites to check design and provide services to build and launch satellites and if they production activities and deploy an experienced team Link to strategy: encounter problems, our launch may be delayed or fail.
to prepare for satellite launches.
Our network may not be able to cope with the demand We build in a high degree of redundancy in our satellite from users.
Our network may suffer a cyber attack that constellations and ground network.
We have 24-hour damages our service offering and reputation.
monitoring of our satellites and network by sophisticated monitoring systems and knowledgeable staff who ensure Elements of our ground network may fail which will any necessary action is taken promptly.
affect our ability to provide service to our partners and customers.
We buy insurance to compensate for the financial loss in the event a satellite or ground network element is damaged or lost.
We have disaster recovery plans for satellite and network operations which are regularly tested to ensure contingency plans work.
We are focused on ensuring our systems operate with a high degree of cyber security protection which is covered below in a separate risk.
Failure of critical We rely on our distribution channel for part of our We build strong relationships with all our partners and customers and or revenue and they might not sell our services effectively provide them with excellent services to sell in their distribution channel or competitively.
We have critical GX and FX contracts markets.
We encourage sharing of information and which require careful management to ensure successful developing ideas through direct meetings with our Link to strategy: execution.
Relying on some critical customers may partners and through our regional and global increase our financial exposure if they fail to make conferences.
We have an effective credit management payments for our services.
process in place, assessing the credit risk of new and existing customers.
We provide our services to many government organisations around the world which may have We continue to improve the reliability of our satellites conflicting requirements, and our revenue may be and services which are critical to our end users.
We have affected by governments reduction in spending and their simplified our standard contracts and pricing in order other political priorities.
We may fail to keep up with the to make it easier to do business with us.
We promote business needs of our customers.
fair play in our distribution channel and will not promote customer churn.
We introduce new services with common We may encounter delays in bringing new products and technologies and develop more competitive pricing services to market.
Our inability to control our retail strategies.
We continue to broaden our customer base company specialising in US Government contracts, through sales strategies and new service offerings.
Inmarsat Government, may restrict our business activities.
Inmarsat Government operates with a proxy board to allow it to manage its business in accordance with US requirements and compete effectively for US Government business.
Cyber risk Our satellites, networks, systems and processes may be We maintain industry-standard security measures, vulnerable to security risks from unauthorised access, and have increased our investment in state-of-the-art Link to strategy: computer viruses, denial of services and other cyber cyber countermeasures and enhanced cyber security attacks.
Our customers may not use our services if we operations to improve detection and response to could not demonstrate that our services are reliable incidences.
Through the OneIT project we are building and meet certain cyber security requirements.
a modern computer infrastructure that enhances protection of critical assets and data.
We are completing NIST US National Institute of Standards and Technology certification for the GX ground infrastructure and continuing with other areas of the Group.
We are progressing with a project to obtain ISO27001 certification.
We have disaster recovery and business continuity plans for important elements of our networks: contingency plans are tested regularly.
54 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 9.
Spectrum, orbital slots We rely on radio spectrum, which has historically We regularly improve the efficiency of our spectrum and market access risk been allocated without charge, to provide our services.
usage through innovation and system enhancement.
We must agree how it is used in coordination with other We also educate and inform regulators and governments Link to strategy: satellite operators and need to coordinate its ongoing as to the unique socio-economic contribution of our availability.
We may not be able to coordinate usage in mobile satellite services.
We work on various World Radio the future and or may be charged for the spectrum Conference preparatory groups to brief them on the which could affect our ability to provide services.
ongoing need for our frequency allocations.
We require orbital slots to place our satellites in the We negotiate with other companies on orbital slots correct position to provide adequate coverage and and the ability to achieve better spectrum usage and deliver our services.
We may not be able to obtain allocation.
We monitor spectrum usage and assess adequate orbital slots or we may miss deadlines to whether there are benefits to our partners, customers bring orbital slots into use.
and ourselves to migrate higher volume users to GX services.
Given the nature of the satellite business it is important to have access to all areas of the globe and provide We obtain in-country market access for our coverage world-wide.
This requires licensing from multiple distribution channel as far as possible and make national authorities.
We may not be able to gain these any licensing requirements as straightforward as licenses for various reasons.
Market access may not be possible for our partners.
allowed in certain countries which restricts our services being offered.
Failure of critical We rely on a limited number of third party suppliers We work closely with our suppliers to review programme suppliers and partners in the production of our satellites, launch plans, delivery quality and timing to ensure that they providers systems, terminals and products and we may meet our requirements.
We have a highly experienced Link to strategy: have limited control over availability, quality and delivery quality assurance team at satellite manufacturing sites of these goods.
to check design and production activities and also at launch sites ahead of our satellite launches.
A satellite manufacturer or a supplier to the satellite manufacturer, may fail or have serious damage to a The Group Procurement departments reviews and production facility that delays the delivery of our satellite.
actions reduce the risk, for example exploring dual sourcing and assessing suppliers quality, technical A satellite launch provider may additionally have a launch know-how and financial viability.
failure which affects the timing of our planned launches.
We can operate in an agile way to seek new satellite launch providers if required as we did to secure an alternative provider for the S-band satellite launch which had been delayed.
Failure to effectively We may fail to keep up with the developing business In developing products and services, we have processes deliver products and needs of our customers.
We may fail in developing which we continuously evolve and seek to improve to services products and services that match their needs or meet the expectations of customers.
encounter delays in bringing new products and Link to strategy: We liaise closely with third parties across our ecosystem services to market.
to review requirements and then plan our delivery We may not be able to take to market our products and against these.
services for various reasons such as competitor pressure, Our systems need to be agile to be able to respond to network satellite issues and or technological difficulties any changing needs and having open network systems which would impact our ability to generate revenues.
enables this agility by us and our wider partners.
All significant product and service developments are subject to approval and regular programme reviews to identify critical issues, changes, delivery delays and resolutions, and projected cost against budget.
We are able to prioritise investment activity to focus on new requirements if this is felt appropriate.
We rely on a close relationship between our customerfacing BUs, our operations team who deal directly with operating new products and services and the engineering and product teams.
People and skills risk We may fail to hire skilled people or adequately improve We identify key employees, skills and skills gaps to skills to maintain and grow our business, or to deliver manage the human resource effectively and enable Link to strategy: our strategy.
delivery of the strategy of the Company.
We develop and implement recruitment strategies to hire people with Given the highly technical and specialist nature of the the new skills needed.
We are in the process of reviewing satellite industry, there are certain employees in our and enhancing our employee proposition which focuses company who have very specific skill sets that are vital on career development, training and reward to improve to the business.
Further it is vital for the future of the peoples experience of Inmarsat.
business to keep hiring talented individuals and training existing staff across the business.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 INMARSAT PLC 55 Risk Background and impact Mitigation Movement 13.
Geo-political risk Downturns in the economy of a country and or world We ensure the Company is financially robust and resilient economy could impact our business and strategy.
Link to strategy: Armed conflicts as well as a low oil price may have large We continuously review and adapt our strategy in effects on world trade and consequently on our business, reaction to developing political or economic situations.
strategy and currency exchange rates too.
We assess and manage new risks such as the impact of We do a large amount of business with governments the UK Brexit and changes in government, epidemics, etc across the globe including the US Government.
that potentially could impact our people and business.
Major political decisions, such as Brexit, may impact our business.
We may suffer a terrorist attack on one of our network or office locations.
Our staff and their families may suffer a local epidemic or global pandemic.
Each scenario was tested and the financial impact estimated based upon a VIABILITY STATEMENT combination of internal estimates and data available from reliable external In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, sources.
Mitigation strategies were identified and costed in conjunction with the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period, internal experts to calculate the net likely financial impact of each scenario.
taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the We also evaluated the impact of more than one of the scenarios occurring principal risks documented on pages 50 to 55 of the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the process undertaken by management.
ASSESSMENT PERIOD CONCLUSION The Directors have determined that a three-year period to 31 December 2018 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
This is the Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable key period of focus within the Groups strategic planning process and it reflects expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet the period over which the Group has reasonable visibility of both customer its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2019.
In reaching contracts and product development programmes.
this conclusion the Directors noted that the Group is exposed to particularly high levels of risk when a satellite is launched.
This though is routinely mitigated ASSESSMENT PROCESS through a combination of launch insurance, for which there is a well-developed market, and through the expertise of our own staff who are closely involved in The Long Range Business Plan the Plan, which is updated annually, formed the quality assurance process prior to satellite launch.
Once satellites have the basis for the viability assessment.
The Plan, as a matter of routine, takes been successfully placed into orbit, industry experience of the last 35 years is account of business as usual risks including slower revenue growth, increased that failures are rare, which is due in part to the high levels of redundancy that operating costs, higher working capital requirements and adverse outcomes are routinely built into the satellites and ground network.
Looking beyond the to disputed items.
In completing the viability assessment, the Plan was tested risks associated with the satellites and our network the geographical and sector against a number of severe but plausible principal risk scenarios.
The scenarios diversification of the Groups operations helps reduce the risk of a loss that were determined by considering which of the principal risks to the business might endanger the viability of the Group.
outlined above, both individually and in combination, have the potential to threaten the viability of the Company: Failure of a satellite either on launch or in orbit Failure of a key element of our ground infrastructure Failure or loss of a key customer or distribution channel A cyber-attack on our network Failure to expand into the broadband market and successfully migrate our existing L-band customers Failure to successfully grasp the aviation passenger connectivity opportunity Failure to maintain our existing L-band business Failure to maintain our maritime business A significant geo-political event
