ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS LINK TO STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISKS 1 Grow assets under management 2 Invest selectively 3 AND UNCERTAINTIES Manage portfolios to maximise value STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKS PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY17 Adverse macroeconomic conditions could reduce the opportunity Deterioration of Group performance The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, reviewing the The impact of macroeconomic Loss or missed opportunity as a result to deploy capital and impair the ability of the Group to effectively compared to plan.
latest developments in the Groups key markets.
changes on markets of major external change including manage its portfolios, reducing the value of future management macroeconomic, regulatory, political During the year the risk of loss has increased as the Impairment rate as a percentage of the The Investment Committees receive ongoing detailed and specific The impact of the UKs EU fees, investment income and performance fees.
and or competitive impact economic indicators in Europe and other key markets opening loan book.
market reviews for each investment.
membership referendum have become significantly more volatile and the Adverse macroeconomic conditions could also reduce demand See pages 12 to 13 impact The Board receives regular updates on regulatory developments.
Managing the volume and regulatory environment has become more complex.
from investors for the Groups funds.
1 2 3 complexity of continued Adverse regulatory change could impact on the ability of the regulatory change Group to deploy capital or could reduce the demand from investors for the Groups funds.
Failure to maintain acceptable relative Failure to maintain acceptable relative performance in the funds Performance of fund portfolio companies.
The Group has disciplined investment policies and all investments are Maintaining investment may result in a failure to raise new funds, reducing the Groups long See pages 12 to 13 selected and regularly monitored by the Groups Investment discipline investment performance term income and ability to invest in future growth.
Disciplined credit procedures are applied both before and There have been no material changes in the Groups Performance of certain funds compared to Managing conflict of interests impact ended funds may reduce or cancel their commitments, reducing during the period of investment.
The Group limits the extent of credit risk investment markets during the year which would 2 3 benchmark.
resulting from funds structured AUM and fund management fees.
by diversifying its portfolio assets by sector, size and geography.
lead the Board to consider that this risk has to pay fees on invested capital changed.
Continued focus by senior management and executives ensures maximum recovery is achieved.
A failure to raise new funds would reduce the Groups long term Forecast fund inflows.
The Group has built dedicated fundraising and scalable infrastructure Maintaining discipline on fees Failure to raise new third party funds income and ability to launch new strategies.
See pages 10 to 11 and page 85 teams to grow and diversify its institutional client base by geography and terms impact and type.
1 The fundraising market is supportive for the Groups Diversification of risk by The Group has expanded its product portfolio to address a range of strategies, but remains highly competitive.
During the expanding the portfolio of investor requirements and continues to build a strong product pipeline.
year the Group has delivered on its targets to raise investment strategies new third party funds.
Failure to deploy committed capital in Failure to deploy capital reduces the value of future management The proportion of a funds capital forecast The rate of investment is kept under review by the Investment Maintaining investment discipline fees, investment income and performance fees.
to be available for investment in the final year Committees and senior management to ensure acceptable levels are a timely manner Investor communication of the investment period.
maintained in current market conditions.
The investment market is highly competitive with the impact See page 85 appeal of alternative asset classes generating 2 significant pools of capital to be deployed.
MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY17 Loss as a result of adverse market Volatility in currency and interest rates leads to changes in the Value of net unhedged assets.
The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any non Sterling The impact of the UKs EU value of the assets and liabilities of the Group and, to the extent income, expenditure, assets and liabilities are appropriately hedged and membership referendum fluctuations arising primarily from Percentage of loan book unhedged.
that these are unhedged, will impact on the financial performance that the residual exposure to market risk is managed to minimise short exposure to interest rates During the year the Group has applied its hedging of the Group.
term volatility in the financial results of the Group.
This is reviewed and foreign exchange rates policy consistently.
Currency and interest rate exposures are reported monthly and Volatility in currency and interest rates may impact on fund reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee.
impact performance which may result in a failure to raise new funds, 3 reducing the Groups long term income and ability to invest in future growth.
The Group uses derivatives to hedge market risk on its balance Counterparty exposure relative The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that any counterparty The impact of the UKs EU Loss as a result of exposure to a sheet.
By entering into these derivatives the Group is exposed to to trading limits.
exposures are managed within levels agreed with the Board.
This is membership referendum failed counterparty counterparty credit risk.
Actual counterparty exposures are reported monthly During the year the Group has applied its policy to Continued monitoring of impact and reviewed by the Groups Treasury Committee.
3 The Groups counterparties are national or multinational banks.
manage counterparty credit risk consistently.
counterparty credit risk Should a financial counterparty of the Group fail the Group would management be exposed to loss.
You can read more about the Groups strategic objectives on pages 10 to 13 32 33 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKS PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY17 Adverse macroeconomic conditions could reduce the opportunity Deterioration of Group performance The Board regularly receives detailed market reports, reviewing the The impact of macroeconomic Loss or missed opportunity as a result to deploy capital and impair the ability of the Group to effectively compared to plan.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS LINK TO STRATEGY PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 1 Grow assets under management CONTINUED 2 Invest selectively 3 Manage portfolios to maximise value MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY17 An ongoing failure to refinance its liabilities could result in the Forecast breach of financing principles.
The Group has a policy which seeks to ensure that debt funding is Continued focus on liquidity Failure to meet the Groups financial Group failing to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
obtained from diversified sources and that the repayment profile is management and minimum obligations as they fall due As a result the Group would not be a going concern.
managed to minimise material repayment events.
The profile of the capital requirements The Group has continued to renew and increase its impact debt facilities available to the Group is reviewed frequently by the sources of funding when suitable opportunities arise, 1 2 Treasury Committee.
maintaining sufficient debt headroom to support its activities.
However, during the year the Group paid a special dividend of 300m and has proposed a further special dividend of 200m, which, combined with the 100m share buy back completed during FY15, has returned 600m to shareholders, reducing debt capacity and increasing gearing.
OPERATIONAL RISKS PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY17 Loss of a key person and inability to Breach of any Key Man clause could result in the Group having Loss of a key man on a material fund.
The Group rewards its investment professionals and other key Identification and engagement to stop making investments for the relevant fund or may impair employees in line with market practice.
Senior investment professionals with key employees recruit into key roles Instances of dissatisfied employees.
the ability of the Group to raise new funds if not resolved in a typically receive long term incentives are able to participate in carried During the year the Group undertook its latest Continued succession planning impact timely manner.
The Group periodically engages external consultants to Employee Engagement Survey details of which can be 1 2 3 for key roles and within key benchmark the rewards offered by the Group to ensure they remain found on page 37 and from which the Board Loss of an individual key to the Groups fund management business teams attractive and competitive.
concluded that there was no evidence that this risk or a critical infrastructure role could impair the Groups ability to had changed.
deliver its strategic objectives as planned if that role is not filled The Group has an appraisal and development process for all its in a timely manner.
employees to ensure that individuals remain sufficiently motivated and There was no significant impact in the year as a result appropriately competent to ensure the ongoing operation and of the loss of any employee.
The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any material breach of regulations.
The Group has a governance structure in place, supported by a risk Oversight of regulatory and Negative financial or reputational impact management business would be impaired as a result of a framework that allows for the identification, control and mitigation of legislative compliance arising from regulatory or legislative Status of compliance monitoring regulatory failing.
material risks resulting from the geographical and product diversity of failing programme.
During the year the continued expansion of the Oversight of regulatory and the Group.
The adequacy of the systems and controls the Group has in Groups product portfolio and increasing product legislative impact of change place to comply with the regulations and to mitigate the risks that these impact complexity and geographic span has led to 1 2 3 represent is periodically assessed.
This includes a tailored compliance increased regulatory risk.
In addition, continued, monitoring programme that specifically addresses regulatory and widespread regulatory change brings the risk of reputational risks.
Technology Information Security The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any material breach or severe disruption Application of the Groups information security policies is supported by Oversight of governance management business would be impaired as a result of any due to systems failure.
a governance structure and a risk framework that allows for the of information security inadequate or fails to adapt to reputational damage arising from a security failing.
identification, control and mitigation of technology risks.
The adequacy changing business requirements As the Group expands the potential reputational Any material loss or reputational damage Enhanced prevention of the systems and controls the Group has in place to mitigate the and or external threats damage from an information security breach or arising from external threats.
monitoring and reporting technology risks is continuously monitored and subject to regular other cyber attack has increased.
The effectiveness of the framework is periodically assessed.
1 2 3 The Groups ability to raise new funds and operate its fund Any failure of business process resulting in Control procedures are in place to ensure that key business processes Increased engagement with Loss or missed opportunities arising from management business would be impaired as a result of the failure significant business disruption, financial or are identified, documented and monitored.
Third party suppliers are and reviews of key services failure of key business processes, including of key business processes.
subject to robust selection process and performance is monitored provided by third parties third party supplier management, valuation As the Groups fund management business grows against agreed service levels with exceptions reported and escalated as and external reporting the impact of a failure of a third party supplier on appropriate.
Key valuation processes are subject to independent Board the Group has increased.
review on a semi-annual basis as detailed in the Audit Committee report impact 1 3 on page 55.
The effectiveness of the control framework for key business processes is reviewed by the Risk Committee see page 64.
You can read more about the Groups strategic objectives on pages 10 to 13 34 35 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS MARKET, CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISKS CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISK IMPACT KEY RISK INDICATOR KEY CONTROLS AND MITIGATION MOVEMENT IN THE YEAR FOCUS FOR FY17 An ongoing failure to refinance its liabilities could result in the Forecast breach of financing principles.
