ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING RISK TO DELIVER OUR STRATEGY Effective risk management provides the framework within which we can successfully deliver our strategic priorities.
OUR APPROACH RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is integral to the ability of the Group to deliver on its strategic icg plc Board priorities.
The Board establishes the culture Sets overall risk culture and risk appetite RISK COMMITTEE of effective risk management throughout See page 31 the business by identifying and monitoring Oversees the Groups risk management framework and the material risks, setting risk appetite and system of internal controls determining the risk tolerances of the Group.
ICAAP BUSINESS See page 60 The Board is responsible for establishing Internal assessment STRATEGY and maintaining appropriate systems and of regulatory Purpose and future capital requirements controls to manage risk within the Group and direction See page 64 to ensure compliance with regulation.
The Groups risk management systems are regularly monitored by the Risk Committee under delegation from the Board.
The Risk Executive committee Committee is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of the internal control CHIEF RISK OFFICER environment of the Group.
Following the Oversight, challenge and support appointment of the CRO during the year, to embed the Groups risk OPERATIONAL RISK the Groups risk management framework, management framework RISK GROUP REGISTERS systems and reporting were reviewed See page 45 See page 49 See page 29 and, as a result of this review, a number of enhancements to the Groups risk management framework, endorsed by the CULTURE AND CONDUCT Risk Committee, have since been made.
Details of the activities of the Risk Committee in this financial year can be found in the Risk Committee report on page 60.
28 29 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS The Risk Committee monitors these IDENTIFYING PRINCIPAL CHANGES IN THE YEAR processes, reviewing the principal risk AND EMERGING RISKS The top down review of risks carried out register, material risk events, the activities during the year resulted in a number of Principal risks are identified through a of the Operational Risk Group and the consideration of the strategy and operating refinements to the identified principal risks Investment Committees, and reporting to the business.
Existing principal risks environment of the Group top down material risks to the Board.
The materiality were clarified, certain principal risks were review and a detailed analysis of individual and severity of each risk is assessed consolidated and the overall composition processes and procedures bottom through a combination of an assessment up assessment.
of the principal risk register was reviewed of each risks likelihood of an adverse to ensure that it adequately reflected The Risk Committee leads the top down outcome and its impact.
In assessing the ongoing changes to the Group as it review of business risks and determines impact, consideration is given to financial, continues to pursue its strategic objectives.
This review focuses on reputational and regulatory factors, the The Risk Committee considers that the those risks that could threaten the business impact on management resources and risk potential business impact of risks relating to model, future performance, solvency or mitigation plans are established where information security and oversight of third liquidity of the business.
An updated risk language was party providers has increased in our industry consideration is given to risks identified implemented during the year to enhance and therefore these risks have now been by other asset managers in the sector consistency of reporting.
included within the principal risks.
and relevant regulatory expectations and The Group considers its principal risks Executive responsibility for each of the developments.
The review also considers across three categories: principal risks to the business was reviewed emerging risks.
STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISKS and agreed by the Risk Committee.
The Directors confirm that they have The risk of failing to deliver on our Emerging risks are regularly considered to undertaken a robust assessment of principal strategic objectives resulting in a negative risks in line with the requirements of the UK assess any potential impacts on the Group impact on Group profitability and to determine whether any actions Corporate Governance Code.
MARKET, CREDIT AND are required.
Emerging risks include the The Board and the Risk Committee consider LIQUIDITY RISKS risks related to regulatory change and their appetite for risk across the business The risk of an adverse impact on the macroeconomic and political change, and establish the level of acceptable risk Group due to market fluctuations, including the ongoing discussions regarding for each of the principal risks.
The Risk counterparty failure or having insufficient Britains membership of the European Union.
Committee uses key risk indicators to help resources to meet financial obligations monitor, manage and mitigate these risks on OPERATIONAL RISKS an ongoing basis.
The risk of loss or missed opportunity, The bottom up assessment encompasses the resulting from a regulatory or legislative identification, management and monitoring failure or inadequate or failed of risks in each area of the business internal processes, people or systems through the maintenance of detailed risk Reputational risk is seen as an outcome registers which are regularly reviewed, of the principal risks materialising.
This process The reputation and brand risk is ensures risk management responsibilities carefully managed as part of the risk are embedded in the business first line management framework.
During the year the CRO reviewed and challenged each of the risk registers maintained by the business and enhanced internal reporting of these risk registers.
Operational risks are subject to additional scrutiny by the Operational Risk Group.
In addition, the various Investment Committees provide oversight of risks related to the investment and fund management activities of the Group.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS MANAGING RISK TO DELIVER OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK The Group operates a risk governance framework consistent with the principles of the three lines of defence model.
Since its establishment in 2014, the internal audit function has provided independent assurance that the Groups risk management, THE BOARDS ONGOING governance and internal control processes are operating effectively.
Further details MONITORING OF THE ICAAP of the activities of internal audit can be found in the Audit Committee report.
BRINGS TOGETHER THE RISK Audit Committee report page 51 MANAGEMENT OF THE BUSINESS WITH OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
1ST Executive Audit The Business operations THIS GIVES THE BOARD A and support committee and Risk Board THOROUGH UNDERSTANDING committees 2ND OF THE GROUPS RISKS AND Control and oversight functions THEIR IMPACT, IN PARTICULAR, ON THE LEVEL OF CAPITAL 3RD REQUIRED TO SUPPORT THE Internal independent assurance BUSINESS.
KATHRYN PURVES CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, for the next three years.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite, the Groups principal risks and the management of those risks, as detailed in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 38.
The Directors have assessed ICGs viability over a three year period to March 2019.
The assessment is based on three years of the strategic plan, being the typical period over which regulatory changes are implemented and the period over which the forecasting assumptions used are most reliable.
The Groups strategy and principal risks underpin the three year plan and associated stress and reverse stress testing, which the Directors review at least annually.
The Directors review considers profits, cash flows, financing requirements, financial covenants and regulatory capital headroom.
The strategic plan is built on a fund by fund basis using a bottom up model.
The plan makes certain assumptions about the launch and investment of successor funds and new strategies, the ability to refinance debt as it falls due and the performance of the underlying portfolio.
The plan is stress tested to assess the potential financial and operational impact of a severe but plausible downside scenario as part of the Boards review of the Groups ICAAP.
The downside scenario uses the 2008 09 financial crisis as its basis and reflects the principal risks of the business as set out on pages 32 to 35.
The principal risks impacting the downside scenario are as follows: 1.
Failure to raise third party funds with no CLOs raised for 18 months and other funds raising 50% of target.
This results in a lower level of cash fee income 2.
Failure to deploy capital for a period of 18 months results in a lower level of cash fee income earned on those funds that charge fees on invested capital and reducing cash interest income from the balance sheet portfolio 3.
Failure to maintain investment performance increasing impairments to 9% of the opening book, thereby reducing regulatory capital The three year plan review is underpinned by regular Board briefings provided by the heads of business units and infrastructure functions and discussion of any new strategies undertaken by the Board in its normal course of business see pages 46 to 47.
These reviews consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks, principally the ability to raise third party funds, invest capital and deliver strong investment performance.
These risks are considered within the Boards risk appetite framework which is detailed on page 31.
30 31 STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS MONITORING THE SETTING RISK APPETITE AND TOLERANCES EFFECTIVENESS OF CONTROLS During the year, the Group enhanced its The Board acknowledges and recognises that in the normal course of business the processes for monitoring the effectiveness Group is exposed to risk and that it is willing to accept a level of risk in managing the business to achieve its strategic priorities.
As part of its risk management processes, of material controls.
Material controls the Board considers its risk appetite in terms of the tolerance it is willing to accept in have been defined as those critical to the management of the principal risks of relation to each principal risk based on key risk indicators.
Following identification of material controls, additional reporting on those controls was introduced to enable the Board and Risk Committee to review the effectiveness of controls in managing the principal risks in line with the requirements RELATIVE WILLINGNESS TO TOLERATE RISK RISK APPETITE of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is provided with a number of STRATEGIC & BUSINESS RISK LOW HIGH risk reports which it uses to review the Loss or missed opportunity as a result of major Groups risk management arrangements external change and internal controls.
The reports enable Failure to maintain acceptable relative investment the Board to make a cumulative assessment performance of the effectiveness with which internal Failure to raise new third party funds controls are being managed or mitigated.
The reports include assurance from the Failure to deploy committed capital Executive Committee on the effectiveness in a timely manner of the Groups system of internal controls.
As part of its review the Board considered MARKET, CREDIT & LIQUIDITY RISK LOW HIGH whether the processes in place were sufficient to identify all material controls and Loss as a result of adverse market fluctuations confirmed that this was the case.
The Board Loss as a result of exposure to a failed counterparty confirms that the Groups risk management and internal control systems are operating Failure to meet financial obligations effectively and material controls operated effectively throughout the year.
OPERATIONAL RISK LOW HIGH Loss of a key person and inability to recruit into key roles Negative financial or reputational impact arising from regulatory or legislative failing Technology and information security risks Failure of key business processes Further details included in the Risk Committee report on pages 60 to 65
