Principal risks and uncertainties Managing our risks The principal risks to our strategy are identified, evaluated and managed at Group level in accordance with our operational governance and oversight structure.
This structure is replicated in each of our home credit markets and in IPFDigital.
The aggregation of a bottom-up assessment of principal risks by our business unit teams is then validated by a top-down assessment of those risks by their Group-level owners.
co. uk for our governance and oversight structure.
Our framework for the identification, evaluation and management of our principal risks The Board For our strategy see pages 10-11 Determines the nature and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take in achieving our strategic objectives as described on page 10 and target business model as described on page 12, taking account also the For our business environment in which the Group operates.
The Board approves the principal risks as described in a Group model Schedule of Key Risks on a six-monthly basis and approves risk appetite annually.
see pages 12-13 Management Team Responsible for day-to-day risk management and internal control systems.
Risk identification, evaluation and management processes form an integral part of business processes, and they have developed in-line with the development of specific risks particularly in relation to the changing regulatory environment.
Control activities are identified for all risks in the Group Schedule of Key Risks.
Risk Advisory Group The Risk Advisory Group comprises the senior leadership team.
It supports the Audit and Risk Committee by reviewing the level of risk exposure facing the Group against risk appetite, to ensure that the Groups risk-taking and response are appropriate.
It meets four times each year.
Audit and Risk Committee On behalf of the Board, the Committee reviews the Groups processes for the management of the principal risks and its systems of internal control.
The Committee receives and challenges the Group Schedule of Key Risks together with regular reports and presentations on the effectiveness of the control environment.
It has confirmed the adequacy of the actions being taken by management to avoid potential breaches of risk appetite thresholds.
The Committee undertakes a robust assessment of the Group Schedule of Key Risks on a six-monthly basis.
See page 52 to 53 for Committee membership and remit.
Three Assurance Lines of Defence Second line: Third line: First line: Group-level management risk Internal Audit reviews the operation of and Business-level management identify, owners provide oversight on oversight to the systems of internal control, assess and control risks principally at the effectiveness of including risk management.
The Head of markets level and also within major the risk management and Internal Audit reports directly to the projects and change initiatives.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
36 Strategic Report The directors have undertaken a robust, systematic During the year, we continued to face a challenging assessment of the Groups principal risks including those external environment, particularly from regulation and that threaten its business model, future performance, competition.
Internally, our operational governance solvency or liquidity.
These have been considered within framework and risk management processes are the time frame of three years which aligns with our viability continually reviewed to ensure that where areas of statement on page 43.
Effective management of risks, improvement are identified, a plan of action is put in place uncertainties and opportunities is critical to our business in and can become a key focus for the Board.
The order to deliver long-term shareholder value and to protect effectiveness of operating these processes is monitored by our people, assets and reputation.
Our risk appetite the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board.
Risk category Definition Risks Description The risk that we cannot identify, Regulatory Market respond to, comply with or take Legal compliance Compliance with existing laws and conditions advantage of external market regulations conditions.
Future legal and Anticipating and responding to regulatory development changes to laws and regulations and their interpretation Competition and product proposition Competition Responding to changes in market conditions Product proposition Meeting customer requirements Funding, market and counterparty Funding Funding availability to meet business needs Interest rate and currency Market volatility impacting performance and asset values Counterparty Loss of banking partner Taxation Changes to, or interpretation of, tax legislation World economic Adapting to economic conditions environment The risk that key stakeholders take Reputation Reputational damage Stakeholder a negative view of the business as Customer service Maintenance of customer service a direct result of our actions or our standards inability to effectively manage their perception of the Group.
The risk of unacceptable losses as Credit Customers fail to repay Operational a result of inadequacies or failures Safety Harm to our agents employees in our internal core processes, People Calibre of people systems or people behaviours.
Business continuity and Recoverability and security information security of systems and processes Financial and Failure of financial reporting performance reporting systems Technology Maintenance of effective technology Fraud Theft or fraud loss The risk that our earnings are Change management Delivery of strategic initiatives Business impacted adversely by a Brand Strength of our customer brands development sub-optimal business strategy or the sub-optimal implementation of that strategy, due to internal or external factors.
Risks currently considered by the Board as the principal risks facing the Group.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 37 Principal risks and uncertainties continued As at the year end, the Board considered that there are 14 principal risks which require ongoing focus noted with asterisks in the table on page 37.
Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary Regulatory We suffer losses or fail to Changes in regulation, differences We have highly skilled Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth in interpretation or clarification and experienced legal Chief Executive Officer due to a failure to operate in enforcement of laws not previously and public affairs teams See market review Q&A, Chief compliance with, or effectively enforced by courts and other at Group level and in Executive Officers review and anticipate changes in, bodies can lead to challenge of each of our markets.
operational review for details of key all applicable laws and our products practices.
regulatory changes in 2016 Expert third-party regulations, or a regulator We must keep up to speed advisors are used A number of legislative and interpreting these in a with legal and regulatory where necessary.
regulatory changes continue to be different way.
developments to ensure we proposed and debated, particularly Strong relationships maintain compliance, remain in Europe.
As stated elsewhere in this Objective are maintained with competitive and provide value report, these have had a significant We aim to ensure that effective regulators and for our customers.
impact on our businesses in Slovakia, arrangements are in place to other stakeholders.
Poland and Lithuania in particular.
enable us to comply with legal Likelihood The business is adapting, where Co-ordinated legal and and regulatory obligations The frequency of legal and possible, to changes announced in public affairs teams, at and take assessed and fully regulatory change and the 2016 but the scale of the risk remains a Group level and in informed commercial risks.
likelihood of challenge vary by substantial and we must continue to each market, monitor market.
In 2016, notable changes be vigilant and flexible in political, legislative and occurred in Poland, Lithuania, our response.
the Czech Republic and Romania.
Further enhancements to our approach to governing this risk were implemented during 2016, including increased level of monitoring of regulatory matters, strengthened anticipation and engagement capabilities in-market and renewed association and sector reputation strategy.
Change management We suffer losses or fail A core part of our strategy Executive Director Lead responsibility: tooptimise profitable is to modernise our home and Country Manager Chief Executive Officer growthdue to a failure credit operation and invest level prioritisation of We initiated a change programme tomanagechange in in digital developments key initiatives.
technological remit and we are Effective management of the Standard project preparing for a rollout of a mobile initiatives within this programme management Objective application to agents in 2017. is essential.
methodology We aim to effectively principles defined.
A revised IT strategy was launched to managethe design, Likelihood ensure we can respond effectively to deliveryand benefits Governance structure Our change programme changing regulatory, competitor and realisation of major in place to oversee is complex covering numerous customer behaviour dynamics.
change initiatives and ongoing change at markets.
Recentchanges deliveraccording to Group and market levels.
to the delivery structure requirements, budgets have been designed to and timescales.
minimise the likelihood of programme-wide issues.
38 Strategic Report Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary People Our strategy is impacted by Our strategy emphasises Strategic people review Lead responsibility: not having sufficient depth segmentation of our operations processes People and Chief Executive Officer and quality of people or into Growth and Returns focused Organisational Planning Our people strategy focuses being unable to retain key businesses to reflect the fact that operate throughout on creating a culture of people and treat them in they are at different stages of the Group.
high engagement, identifying accordance with our values maturity.
In order to achieve our and nurturing talent and Group-wide personal and ethical standards.
goals, we must continue to attract, empowering people.
development review process engage, retain and reward the and continuous development We made significant changes Objective right people.
through targeted to field sales and services We aim to have sufficient leadership programmes.
organisational structures during Likelihood depth of personnel to 2016.
This was achieved without ensurewe can meet our We have developed significant Periodic employee any significant impact on growth objectives.
strength-in-depth of talent across and agent engagement employee and agent stability the Group and there is a strong surveys and and we believe the medium-term history of talent moving between improvement plans.
impact will increase the skills, markets that reduces the likelihood engagement and stability of of key vacancies.
In 2016, our agents in Romania were made employees to comply with new legislation.
Competition and product proposition We suffer losses or fail to In an environment of increasing Regular monitoring of Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth competition and broadening competitors and their Chief Executive Officer through not responding to customer choice, ensuring our offerings, advertising and Competition continues the competitive environment product meets customers needs share of voice in our markets.
or failing to ensure our is critical to delivering growth.
Regular surveys of The growth of IPF Digital continues proposition meets customer views on to diversify our portfolio.
2016 we opened new digital Competition varies by market.
In businesses in Spain and Mexico, Objective 2016, the impact of competitive Product development and IPF Digital is growing strongly We aim to ensure we activity, both from home credit and committees established understand competitive digital lenders, was particularly across the Group to manage We launched a number of threats and deliver customer notable in Poland, the Czech product change and product offerings in 2016 within focused products to Republic and Romania.
our home credit markets giving drive growth.
customers more choice and to comply with new regulations.
For more on our strategy see pages 10-11 Growth focus IPF Digital Risk environment improving Growth focus Mexico home credit Risk environment remains stable Returns focus European home credit Risk environment worsening International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 39 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary Business continuity and information security We suffer losses or fail to Globally, we have 2.5 million Executive Director and Lead responsibility: optimise profitable growth due customers and we record, update Country Manager level Chief Executive Officer to a failure of our systems, and maintain data for each of them prioritisation of We continue to enhance our suppliers or processes, or due on a regular basis, often weekly.
systems and processes to ensure to the loss or theft of data is as secure as practicable The availability of this data, and the Standard project sensitive information and that any disruption to the continued operation of our systems management business is minimised.
and processes, is essential to the methodology Objective effective operation of our business principles defined.
Information security capability We aim to maintain adequate and the security of our was further enhanced in 2016 arrangements and controls Governance structure in customer information.
including implementation of that reduce the threat of place to oversee technical solutions to prevent and service disruption and the risk ongoing change at Likelihood detect weaknesses.
of data loss to as low as is Group and market levels.
While the external threat to our reasonably practicable.
A disaster recovery assessment systems is increasing in the digital and testing programme was also age, the tools in place reduce the undertaken in the year.
likelihood of a significant failure or information loss.
Further enhancements to our protection are planned for 2017.
Reputation We suffer financial or Our reputation can have an impact Group Reputation and Lead responsibility: reputational damage due to on both customer sentiment and the Regulation Committee.
Chief Executive Officer our methods of operation, engagement of key stakeholders, Our businesses continue to Clearly defined ill-informed comment impacting our ability to grow.
achieve awards for ethical corporate values and or malpractice.
ethical standards which Likelihood are communicated In light of increased regulatory Objective We maintain strong relationships with throughout the challenges and potential We aim to promote a positive stakeholders across the Group in organisation.
legislative changes we face, we reputation that will enable the order to minimise the likelihood of an communicated our position to Group to achieve its event leading to unanticipated Regular monitoring of investors and other strategic aims.
Growth focus IPF Digital Risk environment improving Growth focus Mexico home credit Risk environment remains stable Returns focus European home credit Risk environment worsening 40 Strategic Report Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary World economic environment We suffer financial loss Changes in economic conditions Treasury and credit Lead responsibility: asaresult of a failure have a direct impact on our committees review Chief Financial Officer toidentifyand adapt customers ability to make repayments.
There were stable macroeconomic tochanging economic conditions in our markets in 2016.
Daily monitoring of Likelihood conditions adequately.
GDP forecasts for 2017 are for a economic, political and While we operate in numerous continuation of recent moderate national news briefings.
Objective markets, the likelihood of a change growth in our European markets We aim to have in economic markets that we are but for a slowdown in Mexico.
We Strong, personal businessprocesses unable to respond to and that continue to monitor the impact of customer relationships thatallowus torespond impacts our strategy is minimised by political developments including inform us of individual tochanges ineconomic our short-term lending model.
Brexit and the change of US customer circumstances.
 President on financial markets The results of the Brexit vote and US business performance.
presidential election have created global market uncertainty and there may be longer-term impacts on global economic growth.
Safety The risk of personal accident A significant element of our business Group and market Lead responsibility: to, or assault on, our agents model involves our agents and committees and annual Chief Executive Officer or employees.
employees interacting with our safety survey.
We continued to make progress in customers in their homes or travelling our safety management systems Bi-annual risk mapping Objective to numerous locations daily.
Their and maintained our OHSAS for each agency We aim to maintain adequate safety is paramount to us.
certification in all established including mitigation arrangements that reduce the home credit businesses.
planning and field Likelihood risks to as low as is safety training.
Safety continues to be a reasonably practicable.
The likelihood of an individual significant area of focus for incident depends on many factors, Annual self-certification the Group.
We ofsafety compliance strive to ensure that our agents and by managers.
employees can carry out their work Quarterly branch without risk of harm.
Role-specific training and competence matrix.
Safety management systems based on internationally recognised standards.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 41 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary Taxation We suffer additional taxation or Against a backdrop of increasing Binding rulings or Lead responsibility: financial penalties associated fiscal challenges for most clearances obtained Chief Financial Officer with failure to comply with tax economies, many authorities are from authorities We continued to ensure our legislation or adopting an turning to corporate taxpayers to where appropriate.
interpretation of taxation interpretation of the law that increase revenues, either via taxation legislation is defendable through External advisors used for cannot be sustained.
reforms or through changes to maintaining a strong governance all material interpretations of existing legislation.
framework, ensuring each mature tax transactions.
Objective market and the Group employs Likelihood We aim to generate tax professionals, and taking Qualified and shareholder value through The likelihood of changes or external advice where relevant.
experienced tax teams effective management challenges arising from tax at Group level and We have ongoing tax audits in of tax while acting legislation varies by market.
In as a good corporate citizen.
OECD and EU-led developments early 2017 we received an may lead to an increase in transfer adverse decision from the Polish pricing audits and this was seen in tax authority in respect of 2008 2016 with the commencement of a and 2009 on two matters that had transfer pricing audit in Slovakia.
been accepted as correct during tax audits of previous years.
We have lodged appeals against the decisions and were required to pay the assessments totalling c. 38 million.
In addition, possible further payments could be required in respect of future years that are still open to audit, including 2010 where an audit has already been opened, and a decision is awaited.
Credit The risk of the Group With the expansion in IPF Digital Weekly credit reporting Lead responsibility: suffering financial loss if its and Mexican home credit on the quality of business Chief Financial Officer customers fail to meet their businesses, it is important that we at time of issue as well as For IPF Digital, the risk environment contracted obligations.
keep control of credit losses in order overall portfolio.
This is generally stable with low to achieve our intended returns.
feeds into weekly loss rates.
Objective For the European home credit performance calls We aim to maintain credit businesses we need to be certain between each business For our Mexico home credit and collections policies that we are writing profitable and the Group credit business, we saw an increase of and regularly monitor business to maximise return.
In addition, there loss rates in the second half of credit performance.
are monthly local credit 2016 due largely to an Likelihood committees, a monthly operational factor and this is The control environment in place Group credit committee now improved.
means that we will see issues quickly and monthly For our European home credit and the systems in place mean that performance calls markets, the credit risk we can change credit settings between each business background is stable.
quickly, and therefore the likelihood and the senior team.
of suffering large losses is low.
When a new change is introduced, the credit systems allow for a testing approach that gives direct comparison of the current champion regime against the new challenger.
42 Strategic Report Risk Relevance to strategy Mitigation Commentary Funding, market and counterparty The risk of insufficient availability Funding at appropriate cost Adherence to Board Lead responsibility: of funding, unfavourable and on appropriate terms, and approved policies Chief Financial Officer pricing, a breach of debt facility management of financial market monitored through Our business has a strong funding covenants: or that performance risk, is necessary for the future Treasury Committee, position with good headroom on is significantly impacted by growth of the business.
Finance Leadership bank facilities and long-term interest rate or currency team and regular funding in place.
Likelihood movements, or failure of Board reporting.
Hedging of market risk and limits a banking counterparty.
Board approved policies require Funding plans on counterparty risk in line us to maintain a resilient funding presented as part of with policies.
Objective position with good headroom budget planning.
We aim to maintain a robust on undrawn bank facilities: funding position, and limit appropriate hedging of market Strong relationships the impact of interest rate risk, and appropriate limits to maintained with and currency movements counterparty risk.
and exposure to financial counterparties.
Growth focus IPF Digital Risk environment improving Growth focus Mexico home credit Risk environment remains stable Returns focus European home credit Risk environment worsening The Directors have determined that three years is an Viability statement appropriate period over which to provide its viability The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable statement because it aligns with the Groups business expectation that the Group will continue to operate and planning horizon.
In making this statement, the Directors meet its liabilities as they fall due for three years from the have assumed that both the wholesale funding markets date of this report.
This assessment has been made with remain accessible so as to allow the Groups existing reference to the Groups current financial position, its arrangements to be refinanced and further funding put prospects, its strategy and its principal risks, as set out in in place if necessary, and that the legal, taxation, and the Strategic Report.
regulatory framework allows for the provision of short-term The Group undertakes an annual business planning and credit to the markets in which the Group operates.
budgeting process that includes an update to strategic Approved by the Board.
plans together with an assessment of expected performance, cash flows, funding requirements and covenant compliance.
The plan is stress tested in a variety of downside scenarios that reflect the crystallisation of the Groups principal risks with particular reference to regulatory, taxation and funding, market and Gerard Ryan counterparty risks as outlined on pages 38, 42 and 43, Chief Executive Officer respectively and the consequent impact on future 1 March 2017 performance, funding requirements and covenant compliance.
Consideration has also been given to the availability of mitigating actions that could be taken to reduce the impact of the identified risks.
International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 43
