International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board is responsible for overall risk management, with delegation provided to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system of risk management and internal control has been designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet the business objectives.
Regard is given to the materiality of relevant risks in designing systems of internal control but no system of control can provide absolute assurance against the incidence of risk, misstatement or loss.
INPP has in place a risk management framework, with a risk register that is reviewed and updated by the Board and Audit and Risk Committee on a quarterly basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the risks facing the Company and controls and other measures in place to mitigate the impact of risks.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the most significant risks faced by the Company.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Companys risk management process as overseen by the Board can be summarised as: RISK FRAMEWORK AND SYSTEMS OF INTERNAL CONTROL The Board recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the financial and non-financial risks facing the business.
While responsibility for risk management rests with the Board, the aim is that the management of risk is embedded as part of the everyday business and culture of the Company and its principal advisers.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but because of the internal controls systems in place at the key service providers, and the controls process reviews performed, it has decided instead to place reliance on those control and assurance processes.
The overall risk governance framework is the responsibility of the Board, overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee with input from the Management Engagement Committee.
It is implemented through the following risk control processes.
29 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK IDENTIFICATION The Board and Audit and Risk Committee identify risks with additional input from the Companys Investment Adviser and Administrator.
The Board also receives detailed quarterly asset management reports highlighting performance and potential risk issues on an  basis.
RISK ASSESSMENT Each identified risk is assessed in terms of probability of occurrence, potential impact on financial performance and movements in the relative significance of each risk from period to period.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company is performed.
See the viability statement on page 37 for more information of this assessment.
ACTION PLANS TO MITIGATE RISK Where new risks are identified or existing risks increase in terms of likelihood or impact, the Audit and Risk Committee assists the Company in developing an action plan to mitigate the risk and put in place enhanced monitoring and reporting.
RE-ASSESSMENT AND REPORTING OF RISK Such risk mitigation plans are reassessed by the Audit and Risk Committee, where applicable with the relevant key service providers and reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Direct communication between the Company and its Investment Adviser, and the entity level asset manager, is a key element in the effective management of risk and performance at the underlying investment level.
The risk framework is applied holistically across the Company and the underlying investment portfolio as illustrated in the Business Model on page 9.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND MITIGATION The key risks affecting the Company and the investment portfolio have not, in the view of the Board, materially changed year to year, largely due to the contractual and long-term nature of the investments with similar risk profiles.
Changes in the macroeconomic environment and broader global regulatory and tax environment can impact on fund returns and are a permanent feature of the risk appraisal process.
The Boards view of principal risks and how the relative significance may have changed in the period are set out on the following pages.
This section is not intended to highlight all the potential risks to the business.
There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded as less material, which could turn out to materially impact the performance of the Company, its assets, capital resources and reputation.
30 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 A description of broader risk factors relevant to investors is disclosed in the latest Company prospectus available on the website www.
While the Company has applied mitigation processes highlighted below it is unlikely that the techniques applied will fully mitigate the risk.
The chart below provides a summary of the Boards view of the probability and potential impact of the Companys principal risks: Risk Heat Map The following key is used in the table below to highlight the Boards view on movement of risk exposures during the period: Risk exposure has increased in the period Risk exposure has reduced in the period No significant change in risk exposure since last reporting period 31 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH MACROECONOMIC RISKS Inflation Inflation may be higher or lower than expected.
INPP monitors the effect of inflation on its portfolio Investment cash flows are positively correlated to through its bi-annual valuation process and reports inflation therefore increases decreases to inflation on this to investors.
It also provides sensitivities to compared to current projections would impact investors indicating the projected impact on the positively or negatively on the Companys future Companys NAV of a number of alternative projected cash flows.
Negative inflation deflation inflation scenarios, offering investors an ability to will reduce the Companys future cash flows in anticipate the likely effects of some inflation absolute terms.
Whilst we hold a stable view we The Companys portfolio has been developed in INPP uses a long-term view of inflation within its note an increase in inflation would anticipation of continued inflation at or above the forecasts, benchmarked where possible to have a positive impact on levels used in the Companys valuation assumptions.
investment cash flows Where inflation is at levels below the assumed levels investment performance may be impaired.
The level of inflation linkage across the investments held by the Company varies and is not consistent.
Some investments have no inflation linkage and some have a geared exposure to inflation.
The consequences of higher or lower levels of inflation than that assumed by the Company will not be uniform across its portfolio.
The Company is also exposed to the risk of changes to the manner in which inflation is calculated by the relevant authorities.
Foreign Exchange Movements INPP indirectly holds part of its investments in INPP uses forward foreign exchange contracts to entities in jurisdictions with currencies other than mitigate the risk of short-term volatility in foreign Sterling but borrows corporate level debt, reports its exchange on significant investment returns from NAV and pays dividends in Sterling.
Changes in the overseas investments.
These may not be fully rates of foreign currency exchange are outside INPPs effective and rely on the strength of the control and may impact positively or negatively on counterparties to those contracts to be cash flows and valuation.
INPP monitors the effect of foreign exchange on its portfolio through its biannual valuation process Increased likelihood of exchange and reports this to investors.
The Company also rate volatility is possible in light of provides sensitivities to investors indicating the international political change and projected impact on the its NAV of a limited the U. K. s planned withdrawal from number of alternative foreign exchange scenarios, the European Union offering investors an ability to anticipate the likely effects of some foreign exchange scenarios on their investment.
Interest Rates Changes in market rates of interest can affect the Company in a variety of different ways: Valuation Discount Rate In determining the discount rate used to value its The Company, in valuing its investments, uses a investments, INPP generally uses nominal interest discounted cash flow methodology.
Where the Companys cash investment market rates of interest particularly government inflows are linked to inflation, higher interest rates bond rates may directly impact the discount rate can often be precipitated by higher inflation used to value the Companys future projected cash Slight increase to reflect changes in expectations, and therefore any inflation linkage flows and thus its valuation.
Higher rates will have a the underlying portfolio with higher may partly mitigate the effect of interest rate negative impact on valuation while lower rates will sensitivity to changing rates changes have a positive impact.
Corporate Debt Facility INPP has a corporate level debt facility that may be In the event that the interest rate increases, INPP drawn from time to time.
Interest is charged on a has the option of repaying its corporate level floating rate basis, so higher than anticipated interest facility at any time with minimal notice, providing rates will increase the cost of this facility adversely sufficient funds are available.
impacting on cash flow and the Companys valuation.
32 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH MACROECONOMIC RISKS CONTINUED Underlying portfolio considerations Changes in interest rates have potential impacts on As presented in the sensitivity analysis, variations the portfolio at underlying investee entity level.
in cash deposit rates have little impact on the Portfolio entities typically choose or can be required Companys NAV.
Due to the spread of cash to hold various cash balances, including contingency holdings within ring-fenced SPV structures and reserves for future costs such as major lifecycle relatively smaller balances in the SPVs, it is not maintenance or debt service reserves.
These are economically feasible to hedge against adverse generally held on interest bearing accounts and deposit rate movements.
under the contractual terms applicable to certain INPP monitors the effect of historical and investments which in many cases are projected to projected interest rates on its portfolio through be held for the long term.
its biannual valuation process and reports this to The Company assumes that it will earn interest on investors.
It also provides sensitivities to investors such deposits over the long term.
Changes in indicating the projected impact on the Companys interest rates may mean that the actual interest NAV of a limited number of alternative scenarios, receivable by INPP is different to that projected.
If offering investors an ability to anticipate the likely INPP receives less interest than it projects this will effects of some deposit interest rate scenarios on impact cash flows and NAV adversely.
Certain assets within the portfolio contain The risk of adverse movements in debt interest refinancing assumptions.
Increases in lending rates rates for unhedged debt within regulated entities available to these projects would have the potential is limited through protections provided by the to increase their cost of financing and therefore regulatory regime.
impact the overall returns from these assets.
Taxation Change in Legislation Changes in tax legislation across the multiThe diversified jurisdictional mix of INPPs jurisdictions in which INPP has investments can investments may provide some mitigation to tax reduce returns impacting on the Companys cash changes in any one jurisdiction.
INPP believes it takes a conservative approach to tax planning.
The Board monitors changes in tax legislation and takes advice as appropriate from Continued incidence of tax reform external, independent, qualified advisers.
While impacting in most major jurisdictions the Board and the Companys Investment Adviser in which the Company has seek to minimise the impact of adverse changes operations in tax requirements, its ability to do so is naturally limited.
Change in Tax Rates Most recently INPP has benefited from reductions in INPP incorporates changes in tax rates within its the headline rates of U. K. corporation tax positively forecast cash flows and NAV only once impacting its U. K. based investments, however there substantively enacted.
is a risk that this could be reversed if there were a change in government or policy.
Such changes may occur in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The OECDs Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit The Companys Investment Adviser has Shifting BEPS, published in 2013, seeks to address responded to corporate interest deductibility perceived flaws in international tax rules.
It sets out consultations in the U. K. during the year and 15 actions to counter BEPS in a comprehensive and continues to monitor developments in other coordinated way.
Countries in which INPP invests relevant geographies.
have been assessing their compliance or otherwise Whilst our initial assessment of the U. K. Finance with this guidance and in the case of the U. K. No.
2 Bill 2016-17, issued in March 2017, is that seeking to bring into law from April 2017 we are not expecting the legislation to have a fundamental changes in certain areas.
Of particular significant impact on portfolio valuation, there of relevance to the Company are rules to restrict the can be no guarantee that responses to the OECD tax deductibility of interest payments.
These proposals by other governments will not have a proposals, once actioned by governments, may have negative impact on the Companys performance.
negative implications for the Company.
Accounting Accounting changes can have the effect of reducing A portion of INPPs income is received in the form distributable profits in investee entities and holding of shareholder debt interest income i. e. from preentities and may impact the Companys cash flows tax cash flows and not constrained by and thus valuation adversely.
However, changes in accounting rules could potentially have an impact on distributable profits and following the implementation of BEPS rules mentioned above on post-tax cash flows.
33 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH MARKET RISK Political and Regulatory The nature of the businesses in which INPP invests Most of INPPs existing investments benefit from exposes the Company to potential changes in policy long-term service and asset availability based and legal requirements.
All investments have a pricing contracts and the countries in which the public sector infrastructure service aspect.
Some are Company operates do not tend to have a subject to formal regulatory regimes.
All are tradition of penal retrospective legislation.
They exposed to political scrutiny and the potential for tend to be long-term supporters of infrastructure adverse public sector or political criticism.
and similar investment and recognise the risk of Moreover, all are either dependent ultimately on deterring future investment in the event that public sector expenditure or dependent on penal or disproportionate steps are taken in regulatory or other similar frameworks for most of respect of existing contractual engagements.
INPP is therefore potentially highly exposed to changes in policy, law or regulations including adverse or punitive changes of law.
Termination of Contracts Often contracts between public sector bodies and INPP maintains strong and positive relationships INPPs investment entities contain rights for the with its public sector clients where possible.
It public sector to voluntarily terminate contracts in engages with its public sector clients in certain situations.
While the contracts typically developing cost-saving initiatives and seeks to act provide for some compensation in such cases, this as a good partner.
None of INPPs investments could be less than required to sustain the INPPs have been identified, by any government audit or valuation causing loss of value.
There have been public sector report, as poor value-for-money or instances of contracts being voluntarily terminated not in the public interest.
in the U. K. although not affecting INPP.
The Investment Adviser is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP contracts in the U. K. The voluntary code of conduct sets out the basis on which public and private sector partners agree to work together to make savings in operational Public PPP contracts.
Compensation on termination clauses within such contracts serve to partially mitigate the risk of voluntary termination.
Furthermore, in the current financial climate where voluntary termination leads to a requirement to pay compensation, such compensation is likely in many cases to represent an unattractive immediate call on the public finances for the public sector.
Change in Law Regulation Changes in law or regulation may increase costs of Some investments maintain a reserve or operating and maintaining facilities or impose other contingency designed to meet change in law costs costs or obligations that indirectly adversely affect and or have a mechanism to allow some change INPPs cash flow from its investments and or in law costs typically building maintenance valuation of them.
related to be passed back to the public sector.
Change in Political Policy Political policy and financing decisions may also Current policy trends in the U. K. and elsewhere impact on relationships on existing investments and continue to support the use of private sector on INPPs ability to source new investments at capital to finance public infrastructure, despite attractive prices or at all.
recent developments in the political landscape in the U. K. and more generally in the U. S. and EU in particular.
Change in Regulations INPP is subject to changes in regulatory The Company and Amber, its Investment Adviser, requirements that relate to its business and that of monitor regulatory developments and seek its Investment Adviser both in terms of its independent professional advice in order to investments and in terms of itself.
It is supervised manage compliance with changing regulatory by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and requirements.
is required to comply with the U. K. Listing Rules applicable to Premium listings.
The Investment Adviser is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the U. K. in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
34 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH OPERATIONAL AND VALUATION RISK Asset Performance Construction For the Companys assets under construction, Contractual mechanisms allow for significant there is element of construction risk takes the pass down of construction cost overrun risk to form of cost overruns that could impact on subcontractors or consumers.
Asset Availability New investments made into construction The Board reviews underlying investment stage assets The entitlement of INPPs PPP and OFTO performance of each investment quarterly investments to receive income is generally allowing asset performance to be monitored in dependent on underlying physical assets close to real time.
remaining available for use and continuing to meet certain performance standards.
Failure to Historically, INPP has seen very high levels of maintain assets available for use or operating in asset performance, which suggests a positive accordance with pre-determined performance trend for the future.
standards may dis-entitle wholly or partially the Contractual mechanisms and underlying continued receipt of income that INPP has regulatory frameworks also allow for significant projected to receive.
pass-down of unavailability and performance risk to sub-contractors in many cases.
Termination In the event of significant and continuing In serious cases where the terms of the unavailability across INPPs portfolio, it is able to underlying contract with the public sector are terminate the Investment Advisory Agreement.
breached due to default or force majeure then This serves to reinforce alignment of interest that contract can usually be terminated without between the Company and the Investment compensation.
Failure to receive the amount of Adviser.
revenue projected or termination of a contract Regarding any potential impact from the U. K. s will have a consequential impact on INPPs cash planned withdrawal from the EU, there are no flow and value.
specific Brexit specific clauses in INPPs underlying project contracts.
Counterparty Risk INPPs investments are dependent on the INPP has a broad range of suppliers and performance of a series of counterparties to believes that supplier counterparty risk is contracts including public sector bodies, diversified across its investments.
All contracts consortium partners, construction contractors, include the provision of a security package from facilities management and maintenance counterparties to mitigate the impact of contractors, asset and investment managers supplier failure.
In addition, generally payments including the Investment Adviser, banks and are made in arrears to service providers giving lending institutions and others.
Failure by one or the Company some protection against failures Potential increased risk from large more of these counterparties to perform their in performance.
consortium investments where INPP obligations fully or as anticipated could adversely The credit quality of supplier counterparties is holds non-controlling interest affect the performance of affected investments.
reviewed as part of INPPs due diligence at the Replacement counterparties where they can be time of making its investments.
obtained may only be obtained at a greater cost.
Most of the services provided to the Companys These risks would negatively impact the investments are reasonably generic and Companys cash flows and valuation.
therefore there can be expected to be a pool of potential replacement supplier counterparties in the event that a service counterparty fails albeit not necessarily at the same cost.
The credit risk of such swap counterparties is Where borrowings exist in respect of INPPs considered at the time of entering into these investments, interest rates are generally fixed arrangements and are regularly reviewed.
through the use of interest rate swaps.
INPP is However, there is a risk of credit deterioration therefore exposed if the counterparties of these which could impact affected investments.
swaps were to default or the swaps otherwise become ineffective.
35 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION APPROACH OPERATIONAL AND VALUATION RISK CONTINUED Physical Asset Risk INPP indirectly invests in physical assets used by INPPs investments benefit from regular risk the public and thus is exposed to possible risks, reviews and external insurance advice which is both reputational and legal, in the event of intended to ensure that those assets continue to damage or destruction to such assets and their benefit from insurance cover that is standard for users including loss of life, personal injury and such assets.
While the assets INPP invests in benefit from insurance policies, these may not be effective in all cases.
Contract Risk The performance of the Companys investments Such contracts have been entered into usually is dependent on the complex set of contractual only after lengthy negotiations and with the arrangements specific to each investment benefit of external legal advice.
A legal review of continuing to operate as intended.
INPP is contract documentation is undertaken as part of exposed to the risk that such contracts do not INPPs due diligence at the time of making new operate as intended, are incomplete, contain investments.
unanticipated liabilities, are subject to interpretation contrary to its expectations or otherwise fail to provide the protection or recourse anticipated.
Financial Forecasts INPPs projections depend on the use of financial Financial forecasts are generally subject to models to calculate its future projected model audit by external accountancy firms investment returns.
These are in turn dependent which is a process designed to identify errors.
on the outputs from other financial model The comparison of past actual performance of forecasts at the underlying investment entity investments against past projected performance level.
There may be errors in any of these also gives confidence in financial models where financial models including calculation errors, actual performance has closely matched incorrect assumptions, programming, logic or projected performance.
However, there can be formulaic errors and output errors.
Once no assurance that forecast results will be corrected, such errors may lead to a revision in realised.
projected cash flows and thus impact valuation.
Sensitivities INPP publishes information relating to its Sensitivities are produced for the information of portfolio including projections of how portfolio investors and are accompanied by disclaimers performance and valuation might be impacted and guidance explaining that limited reliance can by changes in various factors e. g. interest rates, be placed upon them.
The sensitivity analysis and projections are not forecasts and actual performance is likely to differ possibly significantly from that projection as in practice the impact of changes to such factors will be unlikely to apply evenly across the portfolio or in isolation from other factors.
Cyber-security Cyber-security continues to be an issue of A number of control layers are in place across relevance across all businesses as a response to INPPs structure to mitigate as far as possible the growing levels of sophistication being used in against the risk of a cyber-security issue carrying out cyber-attacks targeting businesses.
occurring in the Companys operational or Cybercrime could impact INPP in a number of investment activities.
ways including financially, operationally or The Company has procured an external through reputational impact.
independent review of its cyber-security control environment and is monitoring implementation of proposed enhancements.
36 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2016 VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C2:2 of the 2014 revision of the U. K. Code of Corporate Governance, we have considered the Company's viability as summarised below.
Due to the long-term and contractual nature of our investments, we have a significant level of confidence over the endurance and longevity of our business, however it is difficult to assess the regulatory, tax and political environment on a long-term basis.
While we consider the valuation of investment cash flows for the purposes of NAV over a considerably longer period than five years, we view five years as an appropriate timeframe for assessing the Company's viability given these inherent uncertainties.
In 2016, the viability assessment process was embedded within the Company's annual risk review cycle and involves the following: 1 An Audit and Risk Committee review and assessment of the risks facing the Company.
A summary of the review process is detailed on pages 29 to 30.
2 Identification of those principal risks that are deemed more likely to occur and have a potential impact on the Companys viability over the viability period.
This exercise has included consideration of a persistent low inflation rate environment noting that a high rate environment would be positive for the Companys investment cash flows, large currency fluctuations impacting on receipts from overseas investments, and the impact from the loss of income from investments whether due to key sub-contractor default or other asset underperformance.
We note that a number of risks identified during the risk review process in step one above may have implications for the Companys valuation but may be considered insignificant from a five-year viability perspective 3 Quantification analysis of the potential impact of those principal risks occurring in isolation and under plausible combined sensitivity scenarios over the viability period 4 Assessment of potential mitigation strategies to mitigate the potential impact of principal risks over the viability period.
This exercise has considered the potential to liquidate investments and or refinance investments if necessary The viability assessment is approved by the Board.
Following the assessment, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due up to March 2022.
This assessment is based on the following assumptions which are not within the Companys control: - No retrospective changes to government policy, laws and regulations affecting the Company or its investments - Continued availability of sufficient capital and market liquidity to allow for the refinancing repayment of any short-term recourse debt facility obligations as they become due Rupert Dorey John Whittle Chairman Senior Independent Director 29 March 2017 29 March 2017 37
