DIRECTORS FINANCIAL STRATEGIC OTHER REPORT STATEMENTS OVERVIEW REPORT INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK FRAMEWORK Risks are formally identified and recorded in This section sets out The Board has overall responsibility for a risk register for the significant countries the establishment and oversight of the and for each business line and support a description of the Groups risk management framework.
The risk register is updated at work is complemented by the Group Risk least twice each year and is used to plan principal risks and Committee, whose purpose is to manage, the Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
assess and promote the continuous uncertainties that In addition to the risk register, all senior improvement of the Group's risk executives and their direct reports are management, controls and assurance could have a material required to complete an annual return to systems.
This risk governance framework confirm that management controls have is described in more detail in the Directors adverse effect on the been effectively applied during the year.
The return covers Sales, Operations, IT, Groups strategy, The Head of Internal Audit and the Group Finance and People.
General Counsel, who report to the Chief performance, results, Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer respectively, have accountability financial condition for reporting the key risks that the Group faces, the controls and assurance and reputation.
processes in place and any mitigating actions or controls.
Both roles report to the Audit Committee, attend its meetings and meet with individual members each year as required.
OPERATIONAL PRINCIPAL RISK CONTEXT POSSIBLE IMPACT MITIGATION 2016 UPDATE REPUTATION Reputation is key to the Group maintaining and Failure to meet financial performance expectations.
Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited This risk remains stable compared with 2015. growing its business.
Reputation risk can occur in a Exposure to material legal claims, associated costs and reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
The Group continues to invest in staff and wasted management time.
development, quality systems and standard number of ways: directly as the result of the actions Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance Destruction of shareholder value.
processes to prevent operational failures.
of the Group or a group company itself: indirectly processes, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
Loss of existing or new business.
due to the actions of an employee or employees: Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo Loss of key staff.
or through the actions of other parties, such as regular training.
joint venture partners, suppliers, customers or Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any other industry participants.
individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit Committee, where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
CUSTOMER A failure to focus on customer needs, to provide May lead to customer dissatisfaction and Net Promoter Score 'NPS' customer satisfaction, customer sales trends This risk remains stable compared with 2015.
SERVICE customer innovation or to deliver our services in customer loss.
accordance with our customers expectations and Gradual erosion of market share and reputation Global and Local Key Account Management 'GKAM' 'LKAM' initiatives our customer promise.
if competitors are perceived to have better, more in place.
responsive or more consistent service offerings.
34 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
