RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management Risk awareness, control and compliance Overview of disclosure are embedded in all our day-to-day Group Risk requirements activities.
We seek to achieve an Risk disclosures provided in line with the appropriate balance between risk Management requirements of International Financial and reward, taking cognisance of all objectives are to: Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: stakeholders interests.
Astrong risk and Disclosures IFRS 7 and disclosures on capital management culture is embedded capital required by International Accounting into our values.
Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Be the custodian of adherence to Group Risk Management monitors, Statements IAS1 are included within this our risk management culture manages and reports on our risks to ensure section of the annual report on pages 48 Ensure the business operates within to119 with further disclosures provided in that they are within the stated risk appetite the board-stated risk appetite the annual financial statements section on mandated by the board of directors through pages 145 to 236. the board risk and capital committee.
Support the long-term sustainability of the group by providing an All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs We monitor and control risk exposure established, independent framework on which an audit opinion is expressed on through independent Credit, Market, for identifying, evaluating, monitoring are marked as audited.
Liquidity, Operational, Legal Risk, and mitigating risk InternalAudit and Compliance teams.
Information provided in this section of Thisapproach is core to assuming a Set, approve and monitor theannual report is prepared on an tolerable risk and reward profile, helping adherence to risk parameters and Investec plc consolidated basis unless us to pursue controlled growth across limits across the group and ensure otherwisestated.
they are implemented and adhered to consistently The risk disclosures comprise the majority Group Risk Management operates within of the banks Pillar III disclosures as required Aggregate and monitor our an integrated geographical and divisional under the Capital Requirements Regulation exposure across risk classes structure, in line with our management pertaining to banks in the UK.
approach, ensuring that the appropriate Coordinate risk management processes are used to address all risks activities across the organisation, Statement from the across the group.
There are specialist covering all legal entities and divisions in the UK and smaller risk divisions jurisdictions chairman of the in other regions tasked with promoting Investec DLC group risk Give the boards reasonable sound risk managementpractices.
assurance that the risks we and capital committee Risk Management units are locally areexposed to are identified responsive yet globally aware.
This helps and appropriately managed PHILOSOPHY AND APPROACH to ensure that all initiatives and businesses andcontrolled TO RISK MANAGEMENT operate within our defined risk parameters Run appropriate risk committees, The board risk and capital committee and objectives, continually seeking new asmandated bythe board.
comprising both executive and nonways to enhance techniques.
executive directors meets six times We believe that the risk management per annum and approves the overall systems and processes we have in place risk appetite for the Investec group.
are adequate to support the groups Thegroups risk appetite statement sets strategy and allow the group to operate broad parameters relating to the boards within its risk appetite tolerance as set out expectations around performance, business on page 49. stability and risk management.
Theboard ensures that there are appropriate This section of our annual report, explains resources to manage the risk arising from in detail our approach to managing our running ourbusinesses.
business within our risk appetite tolerance, across all principal aspects of risk.
Our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, quantifying, managing and mitigating the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 45 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Our legacy portfolio has been actively by sound risk metrics.
We believe that a A SUMMARY OF THE YEAR common equity tier 1 ratio in excess of 10% managed down from 695 million at IN REVIEW FROM A RISK 31March 2015 to 583 million largely is appropriate for our business, given our PERSPECTIVE high leverage ratios and we will continue through redemptions and write-offs Executive management is intimately notably on the Irish portfolio.
to build our business in a manner that involved in ensuring stringent management achieves this target.
We will continue to manage this portfolio of risk, liquidity, capital and conduct.
We down, although we remain cautiously Holding a high level of readily available, high continue to seek to achieve an appropriate optimistic in this regard and our view is quality liquid assets remains paramount balance between risk and reward in that the remaining legacy book will still in the management of our balance sheet.
our business, taking cognisance of all take two to four years to clear as explained We continue to maintain a low reliance stakeholders interests.
in detail on page 40. on interbank wholesale funding to fund core lending asset growth.
Cash and near Impairments on loans and advances Notwithstanding a challenging and cash balances amounted to 5.1 billion at decreased from 102.7 million to uncertain environment experienced, year end, representing 47.0% of customer 84.2million.
The credit loss ratio Investec plc was able to maintain sound deposits.
improved during the year to 1.13%, with risk metrics throughout the year in review.
the bulk of impairments taken on the Our strategy to normalise balance sheet Investec plc remained within the majority legacy portfolio.
Our credit losses on our liquidity levels following the strategic sales of its risk appetite limits targets across the core ongoing book remain low at 0.26%.
in the last quarter of the previous financial various risk disciplines with any exceptions Since 31 March 2015 gross defaults year was achieved by mid-year through a noted and approved by the board.
Our have improved from 400.1million to combination of asset growth and liability risk appetite framework as set out on 313.9 million.
The percentage of default management.
Our loan to deposit ratio is page 49 continues to be assessed in loans net of impairments but before at 72.2%.
Our weighted average cost of light of prevailing market conditions and taking collateral into account to core funding over the year continued to decrease groupstrategy.
loans and advances amounted to 2.19% and we comfortably meet Basel liquidity Our credit exposures are to a select target 2015: 3.00%.
The ratio of collateral requirements for the Liquidity Coverage market comprising high-income and to default loans net of impairments Ratio LCR and Net Stable Funding Ratio high net worth individuals, established remainssatisfactory at 1.19times NSFR.
We continue to spend much time and enterprises.
Our risk appetite continues Our investment portfolios delivered a effort focusing on operational, reputational, to favour lower risk, income-based sound performance.
Overall, we remain conduct, recovery and resolution risks.
lending, with exposures well collateralised comfortable with the performance of our During the year a customer and market and credit risk taken over a short to equity investment portfolios which comprise conduct committee was established, with medium term.
These target clients have 3.56% of total assets.
the objective of ensuring that Investec remained active during the financial year, maintains a client-focused and fair Proprietary market risk within our trading and have displayed a level of resilience, outcomes-based culture.
portfolio remains modest with value at risk seeking out opportunities, despite the and stress testing scenarios remaining Financial and cybercrime remain high volatility in the markets.
Potential losses that priorities, and Investec continually aims could arise in our trading book portfolio Our core loan book remains well diversified to strengthen its systems and controls in when stress tested under extreme market order to meet its regulatory obligations to with commercial rent producing property conditions i. e. per extreme value theory loans comprising approximately 14% of combat money laundering, bribery and amount to less than 0.2% of total operating corruption.
the book, other lending collateralised by income.
property 14%, high net worth and private Investecs stress testing framework is client lending 18% and corporate lending Investec plc has continued to maintain a well embedded in its operations and is 54% with most industry concentrations sound balance sheet with a low gearing designed to identify and regularly test the well below 5%.
Our focus over the past ratio of 10.0 times and a core loans to groups key vulnerabilities under stress.
few years to realign and rebalance our equity ratio of 4.1 times.
Our current A fundamental part of the stress testing portfolios in line with our risk appetite leverage ratio is at 6.7%.
process is a full and comprehensive framework is reflected in the relative We have always held capital in excess of analysis of all the groups material business changes in asset classes on our balance regulatory requirements and we intend to activities, incorporating views from Risk, sheet, showing an increase in private perpetuate this philosophy.
All our banking the business and the Executive a client and corporate and other lending, subsidiaries meet current internal targets process called the bottom-up analysis.
and a reduction in lending collateralised by for total capital adequacy.
We did not Resulting from the bottom-up analysis, property as a proportion of our book.
meet our internal target for our common the Investec-specific stress scenarios are equity tier 1 ratio to be in excess of 10% designed to specifically test the unique Net core loans and advances grew by 10.5% from 7.1 billion at 31 March 2015 for Investec plc, as a result of solid growth attributes of the groups portfolio.
The in credit risk-weighted assets during the key is to understand the potential threats to 7.8 billion at 31 March 2016, largely as a result of solid growth in our diversified year.
Capital continued to grow and we are to our sustainability and profitability and comfortable that credit growth is in line with thus a number of risk scenarios have corporate lending and high net worth and other private client lending activities.
our risk appetite framework and supported been developed and assessed.
These Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 46 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Investec-specific stress scenarios form We were very pleased to receive a number an integral part of our capital planning of credit rating upgrades during the period.
The stress testing process also We believe these rating upgrades are a informs the risk appetite review process reflection of the progress we have made and the management of risk appetite limits over the past few years in simplifying and is a key risk management tool of the and derisking our business, maintaining group.
This process allows the group sound capital and high liquidity ratios, to identify underlying risks and manage and managing credit risk metrics at themaccordingly.
During the year, Investec continued to CONCLUSION enhance its stress testing framework.
Given the volatility and uncertainty in the The current regulatory and economic market, a number of new stress scenarios environment continues to prove were incorporated into our processes, challenging to our business, however, included in these, for example, was we are comfortable that we have Brexit.
robust risk management processes and systems in place which provide The board, through its various risk and a strong foundation to the board and capital committees, continued to assess the business to manage and mitigate the impact of its principal risks and the risks within our risk appetite tolerance abovementioned stress scenarios on framework.
The board has concluded that the group has robust systems and Signed on behalf of the board processes in place to manage these risks, and that while under a severe stress scenario, business activity would be very subdued, the group would continue to Stephen Koseff maintain adequate liquidity and capital balances to support the continued Chairman of the Investec DLC group risk operation of the group.
Our viability and capitalcommittee statement is provided on pages 129 and130.
15 June 2016 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 47 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Salient features A summary of key risk indicators is provided in the table below.
Year to 31 March 2016 2015 Net core loans and advances million 7 804 7 061 Total assets million 18 757 18 272 Total risk-weighted assets million 12 297 11 608 Total equity million 1 881 2 074 Cash and near cash million 5 082 5 039 Customer accounts deposits million 10 809 10 306 Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances 3.95% 5.52% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances 2.19% 3.00% Net defaults after collateral and impairments as a % of net core loans and advances Credit loss ratio 1.13% 1.16% Structured credit investments as a % of total assets 1.89% 1.92% Banking book investment and equity risk exposures as a % of total assets 3.56% 3.44% Level 3 fair value assets as a % of total assets 3.63% 4.32% Traded market risk: one day value at risk million 0.5 0.7 Core loans to equity ratio 4.1x 3.4x Total gearing ratio 10.0x 8.8x Loans and advances to customers to customer deposits 72.2% 68.5% Capital adequacy ratio 14.7% 16.2% Tier 1 ratio 10.3% 11.4% Common equity tier 1 ratio 9.3% 9.7% Leverage ratio 6.7% 7.4% # Return on average assets 0.71% 0.44% # Return on average risk-weighted assets 1.10% 0.72% Income statement impairment charge on core loans as a percentage of average advances.
Total assets to total equity.
# Where return represents operating profit after taxation and non-controlling interests and after deducting preference dividends, but before goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating items.
Average balances are calculated on a straight-line average.
Takes into account the deduction of foreseeable dividends as discussed on page 113.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 48 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Overall group risk appetite The group has a number of board-approved risk appetite statements and policy documents covering our risk tolerance and approach to our principal aspects of risk.
In addition, a number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at a group level.
The group risk appetite statement and framework sets out the boards mandated risk appetite.
The group risk appetite framework acts as a guide to determine the acceptable risk profile of the group by the owners of the groups capital.
The group risk appetite statement ensures that limits targets are applied and monitored across all key operating jurisdictions and legal entities.
The group risk appetite statement is a high-level, strategic framework that supplements and does not replace the detailed risk policy documents at each entity and geographic level.
The group risk appetite framework is a function of business strategy, budget and capital processes, our stress testing reviews and the regulatory and economic environment in which the group is operating.
The group risk appetite framework is reviewed in light of the above aspects and approved at least annually or as business needs dictate.
A documented process exists where our risk profile is measured against our risk appetite and this positioning is presented to the group risk and capital committee and the board risk and capital committee.
The table below provides a high-level summary of Investec plc's overall risk tolerance framework.
INVESTEC PLC RISK APPETITE AND TOLERANCE METRICS INVESTEC PLC POSITIONING AT 31 MARCH 2016 We seek to maintain an appropriate balance between revenue earned Capital light activities contributed 64% to total operating from capital light and capital intensive activities.
Ideally the split in income and capital intensive activities contributed 36% revenue should be 50:50, dependent on prevailing market conditions We have a solid recurring income base supported by diversified Recurring income amounted to 71.2% of total operating revenue streams, and target a recurring income ratio in excess of 65% income We seek to maintain strict control over fixed costs and target a group The cost to income ratio amounted to 76.7%.
cost to income ratio of below 70% We aim to build a sustainable business generating sufficient return The Investec groups return on equity amounted to 11.5% to shareholders over the longer term.
The Investec group targets a and its return on risk-weighted assets amounted to1.34% long-term return on equity ratio range of between 12% and 16%, and a return on risk-weighted assets in excess of 1.2% We are a lowly leveraged firm and target a leverage ratio in all our We achieved this internal target, refer to page 116 for further banking subsidiaries in excess of 6% information We intend to maintain a sufficient level of capital to satisfy regulatory We meet our total capital targets: however we have not requirements and our internal target ratios.
We target a capital met our common equity targets due to strong growth in adequacy ratio range of between 14% and 17% on a consolidated credit risk-weighted assets: refer to page 116 for further basis, a minimum tier 1 ratio of 11.0% and a common equity tier 1 information ratio above 10.0% We target a diversified loan portfolio, lending to clients we know and We maintained this risk tolerance level in place throughout understand.
We limit our exposure to a single connected individual the year or company to 7.5% of common equity tier 1 capital up to 10% if approved by the relevant board committee.
We also have a number of risk tolerance limits and targets for specific asset classes There is a preference for primary exposure in Investec plcs main Refer to page 76 for further information operating geography i. e. the UK.
We will accept exposures where we have a branch or local banking subsidiary and tolerate exposures to other countries where we have developed a local understanding and capability or we are facilitating a transaction for a client who requires facilities in a foreign geography The level of defaults and impairments continues to improve and The credit loss charge on core loans amounted to 1.13% we target a credit loss charge on core loans of less than 0.5% of and defaults net of impairments amounted to2.19% of total average core advances less than 1.75% under a weak economic core loans.
Refer to page 67 for further information environment stressed scenario, and we target defaults net of impairments less than 2% of total core loans less than 4% under aweak economic environment stressed scenario We carry a high level of liquidity in all our banking subsidiaries in Total cash and near cash balances amounted to 5.1billion order to be able to cope with shocks to the system, targeting a representing 47.0% of customer deposits.
Refer to page 91 minimum cash tocustomer deposit ratio of 25% for further information We have modest market risk as our trading activities primarily focus We meet these internal limits, refer to page 85 for further on supporting client activity and our appetite for proprietary trading is information limited.
We set an overall tolerance level of a 1 day 95% VaR of less than 5million We have moderate appetite for investment risk, and set a risk Our unlisted investment portfolio is 363 million, representing tolerance of less than 30.0% of total tier 1 capital for our unlisted 27.6% of total tier 1 capital.
Refer to page 80 for further principal investmentportfolio information Our operational risk management team focuses on improving Refer to pages 99 to 102 for further information business performance and compliance with regulatory requirements, through review, challenge and escalation We have a number of policies and practices in place to mitigate Refer to pages 102 and 104 for further information reputational, legal and conduct risks Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 49 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at group level, as shown in the diagram below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
Investec plc PLC and Investec Limited INL board of directors DLC nominations DLC remuneration DLC audit DLC board risk and DLC social and Group investment and directors affairs committee committees capital committee ethics committee committee committee PLC PLC INL Executive Group risk and Customer and DLC capital Group legal risk review capital market conduct committee risk forums Audit Prudential, audit and Audit forum committee committee sub-committees conduct committee sub-committees Deal forum Stress Global new product testing forums committees forum workshop Audit and compliance implementation forums Internal Global credit committee Audit Global market risk forum Group asset and liability committees Group operational risk committees Global IT steering committee Compliance Global compliance forum Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: ALCO Asset and liability committee ERRF Executive risk review forum BCBS Basel Committee of Banking Supervision FCA Financial Conduct Authority BIS Bank for International Settlements FSB Financial Services Board BoE Bank of England GRCC Group risk and capital committee BRCC Board risk and capital committee PACC Prudential audit and conduct committee ECB European Central Bank PRA Prudential Regulation Authority EBA European Banking Authority Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 50 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued from credit and counterparty risk due An overview of to market guaranteed settlement Independent credit mechanisms principal risks In our daily business activities, Investec committees manage, Replacement risk is the financial cost enters into a number of risks that could of having to enter into a replacement measure and have the potential to affect our business contract with an alternative market operations, financial performance and counterparty, following default by the mitigate credit and prospects.
counterparty risk These principal risks have been Country risk refers to the risk of lending to a highlighted on pages 20 to 27. counterparty operating in a particular country or the risk inherent in sovereign The sections that follow provide information exposure, i. e. the risk of exposure to loss mandate.
The global credit committee, on a number of these risk areas and how caused by events in other countries.
global investment committee or ERRF is the group manages these risks.
Country risk covers all forms of lending responsible for approving country limits that orinvestment activity whether to with are not within the mandate of local group Additional risks and uncertainties that are individuals, corporates, banks or creditcommittees.
currently considered immaterial and not governments.
This can include geopolitical included in this report may in the future The relevant credit committees within risks, transfer and convertibility risks, and impact our business operations and Investec will also consider wrong-way the impact on the borrowers credit profile financial performance.
risk at the time of granting credit limits to due to local economic and political each counterparty.
In the banking book conditions.
environment, wrong-way risk occurs Credit and counterparty To mitigate country risk, there is a where the value of collateral to secure preference for primary exposure in the a transaction, or guarantor, is positively risk management groups main operating geographies.
The correlated with the probability of default group will accept exposures where we of the borrower or counterparty.
For CREDIT AND have a branch or local banking subsidiary, counterparty credit risk resulting from COUNTERPARTY and tolerate exposures to other countries transactions in traded products such as RISK DESCRIPTION where we are facilitating a transaction for OTC derivatives, wrong-way risk is defined a client who requires facilities in a foreign as exposure to a counterparty that is Credit and counterparty risk is defined as geography and where we have developed adversely correlated with the credit quality the risk arising from an obligors typically alocal understanding and capability.
It arises when default a client or counterparty failure to meet risk and credit exposure increase together.
the terms of any agreement.
Credit and Investec's credit risk appetite with regard counterparty risk arises when funds to country risk is characterised by the Credit and counterparty risk may also arise are extended, committed, invested, or following principles: in other ways and it is the role of the global otherwise exposed through contractual risk management functions and the various agreements, whether reflected onor offPreference is to have exposure only independent credit committees to identify balance sheet.
to politically stable jurisdictions that risks falling outside these definitions.
we understand and have preferably Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily operated in before from three types of transactions: CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY There is no specific appetite for RISK GOVERNANCE Lending transactions through loans and exposures outside of the groups STRUCTURE advances to clients and counterparties pre-existing core geographies or creates the risk that an obligor will be productmarkets To manage, measure, monitor and mitigate unable or unwilling to repay capital credit and counterparty risk, independent The legal environment should be tested, and or interest on loans and advances credit committees exist in each geography have legal precedent in line with OECD granted to them.
This category includes where we assume credit risk.
These standards and have good corporate bank placements, where we have placed committees operate under board-approved governance funds with other financial institutions delegated limits, policies and procedures.
In certain cases, country risk can be There is a high level of executive involvement Issuer risk on financial instruments mitigated by taking out political risk and non-executive review and oversight in where payments due from the issuer insurance with suitable counterparties, the credit decision-making forums.
It is our of a financial instrument will not be where deemed necessary and where policy that all centralised credit committees received considered economic.
are comprised of voting members who are Trading transactions, giving rise to While we do not have a separate country independent of the originating business unit.
settlement and replacement risk risk committee, the local and global All decisions to enter into a transaction are collectively counterparty risk : credit committees as well as investment based on unanimous consent.
Settlement risk is the risk that committees and ERRF will consider, the settlement of a transaction analyse and assess the appropriate does not take place as expected.
limits to be recorded when required, to Ourdefinition of a settlement debtor assume exposure to foreign jurisdictions.
is a short-term receivable i. e. less The local group credit committee has the than two days which is excluded authority to approve country limits within Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 51 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Corporates must have scale and In addition to the group credit committee, the following processes assist in managing, relevance in their market, an experienced Our assessment of measuring and monitoring credit and management team, able board members, counterparty risk: strong earnings and cash flow.
our clients includes Day-to-day arrears management and We are client-centric in our approach consideration of regular arrears forecast reporting and originate loans with the intent of ensure that individual positions and their character holding these assets to maturity, thereby any potential trends are dealt with in a developing a hands-on and long-standing timely manner and integrity, core relationship.
Where we originate loans that Watchlist committees, which review are considered too large for our balance competencies, track the management of distressed loans, sheet, these may be sold down to mitigate potential problem loans and exposures our concentration risk.
record and financial in arrears that require additional attention and supervision Interbank lending is largely reserved for strength those banks and institutions in the groups Corporate watchlist forum, which reviews core geographies of activity which are and manages exposures that may systemic and highly rated.
Direct exposures potentially become distressed as a result to cyclical industries and start-up ventures of changes in the economic environment are generally avoided.
or adverse share price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange CONCENTRATION RISK rate or interest rate movements Arrears, default and recoveries Concentration risk is when large exposures forum which specifically reviews exist to a single client or counterparty, and manages distressed loans and group of connected counterparties, or potentially distressed loans for private to a particular geography, asset class clients.
This forum also reviews and or industry.
An example of this would monitors counterparties who have be where a number of counterparties been granted forbearance measures.
are affected by similar economic, legal, regulatory or other factors that could mean CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY their ability to meet contractual obligations RISK APPETITE are correlated.
There is a preference for primary exposure Concentration risk can also exist where in the groups main operating geographies portfolio loan maturities are clustered to i. e. the UK.
The group will accept single periods in time.
Loan maturities are exposures where we have a branch or monitored on a portfolio and a transaction local banking subsidiary as explained level by Group Risk Management, Group above.
Lending Operations as well as the originating business units.
Our assessment of our clients and counterparties includes consideration Credit and counterparty risk is always of their character and integrity, core assessed with reference to the aggregate competencies, track record and financial exposure to a single counterparty or strength.
Astrong emphasis is placed on group of related parties to manage the historic and ongoing stability of income concentrationrisk.
and cash flow streams generated by the clients.
Ourprimary assessment method RISK APPETITE is therefore the ability of the client to meet their paymentobligations.
The board has set a group risk appetite limit framework which regulates the We have little appetite for maximum exposures we would be unsecured debt and require good comfortable to tolerate in order to diversify quality collateral in support of and mitigate risk.
This limit framework obligations refer to page 77 for is monitored on an ongoing basis and further information.
reported to the GRCC and BRCC on Target clients include high net worth and a regular basis.
Should there be any or high-income individuals, professionally breaches to limits, or where exposures qualified individuals, established are nearing limits, these exceptions are corporates, small and medium enterprises, specifically highlighted for attention, and financial institutions and sovereigns.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 52 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Regular reporting of credit and If two assessments are available, the SUSTAINABILITY counterparty risk exposures within our more conservative will apply CONSIDERATIONS operating units is made to management, Where there are three or more credit Investec has a holistic approach to the executives and the board at the GRCC ratings with different risk weightings, and BRCC.
The board regularly reviews sustainability, which runs beyond the credit ratings corresponding to the and approves the appetite for credit and recognising our own footprint on the two lowest ratings should be referred counterparty risk, which is documented environment and includes our many to and the higher of those two ratings in risk appetite statements and policy corporate social investment activities and should be applied.
This is implemented and our funding and investing activities.
This The group applies the standardised reviewed by GroupCredit.
is not merely for business reasons, but approach for calculating capital based on a broader responsibility to our Despite strict adherence to the above requirements in the assessment of its environment and society.
Accordingly, principles, increased default risk may arise credit and counterparty exposures.
The sustainability risk considerations are from unforeseen circumstances particularly groups banking subsidiaries conduct considered by the credit committee and in times of extreme market volatility and their mapping of credit and counterparty investment committee when making weak economic conditions.
exposures in accordance with the mapping lending or investment decisions.
There procedures specified by the Central Bank A large proportion of the banks portfolio is is also oversight by the social and ethics Registrar, in the respective geographies in not rated by external rating agencies.
We committee board committee on social which the group operates.
place reliance upon internal consideration and environmental issues.
In particular the of counterparties and borrowers, and use following factors are taken into account ratings prepared externally where available STRESS TESTING AND when a transaction might be approved as support in our decision-making process.
or declined based on the outcome of the PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Within the credit approval process, internal sustainability considerations: and external ratings are included in the Investec has embedded its stress testing Environmental considerations framework which is a repeatable stress assessment of the client quality.
including animal welfare and climatetesting process, designed to identify and Internal credit rating models continue related impacts regularly test the banks key vulnerabilities to be developed to cover all material under stress.
Social considerations including asset classes.
Theinternal ratings are humanrights A fundamental part of the stress testing incorporated in the risk management and Economic considerations.
process is a full and comprehensive decision-making process and are used in analysis of all the banks material business credit assessment, monitoring and approval Refer to our sustainability report activities, incorporating views from Risk, as well as pricing.
the business and the Executive a process Exposures are classified to reflect the called the bottom-up analysis.
Out of MANAGEMENT AND banks risk appetite and strategy.
In our the bottom-up analysis the InvestecPillar III disclosure, exposures are classified specific stress scenarios are designed to MEASUREMENT OF CREDIT according to the Basel asset classes specifically test the unique attributes of the AND COUNTERPARTY RISK which include sovereign, bank, corporate, banks portfolio.
Fundamental principles employed in the retail, equity, securitisation and specialised These Investec-specific stress scenarios management of credit and counterparty lending which is further categorised into form an integral part of our capital planning risk are: project finance: commodities finance: process.
The stress testing process also high volatility commercial real estate: and A clear definition of our target market informs the risk appetite review process, income-producing commercial real estate.
and the management of risk appetite A quantitative and qualitative Fitch, S&P and Moodys have been limits and is a key risk management tool assessment of the creditworthiness of of the bank.
This process allows the bank nominated as eligible external credit our counterparties to identify underlying risks and manage assessment institutions ECAIs for the Analysis of risks, including themaccordingly.
purposes of determining external credit concentration risk concentration ratings.
Due to the group reducing its risk considerations include asset Notwithstanding the form of the stress securitisation activity as a result of the class, industry, counterparty and testing process, the framework should not disposal of the Kensington business in geographical concentration impede the group from being able to be January 2015, the group will no longer flexible and perform ad hoc stress tests, Decisions are made with reference to rely on DBRS credit assessments in which by their nature need to be completed risk appetite limits respect of sovereign and securitisation on request and in response to emerging exposures.
Thefollowing elections have Prudential limits risk issues.
been made: Regular monitoring and review of Quarterly portfolio reviews are also In relation to sovereigns and existing and potential exposures undertaken on all material businesses, securitisations, Fitch, Moodys and once facilities have been approved where the portfolios are analysed to S&P have been selected by Investec as assess any migration in portfolio quality, A high level of executive involvement eligible ECAIs highlight any vulnerabilities, identify portfolio in decision-making with non-executive In relation to banks, corporates and concentrations and make appropriate review and oversight.
debt securities, Fitch, Moodys and recommendations, such as a reduction in S&P are recognised as eligible ECAIs risk appetite limits or specific exposures.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 53 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued private client mortgages, transactional Corporate Debt Securities: these are CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY banking, high net worth lending, tradable corporate debt instruments, RISK NATURE OF LENDING offshore banking and foreign exchange.
purchased based on acceptable credit ACTIVITIES fundamentals typically with a mediumResidential Mortgages provides term hold strategy where the underlying Credit and counterparty risk is assumed mortgage loan facilities for highrisk is to UK and European corporates.
through a range of client-driven lending income professionals and high net This is a highly diversified, granular activities to private and corporate clients worth individuals tailored to their portfolio that is robust and spread across and other counterparties, such as financial individual needs.
a variety of geographies and industries.
These activities are diversified across a number Specialised Lending provides tailored Acquisition Finance: provides debt ofbusinessactivities.
credit facilities to high net worth funding to proven management individuals and their controlled entities.
teams, running small to mid-cap sized Lending collateralised by property companies.
Credit risk is assessed An analysis of the private client Client quality and expertise are at the core against debt service coverage from the loan portfolio and asset quality of our credit philosophy.
Our exposure to robustness of the cash generation of the information is provided on the property market is well diversified with business.
This will be based on historic pages74 and 75. strong bias towards prime locations for and forecast information.
Wetypically residential exposure and focus on tenant lend on a bilateral basis and benefit from Corporate client activities quality for commercial assets.
Debt service a close relationship with management.
We focus on traditional client-driven cover ratios are a key consideration in the corporate lending activities, in addition to Asset-based Lending: provides lending process supported by reasonable customer flow-related treasury and trading working capital and corporate loans loan to security value ratios.
These loans are secured on the assets of the business, We provide senior debt and other funding Within the corporate lending businesses, e. g. the accounts receivable, inventory, for property transactions, with a strong credit risk can arise from corporate loans, plant and machinery.
Incommon preference for income producing assets acquisition finance, asset finance, power with our corporate lending activities, supported by an experienced sponsor and infrastructure finance, asset-based strong emphasis is placed on backing providing a material level of cash equity lending, fund finance and resource finance.
companies with scale and relevance to investment into the asset.
We also undertake debt origination activities their industry, stability of cash flow, and for corporate clients.
An analysis of the lending collateralised by property The credit risk management functions Fund Finance: provides debt facilities approve specific credit and counterparty portfolio and asset quality to asset managers and fund vehicles, limits that govern the maximum credit information is provided on principally in private equity and credit exposure to each individual counterparty.
The geographical focus is In addition, further risk management limits the UK, Western Europe, North America Private client activities exist through industry and country limits and Australia where Investec can support to manage concentration risk.
The credit Our private banking activities target high experienced asset managers and their appetite for each counterparty is based net worth individuals, active wealthy funds which show strong, long-term on the financial strength of the principal entrepreneurs, high-income professionals, value creation and good custodianship of borrower, the underlying cash flow to newly qualified professionals with highinvestors money.
Debt facilities to fund the transaction, the substance and track income earning potential, self-employed vehicles are secured against undrawn record of management, and the security entrepreneurs, owner managers in limited partner commitments and or the package.
Political risk insurance, and other smalltomid-cap corporates and funds underlying assets.
Fund manager insurance is taken where they are deemed sophisticated investors.
loans are structured against committed appropriate.
fund management cash flows and the Lending products are tailored to meet managers investment stake in their Investec has limited appetite for unsecured the requirements of our clients.
credit risk and facilities are typically secured to our credit philosophy is ensuring on the assets of the underlying borrower.
the sustainability of cash flow and Small Ticket Asset Finance: provides income throughout the cycle.
As such, highly diversified lending to small A summary of the nature of the lending the client base has been grouped and and medium-sized corporates to and or credit risk assumed within some of defined to include high net worth clients support asset purchases and other the key areas within our corporate lending who, through diversification of income business is provided below: business requirements.
These facilities streams, will reduce income volatility are secured against the asset being and individuals with a profession which Corporate Loans: provides senior financed and are a direct obligation has historically supported a high and secured loans to mid-to-large cap ofthe company.
sustainable income stream irrespective of companies.
Credit risk is assessed the stage in the economic cycle.
against debt service coverage from Large Ticket Asset Finance: provides the robustness of the cash generation the finance and structuring expertise Credit risk arises from the following activities: for the business based on historic and for aircraft and larger lease assets, the forecast information.
We typically act as majority of which are senior secured Personal Banking delivers products transaction lead or arranger, and have a loans with a combination of corporate, to enable target clients to create and close relationship with management and cash flow and asset-backed collateral manage their wealth.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 54 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Power and Infrastructure Finance: Customer trading activities to facilitate arranges and provides typically longclient lending: our customer trading Credit and term financing for infrastructure assets, portfolio consists of derivative contracts in interest rates, foreign exchange, in particular renewable power projects counterparty risk is commodities, credit derivatives and and transport, against contracted equities that are entered to facilitate future cash flows of the project s assumed through a a clients hedging requirements.
The from recognised utilities and power counterparties to such transactions are companies as well as the balance range of client-driven typically corporates, in particular where sheet of the corporate.
There is a lending activities to they have a sizeable exposure to foreign strong equity contribution from an exchange due to operating in sectors experiencedsponsor.
private and corporate that include imports and exports of Resource Finance: debt arranging and goods and services.
These positions are clients and other underwriting together with structured marked to market, typically with daily hedging solutions mainly within margin calls to mitigate credit exposure in counterparties, such as the mining sectors.
The underlying the event of counterparty default.
commodities are mainly precious and financial institutions An analysis of the corporate client base metals.
Our clients in this sector loan portfolio and asset quality and sovereigns.
are established mining companies information is provided on which are typically domiciled and These activities are pages74 and 75. publicly listed in one of the following geographies the UK, North America diversified across a Wealth & Investment and Australia.
All facilities are secured Investec Wealth & Investment provides by the borrowers assets and repaid number of business investment management services to private from mining cash flows.
activities clients, charities, intermediaries, pension Structured Credit: these are bonds schemes and trusts.
Wealth & Investment is secured against a pool of assets, typically primarily an agency business with a limited UK residential mortgages or European amount of principal risk.
Its core business or US corporate leverage loans.
The is discretionary and non-discretionary bonds are mainly investment grade investment management services.
rated, which benefit from a high level of credit subordination and can withstand a Settlement risk can arise due to significant level of portfolio defaults.
undertaking transactions in an agency capacity on behalf of clients.
However, the Treasury Placements: the treasury risk is not considered to be material as function, as part of the daily most transactions are undertaken with large management of the banks liquidity, institutional clients, are monitored daily, and places funds with central banks and trades are usually settled within two days.
other commercial banks and financial institutions.
These transactions are Asset Management typically short-term less than one Through the course of its normal business, month money market placements Investec Asset Management is constantly or secured repurchase agreements.
These market counterparties are A list of approved counterparties is high investment grade rated entities maintained and procedures are in place that occupy dominant and systemic to ensure appointed counterparties meet positions in their domestic banking certain standards in order to safeguard markets.
These counterparties are client assets being transacted with or located in the UK, Western Europe deposited with them.
Transactions are only andNorth America.
undertaken with approved counterparties Corporate advisory and investment and this is enforced through logical system banking activities: counterparty risk controls where possible.
In addition to due in this area is modest.
The business diligence, other forms of risk management also trades approved shares on an are employed to reduce the impact of approved basis and makes markets a counterparty failure.
These measures in shares where we are appointed include market conventions such as corporate broker under pre-agreed Delivery versus Payment DVP, and where market risklimits.
Settlement trades appropriate: use of collateral or contractual arelargely on a delivery versus payment protection e. g. under ISDA.
Net exposure basis, through major stock exchanges.
to counterparties is monitored by Investec Credit risk only occurs in the event Asset Managements Investment Risk of counterparty failure and would be Committee, and day-to-day monitoring is linked to any fair value losses on the undertaken by a dedicated and independent underlying security.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 55 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued ASSET QUALITY ANALYSIS CREDIT RISK CLASSIFICATION AND PROVISIONING POLICY It is a policy requirement overseen by Central Credit Management that each operating division makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the watchlist committee process.
In the annual financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Regulatory and IFRS impairment treatment Arrears, default Description economic capital and recoveries classification classification category Performing assets For assets which form part of a Past due An account is considered to be past due homogeneous portfolio, a portfolio when it is greater than zero and less than or impairment is required which equal to 60 days past due the contractual recognises asset impairments that credit agreed payment due date.
Management have not been individually identified.
however is not concerned and there is confidence in the counterpartys ability to The portfolio impairment takes into repay the past due obligations.
account past events and does not Special mention The counterparty is placed in special mention cover impairments to exposures when that counterparty is considered to be arising out of uncertain future events.
experiencing difficulties that may threaten By definition, this impairment is only the counterpartys ability to fulfil its credit calculated for credit exposures which obligation to the group i. e. watchlist are managed on a portfolio basis and committee is concerned for the following only for assets where a loss trigger reasons: event has occurred.
Covenant breaches There is a slowdown in the counterpartys business activity An adverse trend in operations that signals apotential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty Restructured credit exposures until appropriate watchlist committee decides otherwise.
Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur ifadverse conditions persist.
Reporting categories: Credit exposures overdue 1 60 days Credit exposures overdue 61 90 days.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 56 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued ASSET QUALITY ANALYSIS CREDIT RISK CLASSIFICATION AND PROVISIONING POLICY continued Regulatory and IFRS impairment treatment Arrears, default Description economic capital and recoveries classification classification category Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated on Sub-standard The counterparty is placed in sub-standard non-performing a case-by-case basis where objective when the credit exposure reflects an assets evidence of impairment has arisen.
In underlying, well defined weakness that may determining specific impairments, the lead to probable loss if not corrected: following factors are considered: the risk that such credit exposure may Capability of the client to generate become an impaired asset is probable sufficient cash flow to service the bank is relying, to a large extent, on debt obligations and the ongoing available collateral, or viabilityof the clients business the primary sources of repayment are Likely dividend or amount insufficient to service the remaining recoverable on liquidation or contractual principal and interest amounts, bankruptcy or business rescue and the bank has to rely on secondary Nature and extent of claims by sources for repayment.
These secondary other creditors sources may include collateral, the sale of a fixed asset, refinancing and further capital.
Amount and timing of expected cash flows Credit exposures overdue for more than Realisable value of security held or 90days will at a minimum be included in other credit mitigants sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Ability of the client to make Doubtful The counterparty is placed in doubtful payments in the foreign currency, when the credit exposure is considered to for foreign currency denominated be impaired, but not yet considered a final accounts.
loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new financing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
Loss A counterparty is placed in the loss category when: the credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted, or assets in this category are expected to be written off in the short term since the likelihood of future economic benefits resulting from such assets are remote.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 57 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The second primary collateral in private CREDIT RISK MITIGATION client lending transactions is over a high net Investec has limited worth individuals investment portfolio.
This Credit risk mitigation techniques can be is typically in the form of a diversified pool defined as all methods by which Investec appetite for unsecured of equity, fixed income, managed funds and seeks to decrease the credit risk associated cash.
Often these portfolios are managed debt, preferring to with an exposure.
Investec considers credit by Investec Wealth & Investment.
Lending risk mitigation techniques as part of the mitigate risk through against investment portfolios is typically credit assessment of a potential client or geared at conservative loan-to-value ratios business proposal and not as a separate good quality tangible after considering the quality, diversification, consideration of mitigation of risk.
Credit risk profile and liquidity of theportfolio.
risk mitigants can include any collateral collateral item over which the bank has a pledge of Our corporate, government and institutional security, netting and margining agreements, clients provide a range of collateral covenants, or terms and conditions including cash, corporate assets, debtors imposed on a borrower with the aim of accounts receivable, trading stock, debt reducing the credit risk inherent to that securities bonds, listed and unlisted shares transaction.
As Investec has a limited appetite for The majority of credit mitigation techniques unsecured debt, the credit risk mitigation linked to trading activity is in the form of technique most commonly used is the netting agreements and daily margining.
taking of collateral, with a strong preference The primary market standard legal for tangible assets.
Collateral is assessed documents that govern this include the with reference to the sustainability of value International Swaps and Derivatives and the likelihood of realisation.
Acceptable Association Master Agreements ISDA, collateral generally exhibits characteristics Global Master Securities Lending that allow for it to be easily identified and Agreement GMSLA and Global Master appropriately valued.
In addition to having ISDA documentation in place with An analysis of collateral is all market and trading counterparties in provided on page 77. over-the-counter OTC derivatives, a Credit Support Annex CSA ensures that all markWhere a transaction is supported by a to-market credit exposure is mitigated daily mortgage or charge over property, the through the calculation and placement primary credit risk is still taken on the borrower.
For property backed lending receiving of cash collateral.
Where netting such as residential mortgages, the following agreements have been signed, the characteristics of the property are considered: enforceability is supported by external the type of property: its location: and the legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of ease with which the property could be re-let theagreement.
Where the property is secured Set-off has been applied between assets by lease agreements, the credit committee subject to credit risk and related liabilities in prefers not to lend for a term beyond the the annual financial statements where: maximum of the lease.
Commercial real estate generally takes the form of good A legally enforceable right to set-off quality property often underpinned by strong exists third party leases.
Residential property is There is the intention to settle the also generally of a high quality and based asset and liability on a net basis, or to in desirable locations.
Residential and realise the asset and settle the liability commercial property valuations will continue simultaneously.
to form part of our ongoing focus on collateral In addition to the above accounting set-off assessment.
It is our policy to obtain a formal criteria, banking regulators impose the valuation of every commercial property following additional criteria: offered as collateral for a lending facility before advancing funds.
Residential properties are Debit and credit balances relate to the valued by desktop valuation and or approved same obligor counterparty valuers, where appropriate.
Debit and credit balances are Other common forms of collateral in the denominated in the same currency and retail asset class are motor vehicles, have identical maturities cash and share portfolios.
In addition, the Exposures subject to set-off are relevant credit committee normally requires risk-managed on a net basis a suretyship or guarantee in support of a transaction in our private client business.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 58 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued For this reason there will be instances and the collateral provided.
Unfunded credit Net core loans and advances have where credit and counterparty exposures protection includes eligible guarantees and increased by 10.5% to 7.8 billion are displayed on a net basis in these annual credit derivatives.
Where we rely on funded at31March 2016 from 7.1 billion at financial statements but reported on a protection in the form of financial collateral, 31March 2015. gross basis to regulators.
the value of collateral is adjusted using the Gross defaults decreased by 21.5% financial collateral comprehensive method.
or 86.2million from 400.1 million at Investec places minimal reliance on credit This method applies supervisory volatility derivatives in its credit risk mitigation 31March2015 to 313.9 million at adjustments to the value of the collateral, 31March2016.
Thecredit loss ratio is techniques.
Periodically the bank will enter and includes the currency and maturity at1.13% 2015: 1.16%.
Default loans net into Credit Default Swaps CDS in order haircuts discussed above.
to hedge a specific asset held or to create of impairments have decreased by 19.3% or 40.9 million on an absolute basis and a more general or macro hedge against Please refer to the credit quality decreased to 2.19% from 3.00% as a a group of exposures in one industry or step table disclosed on page 119 percentage of core loans and advances.
In these instances, the bank is for a breakdown of regulatory The credit loss ratio on an ongoing basis deemed to be buying protection against exposure values before and is 0.26% at 31 March 2016.
Depending on the perceived aftercredit risk mitigation has reported further impairments on the legacy risk, or spread, of the underlying exposure, been applied.
portfolio as we took advantage of market the CDS will fluctuate in value: increasing conditions and accelerated the exit from in value when the asset has become more FORBEARANCE certain Irish legacy assets.
risky and decreasing when risk has reduced.
Forbearance measures refer to concessions Occasionally, the bank will enter into trading The sections that follow provide high-level such as modification of the terms and investment CDS positions where we buy commentary for each of our key business conditions or refinancing that has been protection or sell protection without owning areas.
We are highly focused on further granted to a debtor in financial difficulties.
The total amount of net reducing legacy assets and continuing to credit derivatives outstanding at 31 March These modifications are on terms that originate good qualityassets.
would be more advantageous compared 2016 amounts to 5.3 million, of which Lending collateralised by property 3.3 million is used for credit mitigation with what other debtors with a similar risk profile could have obtained from the The overall exposure to property purposes and the balance for trading and collateralised assets, as a proportion of our investment.
Total protection bought amounts bank.
The credit committee will assess total loan exposures continues to reduce in to 3.5million 3.5 million relating to credit each application to determine whether line with our risk appetite statement.
A large derivatives used in credit mitigation and the proposed modifications will be proportion of property collateralised assets total protection sold amounts to 1.8million considered as forbearance.
Forbearance are located in the UK.
Notwithstanding 0.2 million relating to credit derivatives is distinguished from commercial the improved UK market and particularly used in credit mitigation.
renegotiations which take place as part in London, our underwriting criteria has of normal business activity and standard Further information on credit remained tight and we remain committed to banking practice.
The amount of loans derivatives is provided on following a client-centric approach, backing forborne represents a negligible percentage page 87. counterparties with strong balance sheets of the overall loan portfolio in our UK book.
Investec endeavours to implement robust processes to minimise the possibility CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY We continue to actively manage the legacy of legal and or operational risk through portfolio down, working assets to achieve RISK YEAR IN REVIEW good quality tangible collateral.
The legal optimal recovery but taking opportunistic We continue to realign and rebalance risk function in Investec ensures the offers on properties where appropriate.
our portfolio in line with our stated risk enforceability of credit risk mitigants within Private client activities appetite, which is reflected in the growth in the laws applicable to the jurisdictions in The existing high net worth mortgage book corporate client exposures as a percentage which Investec operates.
When assessing has continued to grow significantly and is of the portfolio and the decline in lending the potential concentration risk in its credit expected to continue in the short term as portfolio, consideration is given to the types collateralised by property exposures as the bank moves to increase its private client a percentage of the portfolio.
Continued of collateral and credit protection that form offering, providing a more holistic private bank progress has been made during the year in part of the portfolio.
experience from transactional banking to our strategic portfolio rebalancing through For regulatory reporting purposes, wealth management.
active portfolio management and the exposures may be reduced by eligible consistent application of our risk appetite Corporate client activities collateral.
Our corporate lending businesses have approach credit risk mitigation can seen strong growth during the financial be achieved through either funded Lending collateralised by property has year under review.
Growth in our corporate or unfunded credit protection.
Where further reduced by 6.0% from 2.3billion lending activities has been diversified at 31March2015 to 2.2 billion at unfunded credit protection is relied upon across all our business lines, while ensuring for mitigation purposes, the exposure 31March2016: while corporate client and that we maintain strong asset quality and other lending has increased 15.6% from to the borrower is substituted with an adherence to our core credit philosophies.
exposure to the protection provider, after 3.7billion at 31March 2015 to 4.3 billion at 31March2016.
High net worth and applying a haircut to the value of the Performance of the corporate portfolio, collateral due to currency and or maturity other private client lending increased by including Small Ticket Asset finance, mismatches between the original exposure 21.2% year on year.
Large Ticket Asset finance, Power and Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 59 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Infrastructure finance and Fund finance, hasremained sound during the financial year 2016, with the markets seeing lending activity levels increase, bolstered by strong private equity sponsor appetite for assets.
Underlying asset cover quality is good, and portfolios remain well diversified by borrower, sector and geography, albeit with a natural skew towards the UK.
Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 48 to 60 describe where and how credit risk is assumed in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of the credit and counterparty exposures.
AN ANALYSIS OF GROSS CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY EXPOSURES Credit and counterparty exposures increased by 6.8% to 17.1 billion largely due to growth in loans and advances to customers.
Cash and near cash balances amount to 5.1billion and are largely reflected in the following line items in the table below: cash and balances at central banks, loans and advances to banks and sovereign debt securities.
Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 60 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures The table below indicates in which class of asset on the face of the consolidated balance sheet our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures are reflected.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
Assets that Total credit we deem and to have no Note Total counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet At 31 March 2016 Cash and balances at central banks 2 636 837 1 232 2 638 069 Loans and advances to banks 1 112 441 1 112 441 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 557 025 557 025 Sovereign debt securities 1 252 991 1 252 991 Bank debt securities 188 397 188 397 Other debt securities 393 652 393 652 Derivative financial instruments 572 324 265 234 837 558 Securities arising from trading activities 393 964 130 380 524 344 Investment portfolio 451 000 1 451 000 Loans and advances to customers 7 946 793 143 191 2 7 803 602 Other loans and advances 331 617 85 588 417 205 Other securitised assets 11 341 139 224 3 150 565 Interest in associated undertakings 23 587 23 587 Deferred taxation assets 85 050 85 050 Other assets 397 409 1 307 794 4 1 705 203 Property and equipment 56 374 56 374 Investment properties 79 051 79 051 Goodwill 356 994 356 994 Intangible assets 123 480 123 480 Total on-balance sheet exposures 15 794 791 2 961 797 18 756 588 1.
Relates to exposures that are classified as equity risk in the banking book.
Further information is provided on pages 78 to 80.
While the group manages all risks including credit risk from a day-to-day operational perspective, certain of these assets are within special purpose vehicles that ring-fence the assets to specific credit providers and limit security to the assets in the vehicle.
The table above reflects the net credit exposure in the vehicles that the group has reflected in the total credit and counterparty exposure with the maximum credit exposure referenced to credit providers external to the group in the column headed assets that we deem to have no legal credit exposure.
Other assets include settlement debtors which we deem to have no credit risk exposure as they are settled on a delivery against payment basis.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 61 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures continued Assets that Total credit we deem and to have no Note Total counterparty legal credit referbalance 000 exposure exposure ence sheet At 31 March 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 2 179 822 1 420 2 181 242 Loans and advances to banks 1 053 932 1 053 932 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 1 448 205 1 448 205 Sovereign debt securities 1 212 910 1 212 910 Bank debt securities 226 273 226 273 Other debt securities 221 480 1 005 222 485 Derivative financial instruments 516 034 258 987 775 021 Securities arising from trading activities 513 673 156 625 670 298 Investment portfolio 400 941 1 400 941 Loans and advances to customers 7 249 561 188 444 2 7 061 117 Other loans and advances 393 353 161 559 554 912 Other securitised assets 51 223 360 760 3 411 983 Interest in associated undertakings 21 931 21 931 Deferred taxation assets 73 618 73 618 Other assets 55 383 1 280 197 4 1 335 580 Property and equipment 63 069 63 069 Investment properties 65 736 65 736 Goodwill 356 090 356 090 Intangible assets 136 655 136 655 Total on-balance sheet exposures 15 121 849 3 150 149 18 271 998 1.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 62 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Gross credit and counterparty exposures by residual contractual maturity at 31 March 2016 Six Up Three months One to three to six to one to five Five to 10 000 months months year years 10 years years Total Cash and balances at central banks 2 636 837 2 636 837 Loans and advances to banks 1 108 512 833 3 082 14 1 112 441 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 557 025 557 025 Sovereign debt securities 532 714 91 089 5 613 623 575 1 252 991 Bank debt securities 64 12 068 132 176 133 188 397 Other debt securities 8 834 144 3 633 109 795 53 620 217 626 393 652 Derivative financial instruments 72 836 65 641 45 954 181 050 129 852 76 991 572 324 Securities arising from trading activities 171 151 731 36 37 772 123 291 60 983 393 964 Loans and advances to customers gross 1 479 349 694 369 1 052 063 3 470 126 823 446 427 440 7 946 793 Other loans and advances gross 11 857 453 162 49 313 43 889 225 943 331 617 Other securitised assets gross 11 341 11 341 Other assets 397 409 397 409 Total on-balance sheet exposures 6 976 588 865 328 1 110 675 4 024 203 1 174 098 1 643 899 15 794 791 Guarantees 36 494 2 289 30 155 68 938 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 226 446 83 270 262 915 595 211 40 733 911 1 209 486 Total off-balance sheet exposures 262 940 83 270 265 204 625 366 40 733 911 1 278 424 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre-collateral or other credit enhancements 7 239 528 948 598 1 375 879 4 649 569 1 214 831 1 644 810 17 073 215 Excludes guarantees provided to clients which are backed secured by cash on deposit with the bank.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 65 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Other credit and counterparty exposures Summary analysis of gross credit are largely reflective of cash and near cash and counterparty exposures by Corporate client loans balances held with institutions and central industry banks, thus the large balance reflected in account for 54.2% of A description of the type of the public and non-business services and corporate client lending we finance and insurance sectors.
These total gross core loans undertake, is provided on exposures also include off-balance sheet pages 54 and 55, and a more and advances, and are items such as guarantees, committed detailed analysis of the corporate facilities and contingent liabilities, diversified client loan portfolio is provided well diversified across across several industries.
on pages 74 and 75. various industry A description of the type of The remainder of core loans and private client lending and lending advances largely relate to private classifications collateralised by property we client lending, as represented by the undertake is provided on industry classification high net worth page54, and a more detailed and professional individuals, as well as analysis of the private client  by property.
loanportfolio is provided on pages 74 and 75.
An overview of developments during the financial year is provided on pages 59 and 60.
At 31 March 000 2016 2015 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 946 793 7 249 561 Total impairments 143 191 188 444 Specific impairments 121 791 154 262 Portfolio impairments 21 400 34 182 Net core loans and advances to customers 7 803 602 7 061 117 Average gross core loans and advances to customers 7 598 177 7 832 564 Current loans and advances to customers 7 561 596 6 733 402 Past due loans and advances to customers 1 60 days 65 909 73 489 Special mention loans and advances to customers 5 354 42 556 Default loans and advances to customers 313 934 400 114 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 946 793 7 249 561 Current loans and advances to customers 7 561 596 6 733 402 Default loans that are current and not impaired 29 639 26 785 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 99 383 146 428 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 256 175 342 946 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 946 793 7 249 561 Total income statement charge for impairments on core loans and advances 85 954 90 709 Gross default loans and advances to customers 313 934 400 114 Specific impairments 121 791 154 262 Portfolio impairments 21 400 34 182 Defaults net of impairments 170 743 211 670 Aggregate collateral and other credit enhancements on defaults 202 524 280 697 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero Ratios: Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 1.80% 2.60% Total impairments as a % of gross default loans 45.61% 47.10% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 3.95% 5.52% Defaults net of impairments as a % of net core loans and advances to customers 2.19% 3.00% Net defaults as a % of net core loans and advances to customers Credit loss ratio i. e. income statement impairment charge on core loans as a % of average gross core loans and advances 1.13% 1.16% Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 67 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers At 31 March 000 2016 2015 Default loans that are current 138 988 176 913 1 60 days 80 758 119 496 61 90 days 16 118 2 249 91 180 days 43 284 7 639 181 365 days 22 539 45 758 365 days 83 510 164 104 Total past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 385 197 516 159 1 60 days 3 062 5 796 61 90 days 210 172 91 180 days 3 277 2 566 181 365 days 7 859 4 742 365 days 74 064 156 328 Total past due and default core loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 88 472 169 604 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 68 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued A further age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total At 31 March 2016 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 29 639 29 639 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but notimpaired Total capital exposure 71 106 526 16 210 1 139 10 402 99 383 Amount in arrears 2 994 49 1 333 171 7 847 12 394 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 109 349 9 652 15 592 27 074 21 400 73 108 256 175 Amount in arrears 68 161 1 944 7 688 66 217 76 078 At 31 March 2015 Watchlist loans neither past due nor impaired Total capital exposure 26 785 26 785 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but notimpaired Total capital exposure 113 795 2 249 5 287 9 195 15 902 146 428 Amount in arrears 5 754 172 214 525 8 327 14 992 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 150 128 5 701 2 352 36 563 148 202 342 946 Amount in arrears 42 2 352 4 217 148 001 154 612 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 69 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2016 based on total capitalexposure Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 65 909 65 909 Special mention 4 828 526 5 354 Special mention 1 90 days 4 828 4 828 Special mention 61 90 days 526 526 and item well secured Default 138 988 10 021 15 592 43 284 22 539 83 510 313 934 Sub-standard 72 254 369 3 828 23 327 6 361 58 079 164 218 Doubtful 65 328 9 652 11 755 18 950 15 413 4 352 125 450 Loss 1 406 9 1 007 765 21 079 24 266 Total 138 988 80 758 16 118 43 284 22 539 83 510 385 197 An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2016 based on actual amount inarrears Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 2 988 2 988 Special mention 6 49 55 Special mention 1 90 days 6 6 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 49 49 Default 68 161 3 277 7 859 74 064 85 429 Sub-standard 1 39 1 383 3 343 48 662 53 428 Doubtful 67 114 887 3 751 4 352 9 171 Loss 8 1 007 765 21 050 22 830 Total 3 062 210 3 277 7 859 74 064 88 472 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 70 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2015 based on total capitalexposure Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 73 489 73 489 Special mention 40 307 2 249 42 556 Special mention 1 90 days 40 307 40 307 Special mention 61 90 days 2 249 2 249 and item well secured Default 176 913 5 700 7 639 45 758 164 104 400 114 Sub-standard 87 505 5 480 38 175 55 640 186 800 Doubtful 88 040 5 700 1 347 7 151 6 071 108 309 Loss 1 368 812 432 102 393 105 005 Total 176 913 119 496 2 249 7 639 45 758 164 104 516 159 An age analysis of past due and default core loans and advances to customers at 31 March 2015 based on actual amount inarrears Current watchlist 1 60 61 90 91 180 181 365 365 000 loans days days days days days Total Past due 1 60 days 5 399 5 399 Special mention 355 172 527 Special mention 1 90 days 355 355 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 172 172 Default 42 2 566 4 742 156 328 163 678 Sub-standard 407 2 101 47 871 50 379 Doubtful 42 1 347 2 209 6 064 9 662 Loss 812 432 102 393 103 637 Total 5 796 172 2 566 4 742 156 328 169 604 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 71 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers Gross core loans and Gross core Total gross Total net advances loans and core loans core loans that are advances Gross core and and neither that are loans and advances advances past past due advances actual Specific Portfolio actual Actual due nor but not that are capital impairimpaircapital amount in 000 impaired impaired impaired exposure ments ments exposure arrears At 31 March 2016 Current core loans andadvances 7 561 596 7 561 596 21 400 7 540 196 Past due 1 60 days 65 909 65 909 65 909 2 988 Special mention 5 354 5 354 5 354 55 Special mention 1 90 days 4 828 4 828 4 828 6 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 526 526 526 49 Default 29 639 28 120 256 175 313 934 121 791 192 143 85 429 Sub-standard 29 639 28 120 106 459 164 218 32 379 131 839 53 428 Doubtful 125 450 125 450 69 827 55 623 9 171 Loss 24 266 24 266 19 585 4 681 22 830 Total 7 591 235 99 383 256 175 7 946 793 121 791 21 400 7 803 602 88 472 At 31 March 2015 Current core loans andadvances 6 733 402 6 733 402 34 182 6 699 220 Past due 1 60 days 73 489 73 489 73 489 5 399 Special mention 42 556 42 556 42 556 527 Special mention 1 90 days 40 307 40 307 40 307 355 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 2 249 2 249 2 249 172 Default 26 785 30 383 342 946 400 114 154 262 245 852 163 678 Sub-standard 26 219 30 383 130 198 186 800 36 870 149 930 50 379 Doubtful 566 107 743 108 309 54 494 53 815 9 662 Loss 105 005 105 005 62 898 42 107 103 637 Total 6 760 187 146 428 342 946 7 249 561 154 262 34 182 7 061 117 169 604 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 72 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances to customers and impairments by counterparty type Private Public client, Insurance, and Total professional financial government core loans and high services sector Trade and net worth Corporate excluding including finance advances to 000 individuals sector sovereign central banks and other customers At 31 March 2016 Current core loans and advances 3 296 034 3 140 362 971 565 131 448 22 187 7 561 596 Past due 1 60 days 53 707 10 833 41 1 299 29 65 909 Special mention 4 995 211 2 146 5 354 Special mention 1 90 days 4 828 4 828 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 167 211 2 146 526 Default 283 815 27 930 165 2 024 313 934 Sub-standard 144 030 18 786 2 1 400 164 218 Doubtful 118 168 6 910 122 250 125 450 Loss 21 617 2 234 41 374 24 266 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 3 638 551 3 179 336 971 773 134 917 22 216 7 946 793 Total impairments 128 224 14 357 102 508 143 191 Specific impairments 106 824 14 357 102 508 121 791 Portfolio impairments 21 400 21 400 Net core loans and advances to customers 3 510 327 3 164 979 971 671 134 409 22 216 7 803 602 At 31 March 2015 Current core loans and advances 3 036 989 2 753 200 732 432 185 425 25 356 6 733 402 Past due 1 60 days 68 923 3 696 870 73 489 Special mention 42 288 268 42 556 Special mention 1 90 days 40 307 40 307 Special mention 61 90 days and item well secured 1 981 268 2 249 Default 373 342 25 703 244 825 400 114 Sub-standard 172 581 14 219 186 800 Doubtful 97 300 10 280 229 500 108 309 Loss 103 461 1 204 15 325 105 005 Total gross core loans and advances to customers 3 521 542 2 782 867 732 676 187 120 25 356 7 249 561 Total impairments 179 681 8 128 150 485 188 444 Specific impairments 145 499 8 128 150 485 154 262 Portfolio impairments 34 182 34 182 Net core loans and advances to customers 3 341 861 2 774 739 732 526 186 635 25 356 7 061 117 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 73 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances by risk category at 31 March 2016 Aggregate collateral and other credit Balance Income Gross core Gross enhancements sheet statement 000 loans defaults on defaults impairments impairments Lending collateralised by property 2 179 999 264 283 168 722 101 064 75 732 Commercial real estate 1 314 745 108 746 64 068 45 030 32 441 Commercial real estate investment 1 096 376 61 090 43 958 17 151 21 155 Commercial real estate development 109 086 11 138 3 647 7 491 634 Commercial vacant land and planning 109 283 36 518 16 463 20 388 10 652 Residential real estate 865 254 155 537 104 654 56 034 43 291 Residential real estate investment 298 740 72 449 55 151 20 907 13 353 Residential real estate development 516 352 56 651 30 390 26 854 24 747 Residential vacant land and planning 50 162 26 437 19 113 8 273 5 191 High net worth and other private client lending 1 458 552 19 532 18 650 5 760 8 194 Mortgages 1 146 241 4 307 7 489 600 49 High net worth and specialised lending 312 311 15 225 11 161 5 160 8 145 Corporate and other lending 4 308 242 30 119 15 152 14 967 14 810 Acquisition finance 899 190 1 284 Asset-based lending 296 389 Fund finance 673 379 Other corporates and financial institutions andgovernments 766 815 Asset finance 1 205 400 11 891 5 961 5 930 4 223 Small ticket asset finance 932 865 11 891 5 961 5 930 4 223 Large ticket asset finance 272 535 Project finance 449 266 3 708 3 708 2 699 Resource finance 17 803 14 520 5 483 9 037 6 604 Portfolio impairments 21 400 12 782 Total 7 946 793 313 934 202 524 143 191 85 954 Where a positive number represents a recovery or a provision released.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 74 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued An analysis of core loans and advances by risk category at 31 March 2015 Aggregate collateral and other credit Balance Income Gross core Gross enhancements sheet statement 000 loans defaults on defaults impairments impairments Lending collateralised by property 2 318 053 343 229 233 676 134 451 49 179 Commercial real estate 1 510 506 122 886 79 588 51 517 25 358 Commercial real estate investment 1 229 217 58 142 50 302 11 752 16 157 Commercial real estate development 147 707 20 129 6 544 13 585 3 997 Commercial vacant land and planning 133 582 44 615 22 742 26 180 5 204 Residential real estate 807 547 220 343 154 088 82 934 23 821 Residential real estate investment 292 089 53 911 50 294 10 756 3 178 Residential real estate development 425 258 116 163 74 975 50 571 9 122 Residential vacant land and planning 90 200 50 269 28 819 21 607 11 521 High net worth and other private client lending 1 203 489 30 113 29 012 11 048 10 529 Mortgages 952 617 7 977 13 015 914 713 High net worth and specialised lending 250 872 22 136 15 997 10 134 9 816 Corporate and other lending 3 728 019 26 772 18 009 8 763 11 821 Acquisition finance 731 195 1 231 Asset-based lending 241 859 Fund finance 495 037 Other corporates and financial institutions andgovernments 719 049 3 091 Asset finance 1 119 165 8 346 3 642 4 704 5 068 Small ticket asset finance 835 773 8 346 3 642 4 704 5 068 Large ticket asset finance 283 392 Project finance 407 577 4 289 2 585 1 704 515 Resource finance 14 137 14 137 11 782 2 355 4 378 Portfolio impairments 34 182 19 180 Total 7 249 561 400 114 280 697 188 444 90 709 Where a positive number represents a recovery or a provision released.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 75 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued ASSET QUALITY TRENDS Percentage billion 6 10 5 8 4 6 3 4 2 2 Net core loans RHS 1 Defaults net of impairments as a % of core advances LHS 0 0 Credit loss ratio LHS 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Additional information AN ANALYSIS OF GROSS CORE LOANS AND ADVANCES TO CUSTOMERS BY COUNTRY OF EXPOSURES 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 7 947 million 7 250 million 4.6% Asia 3.9% Asia 2.7% Australia 3.4% Australia 15.2% Europe excluding UK 17.7% Europe excluding UK 7.4% North America 7.4% North America 1.4% Other 0.9% Other 68.7% United Kingdom 66.7% United Kingdom Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 76 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued COLLATERAL A summary of total collateral is provided in the table below.
Collateral held against Other Core credit and loans and counterparty 000 advances exposures Total At 31 March 2016 Eligible financial collateral 313 156 399 786 712 942 Listed shares 242 551 76 126 318 677 Cash 70 605 109 180 179 785 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 214 480 214 480 Property charge 4 940 344 209 478 5 149 822 Residential mortgages 2 457 252 209 478 2 666 730 Residential development 780 534 780 534 Commercial property developments 187 484 187 484 Commercial property investments 1 515 074 1 515 074 Other collateral 4 269 427 135 508 4 404 935 Unlisted shares 682 021 682 021 Charges other than property 34 404 135 508 169 912 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 2 727 354 2 727 354 Guarantees 650 988 650 988 Other 174 660 174 660 Total collateral 9 522 927 744 772 10 267 699 At 31 March 2015 Eligible financial collateral 381 651 557 158 938 809 Listed shares 302 938 82 925 385 863 Cash 78 713 76 511 155 224 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 397 722 397 722 Property charge 4 399 279 217 531 4 616 810 Residential mortgages 2 180 115 217 531 2 397 646 Residential development 554 920 554 920 Commercial property developments 271 843 271 843 Commercial property investments 1 392 401 1 392 401 Other collateral 4 064 743 729 614 4 794 357 Unlisted shares 486 524 486 524 Charges other than property 50 423 729 614 780 037 Debtors, stock and other corporate assets 2 353 919 2 353 919 Guarantees 762 092 762 092 Other 411 785 411 785 Total collateral 8 845 673 1 504 303 10 349 976 A large percentage of these exposures e. g. bank placements are to highly rated financial institutions where limited collateral would be required due to the nature of the exposure.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 77 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Additionally, listed investments may Investment risk in the be considered where we believe that Investment risk in banking book the market is mispricing the value of the underlying security or where the banking book INVESTMENT RISK there is an opportunity to stimulate DESCRIPTION represents a moderate corporateactivity.
Investment risk in the banking book arises Lending transactions: the manner percentage of our total primarily from the following activities in which we structure certain assets and is managed conducted within the group: transactions results in equity, warrant and profit shares being within appropriate Principal Investments: investments held, predominantly within unlisted are selected based on the track record companies.
risk limits of management, the attractiveness Property activities: we source of the industry and the ability to build development, investment and trading value for the existing business by implementing an agreed strategy.
opportunities to create value and Investments in listed shares may arise trade for profit within agreed risk on the IPO of one of our investments.
MANAGEMENT OF INVESTMENT RISK As investment risk arises from a variety of activities conducted by us, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
Nature of investment risk Management of risk Listed equities Investment committee, market risk management and ERRF Investment Banking principal investments Investment committee and ERRF Embedded derivatives, profit shares Credit risk management committees and investments arising from lending andERRF transactions Investment and trading properties Investment committee and ERRF Central Funding investments Investment committee and ERRF Risk appetite limits and targets are set to manage our exposure to equity and investment risk.
Anassessment of exposures against limits and targets as well as stress testing scenario analysis are performed and reported to GRCC.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies andindustries.
VALUATION AND ACCOUNTING METHODOLOGIES For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to pages 160 to 164 and pages 184 to 196 for factors taken into consideration indetermining fairvalue.
We have a low level of assets exposed to the volatility of IFRS fair value accounting with level 3 assets amounting to 3.6% of total assets.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 78 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management THREE continued Refer to page 185 for further information.
The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Income loss pre-funding costs Fair value 000 through Category Unrealised Realised Dividends Total equity For the year to 31 March 2016 Unlisted investments 15 674 14 099 15 419 45 192 12 Listed equities 2 340 7 249 4 909 1 499 Investment and trading properties 3 145 2 364 781 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 2 452 3 469 1 017 Total 12 417 12 683 15 419 40 519 1 511 For the year to 31 March 2015 25673 60017 5106 39450 709 Unlisted investments Listed equities 19770 1505 772 22047 425 Investment and trading properties 8664 2354 11018 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 70947 1873 69074 68186 65749 5878 3441 1134 Total In a year of realisation, any prior period mark-to-market gains losses recognised are reversed in the unrealised line item.
Unrealised revaluation gains, recognised in the profit and loss account, are included in common equity tier 1 capital.
In line with Capital Requirements Regulation, for the year ended 31 March 2016, Investec plc did not recognise equity revaluation gains directly to equity, in regulatorycapital.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 79 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued SUMMARY OF INVESTMENTS HELD AND STRESS TESTING ANALYSES The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
On-balance On-balance sheet Valuation sheet Valuation value of change value of change investments stress test investments stress test 000 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Category 2016 2016 2015 2015 Unlisted investments 363 060 54 459 287821 43173 Listed equities 87 940 21 985 113120 28280 Total investment portfolio 451 000 76 444 400 941 71 453 Investment and trading properties 183 073 28 709 191499 31726 Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 32 902 11 516 36111 12639 Total 666 975 116 669 628551 115818 In order to assess our earnings sensitivity to a movement in the valuation of these investments the following stress testing parameters are applied: Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 20% Investment properties 10% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% STRESS TESTING SUMMARY Based on the information at 31 March 2016, as reflected above, we could have a 117 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a severe stress scenario simultaneously across all asset classes.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS In terms of CRD IV capital requirements for Investec plc, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book are considered in the calculation of capital required for creditrisk.
Refer to page 115 for further detail.
AN ANALYSIS OF THE INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO, WARRANTS, PROFIT SHARES AND OTHER EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES BY INDUSTRY OF EXPOSURE 31 March 2016 484 million 26.9% Manufacturing and commerce 19.6% Finance and insurance 17.1% Real estate 14.8% Transport 8.1% Retailer and wholesalers 7.1% Mining and resources 4.3% Communication 1.5% Business services 0.6% Other Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 80 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The primary focus for new securitisation the groups appetite for such exposures, Securitisation transactions remains to provide a cost and each exposure is considered relative structured credit effective, alternative source of financing to to the groups overall risk appetite.
use explicit credit risk mitigation techniques activities exposures where required, however, the group prefers For regulatory purposes, structured entities to address and manage these risks by only OVERVIEW are not consolidated where significant approving exposures to which the group The groups definition of securitisation risk in the structured entities has been has explicit appetite through the constant structured credit activities as explained transferred to third parties.
The positions and consistent application of the risk below is wider than the definition as we continue to hold in these securitisations appetite policy.
applied for regulatory capital purposes, will be either risk-weighted and or deducted which largely focuses on those from capital.
CREDIT ANALYSIS securitisations in which the group has During the year we did not undertake any achieved significant risk transfer.
We, In terms of our analysis of our credit and new securitisation transactions.
however, believe that the information counterparty risk, exposures arising from provided below is meaningful in that it securitisation structured credit activities We hold rated structured credit instruments groups all these related activities in order reflect only those exposures to which we including resecuritisation exposures.
These for a reviewer to obtain a fuller picture of consider ourselves to be at risk.
exposures are largely in the UK and US and the activities that we have conducted in this amount to 343 million at 31March2016 space.
Some of the information provided 31March2015: 317million.
This is below overlaps with the groups credit and intended as a hold to maturity portfolio counterparty exposure information.
Therefore, since our commercial intention is to hold Refer to page 61 for the these assets to maturity, the portfolio will be balancesheet and credit risk valued on an amortised cost basis.
investments are risk weighted for regulatory The group applies the standardised capital purposes.
approach in the assessment of regulatory capital for securitisation exposures within ACCOUNTING POLICIES its banking book and trading book.
Thetrading book exposures at 31March2016 are not material, and RISK MANAGEMENT therefore no further information is disclosed for these positions.
All existing or proposed exposures to a securitisation or a resecuritisation are The information below sets out the analysed on a case-by-case basis, with final initiatives we have focused on over the approval typically required from the groups past few years, albeit that most of these global credit committee.
The analysis looks business lines have been curtailed given the through to the historical and expected changes in the securitisation market and future performance of the underlying assets, given the strategic divestments Investec the position of the relevant tranche in the has undertaken last year.
capital structure as well as analysis of the Historically, the bank has played an cash flow waterfall under a variety of stress scenarios.
External ratings are presented, originator role in the securitisation of assets.
A significant number of these were but only for information purposes since the bank principally relies on its own internal traditional securitisations of residential mortgages originated through the risk assessment.
Overarching these transaction level principles is the boardKensington business which was disposed of in January 2015. approved risk appetite policy, which details Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 81 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Exposure Exposure At 31 March 2016 2015 Balance sheet and Nature of exposure activity million million credit risk classification Structured credit gross exposure 355 350 Other debt securities and other loans and advances Rated 343 317 Unrated 12 33 Loans and advances to 154 170 Other loans and advances customers and third party intermediary originating platforms mortgage loans with the potential to be securitised net exposure Analysed further below.
Analysis of rated and unrated structured credit 2016 2015 At 31 March million Rated Unrated Total Rated Unrated Total 152 152 116 116 US corporate loans UK and European RMBS 151 12 163 153 29 182 UK and European CMBS 6 4 10 UK and European corporate loans 40 40 42 42 Total 343 12 355 317 33 350 A further analysis of rated structured credit at 31 March 2016 C and million AAA AA A BBB BB B below Total US corporate loans 92 25 35 152 UK and European RMBS 40 84 20 5 2 151 UK and European corporateloans 16 13 10 1 40 Total at 31 March 2016 148 122 65 6 2 343 Total at 31 March 2015 64 138 56 36 1 22 317 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 82 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The information provided below is provided for Investec plc in terms of regulatory definitions and requirements.
Aggregate amount of securitisation positions retained or purchased Banking book At 31 March 2016 million Retained Purchased Total Exposure type Residential mortgages 143 143 Commercial mortgages 4 4 Loans to corporates 203 203 Resecuritisation 3 3 353 353 Aggregate amount of securitisation positions retained or purchased Banking book At 31 March 2015 million Retained Purchased Total Exposure type Residential mortgages 14 144 158 Commercial mortgages 7 7 Loans to corporates 154 154 Resecuritisation 3 3 14 308 322 Purchased positions include positions we hold as sponsor or investor.
Retained positions include positions we have retained in securitisations we have originated.
Securitisation positions retained or purchased by risk-weight bands Exposure values Capital requirement Banking book Banking book At 31 March 2016 million Retained Purchased Retained Purchased Risk-weight band Greater than 0% and less than or equal to 40% 265 4 Greater than 40% but less than or equal to 100% 84 5 Greater than 100% but less than and equal to 225% Greater than 225% but less than and equal to 350% Greater than 350% but less than and equal to 650% Greater than 650% but less than 1 250% Greater than 1 250% deduction 4 353 9 Securitisation positions retained or purchased by risk-weight bands Exposure values Capital requirement Banking book Banking book At 31 March 2015 million Retained Purchased Retained Purchased Risk-weight band Greater than 0% and less than or equal to 40% 14 180 3 Greater than 40% but less than or equal to 100% 123 8 Greater than 100% but less than and equal to 225% Greater than 225% but less than and equal to 350% 1 Greater than 350% but less than and equal to 650% Greater than 650% but less than 1 250% Greater than 1 250% deduction 4 4 14 308 15 Purchased positions include positions we hold as sponsor or investor.
No further disclosure is provided for deductions due to the materiality of the numbers.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 83 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The accuracy of the VaR model as a MANAGEMENT AND Market risk predictor of potential loss is continuously MEASUREMENT OF TRADED in the trading book monitored through backtesting.
This MARKET RISK involves comparing the hypothetical clean TRADED MARKET RISK trading revenues arising from the previous Market risk management teams review the DESCRIPTION days closing positions with the one-day market risks in the trading books.
Detailed VaR calculated for the previous day on risk reports are produced daily for each Traded Market Risk is the risk that the value these same positions.
If the revenue is trading desk and for the aggregate risk of of a portfolio of instruments changes as a negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, a the trading books.
result of changes in underlying market risk backtesting exception is considered to have factors such as interest rates, equity prices, These reports are distributed to occurred.
Over time we expect the average commodity prices, exchange rates and management and traders.
There is rate of observed backtesting exceptions to volatilities.
The market risk management a formal process for management be consistent with the percentile of the VaR team identifies, quantifies and manages this recognition and authorisation for any risk statistic being tested.
risk in accordance with Basel standards excesses incurred.
The production of and policies determined by the board.
The market risk capital requirement risk reports allows for the monitoring of is calculated using the standardised all positions in the trading book against The focus of our trading activities is approach.
For certain options, the group prescribed limits.
Limits are set at trading primarily on supporting client activity.
Our has obtained permission from the PRA to desk level with aggregate risk across strategic intent is that proprietary trading use an internal model to calculate the delta all desks also monitored against overall should be limited and that trading should be for these positions.
Trading limits conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal are generally tiered, taking into account execution.
Within our trading activities, we The table below contains the 95% one-day liquidity and the inherent risks of traded act as principal with clients or the market.
VaR figures for the trading businesses and instruments.
Valuation models for new Market risk, therefore, exists where we have the graphs that follow show the result of instruments or products are independently taken on principal positions resulting from backtesting the total daily 99% one-day validated by Market Risk before trading market making, underwriting, investments VaR against profit and loss figures for our can commence.
Each traded instrument and limited proprietary trading in the foreign trading activities over the reporting period.
undergoes various stresses to assess exchange, capital and money markets.
The Based on these graphs, we can gauge potential losses.
focus of these businesses is primarily on the accuracy of the VaR figures, i. e. 99% supporting client activity.
of the time, the total trading activities are Measurement techniques used to quantify not expected to lose more than the 99% market risk arising from our trading one-day VaR.
TRADED MARKET RISK activities include sensitivity analysis, value at risk VaR, stressed VaR sVaR, GOVERNANCE expected tail loss ETL and extreme value STRUCTURE theory EVT.
Stress testing and scenario To manage, measure and mitigate market analysis are used to simulate extreme risk, we have independent market risk conditions to supplement these core management teams in each geography measures.
where we assume market risk.
Local limits VaRnumbers are monitored daily at the have been set to keep potential losses 95% and 99% confidence intervals, with within acceptable risk tolerancelevels.
limits set at the 95% confidence interval.
A global market risk forum, mandated by ETLs are also monitored daily at the 95% the various boards of directors, manages and 99% levels as is the worst case loss the market risks in accordance with in the VaR distribution.
Scenario analysis pre-approved principles and policies.
considers the impact of a significant Risklimits are reviewed and set at the market event on our current trading global market risk forum and ratified at portfolios.
We consider the impact of ERRF in accordance with the risk appetite extreme yet plausible future economic defined by the board.
The appropriateness events on the trading portfolio as well as of limits is continually assessed with limits possible worst case scenarios that are not reviewed at least annually, in the event of a necessarily as plausible.
Scenario analysis significant market event or at the discretion is done at least once a week and is of senior management.
included in the data presented to ERRF.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 84 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued VaR 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 000 Year end Average High Low Year end Average High Low Using 95% VaR Equities 515 557 699 412 524 573 825 436 Foreign exchange 37 32 101 12 23 20 64 1 Interest rates 202 195 505 128 495 300 536 197 Consolidated 529 589 723 488 691 617 921 475 The consolidated VaR is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the consolidation offset between various asset classes diversification.
The average VaR utilisation was lower than in 2015, largely as a result of a reduction in exposure to interest rates held within the trading businesses.
Using hypothetical clean profit and loss data for backtesting resulted in four exceptions over the year at the 99% confidence level, i. e. where the loss was greater than the 99% one-day VaR.
This is not a significant deviation from the expected number of exceptions atthe 99% level and is largely attributable to increased market volatility experienced during the year.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes diversification.
STRESS TESTING The table below indicates the potential losses that could arise if the portfolio is stress tested under extreme market conditions.
The method used is known as extreme value theory EVT, the reported stress scenario below calculates the 99% EVT which is a 1-in-8 year possible loss event.
These numbers do not assume normality but rather rely on fitting a distribution to the tails of the distribution.
31 March 2016 31 March 2015 000 Year end Average High Low Year end Using 99% EVT Equities 1 549 1 305 2 275 761 1 658 Foreign exchange 122 80 221 31 102 Interest rates 470 438 1 312 225 1 676 Consolidated 1 772 1 349 2 222 827 1 413 The consolidated stress test number is lower than the sum of the individual stress test numbers.
PROFIT AND LOSS HISTOGRAM The histogram below illustrates the distribution of revenue during the financial year for our trading businesses.
The distribution is skewed to the profit side and the graph shows that positive trading revenue was realised 155 days out of a total of 252 days in the trading business.
The average daily trading revenue generated for the year to 31 March 2016 was 124 250 2015: 162 486.
PROFIT AND LOSS Frequency: Days in a year 60 57 50 42 41 40 31 30 25 20 14 10 9 10 8 5 3 3 2 1 1 0 1.4 -1.2 -1.0 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 Pro t loss earned per day million Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 86 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued TRADED MARKET RISK YEAR TRADED MARKET RISK Balance sheet risk INREVIEW MITIGATION management The market risk management team Risk software was changed to be fully BALANCE SHEET RISK integrated with trading systems, while has a reporting line that is separate DESCRIPTION independence is maintained through from the trading function, thereby ensuring independent oversight.
The risk independent validation of all valuation models.
Balance sheet risk encompasses the management software is fully integrated financial risks relating to our asset and There was strong growth in client activity with source trading systems, allowing liability portfolios, comprising market across the interest rate and foreign valuation in risk and trading systems to liquidity, funding, concentration, nonexchange corporate sales desks within be fully aligned.
All valuation models are trading interest rate and foreign exchange, Treasury Products and Distribution.
subject to independent validation, ensuring encumbrance and leverage risks on Increased volatility in the forex markets models used for valuation and risk are balance sheet.
resulted in more active client activity and validated independently of the front office.
interest rate hedging activity was driven BALANCE SHEET RISK by strong internal deal flow.
A challenging Risk limits are set according to guidelines set out in our risk appetite policy and are pricing environment resulted in lower retail GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE set on a statistical and non-statistical basis.
equity product sales on the structured AND RISK MITIGATION equity desk, however the desk benefited Statistical limits include VaR and ETL.
Full Under delegated authority of the board, the from increased growth in their offshore revaluation historical simulation VaR is used group has established asset and liability over a two-year historical period based on distribution.
Market risk exposures across management committees ALCOs within an unweighted time series.
Every risk factor all asset classes have remained low throughout the year.
each core geography in which it operates, is exposed to daily moves with proxies using regional expertise and local market only used when no or limited price history is available, and the resultant one-day access as appropriate.
The ALCOs are MARKET RISK VaR is scaled up to a 10-day VaR using mandated to ensure independent supervision DERIVATIVES the square root of time rule for regulatory of liquidity risk and non-trading interest rate We enter into various derivatives contracts, purposes.
Daily moves are based on both risk within a board-approved risk appetite.
largely on the back of customer flow for absolute and relative returns as appropriate The size, materiality, complexity, maturity hedging foreign exchange, commodity, for the different types of risk factors.
and depth of the market as well as access equity and interest rate exposures and Time series data used to calculate these to stable funds are all inputs considered to a small extent as principal for trading moves is updated monthly at a minimum, purposes.
These include financial when establishing the liquidity and nonor more frequently if necessary.
Stressed futures, options, swaps and forward rate trading interest rate risk appetite for each VaR is calculated in the same way based agreements.
The risks associated with geographic region.
Specific statutory on a one-year historical period of extreme requirements may further dictate special derivative instruments are monitored in volatility.
The sVaR period used is midthe same manner as for the underlying policies to be adopted in a region.
2008 to mid-2009, which relates to high instruments.
Risks are also measured levels of volatility in all markets in which the Detailed policies cover both domestic and across the product range to take into business holds trading position, during the foreign currency funds and set out sources account possible correlations.
and amounts of funds necessary to ensure Information showing our the continuation of our operations without Non-statistical limits include limits on risk derivative trading portfolio over undue interruption.
We aim to match-fund exposure to individual products, transaction the reporting period on the basis in currencies, where it is practical and tenors, notionals, liquidity, tenor buckets of the notional principal and the efficient to do so and hedge any residual and sensitivities.
Current market conditions fair value of all derivatives can are taken into account when setting and currency exchange risk arising from deposit befound on page 199. reviewing these limits.
The notional principal indicates our activity In terms of regulatory requirements and the in the derivatives market and represents groups liquidity policy, Investec plc and its the aggregate size of total outstanding subsidiaries are ring-fenced from Investec contracts at year end.
The fair value of a Limited and its subsidiaries and vice derivative financial instrument represents versa and both legal entities are therefore the present value of the positive or negative required to be self-funded.
cash flows which would have occurred had The ALCOs comprise the group risk we closed out the rights and obligations director, the head of balance sheet risk, arising from that instrument in an orderly the head of risk, the head of corporate market transaction at year end.
Both these and institutional banking activities, head amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical of private banking distribution channels, financial instruments used to hedge economists, the treasurer, divisional heads, thesepositions.
and the balance sheet risk management Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 87 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued team.
The ALCOs formally meet on a team monitors historical liquidity trends, Supervisions BCBS liquidity risk monthly basis to review the exposures that tracks prospective onand off-balance sheet measurement standards and monitoring lie within the balance sheet together with liquidity obligations, identifies and measures and is compliant with the principles of market conditions, and decide on strategies internal and external liquidity warning signals sound liquidity risk management and to mitigate any undesirable liquidity and which permit early detection of potential supervision as well as guidelines for the interest rate risk.
The Central Treasury liquidity concerns through daily liquidity management of interest rate risk in the function within each region is mandated to reporting, and further perform scenario banking book.
holistically manage the liquidity mismatch analysis which quantifies our exposure, thus Each banking entity within the group and non-trading interest rate risk arising from providing a comprehensive and consistent maintains a contingency funding plan our asset and liability portfolios on a day-togovernance framework.
The balance sheet designed to protect depositors, creditors day basis.
risk management team proactively identifies and shareholders and maintain market proposed regulatory developments, best The treasurers are required to exercise tight confidence during adverse liquidity risk practice, and measures adopted control of funding, liquidity, concentration conditions and pave the way for the group in the broader market, and implements and non-trading interest rate risk within to emerge from a potential funding crisis changes to the banks risk management and parameters defined by the board-approved with the best possible reputation and governance framework where relevant.
Non-trading interest financial condition for continuing operations.
rate risk and asset funding requirements are Scenario modelling and rigorous daily The liquidity contingency plans outline transferred from the originating business to liquidity stress tests are designed to extensive early warning indicators, clear the treasury function.
measure and manage the liquidity position lines of communication, and decisive crisis such that payment obligations can be met response strategies.
The Central Treasury, by core geography, under a wide range of normal companydirects pricing for all deposit products, There is a regular audit of the balance sheet specific and market-driven stress scenarios.
establishes and maintains access to stable risk management function, the frequency These assume the rate and timing of wholesale funds with the appropriate tenor of which is determined by the independent deposit withdrawals and drawdowns on and pricing characteristics, and manages audit committees.
lending facilities are varied, and the ability to liquid securities and collateral, thus providing access funding and to generate funds from Daily, weekly and monthly reports are prudential management and a flexible asset portfolios is restricted.
independently produced highlighting bank response to volatile market conditions.
activity, exposures and key measures The Central Treasury functions are the sole The parameters used in the scenarios are against thresholds and limits and are interface to the wholesale market for both reviewed regularly, taking into account distributed to management, ALCO, the cash and derivative transactions.
changes in the business environments and Central Treasury function, ERRF, GRCC, input from business units.
The objective is to We maintain an internal funds transfer BRCC and the board.
analyse the possible impact of an economic pricing system based on prevailing market event risk on cash flow, liquidity, profitability Statutory reports are submitted to the rates.
Our funds transfer pricing system and solvency position, so as to maintain relevant regulators in each jurisdiction within charges the businesses the price of sufficient liquidity, in an acute stress, to which weoperate.
short-term and long-term liquidity taking continue to operate for a minimum period as into account the behavioural duration of detailed in the board-approved risk appetite.
The group operates an industry-recognised the asset.
The costs and risks of liquidity third party risk modelling system in addition are clearly and transparently attributed We further carry out reverse stress tests to custom-built management information to business lines and are understood to identify business model vulnerabilities systems designed to identify, measure, by business line management, thereby which tests tail risks that can be missed manage and monitor liquidity risk on ensuring that price of liquidity is integrated in normal stress tests.
The group has both a current and forward looking basis.
into business level decision-making and calculated the severity of stress required The system is reconciled to the banks drives the appropriate mix of sources and to breach the liquidity requirements.
This general ledger and audited by Internal and uses of funds.
scenario is considered highly unlikely ExternalAudit thereby ensuring integrity given the groups strong liquidity position, ofthe process.
The balance sheet risk management team, as it requires an extreme withdrawal of in their respective geographies based within deposits combined with the inability to Group Risk Management, independently take any management actions to breach identify, quantify and monitor risks, providing liquidity minima that threatens Investecs daily independent governance and oversight liquidityposition.
of the treasury activities and the execution of the banks policy, continuously assessing The integrated balance sheet risk the risks while taking changes in market management framework is based on similar conditions into account.
In carrying out its methodologies to those contemplated duties, the balance sheet risk management under the Basel Committee on Banking Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 88 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Funding is diversified with respect to Management and measurement of LIQUIDITY RISK liquidity risk currency, term, product, client type and counterparty to ensure a satisfactory Liquidity risk description Maturity transformation performed by banks overall funding mix is a crucial part of financial intermediation Liquidity risk is the risk that, despite being that contributes to efficient resource We monitor and evaluate each banking solvent, we have insufficient capacity to entitys maturity ladder and funding allocation and credit creation.
fund increases in assets, or are unable gap cash flow maturity mismatch on to meet our payment obligations as they Cohesive liquidity management is vital a liquidation, going concern and fall due, without incurring unacceptable for protecting our depositors, preserving stress basis losses.
This includes repaying depositors market confidence, safeguarding our Daily liquidity stress tests are carried out or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is reputation and ensuring sustainable to measure and manage the liquidity inherent in all banking operations and can growth with established funding sources.
position such that payment obligations be impacted by a range of institutionThrough active liquidity management, can be met under a wide range of specific and market-wide events.
we seek to preserve stable, reliable and normal and unlikely but plausible cost-effective sources of funding.
As such, Liquidity risk is further broken down into: stressed scenarios, in which the rate the group considers ongoing access to and timing of deposit withdrawals and Funding liquidity: which relates to appropriate liquidity for all its operations drawdowns on lending facilities are the risk that the bank will be unable to to be of paramount importance, and our varied, and the ability to access funding meet current and or future cash flow core liquidity philosophy is reflected in and to generate funds from asset or collateral requirements in the normal day-to-day practices which encompass the portfolios is restricted.
The objective is course of business, without adversely following robust and comprehensive set to have sufficient liquidity, in an acute affecting its financial position or its of policies and procedures for assessing, stress, to continue to operate for a reputation.
measuring and controlling the liquidity risk: minimum period as detailed in the Market liquidity: which relates to the board-approved risk appetite The group complies with the BCBS risk that the bank may be unable to principles for sound liquidity risk Our liquidity risk parameters reflect trade in specific markets or that it may management and supervision a collection of liquidity stress only be able to do so with difficulty assumptions which are reviewed The group has committed itself to due to market disruptions or a lack of regularly and updated as needed.
implementation of the updated BCBS marketliquidity.
These stress factors go well beyond guidelines for liquidity risk measurement, Sources of liquidity risk include: our experience during the height of the standards and monitoring as phased in recent financial crisis from 2015 Unforeseen withdrawals of deposits We further carry out reverse stress tests Our liquidity management processes Restricted access to new funding with to identify business model vulnerabilities encompass principles set out by the appropriate maturity and interest rate which tests tail risks that can be regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction, characteristics missed in normal stress tests.
The namely the PRA, EBA, Guernsey Inability to liquidate a marketable asset group has calculated the severity of FinancialServices and Swiss Financial in a timely manner with minimal risk of stress required to breach the liquidity Supervisory Authority capital loss requirements The risk appetite is clearly defined by the Unpredicted customer non-payment of The balance sheet risk management board and each geographic entity must loan obligations team independently monitors key daily have its own board-approved policies A sudden increased demand for loans funding metrics and liquidity ratios to with respect to liquidity risk management in the absence of corresponding funding assess potential risks to the liquidity In terms of regulatory requirements and inflows of appropriate maturity.
position, which further act as early the groups liquidity policy, Investec plc warning indicators of potential normal and its subsidiaries are ring-fenced from market disruption Investec Limited and its subsidiaries The group centrally manages access and vice versa and both legal entities to funds in both domestic and offshore are therefore required to be self-funded markets through the Corporate and We maintain a liquidity buffer in Institutional Banking division the form of unencumbered cash, The maintenance of sustainable prudent government or rated securities liquidity resources takes precedence typically eligible for repurchase with over profitability the central bank, and near cash well in excess of the statutory requirements Each major banking entity maintains an as protection against unexpected internal funds transfer pricing system disruptions in cash flows based on prevailing market rates.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 89 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The treasury function charges out the Stress conditions based on statistical through regular investor presentations price of longand short-term funding historical analysis, documented internationally.
Entities are only allowed to internal consumers of liquidity, experience and prudent judgement to have funding exposure to wholesale which ensures that the costs, benefits, markets where they can demonstrate Quantification of a survival horizon and risks of liquidity are clearly and that the market is sufficiently deep and under stress conditions.
The survival transparently attributed to business lines liquid, and then only relative to the size horizon is the number of business days and are understood by business line and complexity of their business.
We have it takes before the banks cash position management.
The funds transfer pricing instituted various offshore syndicated loan turns negative based on statistical methodology is designed to signal the programmes to broaden and diversify term historical analysis, documented right incentive to our lending business funding in supplementary markets and experience and prudent judgement currencies, enhancing the proven capacity The group maintains adequate Other key funding and balance to borrow in the money markets.
The contingency funding plans designed sheetratios group remains committed to increasing its to protect depositors, creditors and Monitoring and analysing market trends core deposits and accessing domestic and shareholders and maintain market and the external environment.
foreign capital markets when appropriate.
confidence during adverse liquidity conditions.
This ensures the smooth management Decisions on the timing and tenor of of the day-to-day liquidity position within Our liquidity risk management reflects accessing these markets are based on conservative parameters and further evolving best practice standards in light of relative costs, general market conditions, validates that we are able to generate the challenging environment.
Liquidity risk prospective views of balance sheet growth sufficient liquidity to withstand short-term management encompasses the ongoing and a targeted liquidity profile.
liquidity stress or market disruptions in the management of structural, tactical day-toevent of either a firm-specific or general day and contingent stress liquidity.
The groups ability to access funding market contingent event.
at cost-effective levels is influenced by Management uses assumptions-based maintaining or improving the entitys credit We maintain a funding structure with planning and scenario modelling that rating.
A reduction in these ratings could stable customer deposits and long-term considers market conditions, prevailing have an adverse effect on the groups wholesale funding well in excess of illiquid interest rates and projected balance sheet funding costs, and access to wholesale assets.
We target a diversified funding growth, to estimate future funding and term funding.
Credit ratings are dependent base, avoiding undue concentrations by liquidity needs while taking the desired on multiple factors, including operating investor type, maturity, market source, nature and profile of liabilities into account.
environment, business model, strategy, instrument and currency.
This validates These metrics are used to develop our capital adequacy levels, quality of earnings, our ability to generate funding from a funding strategy and measure and manage risk appetite and exposure, and control broad range of sources in a variety of the execution thereof.
geographic locations, which enhances details the proportion of our external assets financial flexibility and limits dependence which are funded by customer liabilities, As mentioned above, we hold a liquidity on any one source so as to ensure a unsecured wholesale debt, equity and loan buffer in the form of cash, unencumbered satisfactory overall funding mix to support capital, thus maintaining an appropriate mix readily available high quality liquid assets, loan growth.
of structural and term funding, resulting in typically in the form of government or rated strong balance sheet liquidity ratios.
securities eligible for repurchase with the We acknowledge the importance of our central bank, and near cash well in excess private client base as the principal source We measure liquidity risk by quantifying of the statutory requirements as protection of stable and well diversified funding for and calculating various liquidity risk metrics against unexpected disruptions in cash Investecs risk assets.
We continue to and ratios to assess potential risks to the flows.
These portfolios are managed within develop products to attract and service the liquidity position.
Metrics and ratios include: board-approved targets, and apart from investment needs of our Private Bank client Local regulatory requirements acting as a buffer under going concern base.
We also have a number of innovative conditions, also form an integral part of retail deposit initiatives within our Private Contractual run-off based actual cash the broader liquidity generation strategy.
Banking division and these continued flows with no modelling adjustment Investec remains a net liquidity provider to to experience strong inflows during the Business as usual normal environment the interbank market, placing significantly financial year.
Fixed and notice customer where we apply rollover and more funds with other banks than our deposits have continued to grow during the reinvestment assumptions under benign short-term interbank borrowings.
We do year and our customers display a strong market conditions stickiness and willingness to reinvest in our not rely on interbank deposits to fund Basel standards for liquidity suite of term and notice products.
measurement: Entities within the group actively From 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR participate in global financial markets and average cash and near cash balances Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR our relationship is continuously enhanced overthe period amounted to 4.9 billion.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 90 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The group does not rely on committed decisive crisis response strategies.
Early supplementary information requirements funding lines for protection against warning indicators span bank-specific required to manage liquidity during such unforeseen interruptions to cash flow.
Rapid response are currently unaware of any circumstances strategies address action plans, roles and This plan helps to ensure that cash that could significantly detract from our responsibilities, composition of decisionflow estimates and commitments can ability to raise funding appropriate to making bodies involved in liquidity crisis be met in the event of general market ourneeds.
management, internal and external disruption or adverse bank-specific events, communications including public relations, The liquidity contingency plans outline while minimising detrimental long-term extensive early warning indicators, sources of liquidity, avenues available implications for the business.
clear lines of communication and to access additional liquidity, as well as CASH AND NEAR CASH TREND million 6 000 5 000 4 000 3 000 2 000 Near cash other monetisable assets Central Bank cash 1 000 placements and guaranteed liquidity 0 Cash Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 AN ANALYSIS OF CASH AND BANK AND NON-BANK DEPOSITOR NEAR CASH AT 31 MARCH 2016 CONCENTRATION BY TYPE AT 31 MARCH 2016 5 082 million 11 353 million 13.0% Cash 4.8% Banks 81.5% Central Bank cash placements and 54.5% Individuals guaranteed liquidity 31.6% Nonfinancial corporates 5.5% Near cash other monetisable assets 9.1% Small business Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 91 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued set the time horizon to one month Liquidity mismatch to monetise our cash and near The table that follows shows our The liquidity position cash portfolio of available-for-sale contractual liquidity mismatch.
discretionary treasury assets, where of the bank remained The table will not agree directly to the there are deep secondary markets sound with total balances disclosed in the balance sheet for this elective asset class: and since the table incorporates cash flows on cash and near cash reported the contractual profile by a contractual, undiscounted basis based on way of a note to the tables.
the earliest date on which the group can be balances amounting required to pay.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity to 5.1 billion mismatch: The table reflects that loans and advances to customers are largely financed by stable Behavioural liquidity mismatch tends funding sources.
to display a fairly high probability, low severity liquidity position.
Many retail With respect to the contractual liquidity deposits, which are included within mismatch: customer accounts, are repayable on demand or at short notice on a No assumptions are made except as contractual basis.
In practice, these mentioned below, and we record all instruments form a stable base for assets and liabilities with the underlying the groups operations and liquidity contractual maturity as determined by needs because of the broad base of the cash flow profile for each deal customers.
To this end, behavioural As an integral part of the broader profiling is applied to liabilities with liquidity generation strategy, we an indeterminable maturity, as the maintain a liquidity buffer in the contractual repayments of many form of unencumbered cash, customer accounts are on demand government, or rated securities and or at short notice but expected cash near cash against both expected flows vary significantly from contractual andunexpected cash flows maturity.
An internal analysis model The actual contractual profile of this is used, based on statistical research asset class is of little consequence, of the historical series of products.
as practically Investec would meet This is used to identify significant any unexpected net cash outflows by additional sources of structural liquidity repoing or selling these securities.
in the form of core deposits that Wehave: exhibit stable behaviour.
In addition, set the time horizon to on reinvestment behaviour, with profile and attrition based on history, is demand to monetise our statutory applied to term deposits in the normal liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank: course of business.
Six Up One Three months One to one to three to six to one to five Five million Demand month months months year years years Total Behavioural liquidity gap 4 847 780 488 1 382 9 3 000 164 Cumulative 4 847 4 067 4 555 3 173 3 164 164 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 93 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued the contractual maturity of balance sheet to be established.
Investec has been BALANCE SHEET RISK YEAR liabilities, while avoiding refinancing proactively reporting on these ratios INREVIEW risks.
These include a seven-year senior internally according to the emerging Basel Investec maintained and improved its unsecured bond issuance for Investec plc, definitions since February 2010.
Investec strong liquidity position and continued a three-year syndicated loan and additional already exceeds minimum requirements to hold high levels of surplus liquid four year BOE Funding for Lending of these standards as a result of efforts to assets Scheme drawings for Investec Bank plc.
reshape our liquidity and funding profile where necessary.
The year-end cash position was We sustained strong term funding in particularly strong, augmented by some On 1 October 2015 under European demanding market conditions while pre-funding of next years anticipated asset Commission Delegated Regulation focusing on lowering the weighted growth at competitive levels.
2015 16, the LCR became the PRAs average cost of funding primary regulatory reporting standard for Cash and near cash balances at Our liquidity risk management process liquidity.
The LCR is being introduced 31March2016 amounted to 5.1 billion remains robust and comprehensive.
on a phased basis, and the PRA has 2015: 5.0billion.
Total customer opted to impose higher liquidity coverage deposits increased by 4.9% to 10.8billion The strategy to complete the normalisation requirements during the phased-in at 31March 2016 2015:10.3 billion.
We of balance sheet liquidity levels following period than the minimum required by continue to comfortably exceed regulatory the large strategic sales in the last quarter CRDIV.
UK banks are currently required liquidity requirements for the LCR and of the previous financial year has been to maintain a minimum of 80%, rising to NSFR liquidity ratios.
This was achieved by mid-year 90% on 1January 2017 and 100% on through a combination of asset growth REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS 1January2018.
A strong, BALANCE SHEET RISK The BCBS published its final surplus liquidity position has subsequently recommendations for implementation been maintained in line with our overall In response to the global financial crisis, of the NSFR in October 2014, with the conservative approach to balance sheet national and supranational regulators have minimum requirement to be introduced risk management.
introduced changes to laws and regulations in January 2018 at 100%.
Banks are designed to both strengthen and harmonise Gross asset growth has been strong expected to hold an NSFR of at least global capital and liquidity standards to throughout the year, with net asset growth 100% on an ongoing basis and report ensure a strong financial sector and global strong in the second half of the year.
its NSFR at least quarterly.
Both Investec Bank plc and Investec plc of its planned implementation on Two key liquidity measures were defined: received ratings upgrades during the year.
1January2018, the NSFR will remain Moodys upgraded Investec Bank plcs The liquidity coverage ratio LCR subject to an observation period.
We will long-term deposit rating first in June 2015 is designed to promote short-term continue to monitor these rules until final to A3 from Baa3, then again in February resilience of one-month liquidity implementation.
Investecplcs profile, by ensuring that banks have long-term issuer rating was also upgraded sufficient high quality liquid assets to by Moodys, from Ba1 to Baa3 in meet potential outflows in a stressed June2015, to Baa2 in February2016, environment.
The BCBS published and then to Baa1 on 26 April 2016. the final calibration of the LCR in InOctober2015, Investec Bank plcs longJanuary2013.
The LCR ratio is being term default rating was upgraded by Fitch phased in from 2015 to 2019. to BBB stable outlook from BBB-.
The net stable funding ratio NSFR This, together with active management of is designed to capture structural the liability channels, has supported the issues over a longer time horizon by continued reduction of funding rates over requiring banks to have a sustainable the year.
The weighted average contractual maturity structure of assets and maturity of the liability book has been liabilities.
The BCBS published the final lengthening, to give closer matching of consultation document on the NSFR in asset and liability maturities.
The NSFR ratio will be The focus continues to be on developing introduced in 2018. the retail funding strategy while maintaining The group has committed itself to good access to a diverse range of funding channels.
Opportunities in the wholesale implementation of the BCBS guidelines for liquidity risk measurement standards and secured funding space have been employed in a strategic manner to extend and the enhanced regulatory framework Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 94 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued It is the responsibility of the liability NON-TRADING INTEREST RATE MANAGEMENT AND product and pricing forum, a subRISK DESCRIPTION MEASUREMENT OF NONcommittee of ALCO, to review the TRADING INTEREST RATE RISK Non-trading interest rate risk, otherwise liquidity, interest rate and concentration known as interest rate risk in the banking characteristics of all new products Non-trading interest rate risk in the book, is the impact on net interest and approve their issuance, ensuring banking book is an inherent consequence earnings and sensitivity to economic that both standard and non-standard of conducting banking activities, and value as a result of unexpected adverse deposit products, particularly those arises from the provision of retail and movements in interest rates arising designed for the Private Banking wholesale non-trading banking products from the execution of our core business customers, both match market curves and services.
The group considers the strategies and the delivery of products and and can be hedged if necessary management of banking margin of vital services to our customers.
importance, and our core non-trading Pricing for all deposit products is set interest rate risk philosophy is reflected in centrally.
In doing so we manage Sources of interest rate risk include: day-to-day practices which encompass access to funding at cost-effective thefollowing: levels, considering also the stressed Repricing risk: arises from the timing differences in the fixed rate maturity liquidity value of the liabilities The group complies with the BCBS and floating rate repricing of bank Balance Sheet Risk Management framework for assessing banking book assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet independently measures and analyses non-trading interest rate risk derivative positions.
This affects the both traditional interest rate repricing The management of interest rate risk interest rate margin realised between mismatch and net present value NPV in the banking book is centralised lending income and borrowing costs sensitivity to changes in interest rate within the Central Treasury function and when applied to our rate sensitive risk factors, detailing the sources of treasury is mandated by the board to portfolios interest rate exposure actively manage the liquidity mismatch Yield curve risk: repricing The bank maintains an internal funds and non-trading interest rate risk arising mismatches also expose the bank to transfer pricing system based on from our asset and liability portfolios changes in the slope and shape of the prevailing market rates which charges Treasury is the primary interface to the yield curve out the price of longand short-term wholesale market Basis risk: arises from imperfect funding to consumers of liquidity and The treasurer is required to exercise correlation in the adjustments of the provides long-term stable funding for tight control of funding, liquidity, rates earned and paid on different our asset creation activity concentration and non-trading interest instruments with otherwise similar Daily management of interest rate rate risk within parameters defined by repricing characteristics riskis centralised within Treasury and the risk appetite policy Embedded option risk: we are not issubject to independent risk and Internal capital is allocated for nonALCO review materially exposed to embedded trading interest rate risk option risk, as contract breakage Non-trading interest rate risk is penalties on fixed-rate advances The risk appetite is clearly defined by measured and analysed by utilising specifically cover this risk, while the board in relation to both earnings standard tools of traditional interest rate prepayment optionality is restricted risk and economic value risk.
In repricing mismatch and NPV sensitivity to variable rate contracts and has no addition, each geographic entity has to changes in interest rate risk factors.
impact on interest rate risk its own board-approved policies with We detail the sources of interest rate respect to non-trading interest rate risk Endowment risk: refers to the interest exposure, whether repricing risk, yield rate risk exposure arising from the curve risk, basis risk or embedded The non-trading interest rate risk net differential between interest option risk.
This is performed for policy dictates that long-term nonrate insensitive assets, interest rate a variety of interest rate scenarios, trading interest rate risk is materially insensitive liabilities and capital.
In accordance with the policy, interest rate swaps are used The above sources of interest rate risk Interest rate expectations and to swap fixed deposits and loans into affect the interest rate margin realised perceived risks to the central view variable rate in the wholesale market between lending income and borrowing Standard shocks to levels and costs, when applied to our rate sensitive Together with the business, the shapes of interest rates and yield asset and liability portfolios, which has a treasurer develops strategies regarding curves direct effect on future net interest income changes in the volume, composition, and the economic value of equity.
pricing and interest rate characteristics Historically-based yield curve of assets and liabilities to mitigate the changes.
interest rate risk and ensure a high degree of net interest margin stability over an interest rate cycle.
These are presented, debated and challenged in the liability product and pricing forum and ALCO Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 95 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued This is consistent with the standardised these vanilla swaps is deep, with the interest rate measurement recommended result that such hedging is efficient.
by the Basel framework for assessing Likewise, Central Treasury also hedges interest rate risk in the banking book all fixed rate deposits with a term of non-trading interest rate risk.
more than one year to variable rate.
These derivative hedging trades are The aim is to protect and enhance net executed with the banks interest rate interest income and economic value in trading desk.
Limits exist to ensure accordance with the board-approved there is no undesired risk retained risk appetite and ensure a high degree within any business or product area.
of net interest margin stability over an interest rate cycle.
Economic value Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk measures have the advantage that all is transferred within pre-defined guidelines future cash flows are considered and from the originating business to the Central therefore can highlight risk beyond the Treasury function and aggregated or netted earnings horizon.
The repricing gap providing Central Treasury with a holistic provides a basic representation of the view of the exposure.
Central Treasury balance sheet, with the sensitivity of then implements appropriate balance earnings to changes to interest rates sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective calculated off the repricing gap.
This source of funding and mitigates any allows for the detection of interest residual undesirable risk where possible, rate risk by concentration of repricing by changing the duration of the banking buckets.
Net interest income sensitivity groups discretionary liquid asset portfolio, measures the change in accruals or through derivative transactions which expected over the specified horizon in transfer the risk into the trading books response to a shift in the yield curve, within the Corporate and Institutional while economic value sensitivity and Banking division to be traded with the stress testing to macro-economic external market.
The treasury mandate movement or changes to the yield allows for a tactical response to market curve measures the interest risk implicit opportunities which may arise during change in net worth as a result of a changing interest rate cycles.
Any resultant change in interest rates on the current interest rate position is managed under the values of financial assets and liabilities market risk limits.
We carry out technical interest Investec has a relatively small endowment rate analysis and economic review risk due to paying market rates on of fundamental developments by all deposits, compared to banks with geography, the results of this evaluation significant low or non-interest-bearing are used to estimate a set of forwardcurrent and cheque accounts.
Endowment looking interest rate scenarios risk due to free funding, comprising mainly incorporating movements in the yield ordinary share capital and reserves, is curve level and shape, after taking managed passively, with the focus on global trends into account measuring and monitoring.
The endowment These combinations of measures risk is included within our non-trading provide senior management and interest rate risk measures.
the ALCOs with an assessment of the financial impact of identified rate The BCBS has indicated that after changes on potential future net interest completing and embedding the current income and sensitivity to changes in reforms covering capital, leverage and economic value liquidity, the capital framework for interest Our risk appetite policy requires that rate risk on the banking book will be revisited.
In part this is due to the increase interest rate risk arising from fixed interest loans is transferred from the in the quantum of high-quality liquid assets originating business to the Central HQLA which banks will need to hold Treasury function by match-funding.
In in meeting the new liquidity ratios and turn, Central Treasury hedges material the potential increase in interest rate risk fixed rate assets with a term of more thereon.
The expectation is that Basel will than one year on a deal-by-deal basis produce additional documents in the next with the use of variable versus fixed year on minimum standards for interest rate interest rate swaps.
The market for risk measurement in the banking book.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 96 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Interest rate sensitivity gap The table below shows our non-trading interest rate mismatch at 31 March 2016.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs assuming no management intervention.
Three Six Not months months One year Total three but six but but Five nonmillion months months one year five years years Non-rate trading Cash and short-term funds banks 3 569 3 569 Investment trading assets and statutoryliquids 984 107 23 335 750 2 199 Securitised assets 151 151 Advances 6 300 611 263 688 359 8 221 Other assets 2 384 2 384 Assets 11 004 718 286 1 023 1 109 2 384 16 524 Deposits banks 488 12 500 Deposits non-banks 8 467 786 959 596 1 10 809 Negotiable paper 172 34 10 488 586 1 290 Securitised liabilities 121 121 Subordinated liabilities 4 18 575 597 Other liabilities 52 1 274 1 326 Liabilities 9 304 832 987 1 084 1 162 1 274 14 643 Shareholders funds 1 881 1 881 Balance sheet 1 700 114 701 61 53 771 Off-balance sheet 468 185 114 95 444 Repricing gap 2 168 71 815 156 497 771 Cumulative repricing gap 2 168 2 239 1 424 1 268 771 Economic value sensitivity at 31 March 2016 For the reasons outlined above, our preference for monitoring and measuring non-trading interest rate risk is economic value sensitivity.
The table below reflects our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates assuming no management intervention.
Thenumbers represent the change to the value of the interest rate sensitive portfolios should such a hypothetical scenario arise.
Thissensitivity effect does not have a significant direct impact on our equity.
Sensitivity to the following interest rates expressed in original currencies million GBP USD EUR AUD ZAR Other GBP All GBP 200bps down 59.4 8.2 12.5 1.3 6.3 0.1 74.5 200bps up 55.0 8.8 17.3 1.3 6.3 0.1 69.8 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 97 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Asset encumbrance An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged as collateral against an existing liability and, as a result, is no longer available to the group to secure funding, satisfy collateral needs or be sold to reduce the funding requirement.
An asset is therefore categorised as unencumbered if it has not been pledged against an existing liability.
Risk Management monitors and manages total balance sheet encumbrance via a board-approved risk appetite framework.
The group utilises securitisation in order to raise external term funding as part of its diversified liability base.
Securitisation notes issued are also retained by the group which are available to provide a pool of collateral eligible to support central bank liquidity facilities, including the Bank of England Funding for Lending Scheme.
The group uses secured transactions to manage short-term cash and collateral needs.
Details of assets pledged through repurchase activity and collateral pledges are reported by line item of the balance sheet on which they are reflected on page222.
Related liabilities are also reported.
On page 197 we disclose further details of assets that have been received as collateral under reverse repurchase agreements and securities borrowing transactions where the assets are allowed to be resold or pledged.
The below asset encumbrance disclosures are based on the requirements set out in the Capital Requirements Regulation and the related guidelines issued by the European Banking Authority in June 2014.
Information on importance of encumbrance Encumbered assets have been identified in accordance with the reporting requirements under European Capital Requirements Regulation CRR.
As at 31 March 2016, 1 925 million of the group's assets were encumbered.
An asset is defined as encumbered if it has been pledged as collateral against an existing liability and asa result is no longer freely available to the group.
Assets Carrying Carrying amount of Fair value of amount of Fair value of encumbered encumbered unencumbered unencumbered million assets assets assets assets 010 Assets of the reporting institution 1 925 15 399 030 Equity instruments 138 138 565 565 040 Debt securities 684 684 1 778 1 778 120 Other assets 575 1 126 Collateral received Fair value of collateral Fair value of received or own debt encumbered collateral securities issued received or own debt available for million securities issued encumbrance 130 Collateral received by the reporting institution 227 1 356 150 Equity instruments 101 160 Debt securities 225 1 020 230 Other collateral received 130 240 Own debt securities issued other than own covered bonds or ABSs Encumbered assets collateral received and associated liabilities Assets, collateral received and own debt Matching liabilities, securities issued other contingent liabilities than covered bonds million or securities lent and ABSs encumbered 010 Carrying amount of selected financial liabilities 1 574 1 650 The above tables only include a subset of underlying product categories and therefore when aggregated may not agree back to the total line items indicated.
The numerical row references included in the above tables reference the asset encumbrance reporting instructions specified in AnnexureXVII of the Commission Implementing Regulation and can also be found in the European Banking Authority encumbrance disclosure guidelines which were published in June 2014.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 98 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Operational risk OPERATIONAL RISK DEFINITION Operational risk is defined as any instance where there is potential or actual impact to the group resulting from failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events.
The impacts can be financial as well as non-financial such as customer detriment, reputational or regulatory consequences.
Operational risk is an inherent risk in the operations of a specialist bank and asset management group.
The group aims to appropriately identify and manage operational risk within acceptable levels by adopting sound operational risk management practices which are integrated into an overall risk management framework which is fit for purpose.
OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The group continues to operate under the standardised approach TSA to operational risk for regulatory capital purposes.
Theframework which includes policies and procedures is embedded at all levels of the group, supported by the risk culture and enhanced on a continual basis as the discipline matures and in line with regulatory developments.
Practices and processes are supported by an operational risk management system which facilitates the identification, assessment and mitigation of operational risk.
Practices consist of the following: RISK AND SCENARIOS CONTROL INTERNAL RISK EXTERNAL KEY RISK AND CAPITAL ASSESSMENT EVENTS RISK EVENTS INDICATORS CALCULATION REPORTING Qualitative Incidents Access to an Metrics are Extreme, Reporting and assessments resulting from external data used to monitor yet plausible escalation that identify key failed systems, provider relating risk exposures scenarios are framework in operational risks processes, to operational identified evaluated for place and controls people or risk events that against financial and external events occur in the thresholds non-financial global financial impacts services industry Identifies A causal analysis Events are Assists in Measure Ensures that ineffective is performed used to raise predictive exposures risk events and controls and and enables management capability and arising from exposures are improves business to awareness and assessing the key risks which identified and decision-making identify trends in as input to risk risk profile of the are considered appropriately through an risk events and assessment and business in determining escalated and understanding address control scenario analysis internal managed of the weaknesses operational operational risk risk capital profile requirements Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 99 PURPOSE DESCRIPTION RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued GOVERNANCE The governance structure relating to operational risk forms an integral part of the operational risk management framework.
The structure adopted to manage operational risk is supported and enforced by a level of defence model and includes principles relating to combined assurance.
ASSURANCE INDEPENDENT BOARD AND EXTERNAL OPERATIONAL BOARD ASSURANCE AND INTERNAL RISK BUSINESS UNIT COMMITTEES SUPERVISION ASSURANCE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT Determination of External Independent Challenge and Identify, own the risk appetite assessment of review of review business and mitigate and tolerance of operational risk framework and its unit practices and operational risk the bank environment effectiveness data Establish Monitor and Onsite reviews by Audit findings Maintain and maintain review operational the FCA, PRA and considered as part operational risk appropriate risk exposures other regulators.
of the operational management operational risk risk management framework and control Approval of the process.
operational risk and procedures management framework.
Report to board and board committees on operational risk events and current and emerging exposures.
RELIANCE RISK APPETITE AND TOLERANCE The Operational Risk Tolerance policy defines the amount of operational risk exposure, or potential adverse impact from a risk event, that the bank is willing to accept or retain.
The objective of the policy is to encourage action and mitigation of risk exposures and provides management with the guidance to respond appropriately.
Additionally, the policy defines capturing and reporting thresholds forrisk events and guidance to respond to key risk indicators appropriately.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 100 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued LOOKING FORWARD Key operational risk considerations DEFINITION OF RISK MITIGATION APPROACH PRIORITY FOR 2016 17 CYBERSECURITY Risk associated with Maintaining a robust cybersecurity strategy focusing Active involvement of cybersecurity teams during on prediction, detection, prevention andresponse systems development, ensuring applications are cyberattacks, including Sharing of threat information with relevant peers, law secure by design disruption of client-facing enforcement and industry bodies Maintenance and testing of security incident systems, data theft, cyber breach response processes ensuring that these are terrorism and espionage consistent, coordinated and global in nature Ongoing research into the latest cyberattack methods and revising controls to ensure the group is adequately protected FINANCIAL CRIME Risk associated with fraud, Identify and assess financial crime risks holistically in Proactive strategy for the effective prevention, clients, sectors and markets detection and investigation measures of all financial bribery, corruption, theft, Consistent implementation of standards to prevent, crime types which includes business and client risk money laundering, terrorist detect, deter and respond to all financial crime assessments financing, tax evasion, forgery incidents Development of financial crime prevention policies and integrity misconduct by Targeted training for the specific risk roles and regular and practices which comply with regulations, staff, clients, suppliersand industry guidance and best practices campaigns to all employees to raise awareness of other stakeholders financial crime risk and associated policies and to Regular delivery of management information focused on key risk indicators encourage escalation Operate an integrity line which allows employees Review external and industry events by engaging with external partners and stakeholders to make disclosures including regulatory breaches, Increased and enhanced monitoring, analysis allegations of bribery, fraud and corruption, and nonof rootcauses and review of internal controls to compliance with policies enhance defences against external attacks INFORMATION SECURITY Risk associated with the Understanding what critical information assets are Identification and classification of most valuable and confidential information assets confidentiality, integrity and and the threats to which they are exposed Ensuring appropriate and robust security controls Implementation and monitoring of information availability of information security policies, standards, processes and arein place assets.
This includes its Raising awareness with relevant stakeholders of technical controls designed to mitigate the risks unauthorised access, use, introduced by the information supply chain policies relating to information security and their disclosure, modification or Align practices with the rapidly changing legal and responsibility in protecting information destruction regulatory requirements to safeguard information PROCESS FAILURE Risk associated with Proactive risk identification and assessment relating Causal analyses is used to identify weaknesses in to new products and projects to implement adequate controls following the occurrence of risk events inadequate internal processes, and effective controls Risk and performance indicators are used to including human errors Continuous process improvements including monitor the effectiveness of controls across and control failures within business units automation of workflow the business.
This includes Segregation of incompatible duties and appropriate Thematic reviews across business units to ensure process origination, execution consistent and efficient applications of controls authorisation controls and operations Effective management of change remains a priority REGULATORY AND COMPLIANCE Risk associated with Alignment of regulatory and compliance approach to Group Compliance and Group Legal assist in the identification, implementation reflect new regulatory landscapes management of regulatory and compliance risk Managing business impact and implemented Identification and adherence to legal and and monitoring of compliance challenges as a result of significant volumes of regulatory requirements with regulations statutory and regulatory changes and developments Review practices and policies as regulatory requirements change Ensuring existing monitoring remains focused appropriately as areas of conduct and regulatory risk develop TECHNOLOGY Risk associated with the Enhancing resilience of technical infrastructure and Ongoing identification and remediation of reliance on technology to process to IT failures or service interruptions vulnerabilities identified in IT systems, applications Identifying, monitoring and reducing risks in the and processes support business processes digital channel, following the introduction of mobile Establishing appropriate IT resilience to support our and client services.
This applications and increased online presence global digital offerings and 24 7 business services relates to the ownership and Maintaining and testing IT recovery capabilities to usage of IT systems across safeguard against disruptions that may result from the business systems failures or IT service outages Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 101 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Analyses how the group could be Insurance affected by the stresses under various We have various The group maintains adequate insurance scenarios to cover key insurable risks.
The insurance policies and practices Includes potential recovery actions available process and requirements are managed to the board and management to respond by the group insurance risk manager.
to mitigate to the situation, including immediate, Regular interaction between Group intermediate and strategic actions reputational risk, Operational Risk Management and Group Insurance Risk Management ensures Assesses how the group might recover including strong that there is an exchange of information as a result of these actions to avoid in order to enhance the mitigation of resolution.
values that are operational risk.
A significant addition to the EU legislative regularly and framework for financial institutions has been the Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive Business continuity proactively reinforced BRRD which establishes a framework for management the recovery and resolution of EU credit The group continues to enhance its global institutions and investment firms.
In the business continuity management capability EU, the BRRD was adopted in June 2014 which incorporates an appropriate level of by the European Commission.
The BRRD resilience built into the banks operations came into effect from 1 January 2015, with to lessen the impact of severe operational the option to delay implementation of bail-in disruptions.
Regardless of this, the UK introduced bail-in powers In the event of a major interruption, from 1 January 2015.
The UK transposition incident management teams will respond of the BRRD builds on the resolution accordingly to manage the disruption.
framework already in place in the UK.
Continuity will be achieved through a flexible and adaptable response, which As implemented, the BRRD gives includes relocating impacted business resolution authorities powers to intervene to the designated recovery site and the in and resolve a financial institution that reliance on highly available technological is no longer viable, including through solutions.
Dedicated resources ensure the transfers of business and, when all governance processes are in place implemented in relevant member states, with business and technology teams creditor financed recapitalisation bail-in responsible for ensuring the recovery within resolution that allocates losses to process meets key business requirements shareholders and unsecured and uninsured to support client and industry expectations.
creditors in their order of seniority, at a regulator determined point of non-viability The group conducts regular business that may precede insolvency.
The concept continuity exercises and testing of recovery of bail-in will affect the rights of unsecured strategies to ensure that its recovery capability creditors subject to any bail-in in the event remains appropriate and fit-for-purpose.
of a resolution of a failing bank.
We are active participants in risk The BRRD also requires competent mitigation discussions amongst industry authorities to impose a Minimum bodies to ensure we stay abreast with Requirement for own funds and Eligible industry views, concerns and associated Liabilities MREL on financial institutions to collaborative efforts to minimise the risk facilitate the effective exercise of the bail-in ofinterruptions.
The BRRD also requires the development Recovery and resolution of recovery and resolution plans at group and firm level.
The BRRD sets out a planning harmonised set of resolution tools across The recovery plan for Investec plc group: the European Union, including the power Integrates with existing contingency to impose a temporary stay on the rights of creditors to terminate, accelerate or close planning out contracts.
Analyses the potential for severe stress in the group In a consultation paper published in 2015, the BoE indicated that during 2016 Identifies roles and responsibilities it will notify banks of their final MREL Identifies early warning indicators and requirements which will be phased in from 1January 2016 to 1 January 2020. trigger levels Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 102 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued The PRA has made rules that require service or association which may bring with The scope of our activities is continuously authorised firms to draw up recovery plans it the risk of a potentially unacceptable level reviewed and includes the following areas: and resolution packs.
Recovery plans are of damage to our reputation.
Transaction Relationship contracts approval governance structures such as designed to outline credible recovery actions that authorised firms could implement in the credit, engagement and new product Legislation governance event of severe stress in order to restore committees have therefore been tasked Litigation with this responsibility in relation to all new their business to a stable and sustainable condition.
The resolution pack contains business undertaken.
A disclosure and Corporate events public communications policy has also detailed information on the authorised firm Incident or crisis management in question which will be used to develop been approved by the board.
resolution strategies for that firm, assess Ongoing quality control.
its current level of resolvability against the Pension risk The legal risk policy is implemented strategy, and to inform work on identifying Pension risk arises from obligations arising through: barriers to the implementation of operational resolution plans.
from defined benefit pension schemes, Identification and ongoing review of areas where Investec plc is required to fund any where legal risk is found to be present In line with PRA and EU requirements, deficit in the schemes.
Investec plc maintains a resolution pack Allocation of responsibility for the There are two defined benefit schemes and a recovery plan.
development of procedures for within Investec plc and both are closed to management and mitigation of these risks new business.
Pension risk arises if the Installation of appropriate segregation Reputational and net present value of future cash outflows is of duties, so that legal documentation greater than the current value of the asset strategic risk is reviewed and executed with the pool set aside to cover those payments.
Reputational risk is damage to our appropriate level of independence from reputation, name or brand.
Reputational risk Primary sources of risk include: the persons involved in proposing or is often associated with strategic decisions promoting the transaction A mismatch in the duration of the made by the board and also arises as a Ongoing examination of the interassets relative to the liabilities result of other risks manifesting and not relationship between legal risk and being mitigated.
Market-driven asset price volatility other areas of risk management, so as The group aspires to maintain an excellent to ensure that there are no gaps in the Increased life expectancy of individuals reputation for entrepreneurship, strong risk risk management process leading to increased liabilities.
management discipline, a client-centric Establishing minimum standards for Investec plc monitors the position of the approach and an ability to be flexible and mitigating and controlling each risk.
funds closely and regularly assesses innovative.
The group recognises the This is the nature and extent of work potential adverse movements in the serious consequences of any adverse to be undertaken by our internal and schemes in close conjunction with external publicity or damage to reputation, whatever external legal resources independent advisers.
Establishing procedures to monitor Further information is provided on We have various policies and practices to compliance, taking into account the mitigate reputational risk, including strong pages 211 to 214. required minimum standards values that are regularly and proactively Establishing legal risk forums bringing reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound Legal risk management together the various legal risk corporate governance practices, which Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from managers to ensure we keep abreast require that activities, processes and of developments and changes in the decisions are based on carefully considered any of our rights not being fully enforceable nature and extent of our activities, and principles.
We are aware of the impact of or from our obligations not being properly to benchmark our processes against practices that may result in a breakdown performed.
This includes our rights and best practice.
of trust and confidence in the organisation.
obligations under contracts entered into The groups policies and practices are with counterparties.
Such risk is especially Overall responsibility for this policy rests with regularly reinforced through transparent applicable where the counterparty defaults the board.
The board delegates responsibility communication, accurate reporting, and the relevant documentation may not give for implementation of the policy to the global continuous group culture and value rise to the rights and remedies anticipated head of legal risk.
The global head assigns assessment, internal audit and regulatory when the transaction was entered into.
responsibility for controlling these risks to the compliance review, and risk management managers of appropriate departments and Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor practices.
Strategic and reputational risk focused units throughout the group.
and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
is mitigated as much as possible through We seek to actively mitigate these risks by these detailed processes and governance A legal risk forum is constituted in each identifying them, setting minimum standards escalation procedures from business significant legal entity within the group.
for their management and allocating clear units to the board, and from regular, Each forum meets at least half-yearly and clear communication with shareholders, responsibility for such management to more frequently where business needs customers and all stakeholders.
In addition, legal risk managers, as well as ensuring dictate, and is chaired by the global head Investecs policy is to avoid any transaction, compliance through proactive monitoring.
oflegal risk or an appointed deputy.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 103 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued In line with the CRD IV provision on capital REGULATORY CAPITAL Conduct risk buffers, in the UK firms are required to The FCA in the UK has outlined its approach to Current regulatory framework meet a combined buffer requirement in managing firms conduct: Investec plc is authorised by the PRA and addition to their Pillar I and Pillar II capital is regulated by the FCA and the PRA on requirements.
The combined buffer By conduct risk we mean the risk that a consolidated basis.
Since 1 January includes the capital conservation buffer detriment is caused to the bank, its customers, 2014 Investec plc has been calculating and countercyclical capital buffer and must its counterparties or the market, as a result of capital resources and requirements at a be met with common equity tier 1 capital.
inappropriate execution of business activities.
group level using the Basel III framework, Thebuffer for global systemically important as implemented in the European Union The focus on conduct risk is intended to go institutions G-SIIs and the systemic through the Capital Requirements beyond the current compliance monitoring risk buffer do not apply to Investec plc DirectiveIV CRD IV.
The group continues frameworks in order to move away from and will not be included in the combined to phase in the remaining CRD IV rule the culture of tick box compliance.
From 1January 2016 changes, notably the grandfathering result, firms are expected to look across their Investec plc began phasing in the capital provisions applicable to non-qualifying business models and strategies and assess conservation buffer at 0.625% of riskcapital instruments reducing by 10% per how to balance the pursuit of profits with good weighted assets.
An additional 0.625% of annum until fully derecognised in 2022 and outcomes for clients and proper standards of risk-weighted assets will be phased-in each the transitional arrangements applicable market conduct.
All firms will be expected to year until fully implemented by 1January to additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital which take an holistic approach to assessing their 2019.
Investec plc is also subject to the continue to be phased out at 20% per key conduct risks and to ensure that these countercyclical capital buffer requirement, are being managed in accordance with FCAs annum, until 1January 2018. which is calculated based on the relevant strategic objectives of protecting clients, exposures held in jurisdictions in which a From 1 January 2015, UK banks are ensuring markets function effectively and buffer rate has been set.
Asat 31 March required to meet the new minimum promoting competition.
2016, three jurisdictions have implemented capital requirements as prescribed by countercyclical buffer rates.
Norway and The groups work on conduct risk, includes CRD IV.
Thecommon equity tier 1 capital Sweden have set a rate of 1% effective assessing key risks across the business, requirement increased from 4% to 4.5% of from 3 October 2015 and have indicated identifying key controls and ensuring that risk-weighted assets, while the tier 1 capital the rate will rise to 1.5% in June2016: the board is receiving the right information requirement increased from 5.5% to 6% of and Hong Kong has implemented a rate of to enable it to challenge effectively the risk-weighted assets.
Thisrate management of such risks by the business.
Bank plc continues to meet 56% of its is also expected to rise to 1.25% from individual capital guidance, as determined January 2017.
In the UK, the Financial by the internal capital adequacy Capital management Policy Committee FPC has maintained assessment and supervisory review the rate at 0% for UK exposures, but has and allocation process, with common equity tier 1 capital.
announced that this rate will rise to 0.5% The PRA issued the Investec plc group CAPITAL MEASUREMENT from 29 March 2017. with a reformatted Pillar IIA requirement of 1.8% of risk-weighted assets, of which Investec Limited and its subsidiaries and The group continues to hold capital in 1.0% has to be met from common equity Investec plc and its subsidiaries are managed excess of all the new capital requirements tier 1 capital.
independently and have their respective capital and buffers.
bases ring-fenced, however, the governance In July and August 2015, the PRA Investec plc uses the standardised of capital management is consistent across published its final policy and supervisory approach to calculate its credit and the two groups.
The DLC structure requires statement setting out the revisions to the counterparty credit risk, securitisation and the two groups to independently manage new Pillar II capital framework, including operational risk capital requirements.
The each groups balance sheet and hence capital introducing the PRAs methodologies for mark-to-market method is used to calculate is managed on this basis.
This approach is setting Pillar II capital.
The new framework overseen by the BRCC via the Investec DLC the counterparty credit risk exposure took effect on 1 January 2016 and includes capital committee which is a board subamount.
The market risk capital requirement the introduction of the PRA buffer, which committee with ultimate responsibility for the is calculated using the standardised has replaced the Capital Planning Buffer capital adequacy of both Investec Limited and approach.
For certain options, the group known as Pillar IIB.
The PRA buffer will Investec plc.
has obtained permission from the PRA to also need to be met from common equity use an internal model to calculate the delta The legal and regulatory treatment of capital tier 1 capital, and will be transitioned in for these positions.
at 25% per annum, until fully phased in is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure by January 2019.
All firms are subject to Subsidiaries of Investec plc may be subject that shareholders have common economic a PRA buffer assessment and the PRA to additional regulations, as implemented and voting interests asif Investec plc and will set a PRA buffer only if it judges that by local regulators in other relevant Investec Limited were a single, unified the CRD IV buffers are inadequate for a jurisdictions.
Where capital is a relevant particular firm given its vulnerability in a enterprise.
Investec Limited and Investec plc consideration, management within each are separately regulated entities operating stress scenario, or where the PRA has regulated entity pays close attention under different regulatory capital regimes.
It is identified risk management and governance to prevailing local regulatory rules as therefore difficult to directly compare the capital failings, which the CRD IV buffers are not determined by their respective regulators.
adequacy of the two entities.
For capital management purposes, it is the Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 104 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued prevailing rules applied to the consolidated underwriting criterion.
The committee will and building societies with retail deposits conduct a comprehensive QIS in 2016 Investec plc group that are monitored equal to or greater than 50billion on closely.
With the support of the groups and the information collected will help an individual or a consolidated basis.
inform the overall calibration of the new prudential advisory and reporting team, Firms in scope of the framework will be local management of each regulated entity standard to ensure adequate capitalisation required to meet a 3% minimum leverage ensures that capital remains prudently and consistency with other components ratio requirement, and to assess that they of the capital framework.
Prior to finalising above minimum requirements at all times.
hold an amount of common equity tier 1 the framework by the end of 2016, the capital that is greater than or equal to their REGULATORY CONSIDERATIONS committee will consider this proposal countercyclical leverage ratio buffer and, along with all other reforms currently under ifthe firm is a global systemically important The regulatory environment has continued discussion to ensure sufficient time is given institution G-SII, its G-SII additional to evolve during 2016, with a vast number for implementation.
leverage ratio buffer from 1 January 2016. of new consultations, regulatory and Investec plc is not within the scope of this implementing technical standards and other Market risk framework and will therefore not be subject proposals being published or adopted, In January 2016, the BCBS published the to the additional leverage ratio reporting notably by the PRA, the BCBS, and the revised market risk framework which will and disclosure requirements.
The new framework revises the boundary between Minimum requirement for own funds INTERNATIONAL the banking book and trading book to and eligible liabilities MREL reduce scope for arbitrage, provides a In December 2015, the Bank of England Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA risk revised internal models approach and BoE published its approach to setting In July 2015 the BCBS issued for a revised standardised approach which MREL.
The consultation paper sets out consultation the revised credit valuation risk will serve as a credible fall-back and floor framework, which takes into account the the BoEs proposed policy for exercising to the model-based approach.
Over the its powers, under the EU Bank Recovery market risk exposure component of CVA implementation period the committee and Resolution Directive and associated risk.
The BCBS will ensure the revisions will monitor the capital impact of the to this framework are consistent with UK legislation, to direct institutions to revised standard to ensure consistency maintain a minimum MREL requirement.
the revised market risk framework.
The proposals will be subject to a Quantitative in the overall calibration of the Basel The purpose of MREL is to help ensure capitalframework.
Impact Study QIS, which will inform the that when banks, building societies and final calibration of the framework.
No investment firms fail, that failure can be Operational risk implementation timelines have been set.
managed in an orderly way while minimising In March 2016, the BCBS released a risk to financial stability, disruption to critical Simple, Transparent and Comparable consultation paper proposing revisions economic functions, and risk to public STC securitisations to the operational risk capital framework.
TheBoE, as resolution authority, is In November 2015, the BCBS released The proposed revisions build on the required to determine an amount necessary a consultation document on the capital earlier consultation issued by BCBS for loss absorption in resolution and an treatment for STC securitisations.
in October2014, in particular the new amount necessary for recapitalisation.
The These proposals build on the revised standardised measurement approach will sum of these amounts constitutes a firms securitisation framework adopted in replace the three existing approaches, MREL.
The BoE is required to set MREL December2014.
Thecriteria for identifying significantly simplifying the regulatory in line with the statutory requirements set STC securitisations were published in framework.
Thecommittee plans out in the Bank Recovery and Resolution July2015 and the committee is proposing to conduct a QIS to help inform the Directive and EBAs technical standards, to reduce the minimum capital requirements calibration of the proposed standard.
which were published in final draft format for such securitisations positions.
A range Noimplementation timeline has been set.
inJuly 2015. of potential reductions in capital charges All the revised standards published by the is suggested and a final decision on the In parallel, the PRA published a consultation BCBS, including the revised counterparty calibration will take place in 2016. paper in December 2015 setting out the credit risk and securitisation frameworks relationship between MREL and regulatory Credit risk adopted in 2014, will need to be adopted buffers.
In this consultation the PRA The BCBS continues to consult on by the European Commission before they proposes that firms should not be able to revisions to the standardised approach become binding on UK firms.
double count common equity tier 1 capital for credit risk and in December 2015 towards MREL and risk-weighted capital and issued a second consultation paper, UK leverage buffers.
addressing concerns raised by respondents Leverage ratio to the first consultation.
The proposals Other systemically important reintroduced the use of external ratings in In July 2015, the FPC directed the PRA to institutions O-SIIs implement a UK leverage ratio framework.
a non-mechanistic manner for exposures In October 2015, the PRA issued a The PRA subsequently published a to banks and corporates.
The proposed consultation paper setting out the criteria risk weighting of real estate loans has also consultation paper setting out how they and scoring methodology to identify O-SIIs been modified, with the loan-to-value ratio intended to meet the FPCs direction and under the Capital Requirements Directive.
as the main risk driver and the committee in December 2015 issued a final policy In February 2016, the PRA issued its final proposes that the assessment of a statement.
The UK leverage ratio framework policy statement and released its 2015 list borrowers ability to pay become a key is applicable to all PRA-regulated banks of UK firms designated as O-SIIs.
ThePRA Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 105 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued will conduct the O-SII identification Leverage suggesting adequate calibration and annually and will publish the list of firms Investec is currently targeting a leverage appropriate adjustments to the capital and designated as O-SIIs by 1 December each ratio above 6%, but will continue to total exposure measure.
O-SIIs, under the UK governments reassess this target for appropriateness As with the governance of capital current implementation of the CRD, pending the outcome of the EBAs report in management, the DLC capital committee are not required to maintain additional July 2016. is responsible for ensuring that the capital buffers.
Investec plc has not been impact of any regulatory changes on the designated an O-SII for 2015.
MANAGEMENT OF CAPITAL leverage ratio is calculated, analysed and ANDLEVERAGE understood at all reporting levels.
EUROPE Capital The leverage exposure measure is Leverage ratio disclosure The DLC capital committee is responsible calculated on a monthly and quarterly In February 2016, the European for ensuring that the impact of any basis and is presented to the DLC capital Commission adopted implementing regulatory change is analysed, committee on a regular basis.
The DLC technical standard 2016 200, establishing understood and planned for.
To capital committee are responsible for a common set of disclosure requirements allow the committee to carry out this monitoring the risk of excessive leverage.
for the leverage ratio, which took effect function the groups prudential advisory immediately in Europe.
Thesedisclosure and reporting team closely monitors requirements form part of the Pillar III CAPITAL MANAGEMENT regulatory developments and regularly disclosure requirements as set out in Part8 presents to the committee on the latest Philosophy and approach of the Capital .
As part Both the Investec Limited and Investecplc of any assessment, the committee is groups operate an approach to capital CAPITAL AND LEVERAGE provided with analysis setting out the management that utilises both regulatory groups capital adequacy position, RATIOTARGETS capital as appropriate to that jurisdiction taking into account the most up-to-date and internal capital, which is an internal Capital interpretation of the rule changes.
In Over recent years, capital adequacy risk-based assessment of capital addition, regular sessions with the board standards for banks have been raised as requirements.
Capital management are held to ensure that members are kept part of attempts to increase the stability primarily relates to management of the up to date with the most salient changes and resilience of the global banking sector.
interaction of both, with the emphasis on to ensure the impact on the group and its Investec Limited and Investec plc have regulatory capital for managing portfolio subsidiaries is monitored and understood.
always held capital in excess of regulatory level capital sufficiency and on internal requirements and the individual groups Leverage capital for ensuring that returns are continue to remain well capitalised.
In the UK, the leverage ratio is a non-riskappropriate given the level of risk taken Accordingly, we are targeting a minimum based measure, with public disclosure at an individual transaction or business common equity tier 1 capital ratio of above applicable from 1 January 2015 applying unitlevel.
10% by March2016, a tier 1 capital ratio the rules set out in the leverage ratio The determination of target capital is of above 11% by March 2016 and a delegated Act.
The leverage ratio is subject total capital adequacy ratio target in the to a monitoring period from 1January2014 driven by our risk profile, strategy and risk range of 14% to 17%.
These targets are to 30 June 2016, at which point the EBA appetite, taking into account the regulatory continuously assessed for appropriateness.
will report to the European Commission and market factors applicable to the group.
THE SIMPLIFIED INTEGRATION OF RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Risk modelling Pricing and Risk Risk Internal and performance identification assessment capital quantification measurement Managed by each Managed by Risk reporting business unit Group Capital Capital and business as Management Group and Group Risk management usual risk strategy departments with oversight by and planning management with oversight by DLC capital ERRF BRCC GRCC committee BRCC Scenario testing Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 106 ONGOING RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued At the most fundamental level, we seek to In order to achieve these objectives, the The following risks are included within the balance our capital consumption between internal capital framework describes the internal capital framework and quantified for prudent capitalisation in the context of following approach to the integration of risk capital allocation purposes: the groups risk profile and optimisation of and capital management.
Credit and counterparty risk, including: shareholder returns.
Ourinternal capital framework is designed to manage and RISK ASSESSMENT AND underlying counterparty risk: achieve this balance.
REPORTING concentration risk: and The internal capital framework is based We review the business continuously to on the groups risk identification, review securitisation risk.
maintain a close understanding of our and assessment processes and is used to universe of risks, which are analysed Market risk provide a risk-based approach to capital through the risk management governance allocation, performance and structuring of framework under stewardship of BRCC.
Equity and investment risk held in the our balance sheet.
The objectives of the Key risks are reviewed and debated by banking book internal capital framework are to quantify senior management on a continuous basis.
the minimum capital required to: Balance sheet risk, including: Assessment of the materiality of risks is directly linked to the boards stated risk maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the liquidity: and appetite and approved risk management boards risk appetite across all risks policies covering all key risks.
banking book interest rate risk.
faced by the group: Key identified risks are monitored by Group Strategic and reputational risk provide protection to depositors against Risk Management and by Internal Audit losses arising from risks inherent in Pension risk to ensure that each risk is managed to an thebusiness: acceptable level.
Detailed performance Operational risk, which is considered as and control metrics of these risks are provide sufficient capital surplus to an umbrella term and covers a range reported to each ERRF and BRCC meeting ensure that the group is able to retain of independent risks including, but not including, where appropriate, the results its going concern basis under relatively limited to fraud, litigation, business of scenario testing.
Key risk types that severe operating conditions: and continuity, outsourcing and out of policy are considered, fall within the following trading.
The specific risks covered are inform the setting of minimum regulatory categories: assessed dynamically through constant capital through the Supervisory Review review of the underlying business Credit and counterparty risk and Evaluation Process SREP.
Market risk The DLC capital committee seeks to CAPITAL PLANNING AND optimise the balance sheet such that capital Equity and investment risk in the held is in excess of internal capital.
Internal STRESS SCENARIO TESTING banking book capital performs a critical role in: A group capital plan is prepared and Balance sheet liquidity and non-trading maintained to facilitate discussion of the investment decision-making and pricing interest rate risk impact of business strategy and market that is commensurate with the risk conditions on capital adequacy.
This plan is beingtaken: Operational, conduct and reputational designed to assess capital adequacy under risk allocating capital according to the a range of economic and internal conditions greatest expected marginal risk-based over the medium term three years, with Legal risk considered within operational return, and tracking performance on the impact on earnings, asset growth, risk risk for capital purposes.
thisbasis: appetite and liquidity considered.
The plan Each of these risk categories may consist provides the board via the BRCC with an determining transactional risk-based of a number of specific risks, each of which input into strategy and the setting of risk returns on capital: are analysed in detail and managed by appetite by considering business risks and ERRF, GRCC and BRCC.
potential vulnerabilities, capital usage and rewarding performance, taking into funding requirements given constraints account the relative levels of risk RISK MODELLING AND where these exist.
adopted by forming a basis for the QUANTIFICATION INTERNAL determination of economic value added Capital planning is performed regularly, at a transactional level, and hence CAPITAL with regulatory capital being the key driver the basis for discretionary variable of decision-making.
The goal of capital Internal capital requirements are quantified remuneration: and planning is to provide insight into potential by analysis of the potential impact of key sources of vulnerability of capital adequacy risks to a degree consistent with our risk comparing risk-based performance by way of market, economic or internal appetite.
Internal capital requirements across business areas.
As such, we stress the capital plans are supported by the board-approved The framework has been approved by based on conditions most likely to place us risk assessment process described the board and is managed by the DLC under duress.
Quantification of all risks is capital committee, which is responsible for based on analysis of internal data, are agreed by the DLC capital committee oversight of the management of capital on after research and consultation with management expertise and judgement, a regulatory and an internal capital basis.
Such plans are Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 107 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued used by management to formulate balance level of deal initiation.
Using expectations of Regulation solo-consolidation waiver and sheet strategy and agree management risk-based returns as the basis for pricing reports to the PRA on a solo-consolidation actions, trigger points and influence the and deal acceptance ensures that risk basis.
Investec Bank plc has two solodetermination of our riskappetite.
management retains a key role in ensuring the consolidation subsidiaries namely, Investec portfolio is appropriately managed for that risk.
Finance plc and Investec Investments The output of capital planning allows senior UK Limited.
management to make decisions to ensure In addition to pricing, returns on internal that the group continues to hold sufficient capital are monitored and relative performance There are no current or foreseen material capital to meet regulatory and internal is assessed on this basis.
Assessment of practical or legal impediments to the prompt capital targets.
On certain occasions, performance in this way is a fundamental transfer of capital resources or repayment of especially under stressed scenarios, consideration used in setting strategy and risk liabilities among the parent undertaking and management may plan to undertake a appetite as well as rewarding performance.
Assessment of the These processes have been embedded relative merits of undertaking various The table which follows reconciles the across the business with the process actions is then considered using an internal Investec plc groups financial accounting designed to ensure that risk and capital view of relative returns across portfolios balance sheet to the regulatory scope management form the basis for key decisions, which are themselves based on internal balance sheet.
at both a group and at a transactional level.
assessments of risk and capital.
The alphabetic references included in the Responsibility for oversight for each of these Our capital plans are designed to allow reconciliation provide a mapping of the processes ultimately falls to the BRCC.
senior management and the board balance sheet items to elements included toreview: inthe capital structure table, set out on ACCOUNTING AND pages 113 and 114.
REGULATORY TREATMENT OF Changes to capital demand caused by implementation of agreed strategic GROUP SUBSIDIARIES Regulatory capital requirements are driven objectives, including the creation or by the regulatory balance sheet and not the Investec plc and Investec Limited are the acquisition of new businesses, or as financial accounting balance sheet.
two listed holding companies in terms of a result of the manifestation of one the DLC structure.
Investec Bank is the or more of the risks to which we are A detailed list of principal subsidiaries main banking subsidiary of Investec plc.
and associates included in the financial potentially susceptible accounting scope of consolidation are The impact on profitability of current and BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION disclosed on pages 228 to 231. future strategies The regulatory basis of consolidation differs from the basis of consolidation used for REGULATORY CAPITAL AND Required changes to the capital financial reporting purposes.
Thefinancial REQUIREMENTS structure accounting position of the group is reported Regulatory capital is divided into three main The impact of implementing a proposed under IFRS and is described on page 158 of categories, namely common equity tier 1, dividend strategy the annual financialstatements.
tier1 and tier 2 capital and comprise the The impact of alternate market The regulatory consolidation includes all following: or operating conditions on any of financial sector subsidiaries, the majority Common equity tier 1 capital comprises theabove.
of which are wholly owned by the relevant shareholders equity and related eligible parent company.
Investments in financial At a minimum level, each capital plan non-controlling interests after giving effect sector associates are equity accounted in assesses the impact on our capital to deductions for disallowed items for the financial accounting consolidation.
In the adequacy over expected case, upturn example, goodwill and intangible assets regulatory consolidation we proportionally and downturn scenarios.
On the basis and other adjustments consolidate our exposures to financial sector of the results of this analysis, the DLC associates.
Subsidiaries and associates Additional tier 1 capital includes qualifying capital committee and the BRCC are engaged in non-financial activities are capital instruments that are capable presented with the potential variability in excluded from the regulatory consolidation.
of being fully and permanently written capital adequacy and are responsible, in In addition SPEs are not consolidated for consultation with the board, for considering down or converted into common equity regulatory purposes, where significant credit tier 1 capital at the point of non-viability the appropriate response.
risk has been transferred to third parties.
of the firm, and other additional tier 1 The positions the firm continues to hold in instruments, which no longer qualify as PRICING AND PERFORMANCE these securitisation SPEs will either be riskadditional tier 1 capital and are subject MEASUREMENT weighted and or deducted from common to grandfathering provisions and related equity tier 1capital.
The use of internal capital as an allocation tool eligible non-controlling interests means that all transactions are considered The principal SPE excluded from the Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying in the context of their contribution to return regulatory scope of consolidation is Tamarin subordinated debt and related eligible on risk-adjusted capital.
This ensures that Securities Limited.
expected returns are sufficient after taking non-controlling interests and other tier2 instruments, which no longer qualify recognition of the inherent risk generated for Investec Bank plc, a regulated subsidiary a given transaction.
This approach allows us of Investec plc, applies the provisions laid as tier 2 capital and are subject to to embed risk and capital discipline at the down in article 9 of the Capital Requirements .
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 108 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued CAPITAL DISCLOSURES The composition of our regulatory capital under a CRD IV basis is provided in the table below.
RECONCILIATION OF THE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BALANCE SHEET TO THE REGULATORY SCOPE OFCONSOLIDATION Deconsolidation of Accounting non-financial Consolidation Regulatory At 31 March 2016 balance other of banking balance million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Cash and balances at central banks 2 638 2 638 Loans and advances to banks 1 112 78 6 1 040 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral onsecurities borrowed 557 557 Sovereign debt securities 1 253 1 253 Bank debt securities 188 188 Other debt securities 394 394 Derivative financial instruments 838 838 Securities arising from trading activities 524 524 Investment portfolio 451 451 Loans and advances to customers 7 804 20 7 824 Other loans and advances 417 32 449 Other securitised assets 151 151 Capital invested in insurance and other entities 4 4 Interests in associated undertakings 24 17 7 Deferred taxation assets 85 1 86 of which: relates to losses carried forward a 8 8 relates to temporary differences 35 35 Other assets 1 705 15 8 1 698 of which: pension asset b 46 46 Property and equipment 56 20 36 Investment property 79 79 Goodwill c 357 6 363 Intangible assets c 123 123 Total assets 18 756 77 24 18 703 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 109 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued RECONCILIATION OF THE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BALANCE SHEET TO THE REGULATORY SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION continued Deconsolidation of Accounting non-financial Consolidation Regulatory At 31 March 2016 balance other of banking balance million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Deposits by banks 544 75 15 484 Derivative financial instruments 964 964 Other trading liabilities 227 227 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 281 281 Customer accounts deposits 10 809 99 10 908 Debt securities in issue 1 829 104 1 725 Liabilities arising on securitisation of other assets 121 26 147 Current taxation liabilities 141 141 Deferred taxation liabilities 34 3 31 of which: in respect of acquired intangibles c 21 21 in respect of pension assets b 8 8 Other liabilities 1 329 1 9 1 337 Subordinated liabilities 597 597 of which: term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital d 597 597 Total liabilities 16 876 58 24 16 842 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests e 1 867 19 1 848 of which: perpetual preference shares included in additional tier 1 capital f 130 130 perpetual preference shares included in tier 2 capital d 20 20 Non-controlling interests g 13 13 of which: preferred securities included in additional tier 1 capital h Total equity 1 880 19 1 861 Total liabilities and equity 18 756 77 24 18 703 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 110 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued RECONCILIATION OF THE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BALANCE SHEET TO THE REGULATORY SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION continued Deconsolidation of Accounting non-financial Consolidation Regulatory At 31 March 2015 balance other of banking balance million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Cash and balances at central banks 2 181 2 181 Loans and advances to banks 1 054 33 6 1 027 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral onsecurities borrowed 1 448 1 448 Sovereign debt securities 1 213 1 213 Bank debt securities 226 226 Other debt securities 222 1 221 Derivative financial instruments 775 3 772 Securities arising from trading activities 670 670 Investment portfolio 401 5 406 Loans and advances to customers 7 061 13 7 074 Other loans and advances 555 116 439 Other securitised assets 412 180 232 Capital invested in insurance and other entities 6 6 Interests in associated undertakings 22 17 5 Deferred taxation assets 74 74 of which: relates to losses carried forward a 8 8 Other assets 1 336 24 12 1 324 of which: pension asset b 36 36 Property and equipment 63 23 40 Investment property 66 66 Goodwill c 356 6 362 Intangible assets c 137 137 Total assets 18 272 369 20 17 923 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 111 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued RECONCILIATION OF THE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BALANCE SHEET TO THE REGULATORY SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION continued Deconsolidation of Accounting non-financial Consolidation Regulatory At 31 March 2015 balance other of banking balance million Ref sheet entities associates sheet Deposits by banks 222 73 7 156 Derivative financial instruments 953 953 Other trading liabilities 252 252 Repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent 597 597 Customer accounts deposits 10 306 64 10 370 Debt securities in issue 1 352 160 1 192 Liabilities arising on securitisation of other assets 331 134 197 Current taxation liabilities 105 105 Deferred taxation liabilities 45 11 34 of which: in respect of acquired intangibles c 26 26 in respect of pension assets b 7 7 Other liabilities 1 438 10 13 1 461 Subordinated liabilities 597 597 of which: term subordinated debt included in tier 2 capital d 597 597 Total liabilities 16 198 304 20 15 914 Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests e 1 914 65 1 849 of which: perpetual preference shares included in additional tier 1 capital f 130 130 perpetual preference shares included in tier 2 capital d 20 20 Non-controlling interests g 160 160 of which: preferred securities included in additional tier 1 capital h 144 144 Total equity 2 074 65 2 009 Total liabilities and equity 18 272 369 20 17 923 The references identify balance sheet components which are used in the calculation of regulatory capital.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 112 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION Capital structure and capital adequacy Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all capital instruments is provided on pages 215 to 220.
The transitional own funds disclosure template, capital instruments main features template, leverage ratio templates and the countercyclical capital buffer disclosure templates, prescribed by the Capital Requirements Regulation, will beavailable on the Investec group website.
31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Investec Investec million Ref plc IBP plc IBP Tier 1 capital Shareholders equity 1 652 1 793 1 642 1 734 Shareholders equity per balance sheet e 1 867 1 844 1 914 1 800 Foreseeable dividends 46 34 57 15 Perpetual preference share capital and sharepremium f: d 150 150 Deconsolidation of special purpose entities e 19 17 65 51 Non-controlling interests 10 1 9 Non-controlling interests per balance sheet g 13 1 160 1 Non-controlling interests transferred to tier 1 h 144 Non-controlling interests in deconsolidated entities 1 Surplus non-controlling interest disallowed in common equity tier 1 3 7 Regulatory adjustments to the accounting basis 43 6 44 15 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment b 37 29 Additional value adjustments 6 6 15 15 Deductions 478 386 485 394 Goodwill and intangible assets net of deferred taxation c 466 374 473 382 Deferred taxation assets that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences a 8 8 8 8 Securitisation positions 4 4 4 4 Common equity tier 1 capital 1 141 1 400 1 122 1 325 Additional tier 1 capital 130 205 Additional tier 1 instruments f: h 130 274 Phase out of non-qualifying additional tier1instruments 69 Tier 1 capital 1 271 1 400 1 327 1 325 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The information for Investec plc includes the information for IBP.
The capital adequacy disclosures for Investec plc and IBP include the deduction of foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital as now required under the CRR and EBA technical standards.
These disclosures are different to the capital adequacy disclosures included in Investecs 2016 and 2015 integrated annual report, which follow our normal basis of presentation and do not include the deduction for foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital.
Investec plc and IBPs common equity tier 1 ratios would be 40bps 31 March 2015: 50bps and 30bps 31 March 2015: 10bps higher, respectively, on thisbasis.
The references refer to those in the reconciliation of the regulatory scope balance sheet set out on pages 109 to 112.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 113 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION continued Capital structure and capital adequacy continued 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 million Ref Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Tier 2 capital 535 590 556 590 Tier 2 instruments d 610 590 610 590 Phase out of non-qualifying tier 2 instruments Non-qualifying surplus capital attributable to non-controlling interests 75 54 Total regulatory capital 1 806 1 990 1 883 1 915 Risk-weighted assets 12 297 11 738 11 608 10 967 Capital ratios Common equity tier 1 ratio 9.3% 11.9% 9.7% 12.1% Tier 1 ratio 10.3% 11.9% 11.4% 12.1% Total capital ratio 14.7% 17.0% 16.2% 17.5% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Theinformation for Investec plc includes the information for IBP.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 114 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued CAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND ALLOCATION continued Capital requirements 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Capital requirements 984 939 929 878 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 711 698 649 634 Corporates 341 338 287 285 Secured on real estate property 150 150 133 133 Retail 44 44 36 36 Institutions 32 35 36 33 Other exposure classes 135 122 146 136 Securitisation exposures 9 9 11 11 Equity risk standardised approach 8 8 11 11 Listed equities 3 3 4 4 Unlisted equities 5 5 7 7 Counterparty credit risk 41 41 35 35 Credit valuation adjustment risk 5 5 3 4 Market risk 76 74 74 71 Interest rate 27 27 26 26 Foreign exchange 23 21 20 17 Equities 16 16 23 23 Options 10 10 5 5 Operational risk standardised approach 143 113 157 123 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 12 297 11 738 11 608 10 967 Credit risk prescribed standardised exposure classes 8 883 8 720 8 111 7 923 Corporates 4 260 4 224 3 588 3 561 Secured on real estate property 1 876 1 876 1 657 1 657 Retail 550 550 453 450 Institutions 397 439 450 410 Other exposure classes 1 693 1 524 1 822 1 704 Securitisation exposures 107 107 141 141 Equity risk standardised approach 103 102 140 140 Listed equities 43 43 52 52 Unlisted equities 60 59 88 88 Counterparty credit risk 515 518 436 436 Credit valuation adjustment risk 57 58 42 47 Market risk 955 924 922 888 Interest rate 332 332 328 328 Foreign exchange 292 261 246 212 Securities underwriting Equities 201 201 291 291 Options 130 130 57 57 Operational risk standardised approach 1 784 1 416 1 957 1 533 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 115 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Investec plc Movement in risk-weighted assets Total risk-weighted assets RWAs have increased by 6% over the period, predominantly within credit risk RWAs.
Credit risk RWAs For Investec plc consolidated reporting, we have adopted the standardised approach for calculating credit risk RWAs.
Credit risk RWAs, which include equity risk, increased by 0.7 billion.
The increase is primarily attributable to a growth in secured corporate and residential mortgage lending.
Counterparty credit risk RWAs and Credit Valuation Risk CVA Counterparty credit risk and CVA RWAs increased by 94 million mainly due to increased trading volumes.
Market risk RWAs We apply the standardised approach for calculating market risk RWAs.
Market risk RWAs increased marginally by 33million.
Operational risk RWAs Operational risk RWAs are calculated using the standardised approach and decreased by 173million.
The decrease is due to a lower three-year average operating income, primarily driven by the removal of operating income relating to strategic disposals from the threeyear average operating income.
A SUMMARY OF CAPITAL ADEQUACY AND LEVERAGE RATIOS 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Investec Investec plc IBP plc IBP Common equity tier 1 as reported 9.3% 11.9% 9.7% 12.1% Common equity tier 1 fully loaded 9.3% 11.9% 9.7% 12.1% Tier 1 as reported 10.3% 11.9% 11.4% 12.1% Total capital adequacy ratio as reported 14.7% 17.0% 16.2% 17.5% Leverage ratio permanent capital 6.7% 7.5% 7.8% 7.5% Leverage ratio current 6.7% 7.5% 7.4% 7.5% Leverage ratio fully loaded 6.1% 7.5% 6.3% 7.5% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
The capital adequacy disclosures for Investec plc and IBP include the deduction of foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital as now required under CRR and EBA technical standards.
These disclosures are different to the capital adequacy disclosures included in Investecs 2016 and 2015 integrated annual report, which follow our normal basis of presentation and do not includethe deduction for foreseeable dividends when calculating common equity tier 1 capital.
Investec plc and IBPs common equity tier 1 ratios would be 40bps 31March 2015: 50bps and 30bps 31March 2015: 10bps higher, respectively on this basis.
Based on the groups understanding of current regulations fully loaded is based on Basel III capital requirements as fully phased in by2022.
The leverage ratios are calculated on an end-quarter basis.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 116 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued RECONCILIATION OF THE LEVERAGE RATIO The leverage ratio is calculated using the CRR definition of leverage which was adopted by the European Commission via a delegated Act in October 2014 and came into force from 1 January 2015.
Theleverage ratio has been disclosed using both a transitional and fully loaded capital measure.
Investec plcs leverage ratio has increased as a result of increased exposures driven by loans and other advances to customers and cash and balances to central banks.
Investec Bank plcs leverage ratio has remained unchanged as a result of an increase in tier 1 capital, driven by profits generated during the year, which was offset by increased exposure.
31 March 2016 31 March 2015 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Total assets per accounting balance sheet 18 756 18 335 18 272 17 943 Deconsolidation of non-financial other entities 77 80 369 372 Consolidation of banking associates 24 8 20 12 Total assets per regulatory balance sheet 18 703 18 263 17 923 17 583 Reversal of accounting values: Derivatives 838 843 772 803 Regulatory adjustments: 966 1 145 729 964 Market risk Derivatives market value 326 328 264 289 Derivative add-on amounts per the mark-to-market method 512 519 449 452 Securities financing transaction add-on for counterparty credit risk 126 126 324 324 Off-balance sheet items 595 554 315 301 Add-on for written credit derivatives 9 9 7 7 Exclusion of items already deducted from the capital measure 602 391 567 409 Exposure measure 18 831 18 565 17 943 17 744 Tier 1 capital 1 271 1 400 1 327 1 325 Leverage ratio current 6.7% 7.5% 7.4% 7.5% Tier 1 capital fully loaded 1 141 1 400 1 122 1 325 Leverage ratio fully loaded 6.1% 7.5% 6.3% 7.5% Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Based on the groups understanding of current regulations fully loaded is based on capital requirements as fully phased in by 2022.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 117 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued MOVEMENT IN TOTAL REGULATORY CAPITAL The table below analyses the movement in common equity tier 1, additional tier 1 and tier 2 capital during the year.
Total regulatory capital flow statement 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 million Investec plc IBP Investec plc IBP Opening common equity tier 1 capital 1 122 1 325 1 146 1 360 New capital issues 23 25 Dividends 128 40 121 172 Profit loss after taxation 128 95 31 110 Treasury shares 91 55 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 142 Gain on transfer of non-controlling interests 1 Share-based payment adjustments 28 5 35 4 Movement in other comprehensive income 10 16 46 53 Goodwill and intangible assets deduction net of related taxationliability 7 7 85 49 Deferred taxation that relies on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences 30 30 Deconsolidation of special purpose entities 46 34 34 22 Non-controlling interest transferred to tier 1 144 Foreseeable dividend 11 19 4 17 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 3 9 17 2 Closing common equity tier 1 capital 1 141 1 400 1 122 1 325 Opening additional tier 1 capital 205 234 Redeemed capital 145 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 70 29 Closing additional tier 1 capital 130 205 Closing tier 1 capital 1 271 1 400 1 327 1 325 Opening tier 2 capital 556 590 662 637 Redeemed capital 13 13 Sale of subsidiaries 63 39 Other, including regulatory adjustments and transitional arrangements 21 30 5 Closing tier 2 capital 535 590 556 590 Opening other deductions from total capital Connected funding of a capital nature Investments that are not material holdings or qualifying holdings Closing other deductions from total capital Closing total regulatory capital 1 806 1 990 1 883 1 915 Where: IBP is Investec Bank plc consolidated.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 118 RISK MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THREE Risk management continued Analysis of rated counterparties in each standardised credit exposure class The table below shows the breakdown of rated credit risk exposures by credit quality step as prescribed by the Capital Requirements Regulation for the purposes of The Standardised approach for the mapping of external credit assessments for credit quality steps.
31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Exposure Exposure after after Credit quality step credit risk credit risk million Exposure mitigation Exposure mitigation Central banks and sovereigns 1 3 842 3 842 3 374 3 374 2 23 23 3 4 5 6 Institutions 1 388 366 279 279 2 469 455 663 549 3 155 155 52 52 4 43 19 2 2 5 6 Corporates 1 2 2 30 4 3 51 5 4 6 2 5 2 2 6 6 6 Securitisation positions 1 265 265 184 184 2 63 63 56 56 3 19 19 76 76 4 1 1 5 Resecuritisation positions 1 2 3 3 3 3 3 4 5 Total rated counterparty exposure 5 338 5 200 4 719 4 605 The institutions exposure class includes exposures to institutions with an original effective maturity of more than and less than three months.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2016 119
