Risk management Managing risk: our framework for balancing risk and reward A robust and effective risk management framework is essential for the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to ensure that the directors are able to manage the business in a sustainable manner, which protects its employees, partners, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Ongoing consideration of, and regular updates to, the policies intended to mitigate risk enable the effective balancing of risk and reward.
During 2016 we have continued to build on our Governance existing risk management framework, enhancing risk Overall responsibility for the risk framework and management and internal control processes.
This definition of risk appetite rests with the Board, who included the creation on a Risk Council in the latter through regular review of risks ensure that risk part of the year, to support the Executive Committee exposure is matched with an ability to achieve the and Board in their risk management responsibilities.
Risk identification, using In addition to our permanent risk management a structured risk framework, is carried out primarily activities, our priority for 2017 is to enhance risk by the management team with non-executive review management within our front line operations, being carried out by the audit and risk committee.
supported by a programme of activity including an external risk review of the groups US operations.
Risk management process Ranking of the Groups risks is carried out by combining the economic, operational or environmental impact of risks and the likelihood that they may occur.
Those risks that are considered to pose the greatest threat to the Group and score the highest are identified as principal risks.
The operations of the Group, and the implementation of its objectives and strategy, are subject to a number of principal risks and uncertainties.
Were more than one of the risks to occur together, the overall impact on the Group may be compounded.
The design and ongoing effectiveness of the key controls over the Groups principal risks are documented using an assurance map, which includes an assessment of the net risk impact and likelihood post mitigating controls.
The key controls over the Groups identified principal risks are reviewed by management, the audit and risk committee and the Board at least twice a year.
However, the Groups risk management programme can only provide KEY reasonable, not absolute, assurance that principal risks are managed to an acceptable level.
Direct Reporting Review & Challenge 38 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Risk Management IP Group risk management framework FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE OF DEFENCE Front line ownership of Oversight and challenge by the Independent assurance risk process, reporting and Risk Council, Central Functions effectiveness and Management Board Executive Audit & Risk IP Exec Committee Management IP Capital Risk Council IP Assist Collated risk IP Group Inc. registers Front Line Operations Central Functions HR Biotech Finance Cleantech Internal & external audit IT Healthcare Legal & Cosec Technology 39 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM CONSOLIDATION, ANALYSIS, REPORTING, OVERSIGHT CHALLENGE, FEEDBACK, LEARNING Risk management CONTINUED Summary of principal risks and mitigants A summary of the principal risks affecting the Group and the steps taken to manage these is set out below.
Further discussion of the Groups approach to principal risks and uncertainties are given on page 67 of the Corporate Governance Report and pages 90 and 91 of the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee, while further disclosure of the Groups financial risks are set out in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 113 and 115.
RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI The success of those portfolio The Group has significant balance The Group announced the proposed acquisition Change in fair value 1 It may be difficult for the companies which require significant sheet and managed funds capital of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd, the UKs leading of equity and debt Group and its early-stage funding in the future may be to deploy in attractive portfolio university spinout focused EIS fund manager.
influenced by the markets appetite opportunities.
The acquisition reinforces IP Groups access to Total equity net for investment in early stage a diversified pool of capital for co-funding the The Groups operations are reliant on assets.
The Group operates a corporate companies, which may not be earlier stages of the portfolio.
capital markets, particularly those in finance function which carries out Profit loss sufficient.
As the Groups operations, fundraising mandates for portfolio The Group hosted investor relations roadshows in attributable to and the operations of the majority of Failure of companies within the companies.
its portfolio companies, are based in Groups portfolio may make it more The Group maintains close the UK, the financial and operational difficult for the Group or its spinrelationships with a wide variety of coperformance of the Group and out companies to raise additional investors that focus on companies at particularly the ability of its portfolio capital.
companies to attract development The Group frequently forecasts cash capital is influenced by the general requirements of the portfolio and economic climate and trading ensures all capital allocations are conditions in the UK.
compliant with budgetary limits, treasury policy guidelines and transaction authorisation controls.
Portfolio company failure directly The Groups staff have significant The Groups portfolio companies raised Change in fair value 2 The returns and cash impacts the Groups value and experience in sourcing, developing approximately 230m of capital.
of equity and debt proceeds from the Groups profitability.
and growing early-stage technology investments.
The Group maintained board representation on early-stage companies can companies to significant value, At any time, a large proportion of Purchase of more than 80% of companies by number.
including use of the Groups systematic the Groups portfolio value may be equity and debt 2016 saw significant volatility in equity markets, opportunity evaluation and business accounted for by one, or very few, investments.
The following risks are typically particularly around the timing of the Brexit building methodologies within companies, which could exacerbate associated with early-stage Proceeds from referendum.
the impact of any impairment or companies: the sale of equity failure of one or more of these Members of the Groups senior team investments.
may not be able to secure later companies.
Oxford Nanopore is often serve as non-executive directors rounds of funding: an example of such a portfolio or advisers to portfolio companies to company that has the potential help identify and remedy critical issues may not be able to source or retain to materially impact the Groups promptly.
Support on operational, legal and competing technologies may enter The value of the Groups in-house company secretarial matters is offered the market: drug discovery company MBS may to minimise failures due to common technology can be materially be significantly impacted by a administrative factors.
unproven and may fail: negative clinical trial result.
The Group has spin-out company IP may be infringed, copied or Cash realisations from the Groups holdings across different sectors stolen: portfolio through trade sales and managed by experienced sectorIPOs could vary significantly from specialist teams to reduce the impact may be more susceptible to cyber year to year.
of a single company failure or sector crime: and demise.
other administrative, taxation or The Group maintains significant cash compliance issues may lead to balances and seeks to employ a capital company failure.
efficient process deploying low levels of initial capital to enable identification and mitigation of potential failures at the earliest possible stage.
KEY Increase Decrease No change Create Develop Deliver 40 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Risk Management RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI The success of those portfolio The Group has significant balance The Group announced the proposed acquisition Change in fair value 1 It may be difficult for the companies which require significant sheet and managed funds capital of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd, the UKs leading of equity and debt Group and its early-stage funding in the future may be to deploy in attractive portfolio university spinout focused EIS fund manager.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Risk management CONTINUED RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI Termination or non-renewal of Dedicated New Business & Completed agreements with two additional US Number of 3 Universities or other arrangements through failure to Partnerships team to service existing university partners.
new portfolio research-intensive perform obligations may result in partnerships and source new companies.
The Group announced the proposed acquisition institutions may terminate the loss of exclusive rights.
of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd. Parkwalks investment their partnerships or other The loss of exclusive rights may The Group continues to consider vehicles include the University of Cambridge collaborative relationships limit the Groups ability to secure and, where appropriate, enter into Enterprise Funds, the University of Oxford with the Group.
attractive IP opportunities to new and innovative partnerships Innovation Funds and the University of Bristol commercialise.
and collaborations with research Enterprise Funds.
The Directors believe that The Groups business, results of institutions.
Parkwalks strong links to university partners will operations and prospects are at least This could potentially have a be beneficial to the Group.
partially dependent on competitive material adverse effect on the The Group has been able to source advantage gained from access to Groups long-term business, results opportunities through non-exclusive Completed seed investments with both Oxford leading scientific research through of operations, performance and relationships and other sources.
Sciences Innovation and Cambridge Innovation partnerships and other collaborative prospects.
Capital as co-investors, demonstrating the value Members of the Groups senior team arrangements with research-intensive of our strategic stakes in these partners.
With several new entrants to work closely with partner institutions institutions and commercial partners our market, this may reduce our to ensure that each commercial such as Oxford Sciences Innovation opportunities to create new spinrelationship is mutually beneficial and plc, Technikos LLP and Cambridge out businesses.
The Group may The Groups track record in IP be unable to recreate these elements commercialisation may make the of its competitive advantage in other Group a partner of choice for other geographies in which it may seek to institutions, acting as a barrier to entry operate such as the US.
Loss of key executives and Senior team succession plans are in The Group continues to promote an open culture Total equity 4 The Group may lose key employees of the Group or an place and updated regularly.
of communication and provides an inspiring and Net assets.
personnel or fail to attract inability to attract, retain and challenging workplace where people are given The Groups corporate culture and and integrate new personnel.
Number of integrate appropriately skilled autonomy to do their jobs.
We are fully supportive values are well-articulated and new portfolio and experienced staff could have of flexible working and have enabled employees The industry in which the Group consistently promoted.
an adverse effect on the Groups with technology to work flexibly.
The Group also operates is a specialised area and The Group carries out regular market competitive advantage, business, continues to dedicate resources to remuneration the Group requires highly qualified comparisons for staff and executive financial condition, operational and incentivisation.
There remuneration and seeks to offer a results and or future prospects.
is a risk that the Groups employees Staff attrition increased slightly during the year, balanced incentive package comprising could be approached and solicited albeit at 4%, it remained at low absolute levels.
a mix of salary, benefits, performanceby competitors or other technology Approximately 45% of staff have been with the based long-term incentives and based companies and organisations, Company for at least five years.
benefits such as flexible working and or could otherwise choose to leave the salary sacrifice arrangements.
Given the relatively small size The Group encourages staff of the Group, its operations are reliant development and inclusion through on a small number of key individuals.
coaching and mentoring, and carries Scaling the team, particularly into out regular objective setting and foreign jurisdictions such as the US, appraisal.
presents an additional potential risk.
The UKs recession has had and Management team receives regular Macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions Change in fair value 5 Macroeconomic conditions may continue to have an adverse capital market and economic updates remain uncertain in the UK, Europe and the rest of equity and debt may negatively impact the effect on trading conditions and from the Groups capital markets team of the world.
Groups ability to achieve its availability of capital in the UK, and its brokers.
Both the Brexit referendum and the US Total equity strategic objectives.
presidential election were a source of uncertainty Six-monthly budget and capital Net assets.
The success of those portfolio in the year, with negotiations around the exit from Adverse macroeconomic conditions allocation process and monitoring Profit loss companies which require the EU likely to be a source of volatility through could reduce the opportunity to against agreed budget.
attributable to significant external funding may 2017 and 2018. deploy capital into opportunities or Regular oversight of upcoming capital equity holders.
be influenced by the markets may limit the ability of such portfolio requirements of portfolio from both the appetite for investment in early companies to raise third party funds, Group and third parties.
stage companies, which may not be develop profitable businesses or sufficient.
achieve increases in value or exits.
A significant proportion of the Political uncertainty, including impacts Groups portfolio value is held in from Brexit or similar scenarios, could companies quoted on the AIM have a number of potential impacts, market and decreases in values to including changes to the labour this market could result in a material market available to the Group for fair value impact to the portfolio as recruitment or regulatory environment a whole.
in which the Group operates.
42 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Risk Management KEY Increase Decrease No change Create Develop Deliver RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI Termination or non-renewal of Dedicated New Business & Completed agreements with two additional US Number of 3 Universities or other arrangements through failure to Partnerships team to service existing university partners.
com 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Risk management CONTINUED RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI Changes could result in universities University partners are incentivised to Proposed changes to UK Substantial Shareholding Total equity 6 There may be changes to, and researchers no longer being protect their IP for exploitation as the Exemption rules reduce the level of uncertainty net assets.
impacts from, or failure to able to own, exploit or protect partnership agreements share returns around the exemption of disposal gains.
comply with, legislation, intellectual property on attractive between universities, academic Ongoing focus on regulatory compliance government policy and terms.
Changes to tax legislation or the The Group utilises professional UK Government has committed to university nature of the Groups activities, advisers as appropriate to support There may be unforeseen changes in, funding and has emphasised the importance of in particular in relation to the its monitoring of, and response to or impacts from, government policy, science and innovation.
Substantial Shareholder Exemption, changes in, tax, insurance or other regulation or legislation including Specialist therapeutics advisory panel continually may adversely affect the Groups legislation.
tax position and accordingly its changes to funding levels or to the The Group has internal policies and Increased focus on cyber security including value and operations.
terms upon which public monies procedures to ensure its compliance further development of the Groups controls using are made available to universities Regulatory changes or breaches with applicable FCA regulations and the UK Governments ten steps approach and and research institutions and the could ultimately lead to withdrawal these are subject to external review.
review of the Cyber Essentials regime and how ownership of any resulting intellectual of regulatory permissions for MBS utilises an experienced specialist this applies to the Group.
the Groups FCA-authorised advisory panel covering all aspects of subsidiary resulting in loss of clinical trial design and delivery.
fund management contracts, The Group maintains D&O, reputational damage or fines.
professional indemnity and clinical A material adverse event could trial insurance policies.
occur during an MBS clinical trial.
The Group reviews its data and A data security or cyber breach cyber-security processes with its could occur or the Group could external outsourced IT provider and otherwise fail to adhere to data applies the UK Governments ten protection regulations.
KEY Increase Decrease No change Create Develop Deliver 44 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 25286-04 Proof 7 4 April 2017 7:11 PM Strategic Report Risk Management RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MITIGATION RISK TREND DEVELOPMENTS DURING THE YEAR STRATEGY KPI Changes could result in universities University partners are incentivised to Proposed changes to UK Substantial Shareholding Total equity 6 There may be changes to, and researchers no longer being protect their IP for exploitation as the Exemption rules reduce the level of uncertainty net assets.
Viability statement The Directors have carried out a robust assessment To assess the impact of the Groups principal risks of the viability of the Group over a three-year period on the prospects of the Group, the plan is stressto December 2019, considering its strategy, its current tested by modelling several severe but plausible financial position and its principal risks.
downside scenarios as part of the Boards review of the principal risks of the business.
These scenarios The strategy and associated principal risks underpin envisage the impact of adverse outcomes in the the Groups three-year financial plan and scenario Groups principal risk areas, primarily through testing, which the Directors review at least annually.
reducing the fair value of the Groups portfolio The three-year plan is built using a bottom up company interests, reducing the amount of capital model.
The three-year plan makes certain that the Group can raise, lowering the deployment of assumptions about the level of capital deployed into, capital and decreasing portfolio company divestment and realisations from, its portfolio of companies, proceeds.
The scenarios also consider the impact of the financial performance and valuation of the available mitigating actions.
underlying portfolio companies, the Groups utilisation of its debt finance facility and ability to raise further Based on this assessment, the Directors have a capital, and the level of the Groups net overheads.
reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and meets its liabilities, as they fall due, up to December 2019.
