t i d u A l a n r e t n I, s n o i t c n u f e c i v r e s d e r a h s, s n o i s i v i d s s e n Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties As a producer and broadcaster ITVs business carries a number of risks which we manage through our risk management framework.
This risk management framework sets out Risk appetite production management which will continue our processes for identifying, reviewing The Board is responsible for setting the level to be developed and introduced to other and managing our risks and is regularly of risk the Company is willing to take in line areas of the business.
assessed and adapted as the Company, with our strategy.
There are clear approvals industry and macro environment evolves.
frameworks in place and we continue to Risk culture Our continuing success is dependent on develop our approach to ensure that the Throughout the year we have continued to how well we understand and manage business understands the Boards risk focus on and strengthen our risk culture.
appetite and ensure they understand Operational Risk Steering Group considers tolerance levels and track the key risk ethical behaviours, governance and Our approach, which is consistent with indicators to help manage each risk.
compliance with our Code of Conduct.
We previous years, covers risks at all levels of aim to have an open communication culture the organisation: Three lines of defence where information is shared and issues are We continue to enhance our three lines of escalated as appropriate.
Principal risks: defence model and develop our approach to High Impact, Low Likelihood HILL managing risks.
The business divisions own Assurance risks of low inherent likelihood but their risks and the shared service functions Internal Audit provide objective assurance as where there would be major support them in managing the risks.
Internal to the effectiveness of the Groups systems consequences were the risk to Audit provide assurance as to the of internal control and risk management, materialise effectiveness of the internal control and risk reporting to the Management Board, management systems.
In areas which face Divisional boards and the Audit and Strategic risks would impact the day to day operational risk, we are continuing Risk Committee.
successful execution of the strategy to develop our three lines of defence model and to move our approach to risk away from The internal audit plan is driven from ITVs Operational or process level risks a rules and process driven system to a cultural risk management framework.
Internal Audit embedded into everyday activity within people driven solution which we believe review the auditable elements of the HILL, the organisation encourages a focus on prevention rather than Strategic and operational risks and this review reaction to failure.
A new Leading Risk training informs the areas and topics that Internal Risks are primarily controlled through the risk programme is now in place for ITV Studios Audit focus on.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Principal risks facing the Company and details of these are set on out on the following pages.
Mitigating actions have been identified for all of the Principal risks.
Each Strategic risk has been mapped to at least one of the three key Strategic Priorities and, where possible, assigned key risk indicators.
Where appropriate, the key risk indicators are aligned to our key performance indicators Management KPIs on pages 36 to 39.
All Principal risks and Divisional are owned by at least one member of the Boards Management Board.
In line with our Risk Management Framework, the Management and Divisional Boards have reviewed ITVs Principal risks and uncertainties.
While these potential risks are The Board predominately unchanged, the Board feels the potential risk of a sustained cyber viral attack should be viewed as a HILL risk rather Operational Audit than a Strategic risk.
The Board believes that this better reflects the nature of this risk Risk Steering and Risk because media companies in particular have Group Committee faced increased frequency and sophistication of cyber-attacks.
50 i s u b e c n e f e d f o s e n i l e e r h T : e c n a r u s s A d n a n o i t a r e p O Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk management framework Our ongoing process for risk identification, review and management is set out below.
Board Sets strategic objectives Identifies and evaluates Principal risks and uncertainties Sets our strategy on risk and establishes tolerance levels and risk appetite Ensures a robust and appropriate risk management framework is in place Continually monitors the risk management and internal control systems Management and Divisional Operational Risk Audit and Boards Steering Group Risk Committee With support from the Divisional The Operational Risk Steering Group has The Audit and Risk Committee has Boards the Management Board has responsibility for: responsibility for: responsibility for: considering and setting actions for pan overseeing and advising the Board on ITV risks and for ongoing monitoring of strategic risk exposures and future the development and operation of the those actions.
risk management framework and for the operation of our systems of internal reviewing incident reports and other reviewing internal controls and their control.
reviewing policies and processes to reviewing the effectiveness of the risk identification and assessment and ensure they remain fit for purpose.
establishing controls and procedures identifying and reporting emerging risks.
conducting in depth reviews of high to monitor and mitigate risks.
risk business areas or processes.
assessment and review of financial reviewing internal audit actions controls, policies and procedures to Risk areas in scope of the group and sub and management responsiveness ensure risks are identified and the committees that deal with specific risk to the findings.
processes and procedures are in areas are set out in the governance accordance with and aligned to framework on page 72.
Details of risk reviews undertaken during the strategy.
the year are set out in the Audit and Risk reviewing and monitoring the The Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 68. effectiveness of internal controls and Committee attends meetings of the putting in place remedial plans where Operational Risk Steering Group controls are weak or there are periodically.
Serious control weakness if any is reported to the Board and action taken as appropriate.
routinely reviewing and challenging risks and mitigations.
Operation and Assurance three lines of defence 1 Business divisions 2 Shared service functions 3 Internal audit The business divisions own the Support the business divisions in Provide assurance as to the effectiveness management of their risks and are managing risks.
of the internal control and risk responsible for: management systems.
identifying and reporting local risks.
maintaining risk registers and business continuity plans where appropriate.
reviewing and implementing mitigating actions 51 Financial Operational Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued High Impact, Low Likelihood Risks HILL Potential Risk Key Drivers Mitigating Factors and Risk Direction ITV loses its credit status There is a repeat of the The business is cash generative and working capital or lines of funding with 2008 09 financial crisis as a management remains a key focus.
existing lenders or there result of a major bank collapse, ITV has a balance sheet policy to maintain adjusted net is an event that impacts or there is a similar financial debt below1.5x adjusted EBITDA and have available financial arrangements outcome as a result of an liquidity headroom ofat least 250 million.
ITV has a 630 million Revolving Credit Facility with a number of core relationship banks and 250 million of financial covenant free facilities.
The relatively low levels of ITV debt and our two investment grade ratings mean ITV continues to have good access to both bank and bond financing.
There is a major collapse As a result of macroeconomic There is regular communication between ITV and the in investment values or changes there can be material pension trustees.
a material change in movements in the Groups The pension schemes assets are invested in a diversified liabilities leading to an defined benefit pension portfolio, with a significant amount of the fund held impact on the pension scheme.
For example if the Bank of ITV has worked with the pension trustees to limit England announces further the potential deficit by a series of asset backed Quantitative Easing this may arrangements.
Further, it has taken some mortality risk change gilt yields and corporate out of the scheme with a longevity swap and hedged a bonds rates, increasing the portion of inflation and interest rate variability.
Or if there is an unexpected world event that impacts property values and or impacts share prices.
A significant event removes In the ordinary course of There is a business resilience plan in place which includes a number of the key business activities there will be succession plans or nominated replacements for all key management team from times when the Management positions within theCompany.
the business on a long-term Board are in one location or or permanent basis.
There is a sustained With increasingly sophisticated We continue to improve our ability to monitor, detect cyber viral attack causing technology, the risk of a cyber and respond to cyber threats internally and through prolonged system denial viral attack has increased partnerships with specialist security organisations.
or major reputational across the world.
Mandatory online training modules, awareness damage, for example the We are higher risk as a result campaigns andsimplified information security policies ability tobroadcast our of operating in a public have been implemented for employees.
channels or the availability environment.
There are disaster recovery and incident management of ITV Hub or ITV loses a plans in place for high-risk areas of the business to help significant volume of deliver a rapid and flexible response.
These are kept personal orsensitive data.
under review by the Audit and Risk Committee.
52 Strategic Report Reputation ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our strategic priorities Risk direction after mitigation Maximising Increased risk Growing Risk stayed the same Building Reduced risk High Impact, Low Likelihood Risks HILL Potential Risk Key Drivers Mitigating Factors and Risk Direction An event with public Through the Broadcasting ITV has a crisis management policy and process in interest that causes and Studios businesses, the place and is increasing emphasis on its development significant reputational Company operates in a public and application.
There is a major health and As the Company expands this ITV has a central health and safety team and health safety incident that results may result in an increase in and safety policies and procedures are in place, with in asignificant loss of production hours, and the appropriate training for employees where required.
Company could produce certain As we continue to expand internationally these will types of programming which be kept under review.
Regular inspections are undertaken at all sites alongside a programme of appropriate health and safety audits.
A major incident results in ITVs broadcast technology A risk register of broadcast operations, including key ITV being unable to continue chain is complex and risk can outsourced functions, is in place and reviewed on a with scheduled broadcasting materialise within ITV or with regular basis.
third parties responsible for Major incident scenario testing takes place bi-annually.
servicing the broadcast An incident management process has been agreed and supply chain.
full disaster recovery plans are in place.
There is a significant ITV could be affected if there is ITV regularly communicates with appropriate groups or unexpected change in a change in UK media or and its legalpanel and Ofcom to monitor potential regulation or legislation.
intellectual property regulation policy, legal and regulatory developments.
or legislation: for example if there is a change in advertising restrictions in key categories.
Highlighted below are key risks as a result of European Union membership referendum.
Impact of exiting the European Union As a result of UK European Union membership referendum, any In addition, given the reciprocal nature of worldwide trade deals, macro uncertainty may have a knock on impact to the overall there could also be knock on changes to UK legislation affecting health of the UK television advertising market.
broadcasting and intellectual property laws.
For example, there may be pressure to weaken obligations to purchase original Further there could be wider changes in regulation or legislation content made in the UK or to broaden exceptions from intellectual within the markets in which we operate.
While the potential property protection.
changes and the impact of any such changes will remain unknown for a while, ITV could, for example, be affected by changes to: The likelihood or extent of any impact is currently unknown but going forward we will closely monitor and evaluate any potential EU broadcasting legislation and or rules around EU market areas of risk.
access, for example potential barriers against UK companies selling programming to, or investing in, EU companies: indirect taxation, direct taxation or transfer pricing regulation: restrictions to free movement of our staff.
53 The Market Organisation, Structure and Processes Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued Strategic risks Potential Risk Key Drivers Mitigating Factors and Risk Direction There is a major decline in The current economic Growing non-NAR in areas such as ITV Studios and advertising revenues and environment is uncertain Online, Pay& Interactive, remains a key part of the ITV doesnot build which may impact demand for strategy.
However ITV has ITV continues to focus on cash and costs, ensuring the streams to mitigate the made significant progress in Company has adequate financial liquidity and balance financial impact of this rebalancing the business and sheet flexibility to continue to invest.
53% of our total revenue comes from sources other than TV spot advertising.
The television market The current platform mix ITV continues to support free platforms, including moves significantly between free-to-air and linear YouView, tokeep free-to-air strong.
towards pay television as a pay television is around 50% ITV looks at and evaluates the opportunities for preferred model, each and has remained at this expanding itsexisting pay services and other pay negatively impacting ITVs level over recent years.
ITV explores other platforms to understand viewing habits and what people are prepared to pay for.
A faster than expected The way people are consuming The business continues to develop the ITV Hub VOD shift to VOD or other new television is changing and services, maximise the distribution of the ITV Hub and technologies, such as viewers are spending more grow its VOD advertising business.
internet enabled TVs or time watching online.
However ITV monitors the market for new technology and where online only services, causes it remains a small percentage appropriate explores how ITV can participate.
a sustained lossof of total viewing at around 7% ITV continues to invest around 1 billion in its advertising revenue.
ITV fails to evolve its Employing the best creative, ITV constantly reassesses the business to create a organisational structure commercial and management fit-for-purpose organisation.
and culture to ensure that talent is key to our success.
Strategic focus on working across the business to embed it is capable of delivering Failing to create the right and strengthen the culture of One ITV way of working.
continued growth from culture to attract and retain ITV invests in training and development for all key new businesses orrevenue this talent increases this risk.
streams and fails to attract, Employee engagement is Succession plans are in place for all key positions within develop and retain key critical and we continue to theCompany.
creative, commercial and monitor it through our management talent with employee survey.
This once the skills required for the again showed very high ongoing business.
engagement at 90%, up on the previous year 2015: 89%.
54 Strategic Report Organisation, Structure and Processes ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our strategic priorities Risk direction after mitigation Maximising Increased risk Growing Risk stayed the same Building Reduced risk Strategic risks Potential Risk Key Drivers Mitigating Factors and Risk Direction There is significant loss of There is increased competition ITV is focused on both protecting and exploiting existing programme rights or ITV for high-quality programme rights and ensuring that future rights generated accrue fails to identify and obtain rights as broadcasters and toITV.
the optimal rights platform owners demand ITV has a detailed model to evaluate the value of packages.
third-party rights to ensure it only buys rights that make As an integrated producer economic sense.
broadcaster, ITV produces a ITV invests in creating and owning quality content significant proportion of the through ITV Studios.
In 2016 this increased to 63% of the main channels original commissions.
ITV maintains good relationships with independent producers to ensure it has opportunities to acquire quality content.
ITV fails to create and own Our ability to create and own ITV maximises opportunities for ITV Studios to create asufficient number of hit hit programmes depends on successful shows by investing in the creative pipeline and programmes formats the quality of our content focusing on programmes and genres that can return and across itsinternational business.
travel internationally, i. e. drama, entertainment and portfolio of content factual entertainment, as evidenced by our increased ITV is the largest commercial companies.
producer in the UK and a leading independent nonITV is focused on hiring and retaining the right key scripted producer in the US creativetalent.
ITV fails to properly Our strategy is clear and we Talent management plans have been developed and resource, financially, remain focused on delivering reviewed to ensure adequate succession planning creatively and against our three strategic across ITV.
operationally, the new priorities in the areas where ITV continues to embed and strengthen the culture of growth businesses, in we can deliver most growth OneITV way of working.
particular online as we continue to rebalance Lessons from recent investments are captured through andinternational content.
ITV remains heavily reliant Our system requirements System requirements are kept under review with on legacy systems, which change as we continue to business growth and system modernisation projects could potentially restrict rebalance the business, grow implemented asappropriate.
the ability to grow the new revenue streams and A modernisation plan is in place for the legacy systems business.
These systems become increasingly which remains under constant review and development and processes may not be international.
to ensure technology systems meet the needs of the appropriate for nonbusiness.
advertising revenue or Cyber risk mitigations in relation to all of our systems are international growth.
This is kept under review by the Audit and Risk Committee.
55 Technology Strategic Report Performance and Financials Risks and Uncertainties continued Our strategic priorities Risk direction after mitigation Maximising Increased risk Growing Risk stayed the same Building Reduced risk Strategic risks Potential Risk Key Drivers Mitigating Factors and Risk Direction A significant high-profile As a broadcaster ITV has ITV has ongoing modernisation projects to ensure incident or series of events significant prominence and transmission and distribution technologies are fit-fore.
g. a system failure, a therefore is exposed to the risk purpose.
technology issue, or a of a high-profile incident.
There are disaster recovery and incident management major regulatory breach plans inplace in high risk areas of the business to help that causes significant deliver a rapid and flexible response.
reputational and or ITV proactively manages its broadcast chain partners and commercial damage.
suppliers to ensure the risk of incidents and regulatory breach is minimised.
ITV fails to ensure The key to business continuity Disaster recovery plans are in place with tests conducted appropriate business is having an appropriate risk periodically on business critical systems.
continuity planning and management framework and resilience within its core the right plans and procedures systems, processes, in place.
This is taken very platforms and technology seriously at ITV and the infrastructure.
adequacy and robustness of our plans are reviewed and tested.
56 Strategic Report ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Viability Statement When considering the longer term viability of ITV, the Board has Annually the Board assesses ITVs prospects and risks at its June reviewed each of ITVs Principal risks and uncertainties and, taking strategy day.
Amongst other topics, the Board reviews the five into account current operational and financial performance, has in year financial plan which is based on our Strategic Priorities.
particular analysed the impact of: However, in its assessment of viability the Board reviewed the Broadcast & Online experiencing a significant and sharp planning horizon and is of the view that a three-year period to downturn, similar to the 2008 09 financial crisis, with regards to 31 December 2019 continues to be most appropriate.
The factors advertising revenues, but in this case with no immediate recovery.
the Board considered in adopting this timeframe are as follows: This scenario is cautious as recessions in the advertising market have historically not exceeded a two-year period and have Visibility over ITVs broadcast advertising business is relatively recovered following the downturn: short term, as advertising remains cyclical and closely linked to UK economic growth: A number of key programme brands within ITV Studios are not recommissioned.
While the scheduling decisions of The commissioning process and life cycle of programming gives commissioners are made in advance, a number of key shows ITV Studios division more medium-term outlook.
However, while could come to an end at the same time: and non-returning brands are replaced with new commissions, over time there is less visibility as programmes can experience A significant change in ITVs pension funding obligations, changes in viewer demand or come to a natural expiration: following the triennial valuation in 2017 resulting in doubling the deficit funding payments.
Technology in the media industry continues to change the demand for content and also how it is consumed: The review involved flexing the underlying strategic forecast for the above impacts, both individually and concurrently and no specific Pension funding, which is one of ITVs key funding obligations, mitigations were assumed.
The underlying strategic forecast is also agreed triennially with the Trustees of the pension scheme: assumed: business as usual capital spending, the ongoing availability and of the financing facilities as ITV remains within the covenants, current bank facilities have more than three years maturity ITVs business model does not necessitate investment in remaining and all bond repayments due in this period have been large capital projects that would require a longer-term refinanced : and that the Group maintains the stated dividend policy.
Based on the results of this review, the Board has a reasonable expectation that ITV will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2019.
The assessment has been made with reference to ITVs strategy and the current position and prospects.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Adam Crozier Chief Executive 57
