Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk management and principal risks Risk management remains at the core of what we do Identification, mitigation and management For all known risks facing the business, risks which, with its experience and after of risks are central to our strategy and our IWG attempts to minimise the likelihood due consideration, the Board will choose enterprise-wide risk management process and mitigate the impact.
According to the to accept.
allows us to understand the nature, scope nature of the risk, IWG may elect to take or Effective risk management requires and potential impact of our key business tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and awareness and engagement at all levels and strategic risks so we are able to mitigating actions, transfer risk to third of our organisation.
It is for this reason that parties, or terminate risk by ceasing manage these effectively.
risk management is incorporated into the particular activities or operations.
IWG IWGs business could be impacted by day-to-day management of our business, as has zero tolerance of financial and ethics various risks, leading to failure to achieve well as being reflected in the Groups core non-compliance and ensures that Health, strategic targets for growth or loss of processes and controls.
The Board oversees Safety, Environmental & Security risks are financial standing, cash flow, earnings, the risk management strategy and the managed to levels that are as low as return on investment and reputation.
effectiveness of the Groups internal reasonably practicable.
Not all these risks are wholly within the control framework.
Risk management is at Groups control and it may be affected Whilst overall responsibility for the the heart of everything we do, particularly by risks which are not yet manifested risk management process rests with as we look to grow across multiple markets or reasonably foreseeable.
the Board, it has delegated responsibility around the world.
For this reason, we for assurance to the Audit Committee.
conduct risk assessments throughout the Effective risk management is critical Executive management is responsible for year as part of our business review process to achieving our strategic objectives designing, implementing and maintaining and all investment decisions.
These and protecting our personnel, assets the necessary systems of internal control.
activities include: and our reputation.
IWG therefore has a comprehensive approach to risk A list of key risks is prepared and the Board Monthly business reviews of all countries management, as set out in more detail collectively assesses the severity of each and Group functions: in the Corporate Governance Report.
risk, the likelihood of it occurring and the Individual reviews of every new location strength of the controls in place.
This A critical part of the risk management investment and all acquisitions: approach allows the effect of any mitigating process is to assess the impact and Annual planning process for all markets procedures to be reflected in the final likelihood of risks occurring so that and Group functions: and assessment.
It also recognises that appropriate mitigation plans can be Review of the status of our key risks risk cannot be totally eliminated at an developed and implemented.
in each Audit Committee meeting.
acceptable cost and that there are some Board Defines IWGs risk appetite Monitors risk identification Assesses overall effectiveness and tolerance and assessment of risk management Audit Committee Reviews effectiveness of Monitors progress against internal and Approves the annual internal internal controls external audit recommendations and external audit plans Senior leadership team Accountable for the design and Accountable for the regular Contributes to the identification implementation of risk management review and appraisal of key risks and assessment of key risks processes and controls General management Responsible for compliance and ensuring that staff are adequately trained Business assurance function Assists management and the Board in conducting Reviews risk profiles risk studies Tests compliance with internal controls Advises and guides on policies and internal control framework 27 Risk management and principal risks continued Principal risks Risk Mitigation Progress in 2016 Strategic Lease obligations The single greatest financial This risk is mitigated in a number of ways: During 2016, the number of risk to IWG is represented by flexible leases as a percentage 1 95% of our leases are flexible, meaning that they are either the financial commitments of the total increased to 95% terminable at our option within six months and or located in deriving from the portfolio of from 94% on an enlarged estate.
or assignable to a standalone legal entity, which is not fully leases held across the Group.
In this way, individual centres are sustained At the end of 2016, we were Whilst IWG has demonstrated by their own profitability and cash flow.
During the most operating 2,926 locations consistently that it has a recent downturn in selected markets we were able to in 1,029 towns and cities fundamentally profitable negotiate revised terms with our partners to reflect downward across over 100 countries.
business model which works movements in market rates to help recovery.
in all geographies, the 2 Over a third of the leases we entered into during 2016 were profitability of centres is variable in nature, which means that payments to landlords impacted by movements in vary with the performance of the relevant centre.
In this way market rents, which, in turn, the risk to profitability and cash flow of that centre from impact the price at which IWG fluctuations in market rates is softened by the consequent can sell to its customers.
The fact that the outstanding 3 The sheer number of leases and geographic diversity of our lease terms with our landlords business reduces the overall risk to our business as the are, on average, significantly phasing of the business cycle and the performance of the longer than the outstanding commercial property market often varies from country to terms on our contracts with our country and region to region.
customers creates a potential 4 Each year a significant number of leases in our portfolio reach mismatch if rentals fall a natural break point.
significantly, which can impact profitability and cash flows.
Economic downturn An economic downturn could The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: During 2016 the number of adversely affect the Groups flexible leases as a percentage 1 More than a third of the leases added during 2016 were operating revenues, thereby of the total increased to 95%.
performance-related to a greater or lesser extent and our reducing operating profit rental payments, if any, vary with the performance of the We also increased the scale of performance or, in an extreme centre.
our network by 6% and added 52 downturn, resulting in new towns and cities.
Our monthly 2 Lease contracts include break clauses when leases can operating losses.
business performance reviews be terminated at our behest.
The Group also looks to stagger provide early warning of any leases in locations where we have multiple centres so that impact on our business we can manage our overall inventory in those locations.
performance and allow 3 We review our customer base to assess exposure to a management to react with speed.
particular customer or industry group.
More generally, investment in our 4 The increasing geographic spread of the Groups network management team has also led increases the depth and breadth of our business and provides to improved, more responsive better protection from an economic downturn in a single decision-making at a country market or region.
28 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Mitigation Progress in 2016 Strategic Shifting demand and technology trends Technology developments are IWG continually invests in innovation to develop new products In addition to major upgrades to driving demand for flexible and services to increase its competitive advantage, protect our MyRegus app during 2016, working.
Failure to recognise current revenues and unlock potential new sources of revenue.
we focused our innovation these could mean IWGs product resources on areas as diverse offering is sub-optimal.
as customer satisfaction, format design, business continuity and improving productivity for the mobile workforce.
Increased competition Increased competition in the While physical barriers to entry into the flexible workspace We increased the scale of our serviced office industry and an market at a local level are low, the barriers to establishing a network by 6% and added inability to maintain sustainable national or international network are much higher hence making 52 new towns and cities.
competitive advantage may it difficult for any competitor to challenge our market position We accelerated the roll-out of our result in loss of market share.
Spaces co-working format with the IWG also offers a diverse product range under its different opening of seven new locations brands to cater to multiple customer segments which allows and the development of a strong us to capture and maintain market share across the flexible pipeline for 2017. workspace market.
Exposure to UK political developments Exposure to UK political The Group is continually monitoring political developments Dependency on the UK market developments including Brexit.
in the UK to identify and assess the medium to long-term has been reduced by growth implications of Brexit and the impact that it may have on our being focused outside the UK.
While the decision to exit the EU is likely to result Fewer than 5% of the new in a sustained period of political and economic uncertainty, locations added during 2016 the Group does not expect this to have a material impact on were in the UK.
its performance in the UK.
During 2016 the opportunity The Group has had a prudent approach to growing its presence was taken to consolidate some in the UK market.
Based on the current position over 40% of our leases with landlords in the UK are variable in nature.
29 Risk management and principal risks continued Risk Mitigation Progress in 2016 Financial Funding The Group relies on external The Group constantly monitors its cash flow and financial We amended our key Revolving funding to support a net debt headroom development and maintains a 12-month rolling Credit Facility in May 2016 which position of 151.3m at the forecast and a three-year strategic outlook.
The Group also is provided by a broad base of end of 2016.
The loss of these monitors the relevant financial ratios against the covenants international banks.
facilities would cause a liquidity in its facilities to ensure the risk of breach is being managed.
The facility was increased from issue for the Group.
The Group also stresses these forecasts with downside scenario 320.0m to 550.0m and the planning to assess risk and determine potential action plans.
maturity extended to 2021 previously 2020, with an The Board intends to maintain a prudent approach to the Groups option to extend until 2023. capital structure by holding the net debt : Group EBITDA leverage ratio below c. 1.5 times.
After taking into account usage of the 550.0m facility for cash Part of the annual planning process is a debt strategy and drawings and bank guarantees, action plan to ensure that the Group will have sufficient we had 299.4m of available funding in place to achieve its strategic objectives.
and undrawn committed facility The Group also constantly reviews and manages the maturity as at 31 December 2016. profile of its external funding.
IWG had a net debt : EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2016 of 0.4 times.
There is significant headroom on each of the covenant ratios.
Exchange rates The principal exposures of the 1 Given that transactions generally take place in the functional Overall in 2016 the movement in Group are to the US dollar and currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to exchange rates increased reported the euro, with approximately transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
revenue, gross profit and operating 35.1% of the Groups revenues profit by 199.7m, 36.3m and 2 Where possible, the Group attempts to create natural hedges being attributable to the US 20.5m respectively.
against currency exposures through matching income and dollar and 13.8% to the euro.
expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the same currency.
During 2016 the Group settled Any depreciation or appreciation the exchange rate derivatives 3 The Group, where deemed appropriate, uses currency of sterling would have an related to the Schuldschein debt swaps to maintain the currency profile of its external debt.
adverse or beneficial impact securities which were settled.
to the Groups reported financial performance and position respectively.
The Group does not generally hedge the translation exchange risk of its business results.
Rather, it assumes that shareholders will take whatever steps they deem necessary based on their varied appetites for exchange risk and differing base currency investment positions.
Interest rates Operating in a net debt position, The Group constantly monitors its interest rate exposure During 2016 the Group an increase in interest rates as part of its monthly treasury review.
increased the level of interest would increase finance costs.
rate protection with 51% of As part of the Groups balance sheet management it utilises the Groups debt being fixed interest rate swaps.
30 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Mitigation Progress in 2016 Operational Cyber security The trend towards an integrated This risk is mitigated as follows: All core production applications digital economy and use of have been made PCI Payment 1 The Group maintains an active information security external cloud services Card Industry compliant.
programme under the direction of the Group CIO with combined with the rise in oversight by the Board.
An internal review and an external malicious attacks and increasing review by security specialists were 2 We continually monitor our security using internal resources consequential costs warrants completed and an ongoing and external specialists to identify any vulnerabilities.
particular attention to cyber monitoring and improvement security risks.
3 The Group ensures compliance with all major legislation programme is in place.
IWG has cyber insurance policies 4 The Group maintains a mandatory training programme in place which provide immediate to promote staff awareness of information security and response services in the event of compliance best practice.
5 Data, systems and access permissions are strictly segregated to reduce exposure to risk.
Loss of critical systems The Groups systems and IWG manages this risk through: We undertake regular testing applications are housed in of business continuity procedures 1 Business continuity plans.
Should the data to ensure that they are adequate 2 A detailed service agreement with our external data centres be impacted as a result and appropriate.
centre provider which incorporates appropriate back-up of circumstances outside the procedures and controls.
Groups control there could be an adverse impact on 3 Ensuring appropriate business interruption insurance is the Groups operations and in place.
4 Transitioning infrastructure to cloud-based and SaaS servers.
Fraud Landlord and supplier and IWG manages this risk through: procurement related fraud.
1 A rigorous investment approval process to review the proposed deal structure against local market conditions and alternatives.
2 Centralised procurement contracts with suppliers for key services and products.
3 Standardised processes to manage and monitor spend.
4 A strong governance framework and policies on gifts and hospitality, business conduct and bribery and corruption.
5 Regular reviews to monitor effectiveness of controls.
Data protection and privacy IWG is required to comply with IWG operates a detailed privacy policy that covers all aspects legislation in the jurisdictions of data privacy including and not limited to personal data, in which it operates.
demographic information, financial data, cookies and other digital markers, marketing communication etc.
31 Risk management and principal risks continued Risk Mitigation Progress in 2016 Growth Ensuring demand is there to support our growth IWG has undertaken significant IWG mitigates this risk as follows: On aggregate, our new centres growth to develop local and continue to perform in line with 1 Each investment or acquisition proposal is reviewed and national networks.
Adding management expectations and approved by the Investment Committee.
capacity carries the risk of are delivering attractive returns.
2 The monthly business review process monitors new centre creating overcapacity.
Failure to development against the investment case to ensure that the fill new centres would create a anticipated returns are being generated.
negative impact on the Groups profitability and cash generation.
3 As part of the annual planning process, a growth plan is agreed for each country which clearly sets out the annual growth objectives.
Human resources Ability to recruit at the right level Our ability to increase our Mitigating actions include: Our capability to hire the best management capacity and talent continued to increase in 1 Succession planning discussions are an integral part capabilities through the hiring 2016.
Our direct recruitment of our business planning and review process.
of experienced professionals approach saved over 2m of 2 Part of the annual planning process is the Human Resources not only supports our ability search fees as our talent Plan, and performance against this Plan is reviewed through to execute our growth strategy, knowledge around the world the year.
but also enables us to improve deepens and expands.
This has succession planning throughout 3 Our global performance management system and quarterly allowed us to further plan for the Group.
staff survey allow us to keep close to our employees and succession in important markets.
maintain a two-way dialogue throughout the year.
Our diversity continues to flourish 4 Regular external and internal evaluation of the performance with our workforce split fairly of the Board.
Training and employee engagement As a service-based business One of the key items in the Human Resources Plan is the Global We trained all our employees, the strength and capabilities Induction & Training Plan, which sets out the key objectives for many through the IWG Online of our increasingly the forthcoming year.
Performance against these objectives is Learning Academy, including geographically diverse team reviewed through the year.
employees from new centre are critical to achieving our acquisitions and new talent Our employee survey also provides insight into employee strategic objectives.
issues, which is then used to improve the Plan.
In 2016 employees undertook approximately eight different topics of training.
Our online learning curriculum was a winner of the Most Dramatic Business Impact Award at the Cornerstone Client Excellence Awards 2016 for the impact that this training had on sales performance.
This is just one example of our relevant and easy-to-access development initiatives for front-line employees.
Experienced managers coach new peer level colleagues to give them the best start in the Group.
32 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
