e s l e e n o y n a n a h t r e t t e b Our values make us different Strategic Report Our principal risks and uncertainties The risk management process is closely aligned to our strategy.
Risk The most significant principal risks identified by the Board and the is an inherent part of doing business.
The management of these risks corresponding mitigating controls are set out below in no order of is based on a balance of risk and reward determined through careful priority.
assessment of both the potential likelihood and impact as well as risk appetite.
Consideration is given to both reputational as well as financial Business continuity and major incidents response impact, recognising the significant commercial value attributable to the Sainsburys brand.
Each principal risk and uncertainty is Risk considered in the context of how it relates to the achievement of the A major incident or catastrophic event could impact on the Groups strategic objectives.
The current business strategy and Groups ability to trade.
objectives are categorised into the following areas of focus: Mitigation Sainsburys has detailed plans in place, supported by senior representatives who are trained in dealing with major incidents and s have the authority levels to make decisions in the event of a potentially disruptive incident.
The Business Continuity Steering Group meets quarterly to ensure Great that the business continuity BC policy and strategy is fit for Colleagues products purpose.
In addition, it oversees the mitigation of all risks associated making the and services difference at fair prices with BC and IT disaster recovery.
In the event of any unplanned or unforeseen events the Business Continuity Management Team is convened at short notice to manage the response and any associated risk to the business.
All key strategic locations have secondary backup sites which would be There for our made available within pre-defined timescales and are regularly tested.
customers Business strategy and change Risk The risk discussion includes assessment of both gross and net risk, If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not where gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before communicate or implement its strategies effectively, the considering the mitigations in place and net risk being the residual business may be negatively impacted.
Risks to delivering the risk after mitigations.
The risk appetite for each key risk is also strategy, change initiatives forming part of the strategy and discussed and assessed.
The gross risk movement from prior year for other significant supporting change such as the internal each principal risk and uncertainty has been assessed and is transformation of the Digital and Technology function need to presented as follows: be properly understood and managed to deliver long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders alongside management of business as usual.
Mitigation No change Increased gross Reduced gross risk exposure risk exposure The business strategy is focused on the following: We know our customers better than anyone else: Mitigations in place supporting the management of the risk to a net We will be there wherever and whenever they need us: risk position are also described for each principal risk and uncertainty.
We will offer great products and services at fair prices: Key risk movements Our colleagues make the difference: and The principal and emerging risks are discussed and monitored Our values make us different.
throughout the year to identify changes to the risk landscape.
Risks The progress against strategic programmes and any risks to delivery, are reviewed in line with the Companys strategic objectives.
A new such as the ability to implement and deliver change and new principal risk regarding the political and regulative environment has business initiatives, are regularly reviewed by the Board and the been identified.
High levels of transformation and change, including overall strategy is reviewed at the annual two-day Strategy the ongoing transformation of our Digital & Technology division, have Conference.
The Operating Board also holds regular sessions to meant levels of management attention on risks associated with discuss strategy.
This activity is supported by a dedicated strategy change initiatives have been continued.
This includes focus on team.
To ensure the strategy is communicated and understood, the Colleague Engagement, Retention and Capability where risks have Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including increased due to higher levels of uncertainty amongst colleagues as shareholders, colleagues, customers and suppliers on a continual a result of changes which have been executed during the year basis.
In addition, management performs ongoing monitoring of following our strategic review in 2014. business as usual performance to determine indicators of potential negative performance as a result of change initiatives.
36 37 r e m o t s u c r u o w o n k e W Strategic Report A review of key third parties who hold sensitive customer or Colleague engagement, retention and capability colleague data continues to take place, and progress is monitored Risk bythe Data Governance Committee.
A risk based security testing approach across Sainsburys IT infrastructure and applications is The Group employs over 162,000 colleagues who are critical to inplace to identify and remediate ongoing vulnerabilities.
the success of our business.
Attracting and maintaining good relations with talented colleagues and investing in their training and development is essential to the efficiency and Environment and sustainability sustainability of the Groups operations.
Delivery of the strategic Risk objectives, including development of new businesses and progress on multi-channel and digital, increases the risk of Environment and sustainability are core to Sainsburys values.
Sainsburys ability to attract, motivate and retain talent, specific The key risk facing the Group in this area relates to reducing the skill sets and capability.
In addition, the challenging trading environmental impact of the business with a focus on reducing environment requires a focus on efficient operations which may packaging and new ways of reducing waste and energy usage include change initiatives impacting colleagues, therefore across stores, depots and offices.
presenting a risk of loss of colleague trust or engagement.
Mitigation Mitigation A number of initiatives are in place, which are being led by the The Groups employment policies and remuneration and benefits Environmental Action Team and the Corporate Responsibility Steering packages are regularly reviewed and are designed to be competitive Group, to reduce our environmental impact and to meet our with other companies, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling customers expectations in this area.
Further details are included in career opportunities.
Colleague surveys, performance reviews, the Corporate Responsibility review on pages 59 to 60. communications with trade unions and regular communication of business activities are some of the methods the Group uses to Financial and treasury risk understand and respond to colleagues needs.
In addition to strong leadership and nurturing of talent by line managers, processes are also Risk in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning The main financial risks are the availability of short and throughout the business.
Ongoing reviews are performed to understand long-term funding to meet business needs and fluctuations in the nature of capability and specific skill sets required to deliver interest, commodity and foreign currency rates.
This is supported by embracing new ways of attracting talent has now acquired full ownership of Sainsburys Bank which and our corporate value Great Place to Work reinforces our commitment presents a risk that the Groups financial performance and to giving people the opportunity to be the best they can be.
position may be negatively impacted if the Bank transition and performance is not delivered as planned.
In addition, there Colleague surveys, performance reviews, listening groups, remains a risk around Pensions as the Group operates a number communications with trade unions, regular communication of of pension arrangements that are subject to risks in relation to business activities and colleague networking forums such as Yammer liabilities as a result of changes in life expectancy, inflation and and the updated colleague portal Our Sainsburys are some of the future salary increases, and to risks regarding the value of methods the Group uses to understand and respond to colleagues investments and the returns derived from such investments.
As change initiatives are implemented, the methods described Mitigation above will continue to be employed to understand and maintain colleague trust and engagement.
The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the Groups liquid resources, funding requirements, interest rate and currency exposures and the associated risks as set out in note 29 on page 126.
Data security The Group Treasury function has clear policies and operating Risk procedures which are regularly reviewed and audited.
It is essential that the security of customer, colleague and Sainsburys Bank operates an enterprise wide risk management company confidential data is maintained.
The principal financial risks relating to the Bank and information security could have a major negative financial and associated mitigations are set out in note 29 to the financial reputational impact on the business.
The risk landscape is statements on page 131. increasingly challenging with deliberate acts of cybercrime on With regard to Pensions, an investment strategy is in place which the rise targeting all markets and heightening the risk exposure.
hasbeen developed by the pension trustee, in consultation with Mitigation theCompany, to mitigate the volatility of liabilities, to diversify A Data Governance Committee is established and is supported by investment risk and to manage cash.
In September 2013, the focused working groups looking at the management of colleague Sainsburys Defined Benefit Pension Scheme was closed to future data, customer data, information security, commercial data and contributions which will help us to manage the escalating costs of awareness and training.
Senior appointments have been made into pensions and protect the pensions that colleagues have already built new roles specifically focused on Data Governance and Information up in the Scheme.
In April 2015, a Chief Information Security Officer was appointed to further develop the Information Security Strategy and build the necessary capability to deliver against that strategy.
In September 2015, a new Head of Data Governance was appointed tofocus on improving how we handle data across the organisation.
Various information security policies and standards are in place which focus on encryption, network security, access controls, systemsecurity, data protection and information handling.
36 37 Strategic Report Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Health and safety people and product Trading environment and competitive landscape Risk Risk Prevention of injury or loss of life for both colleagues and Effective management of the trading account is key to the customers is of utmost importance.
In addition, it is paramount achievement of performance targets.
The sector outlook has to maintaining the confidence our customers have in our been and is set to remain challenging.
environment, food price deflation and the price reduction and price matching activity across the sector may adversely impact Mitigation performance.
There is also an ongoing risk of supplier failure, Clear policies and procedures are in place detailing the controls with possible operational or financial consequences for the Group.
required to manage health and safety and product safety risks across Mitigation the business and comply with all applicable regulations.
These cover the end-to-end operation, from the auditing and vetting of We adopt a differentiated strategy with a continued focus on construction contractors, to the health and safety processes in place delivering quality products and services with universal appeal, at fair in our depots, stores and offices to the controls in place to ensure prices, helping our customers Live Well for Less.
This is achieved people and product safety and integrity.
through the continuous review of our product quality, key customer metrics, monitoring of current market trends and price points across In addition, established product testing programmes are also in place competitors, active management of price positions, development of tosupport rigorous monitoring of product traceability and provide sales propositions and increased promotion and marketing activity.
assurance over product safety and integrity.
Supplier terms and In February 2016 we announced our plans to phase out multi-buy conditions and product specifications set clear standards for product promotions in favour of lower regular prices, the next step in our raw material safety and quality which suppliers are expected to commitment to provide customers even better value with lower comply with.
In delivering our strategic plan, including our price Process compliance is supported by external accreditation and investment, we will maintain the strength of our balance sheet and internal training programmes, which are aligned to both health and have therefore identified a series of measures to conserve cash in the safety laws and Sainsburys internal policies.
In addition, resource is business.
Through these measures we will deliver sustainable dedicated to manage the risk effectively, in the form of the Group operating cost savings.
With regards to supplier continuity, Sainsburys Safety Committee and specialist safety teams.
undertakes credit checks on suppliers and maintains regular, open dialogue with key suppliers concerning their ability to trade.
Political and regulatory environment Risk In the UK there are heightened levels of political uncertainty and ongoing regulatory change.
The uncertain outcome of the EU referendum, an increasing focus on localism to drive and deliver policy and current legislative requirements including the Business Rates, Workplace Pensions, National Living Wage and Apprenticeship Levy place a cumulative burden on Sainsburys.
Mitigation We actively engage with the governments, administrations and regulatory bodies to communicate our views, and those of our customers and colleagues, regarding geopolitical issues with the aims of informing the debate and ensuring our opinions are represented in the policy and decision making processes.
We publically communicate matters where we believe industry change isrequired.
38 39 Strategic Report Statement of Viability In performing the above analysis, the Directors have made certain assumptions around the availability of future funding options, 1.
How Sainsburys assesses its prospects including both the ability to raise future finance and reduce forecast The Groups business activities and strategy are central to assessing spend.
Furthermore, the analysis was based on the existing Sainsburys its future prospects.
These, together with factors likely to affect its Group before the proposed acquisition of Home Retail Group plc.
We future development, performance and position, are set out in the have not completed a detailed viability assessment on Home Retail Strategic Report on pages 1 to 47.
The financial position of the Group, Group plc as the transaction has yet to complete.
However, through its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial Review on the due diligence process we have performed a review of the strategy, pages 40 to 47.
The Group manages its financing by diversifying risks and cash flows of the business and do not consider the proposed funding sources, structuring core borrowings with long-term acquisition will have an impact on the overall Groups viability.
maturities and maintaining sufficient levels of standby liquidity.
The results of the above stress testing showed that the Group would The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its corporate be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios occurring over the planning process.
This includes an annual review which considers assessment period.
profitability, the Groups cash flows, committed funding and liquidity positions and forecast future funding requirements over three years, 4.
Viability Statement with a further two years of indicative movements.
The most recent Taking into account the Groups current position and principal risks was signed off in October 2015.
This is reviewed by the Operating and uncertainties, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable Board and ultimately by the PLC Board with involvement throughout expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and from both the CFO and CEO.
Part of the Boards role is to consider the meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to March 2019. appropriateness of any key assumptions, taking into account the external environment and business strategy.
Going concern The Directors also considered it appropriate to adopt the going 2.
The assessment period concern basis in preparing the financial statements which are shown The Directors have determined that the three years to March 2019 is on pages 88 to 150. an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
This period isconsistent with that used for the Groups corporate planning process as detailed above, and reflects the Directors best estimate of the future prospects of the business.
Assessment of viability To make the assessment of viability, additional scenarios have been tested over and above those in the corporate plan, based upon a number of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as documented on pages 36 to 38.
The scenarios were overlaid into the corporate plan to quantify the potential impact of one or more of these crystallising over the assessment period.
Whilst each of the risks on pages 36 to 38 has a potential impact, only those that represent severe but plausible scenarios were selected for modelling through the corporate plan.
These included: The effects of long-term competitive price-matching A fall in forecast sales volumes as a result of increasing competition or any reputational damage to the Sainsburys brand The impact of any regulatory fines A failure to achieve targeted cost savings 38 39
