James Fisher and Sons plc Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties The trading company managing directors complete a The Groups risk management framework risk management review questionnaire on an annual The Board is ultimately responsible for the management of basis which is a self-assessment of operational controls risk in the Group.
Our internal control and risk management and compliance with Group policies and applicable framework is regularly monitored and reviewed by the Board laws and regulations relating to their business.
This and the Audit Committee and comprises a series of policies, enables business managers to identify risks and focus processes, procedures and organisational structures which on mitigating strategies.
The reviews are submitted to are designed to ensure that the level of risk to which the Group the Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit for is exposed is consistent with the Boards risk appetite and the analysis and reporting to the Board.
The Group Risk Committee meets quarterly and is The Board determines the Groups policies on risk, appetite chaired by the CEO with representation from functional for risk and levels of risk tolerance and specifically approves: heads including finance, human resources, legal and risk management policies and plans: significant insurance company secretarial, information services, insurance and or legal claims and or settlements: major acquisitions, and internal audit.
The minutes of the Risk Committee disposals and capital expenditures: and the Group budget, are reported to the Board.
forecast and three year plan.
The Board has put in place a documented organisational structure with strictly defined Business reporting and performance limits of authority from the Board to operating units that reviews have been communicated throughout the businesses and The Group operates an annual budgeting process and are well understood by the Executive Directors, the central produces quarterly forecasts which are reviewed and approved management team, functional and business leaders who have by the Board.
Monthly results are compared with budget delegated authority and specific responsibility for ensuring and prior year and individual business reviews are conducted compliance with and implementing policies at corporate, quarterly which include a review of financial results.
The divisional and business unit level.
Central functions and businesses also compile a three year strategic plan.
operating units are each required to operate within this control environment and in accordance with the Groups established The Executive Directors hold quarterly board meetings with policies and procedures which include ethical, anti-bribery each business unit to discuss strategy, financial results and and corruption, treasury, employment, health and safety and forecasts, business needs and the management of risks facing environmental policies and procedures.
The Groups trading companies are supported by centralised Identifying and monitoring material risks finance, treasury, taxation, internal audit, legal and company secretarial, human resource and payroll and information Material risks are identified and monitored as follows: systems functions: the functional heads report to a nominated A risk evaluation process commences in the operating Executive Director.
The Board retains an oversight role, companies with an annual exercise to identify the receives regular reports on key issues and has a schedule significant operational and financial risks facing the of matters specifically reserved to it for decision designed business.
This is supported by a self-assessment to ensure that it maintains full and effective control over internal control review questionnaire completed by each appropriate strategic, investment, financial, organisational and operating company and submitted to the Group Head compliance issues.
This schedule is subject to review by the of Internal Audit.
This process is robust and challenging, Board on an annual basis.
ensures that risks are identified and that management has adequate internal control systems in place to report Risk management systems any weaknesses that require management attention.
The The key features of the Groups risk management systems are results of the analysis are utilised to determine future areas as follows: of internal audit focus.
Each trading business is required to maintain an up to A risk score is determined for each risk based on the date risk register, which is reviewed at each business likelihood of the identified risk arising and the potential board meeting, identifies key risks and assesses the impact on the business of an adverse outcome.
The risk likelihood and impact of each risk before and after score before and after mitigation is reviewed at business mitigation measures are taken.
On an annual basis the risk registers are submitted to The risk assessments are summarised and presented to the Company Secretary and Head of Internal Audit for the Board who evaluate the principal risks of the Group analysis.
This analysis is considered by the Board when by reference to the strategy and operating business determining the Groups principal risks and the areas of environment.
internal audit focus for the forthcoming period.
20 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risks and uncertainties The most significant risks that the Board considers may affect our business based on the risk evaluation process described above are listed below.
These risks are similar to last year except for the addition of Contractual risk and the re-designation of Reputational risk from operations to Health, safety and environment.
The Groups decentralised business model and geographical spread helps to mitigate the impact of each principal risk.
Changes in risk Risk description and potential impact Management and mitigation profile 2015 - 2016 Project delivery The failure to meet customer expectations Projects and contracts are subject to on-going review at levels and No change.
on project delivery could have potentially frequencies appropriate to performance and potential risks.
Our significant adverse financial and reputational businesses employ industry experts to help ensure effective project consequences and could potentially result in delivery and performance.
This together with established processes claims and litigation.
and procedures, reporting systems, management oversight, customer feedback and staff training and development are designed to mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
Contractual risk As the Group continues to grow, wins larger The Group utilises professional expertise to minimise risk in contract The major contracts and operates in more geographies, negotiation with customers and partners.
All major tenders, contracts contract wins in sometimes with local partners, the Company and joint ventures are referred to the Board for approval and limits 2016 potentially is potentially exposed to increased risks such of authority are designed to ensure that contracts are reviewed and increase the as late payment or cost overruns.
approved at appropriate levels prior to commitment.
In addition the Groups risk.
project delivery and performance function referred to above provides assurance on delivery.
Recruitment and retention of key staff James Fisher has strong and experienced Our strategy to attract and retain talent includes graduate recruitment, No change.
management teams in its operational identifying and developing future leaders, regular appraisals, formal businesses and depends on the skills, and informal training plans, succession planning, and appropriate experience and competence of all of its people remuneration incentives including the extension of share schemes to drive the business forward in established to key individuals.
We aim to develop talent from within.
The Groups success in and talent development is regularly discussed at Board and trading delivering its strategic objectives depends company level.
There are several management development on recruiting and retaining the right people programmes in place for individuals who have been identified as in all areas of our business and planning potential senior managers.
These programmes are defined to help succession in key leadership positions.
The develop and grow the capabilities and behaviours required of senior failure to attract, retain and develop personnel managers so that we have potential successors for key business of the requisite calibre could have an adverse roles.
These strategies are designed to retain and motivate individuals impact on the business.
and to ensure their commitment to the success of the business.
Staff turnover at senior levels within the Group remains low.
Health, safety and environment The Groups success is dependent on The Group places a particular emphasis on operational excellence No change.
conducting its business safely and in including the health, safety and security of its operations and the accordance with all applicable regulatory quality of services provided.
These key areas are continually monitored requirements.
Our businesses are reliant on and reported to the Board.
We have policies and processes to safely ensuring that a good reputation is maintained and compliantly manage our operations, to protect our employees with their customers.
An adverse operational and others, to react appropriately to operational incidents and to deal incident or failure to maintain appropriate quickly and effectively with any safety or service failings.
levels of service delivery would potentially damage the Groups reputation leading to financial and commercial consequences.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 James Fisher and Sons plc Principal risks and uncertainties continued Changes in risk Risk description and potential impact Management and mitigation profile 2015 - 2016 Financial risk The Group is exposed to a variety of financial The Group maintains relationships with a small key group of banks and This risk is risks which could adversely affect the financial reviews its funding mix and requirements at each Board meeting.
The performance of the Company.
The risks Board discusses macro-economic issues and their potential impact on strengthening include interest rate, foreign exchange and each of these risks.
of the US Dollar credit risk.
The Group enters into bilateral facilities to spread its maturity profile compared to An increase in interest rates or change in and aims to maximise the term of its revolving credit facilities.
the UK Pound exchange rates or credit restriction would The Groups centralised finance function oversees all key strategic had a beneficial have a financial impact.
finance matters and is responsible for treasury, tax, foreign exchange effect in 2016. and funding requirements.
This includes the day to day management Uncertainty in of the Groups liquidity, interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks.
financial markets, Forward currency contracts and interest rate swaps are entered into unrelated to to mitigate the risks of adverse currency or interest rate movements.
Group operations, The Group also seeks to secure payment in hard currency to mitigate is the risk most exchange rate risk.
likely to affect the Group.
Energy markets The Group has significant operations across The Group has exposure across the energy sector and to a broad No change.
the energy sector and serves a broad range range of end markets and differing geographies.
This together with the of oil and gas, nuclear and renewables maintenance of close relationships with key customers and suppliers customers.
helps to mitigate the potential impact of market risks in the energy A marked change in circumstances in sector.
individual market sectors, energy prices or Specifically with regard to the oil and gas sector, the Group has limited change in government regulation or policy exposure to the exploration phase and seeks longer-term contracts for may lead to reduced activity which can affect inspection, repair and maintenance work.
demand for the Groups products and services and impact financial performance.
Operations in emerging markets The Group has increasing activities in Risk and internal control of overseas joint ventures is a key area of No change.
overseas emerging markets and key growth managements focus.
As businesses develop we monitor and review economies which are often undertaken in the structure of and reporting lines for our overseas operations and the association with local joint venture partners.
relations with third parties to ensure an appropriate form of command This together with legislative restrictions, and control is maintained, dependent on the particular operating embargoes, sanctions and exchange controls environment and the nature and size of the business.
The Group all has the potential for increasing the Groups allocates additional resource to areas of higher risk and has enhanced financial and governance risk exposure.
its internal audit reviews for overseas businesses which are supported Any significant failure to comply with laws by external audit companies, where appropriate.
or regulations could lead to liabilities and Processes are in place that are designed to ensure that all businesses penalties.
operate in accordance with legislative restrictions, embargoes, sanctions and exchange controls and the Groups policies and applicable laws.
Cyber security Attempts to cause harm to the Group and The Groups IT systems are defended through the use of software There have been its businesses via digital channels could lead protection and processes which are regularly reviewed and tested.
no major security to theft, fraud, interruption to business and These defenses include gateways, firewalls and threat detectors.
IT breaches or fraud damage to our reputation.
security information and updates are reviewed on a regular basis.
Risk is Group IT systems were subjected to penetration tests in 2016 which unchanged.
Accounting and banking controls are regularly appraised to ensure they are appropriate, up to date and comply with recommended practice.
