S E C S N A E I L T N P I D I M U A S O L C U A N B & R E K T E N S I I STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT As a global company, JLT faces a range of risks, any of which has the potential to impact on the achievement of our strategic business objectives, as well as providing opportunity in the right circumstances.
FULLY ACCOUNTABLE FOR THE IDENTIFICATION, ASSESSMENT AND INDEPENDENTLY MANAGEMENT OF ASSESSES RISK RISK MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL EFFECTIVENESS PROVIDES POLICY ADVICE, GUIDANCE AND CHALLENGE TO THE 1ST LINE Clear, skilled roles for the control functions in the second JLTS INTERNAL CONTROL line of defence, providing specialist advice and strong FRAMEWORK oversight to the businesses internationally: and JLT 3 lines of defence An enhanced focus on risk management disciplines across the business.
The Group operates a 3 lines of defence 3LOD model as a core component of its governance arrangements, We have been implementing the recommendations from as shown above.
the review throughout the year and are making good progress.
The next phase of the review, starting in early 2017, will focus The current 3LOD model has been in place and operating on the international businesses.
for four years across the Group, and has been subject to iterative enhancements during that time.
In addition, JLT JLT regularly reviews its governance arrangements through completed an internal review of its 3LOD model in the Board and Audit & Risk Committee ARC effectiveness UK businesses during Q1 2016, building upon the solid reviews which are carried out on an annual basis.
More detail governance framework already in place.
The core principles can be found in the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages of the review were to deliver: 63 to 70.
Enhanced accountability and ownership of risk within the businesses, ensuring that the right people with the right skills are available to the businesses close to decision making processes: 42 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 P R H U O P T R U G O E E N R I L G N D I E R L 3 N I L T D S N 1 2 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key JLT policies include: AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEES Anti-bribery and corruption Anti-money laundering and fraud JLT has implemented a consistent governance model across Gifts and entertainment Conflicts of interest the Group, run through local Boards and ARCs, which are Market abuse and insider dealing Complaints operated as committees of each Board and are overseen by HR related policies IT Security them.
There are over 20 Entity ARCs, most chaired by a NonData protection Sanctions Executive Director who, in most instances, is also independent The Group has also introduced a revised whistleblowing of the JLT Group.
The relevant management team including policy and worldwide confidential whistleblowing help-line the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief during the year.
Financial Officer and others as required attend ARC meetings to present their view of the risk and compliance environments Each business maintains an Operating Procedures Manual, across their businesses.
Group Risk & Compliance and Group which contains all key procedures for the business to conduct Internal Audit also attend meetings and provide independent itself in a compliant and sustainable manner.
reporting to ensure that there is adequate discussion of relevant issues, including key risks and mitigating controls.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK A UK Non-Executive Director forum meets regularly and allows the sharing of new initiatives and discussion of common topics JLTs risk management framework has been refreshed during of interest.
JLT held its first International NED Seminar during 2016 and is in the process of being rolled out, referencing 2016 for the Chairs of each of the ARCs across the Group, several recognised standards such as the Institute of Risk supplemented by external speakers on key subjects and a view Management and ISO 31000.
It is based on 7 risk categories from the Financial Conduct Authority, JLT's home regulator.
IT, HR, Finance, Operations etc, each of which has a Group level sponsor whose daily role is aligned to the subject matter.
The following diagram shows the interaction of 3LOD within The Group specialists are engaged in defining the Group level the governance model.
The Group ARC membership, terms risk profile, which is used in deriving the Principal Risks shown of reference and key areas of focus are outlined in The Audit on pages 44 and 45 and in arriving at the Viability Statement & Risk Committee section on pages 63 to 70. on page 96.
In addition to the above, the businesses maintain their own JLT GROUP PLC BOARD risk registers, which are produced by each Executive team and JLT GROUP PLC AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE regularly reviewed by their local ARC.
The ARCs consider the Entity Group Internal key risks and any mitigating action that can be taken to keep Group Risk & Boards Audit Compliance the identified risks within the risk appetite of the firm, as well as assessing new opportunities.
Entity Audit Risk External & Committees Audit st nd rd 1 line 2 Line 3 Line PRINCIPAL RISKS The Business Control Functions Internal & External Audit The principal risks faced by the Group are summarised in the table on pages 44 and 45.
INTERNAL CONTROLS Underpinning JLTs governance is a suite of policies, which are FINANCIAL RISKS authored and managed by the relevant Group function, signed off by the relevant senior Group executive and accessible The principal financial risks are also discussed in more detail to employees via the Groups Policy Portal.
There is also a in the Finance Directors Review on pages 39 to 40. revolving mandatory programme of e-learning modules for employees to take throughout the year, reinforcing the policy messages.
Adherence to the Groups policies is monitored by the functions who own them and by Group Internal Audit, who refer to them during the course of their audits, which are reported to the local entity ARCs and to the Group ARC.
In Charles Rozes parallel, the Groups Compliance team provides assurance that Finance Director local regulation is adhered to and that clients' interests are at 28 February 2017 the heart of everything we do.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 43 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS NATURE OF RISK RISK MITIGATION STRATEGIC RISKS Economic JLTs business is more tied to economic activity Global business operations balanced across a broad range Instability and growth than to re insurance market rates, since of territories and business types.
greater levels of corporate activity generally drive Well-funded balance sheet and cash generation.
greater demand for the Groups services.
There is a Annual strategy review at Board and Group Executive Committee.
risk that economic instability reduces client demand.
Strategic Risks There are risks to the companys strategic plan Annual strategy review by the Board and the Group Executive arising from changes in the external environment, Committee.
such as markets, customer behaviour and political Formal three-year strategic planning process for every business developments such as Brexit, as well as risks arising revised annually, which includes consideration of material risks from acquisitions and strategic change initiatives.
Acquisition due diligence and risk assessment processes.
Programme governance over strategic change initiatives.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Loss of Key Staff The Groups principal asset is its people: there is a Distinctive entrepreneurial, collaborative, resultsand teamrisk that the organisation may not be able to attract orientated culture and environment.
and retain market leading talent.
Effective staff reward and retention strategies.
Effective staff appraisal and development programmes.
Business The Group operates from over 100 offices in 40 Dedicated Group Business Continuity Management function.
Interruption territories across the world, each with a unique local Detailed Group business continuity policy and procedures environment.
There is a risk of a business interruption for each business unit.
due to a large, unexpected incident.
Regular independent review and testing of business continuity plans.
Loss of IT The Group is reliant on the ability to process its Dedicated IT Security function.
Environment transactions on behalf of its clients.
Risks arise from Monitoring of compliance with Group IT security policy non-performance or failure of an IT outsourcing and service level agreements.
provider IT supplier, malicious act and or cyber-crime, Annual IT disaster recovery plan testing by each business.
Information Intermediaries and pension administrators process Dedicated information risk and data protection functions.
Security and retain confidential data in the normal course of Risk-based monitoring and reviews performed by Group business.
Risks relate to loss of customer records IT Security and Group Internal Audit.
or breach of confidentiality due to inadequate security Regular reporting to business ARCs.
Data Loss Prevention DLP tools and processes.
Mobile device encryption: restrictions on USB devices, and access to personal email.
Technical IT security policies and standards.
Data Privacy Risks arising from non-compliance with or Group-wide information classification schema.
Regular reviews misinterpretation of local or international data of Highly Confidential Data and corresponding controls and privacy regulation legislation laws.
Data Protection policy and training.
Formal General Data Protection Regulation implementation programme.
44 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION PRINCIPAL RISKS NATURE OF RISK RISK MITIGATION Errors & Intermediaries run a risk of incurring a loss if the Continuous training in errors and omissions avoidance.
Omissions operating procedures in place across the Group Central and regional risk and compliance monitoring.
in relation to market security, placement and claims Strong procedural and systems controls including are not complied with or alleged negligence breach workflow management.
of contract in the provision of services advice Regular and ongoing quality assurance programmes.
Market security processes, monitoring and Insurer Impairment Plan.
Litigation Litigation risk can arise from a number Dedicated Legal and M&A functions with oversight responsibilities.
of different sources such as: Continuous staff training in HR policies and procedures.
M&A litigation eg breach of Sale Formal recruitment processes based upon HR and legal advice.
Tortious liability arising from the recruitment of individuals where appropriate recruitment controls are not adhered to.
Regulatory Risks arise from non-compliance with or Dedicated Compliance and Financial Crime functions.
Breach Financial misinterpretation of local and international regulations Regular sanctions and third party payments screening Crime including and failure to meet regulatory standards both in programme.
internal and the present, and retrospectively, in relation to past Continuous staff training programmes.
Central and regional risk and compliance oversight.
FINANCIAL RISKS Capital Risk Risks arising from an inability to maintain an effective Maintenance of adequate committed credit facilities.
and Liquidity and efficient capital structure and ensure an optimal Compliance with regulatory minimum capital requirements cost of capital, or meet the short-term financial and regular stress testing.
Maintenance of a conservative funding profile.
Foreign Currency The Group has foreign exchange exposures to: Prudent management of transactional currency exposures Translational risk arising from the need to convert through a structured hedging programme.
currencies into GBP for reporting purposes.
Regular review and sensitivity analysis of currency translation Transactional risk arising from revenues and costs impacts to financial reports.
being denominated in different currencies.
Counterparty There is a risk associated with a failure of a key Board-approved investment and counterparty policy to limit the Risk counterparty resulting in a loss of own cash, fiduciary concentration of funds and exposure with any one counter-party.
funds, investments & deposits, derivative assets Defined cash and investments policy.
Active management and monitoring of counterparty limits, financial strength and credit profile of key counterparties.
Regular review by Board and Audit & Risk Committee of counterparty limits, ratings, credit default swap spread rates, utilisation levels and compliance with applicable regulation.
Defined Benefit Risk of adverse impact on the balance sheet and Appropriate scheme investment strategy and diversification.
Pension Scheme income statement as a consequence of increase Triennial actuarial valuations and regular trustee funding updates.
in the Defined Benefit Pension Scheme deficit.
Regular review of long term fide-risking strategy.
Regular scheme membership data verification.
Regular review of employer covenant.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2016 45
