Strategic Report Principal Risks Any business undertaking will involve some risk with many risk factors common to any business no matter what segment it operates in.
The Directors acknowledge however that certain risks and uncertainties are more specific to the Group and the markets in which its businesses operate.
The principal risk factors are assessed below: Omnichannel Risk and Impact Mitigating Activities Key Suppliers and Brands The retail fascias offer a proposition that has a mixture of third party and own brand product.
The Group The Group seeks to ensure it is not overly reliant on a small number of brands by offering a stable of own maintains and is dependent on long term supplier relationships whose loss could adversely impact results.
brands which is constantly evolving.
The retail fascias are heavily dependent on the products and the brands themselves being desirable Where possible, the Groups retail fascias also work in partnership with the third party brands in their to the customer if the revenue streams are to grow.
Therefore, the Group needs all of its third party and own business on the design of bespoke product which is then exclusive to the Groups fascias.
brands, including brands licensed exclusively to it, to maintain their design and marketing prominence Further, the Group continues to actively seek additional brands which it can either own or to sustain that desirability.
The Group is also subject to the distribution policies operated by some third party brands both in terms of the fascias which can sell the ranges and, more specifically, the individual towns or retail centres.
Intellectual Property The Groups trademarks and other intellectual property rights are critical in maintaining the value of the The Group therefore works with third party organisations to ensure that the Groups intellectual property Groups own brands.
Ensuring that the Groups businesses can use these brands exclusively is critical in is registered in all relevant territories.
The Group also actively works to prevent counterfeit product providing a point of differentiation to our customers and without this exclusivity we believe that footfall into being passed off as legitimate.
the stores, visits to our websites and ultimately conversion of these visits into revenues would all be reduced.
Retail Property Factors The retail landscape has seen significant changes in recent years with a number of new developments Wherever possible, the Group will seek a number of protections when agreeing to new property leases: opened and a high volume of retail units becoming vacant.
New leases taken out for a maximum period of 10 years.
The Group can be exposed where it has committed itself to a long lease in a location which, as a result Break option part way through the lease.
of a more recent retail development, is no longer as attractive to the customer leading to reduced footfall Capped rent reviews.
and potentially lower sales volumes.
Rents which flex with turnover in the store.
When the Group determines that the current store performance is unsatisfactory then an assessment is made on whether the Group wants to continue trading in that location.
If it does then the landlord is approached to see whether we can reach an agreement on a reduction in the rent or a change to a turnover based rent.
If it is considered that the best solution is to exit the store completely then the landlord is approached with a view to a complete surrender of the lease.
If this is not possible then the Group would alternatively seek to assign the lease or sublet it to another retailer.
The Group is mindful of current economic factors, and the adverse impact on the potential for disposal from the high volume of vacant units already available as a consequence of a number of retailers going out of business in recent years.
Assigning the lease or finding a sub-tenant is not without risk because if the incoming retailer fails then the liability to pay the rent usually reverts to the head lessee.
The Group monitors the financial condition of the assignees closely for evidence that the possibility of a store returning is more than remote and makes a provision for the return of stores if this risk looks probable.
The Board reviews the list of assigned leases regularly and is comfortable that appropriate provisions have been made where there is a probable risk of the store returning to the Group under privity of contract and, other than as disclosed in note 25, they are not aware of any other stores where there is a possible risk of these stores returning.
Seasonality The Groups core retail business is highly seasonal.
Historically, the Groups most important trading period The business monitors stock levels and manages the peaks in demand constantly with regular Ain terms of sales, profitability and cash flow in its Sports Fashion fascias has been the Christmas season.
Lower than expected performance in this period may have an adverse impact on results for the full year, which may cause excess inventories that are difficult to liquidate.
Economic Factors As with other retailers and distributors into retail businesses, the demand for the Groups products is The Group seeks to manage this risk by offering a highly desirable and competitively priced product range, influenced by a number of economic factors, notably interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, which is highly differentiated from that of the Groups competitors.
employment levels and ultimately, disposable incomes.
Reliance on Non-UK manufacturers The majority of both third party branded product and the Groups own branded product is sourced outside of The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that the products being sourced satisfy increasingly stringent the UK.
The Group is therefore exposed to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well as laws and regulations governing issues of health and safety, packaging and labelling and other social and different legal systems and operating standards.
Whilst the Group can manage the risk in the supply chain on environmental factors.
its own and licensed products, it has little control over the supply chain within the third party brands.
As such, Compliance is monitored by the Groups Head of Quality and Ethics who has extensive experience in this area.
the Group is exposed to events which may not be under its control.
Adequate levels of stock are maintained to cover short periods of supply delay.
51 51 51 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Principal Risks continued Consistency of Infrastructure Risk and Impact Mitigating Activities IT The Group relies on its IT systems and networks and those of the banks and the credit card companies The IT team in place has been strengthened and the documentation of the current system has improved.
to service its retail customers all year round.
Further, a bespoke training academy is being established to train already highly skilled IT operatives in the operating system behind the core ERP system.
The principal enterprise system continues to be ideally suited to the operations of the business but it has always been reliant on a very limited number of key development staff.
Any long term interruption in the availability of the core enterprise system would have a significant impact on the retail businesses.
The Group manages this risk by housing the principal IT servers in a third party location which has a mirror back up available should the primary servers or links fail.
Warehouse Operations Stock is held in the Groups warehouse in Rochdale.
Having the stock in one location with increased The Group has worked with its insurers on a conceptual Business Continuity Plan which came into effect automation in the picking process has brought significant benefits in terms of capacity, product availability, when the warehouse became operational.
This plan is being enhanced by the Group Supply Chain and quicker deliveries to our European stores and reduced transport costs.
However, there is an increased risk Change Director.
to store replenishment and multichannel fulfilment from both equipment and system failure, together with In addition, there is a full support contract with our automation equipment providers which includes a 24 7 the inherent risk of having all the stock in one location.
presence from a qualified engineer thereby enabling immediate attention to any equipment issues.
Consideration will also be given to any extension to the Kingsway site being a separate building rather than an extension to the existing footprint.
Personnel The success of the Group is dependent upon the continued service of its key management personnel and To help achieve this continued service, the Group has competitive reward packages for all staff.
upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
More specifically for the retail businesses, the Group also has a long established and substantial training function which seeks to develop training for all levels of retail employees and thereby increase morale and improve staff retention.
This then ensures that knowledge of the Groups differentiated product offering is not lost, thereby enhancing customer service.
The Board regularly considers the actions required to ensure there is succession planning for all key roles.
Health and Safety The health and safety of our customers and employees is of the utmost importance.
Policies are There is a comprehensive induction and training programme for store staff covering Health and implemented in conjunction with training programmes to protect our employees and customers.
injuries, distress and fatalities could result from a failure to establish and maintain The Group Health and Safety Committee meets on a monthly basis, is chaired by the Group Health and safe environments.
Safety Manager and includes as its attendees the Group Company Secretary and Group Property Director.
The Group Health and Safety Manager appraises the Board of material issues and incidents on a periodic basis.
Targets are set by the Board to enable measurement of performance.
Performance against targets, incidents and legal claims that arise are reported to the Board.
The Group also works closely with its principal insurers who undertake regular risk reviews both in the store portfolio and in the main central warehouse.
Treasury and Financial The Group is exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group encourages its own brand suppliers to quote in Euros where possible thus creating a natural hedge against the Euros remitted from the international businesses.
The surplus Euros are also used Branded product for the JD fascia throughout Europe is purchased by JD Sports Fashion Plc which is the to fund the international store developments thus alleviating the need for local third party financing.
This business then sells to the international businesses in their local currencies.
Any surplus Euros are converted back to sterling with hedging now put in place for approximately 75% Given the current geographical location of the Groups stores this results in an increasingly significant of the anticipated surplus.
This leaves some Euros available should the Group need to move quickly to Sterling Euro exposure in the UK trading business for the Euros which are remitted back for stock take advantage of an acquisition or other investment opportunity.
Discussions continue with senior purchases.
management at the major international brands on how the risk on Sterling Euro volatility from the There is also exposure in relation to Sterling US Dollar consequent to the sourcing of own brand merchandise, centralisation of product buying can be shared fairly between the parties.
where suppliers are located principally in the Far East or Indian Sub-Continent.
Strengthening of the US Dollar The Group is currently monitoring its exchange rate risk closely in view of potential further uncertainty relative to Sterling makes product sourced in this currency more expensive thus reducing profitability.
and volatility in currency markets as a result of the upcoming referendum on the UKs membership of the European Union.
The Group sets a buying rate for the purchase of own brand goods in US dollars at the start of the buying season typically six to nine months before the product actually starts to appear in the stores and then enters into a number of local currency US dollar contracts, using a variety of instruments, whereby the minimum exchange rate on the purchase of dollars is guaranteed.
The Group typically looks to protect up to 90% of the US dollar requirement for the following year.
Regulatory and Compliance The Group operates in an environment regulated by legislation, codes and standards including, but not The Group actively monitors adherence to its existing regulatory requirements and has a number limited to, listing rules, trading standards, advertising, product quality, carbon emission reporting, bribery, of internal policies and standards to ensure compliance where appropriate.
corruption and data protection rules.
The Group provides training where required and operates a confidential whistleblowing hotline The Group recognises that failure to comply with these may result in financial or reputational damage for colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
The Group expects all suppliers to comply with its Conditions of Supply which clearly sets out its expectations of its suppliers and includes a Code of Conduct which all suppliers must adhere to.
Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 13 April 2016
