John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The effective management of risks within the Group is essential Internal Audit is independent of the business and reports to the successful delivery of the Groups objectives.
The Board functionally to the Group Finance Director and directly to the is responsible for ensuring that risks are identified and Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Group Head of appropriately managed across the Group and has delegated Internal Audit meets regularly with senior management and to the Audit & Risk Committee responsibility for reviewing the the Audit & Risk Committee to discuss key findings and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including the management actions undertaken.
systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor The Group Head of Internal Audit can call a meeting with the risks.
The Groups risk appetite when making decisions on Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee at any time and investment commitments or potential realisations is assessed meets privately with the Audit & Risk Committee, without by reference to the expected impact on NAV.
senior management present, as and when required, but at During the year, the previous Audit Committee was renamed least annually.
the Audit & Risk Committee and its remit was expanded.
Under A Management Risk Committee, comprising senior members its new remit, the Committee has a greater involvement in of management and chaired by the Group Finance Director, overseeing the effective management of risks within the Group.
assists the Board, Audit & Risk Committee, and Executive The principal internal controls that operated throughout 2016 Committee in formulating and enforcing the Groups risk and up to the date of this Annual Report include: management policy.
The Head of Internal Audit attends each meeting of the Management Risk Committee.
It reports an organisational structure which provides adequate formally to the Audit & Risk Committee.
segregation of responsibilities, clearly dened lines of accountability, delegated authority to trained and experienced The Directors confirm that they have monitored throughout staff and extensive reporting: the year and carried out i a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems and clear business objectives aligned with the Groups risk appetite: ii a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, risk reporting, including identication of risks through future performance, solvency and liquidity.
No material Group-wide risk registers, that is embedded in the regular weaknesses were identified from the review of the Groups management reporting of business units and is risk management and internal control systems.
The Group communicated to the Board: and risk register is reviewed at every meeting of the Audit & Risk an independent internal audit function, which reports to the Committee and Management Risk Committee and every six Audit & Risk Committee.
The external auditor also reports to months by the Board.
the Audit & Risk Committee on the effectiveness of financial The above controls and procedures are underpinned by a controls relevant to the audit.
culture of openness of communication between operational The Groups Internal Audit function has several objectives, and executive management.
All investment decisions are in particular: scrutinised in detail by the Investment Committee and, if outside the Investment Committees terms of reference, to provide independent assurance to the Board, through the also by the Board.
Audit & Risk Committee, that internal control processes, including those related to risk management, are relevant, t The Directors assessment of the principal risks applying to for purpose, effective and operating throughout the business: the Group is set out below, including the way in which risks are linked to the three strategic objectives set out in the Chief to provide a deterrent to fraud and to provide another layer Executive Officers Review.
Additional risks and uncertainties of assurance that the Group is meeting its FCA regulatory not presently known to the Directors, or which they currently requirements: and consider not to be material, may also have an adverse effect to provide advice on efficiency improvements to internal on the Group: control processes.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 36 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2015 Governmental policy Changes to legislation or public policy in the jurisdictions The Board limits its exposure to any single jurisdiction.
1, 2, 3 in which the Group operates or may wish to operate Thorough due diligence is carried out in order to assess a No change could negatively impact the volume of potential specific country's risk for example economic and political opportunities available to the Group and the returns stability, tax policy and local practices before any from existing opportunities.
The use of PPP programmes by governmental entities may Where possible the Group seeks specific contractual be delayed or may decrease thereby limiting opportunities protection from changes in government policy and law for private sector infrastructure investors in the future, for the projects it invests in.
General change of law is or be structured such that returns to private sector considered to be a normal business risk.
During the infrastructure investors are reduced.
bidding process for a project, the Group takes a view Governmental entities may in the future seek to terminate on an appropriate level of return to cover the risk of or renegotiate existing projects for example to introduce non-discriminatory changes in law.
new policies or legislation that result in higher tax During the bidding process for a project, the Group obligations on existing PPP or renewable energy projects assesses the sensitivity of the projects forecast returns to or otherwise affect existing or future projects.
changes in factors such as tax rates and or, for renewable Changes to legislation or public policy relating to energy projects, governmental support mechanisms.
renewable energy could negatively impact the economic The Group targets jurisdictions which have a track record returns on the Groups investments in renewable energy of support for renewable energy investments and which projects, which would adversely affect the demand for and continue to demonstrate such support.
Through its track record of more than 120 investment Compliance with the public tender regulations which apply commitments, the Group has developed significant to PPP projects is complex and the outcomes may be expertise in compliance with public tender regulations.
subject to third party challenge and reversed.
Macroeconomic factors To the extent such factors cannot be hedged, inflation, 1, 2, 3 Factors which have the potential to impact adversely the interest rates and foreign exchange all potentially underlying cash flows of an investment, and hence its Increased impact the return generated from an investment and valuation, are hedged wherever possible at a project level its valuation.
and sensitivities are considered during the investment appraisal process.
Weakness in factors which affect energy prices, such as the oil price, could negatively impact the economic Systemic risks, such as potential deflation, or returns on the Groups investments in renewable energy.
appreciation depreciation of Sterling versus the currency in which an investment is made, are assessed in the Weakness in the political and economic climate in a context of the portfolio as a whole.
particular jurisdiction could impact the value of, or the return generated from, any or all of the Groups The Group seeks to reduce the extent to which its investments located in that jurisdiction.
renewable energy investments are exposed to energy prices through governmental support mechanisms and or off-take arrangements.
The Group monitors closely the level of investments it has exposed to foreign currencies, including regularly testing the sensitivity of the financial covenants in its corporate banking facilities to a significant change in the value of individual currencies.
Where possible, specific clauses relating to potential currency change within a particular jurisdiction are incorporated in project documentation.
Liquidity in the secondary market Weakness in the secondary markets for investments in 1, 2, 3 Projects are appraised on a number of bases, including PPP or renewable energy, for example as the result of a being held to maturity.
Projects are also carefully No change lack of economic growth in relevant markets, regulatory structured so that they are capable of being divested, changes in the banking sector, liquidity in financial if appropriate, before maturity.
markets, changes in interest and exchange rates and Over recent years, the secondary markets for both PPP and project finance market conditions, and the recent renewable energy investments have grown.
In particular, difficulties in parts of the Eurozone, may affect the several new environmental funds have been launched.
Groups ability to realise full value from its divestments.
While JLIF and JLEN are natural buyers of the Groups PPP The secondary market for investments in renewable and renewable energy investments respectively, the size energy projects may be affected by, inter alia, changes and breadth of secondary markets provide the Group with in energy prices, in governmental policy, in the value confidence that it can sell investments to other purchasers.
of governmental support mechanisms and in project finance market conditions.
The ability of JLIF and JLEN to raise finance for further investments may have an impact on both the Groups ability to sell investments in PPP and renewable energy projects and on the Groups asset management business more generally.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2015 Financial resources Any shortfall in the financial resources that are available In February 2015, the Group entered into corporate banking 1, 3 to the Group to satisfy its financial obligations may make facilities totalling 350.0 million which mature in March No change it necessary for the Group to constrain its business 2020.
In June 2016, these facilities were increased to development, refinance its outstanding obligations, forego 400.0 million and in December 2016 additional surety investment opportunities and or sell existing investments.
facilities 50.0 million became committed until March 2018.
Available headroom is carefully monitored and Inability to secure project finance could hinder the ability compliance with the financial covenants and other terms of of the Group to make a bid for an investment opportunity, these facilities is closely observed.
The Group also monitors or where the Group has a preferred bidder position, could its working capital, cash collateral and letter of credit negatively impact whether an underlying project reaches requirements and maintains an active dialogue with its financial close.
It operates a policy of ensuring that sufficient The inability of a project company to satisfactorily refinance financial resources are maintained to satisfy committed existing maturing medium-term project finance facilities and likely future investment requirements.
periodically during the life of a project could affect the The Group believes that there is currently sufficient depth Groups projected future returns from investments in and breadth in project finance markets to meet the such projects and hence their valuation in the Groups financing needs of the projects it invests in.
works closely with a wide range of project finance Adverse financial performance by a project company providers, including banks and other financial institutions.
which affects the financial covenants in its project finance Projects in which the Group has invested in PPP markets loan documents may result in the project company being such as Australia and New Zealand, where the tenor of unable to make distributions to the Group and other project finance facilities at financial close tends to be investors, which would impact the valuation of the Groups medium term, will need to be refinanced in due course.
investment in such project company, and may enable Prior to financial close, all proposed investments are project finance debt providers to declare default on the scrutinised by the Investment Committee.
This scrutiny financing terms and exercise their security.
includes a review of sensitivities to adverse performance of investment returns and financial ratio tests as well as an assessment of a projects ability to be refinanced if the tenor of its debt is less than the term of the concession or the projects useful life.
The Group maintains an active dialogue with the banks and other financial institutions which provide project finance to the projects in which it invests.
Monitoring of compliance with financial covenant ratios and other terms of loan documents continues throughout the term of the project finance loan.
Pensions The amount of the deficit in the Groups main defined 1, 3 The Groups two defined benefit pension schemes are benefit pension scheme JLPF can vary significantly overseen by corporate trustees, the directors of which No change due to gains or losses on scheme investments and include independent and professionally qualified movements in the assumptions used to value scheme individuals.
The Group works closely with the trustees liabilities in particular life expectancy, discount rate and on the appropriate funding strategy for the schemes and inflation rate.
Consequently the Group is exposed to the takes independent actuarial advice as appropriate.
Both risk of increases in cash contributions payable, volatility schemes are closed to future accrual and accordingly in the deficit reported in the Group Balance Sheet, and have no active members, only deferred members and gains losses recorded in the Group Statement of pensioners.
A significant proportion of the liabilities of Comprehensive Income.
JLPF is matched by a bulk annuity buy-in agreement with Aviva.
Other hedging is also in place.
The actuarial valuation of JLPF as at 31 March 2016 was finalised in December 2016.
The next actuarial valuation is due as at 31 March 2019.
Competition The Group operates in competitive markets and may not 1 The Group believes that its experience and expertise as be able to compete effectively or profitably.
an active investor and asset manager accumulated over No change more than 20 years, together with its flexibility and ability to respond to market conditions will continue to enable it to compete effectively and secure attractive investments.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 38 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2015 Valuation The valuation of an investment in a project may not reflect The discount rates used to value investments are derived 3 its ultimate realisable value.
from publicly available market data and other market Increased evidence and are updated regularly.
In circumstances where the revenue derived from a project is related to patronage i. e. customer usage, The Group has a good track record of realising investments actual revenues may vary materially from assumptions at prices consistent with the fair values at which they made at the time the investment commitment is made.
In addition, to the extent that a project companys actual The Groups investments are in projects which are costs incurred differ from forecast costs, for example, principally availability-based where the revenue does not because of late construction, and cannot be passed on generally depend on the level of use of the project asset.
to sub-contractors or other third parties, investment Where patronage or volume risk is taken, the Directors returns and valuations may be adversely affected.
review revenue assumptions and their sensitivities in detail Revenues from renewable energy projects may be prior to any investment commitment.
The Groups intention affected by the volume of power production e. g. from is to maintain a majority of availability based investments changes in wind or solar yield, the availability of fuel by value in its portfolio.
in the case of biomass projects, restrictions on the Where the revenue from investments is related to electricity network, the reliability of electrical patronage or volume e. g. with regard to investments in connections or other factors such as noise and other renewable energy projects, risks are mitigated through a environmental restrictions, as well as by changes in combination of factors, including i the use of independent energy prices and to governmental support mechanisms.
forecasts of future volumes ii lower gearing versus that The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is of availability-based projects iii stress-testing the affected by movements in foreign exchange rates, which robustness of project returns against significant falls in are reflected through the Groups financial statements.
In addition, there are foreign exchange risks associated The Group typically hedges cash flows arising from with conversion of foreign currency cash flows relating investment realisations or significant distributions in to an investment into and out of Sterling.
The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio could The intention is that projects are structured such that be affected by changes in tax legislation, for instance i day-to-day service provision is sub-contracted to changes to limit tax-deductible interest qualified sub-contractors supported by appropriate security see Taxation section.
packages ii cost and price inflation risk in relation to During the construction phase of an infrastructure the provision of services lies with sub-contractors project, there are risks that either the works are not iii performance deductions in relation to non-availability completed within the agreed time-frame or that lie with sub-contractors iv future major maintenance construction costs overrun.
Where such risks are not costs and ongoing project company costs are reviewed borne by sub-contractors, or sub-contractors fail to annually and cost mitigation strategies adopted meet their contractual obligations, this can result in as appropriate.
delays or cost overruns, which may adversely affect the The Group has procedures in place to ensure that project valuation of and return on the Groups investments.
companies in which it invests appoint competent If construction or other long stop dates are exceeded, sub-contractors with relevant experience and financial this may enable public sector counter-parties and or strength.
If project construction is delayed, sub-contracting project finance debt providers to declare a default and, arrangements contain terms enabling the project company in the case of the latter, to exercise their security.
to recover liquidated damages, additional costs and lost The Group is reliant on the performance of third parties revenue, subject to limits.
In addition, the project company in constructing an asset to an appropriate standard as may terminate its agreement with a sub-contractor if the well as operating it in a manner consistent with latter is in default and seek an alternative sub-contractor.
Poor performance by, or The terms of the sub-contracts into which project failure of, such third parties may result in the companies enter provide some protections for investment impairment or loss of an investment.
returns from the poor performance of third parties.
The ability to replace defaulting third parties is supported by security packages to protect against price movement on re-tendering.
If long stop dates are exceeded, the Group has significant experience as an active manager in protecting its investments by working with all parties to a project to agree revised timetables and or other restructuring arrangements.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2015 Counterparty risk The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk with The Group works with multiple clients, joint venture 3 regards to i governmental entities, sub-contractors, partners, sub-contractors and institutional investors so as Increased lenders and suppliers at a project level and ii consortium to reduce the probability of systemic counterparty risk in partners, financial institutions and suppliers at a its investment portfolio.
In establishing project contractual Group level.
arrangements prior to making an investment, the credit standing and relevant experience of a sub-contractor are Public sector counter-parties to PPP projects may seek to considered.
Post contract award, the financial standing of renegotiate contract terms and or terminate contracts in a key counterparties is monitored to provide an early warning way which impacts the valuation of one or more of the of possible financial distress.
PPP projects are normally structured so as to provide In overseas jurisdictions, the Groups investments backed significant contractual protection for equity investors.
by governmental entities may ultimately be subject to Such protection may include termination for convenience sovereign risk.
clauses which enable public sector counter-parties to terminate projects subject to payment of compensation, including equity investors.
PPP projects are normally supported by central and local government covenants, which significantly reduce the Groups risk.
Risk is further reduced by the increasing geographical spread of the Groups investments.
Counterparties for deposits at a Group level, project debt swaps and deposits within project companies are required to be banks with a suitable credit rating and are monitored on an ongoing basis.
Entry into new geographical areas which have a different legal framework and or different financial market characteristics is considered by the Board separately from individual investment decisions.
Typically, a substantial proportion of the revenue generated by renewable energy projects is backed by governmental support mechanisms.
Major incident A major incident at any of the Groups main locations or 2, 3 At financial close, projects benefit from comprehensive any of the projects invested in by the Group, such as a insurance arrangements, either directly or through No change terrorist attack, war or significant cyber-attack, could contractors insurance policies.
lead to a loss of crucial business data, technology, Detailed business continuity plans have been designed and buildings and reputation and harm to the public, all of are tested at frequent regular intervals.
Business continuity which could collectively or individually result in a loss procedures are also regularly updated in order to maintain of value for the Group.
John Laing operates to independent, third party-certified management systems in respect of health and safety OHSAS 18001:2007.
In addition, it routinely monitors health, safety and environmental issues in the projects it invests in or manages.
Cyber risk is addressed through i the Groups organisational structure which includes segregation of responsibilities, delegated lines of accountability, delegated authorities and outsourced IT arrangements, as well as ii specific controls, including controls over payments and access to IT systems.
Investment adviser agreements with JLIF and JLEN A loss of JLCMs investment adviser agreements with 2 Through JLCM, and supported by other parts of the Asset JLIF and or JLEN respectively would be detrimental to Management division, the Group focuses on delivering a the Groups Asset Management business.
No change high quality service to both funds.
Future returns from investments The Groups historical returns and cash yields from In bidding for new projects, the Group sets a target internal 1, 2, 3 investments may not be indicative of future returns.
rate of return taking account of historical experience, No change current market conditions and expected returns once the The Groups expected hold-to-maturity internal rates project becomes operational.
The Group continually looks of return from investments are based on a variety of for value enhancement opportunities which would improve assumptions which may not be correct at the time they the target rate of return.
are made and may not be achieved in the future.
At the investment appraisal stage, projects are tested for their sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 40 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Link to Change in strategic risk since objectives 31 December Risk note Mitigation 2015 Taxation The Group may be exposed to changes in taxation in the Tax positions taken by the Group are based on industry 1, 3 jurisdictions in which it operates, or it may cease to practice and or external tax advice.
Increased satisfy the conditions for relevant reliefs.
Tax authorities At the investment appraisal stage, projects are tested for may disagree with the positions that the Group has taken their sensitivity to changes in tax rates.
Project valuations or intends to take.
are regularly updated for changes in tax rates.
Project companies may be exposed to changes in In March 2016, in response to the OECD recommendations, taxation in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
the UK Government announced proposals for the In October 2015, the OECD published its introduction of a Fixed Ratio Rule to cap the amount of tax recommendations for tackling BEPS by international deductible net interest to 30% of a companys UK EBITDA.
It identified the use of tax deductible This was followed by a detailed consultation paper in May interest as one of the key areas where there is 2016 and detailed legislation in November 2016 and opportunity for BEPS by international companies.
It is January 2017 for further information, see the Financial up to the governments of OECD countries to decide Review section.
how to implement the OECDs recommendations into The Groups understanding is that not all governments will their domestic law.
To the extent that one or more of implement the OECD recommendations in the same way.
the jurisdictions in which the Group operates changes Some believe their existing rules are adequate to limit the its rules to limit tax deductible interest, this could scope for BEPS.
Others may take advantage of significantly impact i the tax payable by subsidiaries grandfathering provisions or the potential for exemptions of the Group ii the valuation of existing investments for projects with a public benefit.
iii the way in which future project-financed The Groups effective tax rate tends to be lower than the infrastructure investments are structured, in each standard rate of UK corporation tax principally because the case in such jurisdictions.
contributions the Group makes to JLPF are deductible for tax purposes.
Personnel The Group may fail to recruit or retain key senior The Group regularly reviews pay and benefits to ensure 1, 2, 3 management and skilled personnel in, or relocate highthey remain competitive.
The Groups senior managers No change quality personnel to, the jurisdictions in which it operates participate in long term incentive plans.
The Group plans or seeks to expand.
its human resources needs carefully, including appropriate local recruitment, when it bids for overseas projects.
As a result of the outcome of the UK referendum on membership of the EU, there is some uncertainty as to the The Group has the ability to recruit EU nationals in its position of certain EU nationals living and working in the Amsterdam office or could open further offices in other UK.
This uncertainty could impact the Groups ability to EU jurisdictions if necessary.
recruit and retain EU nationals in the UK.
Notes: The Groups three strategic objectives, as set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review, are: 1 Growth in primary investment volumes new capital committed to greenfield infrastructure projects over the medium term.
2 Growth in the value of external AuM and related fee income.
3 Management and enhancement of the Groups investment portfolio, with a clear focus on active management during construction, accompanied by realisations of investments which, combined with the Groups corporate banking facilities and operational cash flows, enable it to finance new investment commitments.
