28 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISKS TO DELIVER OUR 3C STRATEGY THE EFFECTIVE IDENTIFICATION AND MANAGEMENT OF RISK ACROSS THE GROUP IS INTEGRAL TO THE DELIVERY OF THE GROUPS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES.
The effective management of risk enables Johnson A Holistic Approach to Managing Risk Matthey to: Our approach to risk management is aimed at the early Deliver our strategic objectives.
identification of key risks and taking action to reduce the likelihood of these having a detrimental effect on the business.
Improve our decision making, planning and prioritisation.
In 2015 16, and in light of the UK Corporate Governance Code Pursue opportunities while keeping risks at an acceptable the Code which sets out the principles of good corporate level in a rapidly changing external environment.
governance for FTSE listed companies, we refined our risk management process.
In addition, we improved our reporting Effectively deal with risks should they materialise.
and risk management discussions and completed an in depth Consider risk and reward and implement controls in the reassessment of our operational and strategic risks as well areas that matter most to us.
as our controls and assurance activities.
We developed our reporting processes further to ensure management has a holistic view of the groups risks and opportunities.
We will continue to assess our approach to ensure that it meets business needs and supports the effective management of risks whilst meeting the requirements of the Code.
OUR RISK FRAMEWORK We operate a holistic risk management system that is applied throughout the business.
TOP DOWN Board 3 Has overall responsibility for the approach to risk management and internal control Oversight 3 Sponsors the framework for enterprise risk management at Johnson Matthey Identification 3 Determines the organisational risk management approach of risk 3 Monitors the nature and extent of exposure for our principal risks Mitigation of risk at group level Audit Committee 3 Oversight of process and review of controls testing Group Management Committee GMC 3 Championship of risk management 3 Carries out top down identification and review 3 Development of company strategy in line with board risk appetite 3 Ownership of principal risks and uncertainties 3 Reporting on principal risks and uncertainties to the board and on process to the Audit Committee Divisional Level 3 Carrying out top down review activities 3 Responsible for ensuring that sites and functional areas have developed risk registers 3 Review and challenge of risk registers BOTTOM UP 3 Continuous monitoring Identification 3 Reporting to GMC on divisional risks and issues of risk Assessment of risk Site Functional Area 3 Carrying out risk identification, assessment and mitigation Mitigation 3 Reporting top risks to division and Corporate Assurance and Risk of risk 3 Carrying out regular reviews on effectiveness of existing controls and on progress with control implementation Reporting 29 HOW WE MANAGE RISK EVOLUTION OF OUR FRAMEWORK We recognise that risk management is an important part of our business and continually seek to improve our process.
We have built on our existing process by: Updating and revitalising the process, including our guidance for the groups businesses.
Ensuring that risk specialists throughout the businesses work together to standardise scoring systems.
Carrying out a comprehensive roll out of the updated guidance.
Developing in house, online and face to face training courses on risk, control and assurance.
Working with the GMC, divisions and businesses to strengthen risk definition, ownership, assessment and reporting.
OUR RISK PROCESS Our risk process is designed to support everyone, at all levels of the business, in identifying and managing risks.
Identification of risk All risks, whether they are identified at the most senior level or throughout the business, are described, analysed and reported using a standard framework.
The central Corporate Assurance and Risk team acts as an advisory Monitoring Assessment and FRAMEWORK function and provides independent challenge and reporting evaluation SUPPORTED and review.
Each of our business functions also BY CENTRAL participates in the process, identifying any risks CORPORATE that may prevent them achieving their objectives ASSURANCE AND and describing these in terms of cause and RISK TEAM consequence.
These are scored using a variety of impact measures including financial, operational, reputational and people factors.
Controls for each risk are described and Control Determination effectiveness of response assessed.
Each risk, at every level, has a designated owner who is responsible for ensuring the described controls are effective and efficient.
We continually review the level of risk throughout the business and complete a formal submission every six months for reporting purposes as illustrated in our risk framework opposite.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 30 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Our 2015 16 risk management assessment has resulted in several The following chart illustrates the relative positioning of our changes to our principal risks and uncertainties, including: principal risks in terms of impact and likelihood before and after mitigating controls.
Those risks appearing closer to the Technological change has been reclassified as Innovation centre of the chart are rated as having lower overall scores and reflects the expanded strategic direction provided by measured in terms of likelihood and impact.
the appointment of our Chief Technology Officer.
Supply chain has been expanded to include the optimisation of efficiencies and opportunities from Likelihood and Impact of Principal Risks our production facilities as well as the sourcing and supply of goods.
Growth within our Intellectual property IP and know-how has been existing business refocused and it now covers the end to end management Business transition 1 New business of all intellectual capital.
Cybercrime is now being 12 2 1 considered separately as part of our information security Ethics and Innovation 2 risk processes.
Whilst cybercrime is not a separate compliance 12 11 3 11 principal risk and uncertainty, we will continue to closely 3 Global economic, monitor and assess its level of threat to our business.
Failure of 10 10 4 4 political and 8 significant sites regulatory uncertainty 5 7 We considered whether product quality should be one 9 of our principal risks and uncertainties.
Our assessment 9 5 8 Environment, health 7 Intellectual capital 6 of this risk against impact and likelihood varied greatly and safety 6 by division according to the product produced, customer Security of assets Supply chain and contractual risk.
We concluded that whilst important, People it was not significant enough to be managed as a principal risk across the group.
Before After We also looked at the impact of the UK potentially leaving mitigation mitigation the EU and concluded that due to the global nature of our business and location of our customers it was not a principal risk and uncertainty.
However, we continue to monitor the situation closely.
In delivering our strategy, it is important that we understand and manage the risks and opportunities that we face.
The table below outlines our principal risks and identifies which strategic objectives they could impact.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Invest in people, Operational The products Build on excellence Johnson Best of Collaborate Growth and our core and Matthey big and to leverage from new Customer Create technology strengths sustainability Culture small our expertise businesses focus value nn nn n n n 1 Growth within our existing business 2 nn n n n n n STRATEGIC New business 3 nn nn nn nn n Innovation 4 nn n n n n MARKET Global economic, political and regulatory uncertainty nn n n n 5 Environment, health and safety 6 nn nn n Supply chain 7 nn n nn nn n People nn nn nn 8 Security of assets OPERATIONAL nn n nn n 9 Intellectual capital 10 nn n n Failure of significant sites nn n n n 11 Ethics and compliance nn n n nn n 12 Business transition PRINCIPAL RISKS 31 The following table sets out the 2015 16 principal risks and uncertainties facing the group, the mitigating actions for each and an update on any change in the profile of each risk during the course of the year.
The net risk rating after mitigating controls is also shown.
STRATEGIC Growth within our existing business 1 Understanding and responding to the needs of customers, capitalising on appropriate growth opportunities within our existing business.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 Our aim is to become truly customer Customer focus, collaboration with customers to annual report centric.
To ensure continued growth in produce good value, innovative, quality products.
our business, we continue to invest in Understanding of market dynamics and Our ambition is to be a our people, products and technology value proposition.
preferred supplier and have to differentiate ourselves from our significant customer market Diversification of business activities, continuous competitors and to develop innovative, share results in a high risk assessment of technologies and products.
A failure to and opportunity rating.
Research and development to bring new understand and respond to customer products into our portfolio.
requirements or competitor activity could result in missed opportunities for growth Risk rating with existing and new customers and loss n High of significant customer market share.
New business 2 Responding to, identifying or capitalising on appropriate new growth opportunities.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 We have identified and continue to New business development activities.
annual report identify a number of opportunities Increased appetite and Research and development to diversify our to complement and diversify our activity to identify and product portfolio.
Failure to identify capitalise on new Marketing and customer focus activities.
new opportunities and capitalise on opportunities is driving an Portfolio management.
acquisitions could result in an inability increase to the risk rating.
to meet our strategic objectives and Post investment reviews.
maintain grow our market share.
Risk rating n High Innovation 3 Constant innovation is essential to maintain our competitive advantage.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 We operate in highly competitive markets Portfolio management of innovation activities and annual report in which innovative, competitively priced, key performance indicators.
We recently expanded fit for market products are essential in our innovation portfolio Organisation structure and governance to define maintaining our competitive advantage.
management metrics to groupwide innovation strategy and prioritisation An inability to align and prioritise our include productivity based across the divisions.
investments with corporate strategy metrics.
This refined R&D is part of a defined global network of may result in us missing our group approach will enable us to strategic external partners to leverage open growth targets, reduced margins and drive efficiency from R&D, innovation and corporate venturing.
understand the potential return on our investment and capture higher value.
The refinement in our approach required a reassessment of this risk and opportunity, which we now consider to be medium rather than low.
We invested 188.0 million in R&D in the year, up 11% from 169.9 million in 2014 15.
Risk rating n Medium Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 32 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED MARKET Global economic, political and regulatory uncertainty 4 Failure to adequately respond to changes in the macroeconomic, regulatory or political environment in one or more of our key markets or countries.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 The global nature of the groups Maintenance of a balanced portfolio of products annual report businesses exposes it to risk arising and market services, with a variety of long term No change.
from economic, political and legislative strategic drivers.
changes in the countries in which it Ongoing long term strategic reviews with Risk rating operates.
Aspects of this risk include: assessment of market and country concentration.
n High Sudden short term changes in one of Detailed budgeting and planning process.
our markets due to oil or platinum group Interaction with trade bodies to ensure that we metal pgm price volatility, foreign are aware of upcoming changes to legislation exchange rate movements, the and regulations.
imposition or lifting of sanctions or trade Regular broker and shareholder interaction.
controls barriers or similar activity.
Treasury policies to manage currency volatility.
Sustained periods of economic weakness in our markets.
Changes to the regulatory environment, for example emissions legislation.
Impacts associated with this risk are wide ranging and could include reduced customer market demand and or customer defaults, cost escalation and price market erosion, foreign exchange losses and a reduced ability to import export raw materials and products.
OPERATIONAL Environment, health and safety 5 Operating safely in line with changes to environmental, health and safety legislation and standards.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 In common with similar manufacturing Documentation and adherence to safety annual report companies, the group operates in a principles.
Our risk has been assessed challenging safety environment that using a revised and Training and awareness activities.
is subject to numerous health, safety enhanced framework Risk, audit activities and safety checks.
and environmental laws, regulations covering a broad range of Safety culture programme and behavioural and standards.
safety and environmental If we fail to operate safely and respond risks.
Health and safety Investigations to determine the cause of to changes made to applicable laws, incidents and accidents and the development continues to be our priority.
regulations or standards we could Although we tragically of remediation plans.
adversely impact our employees, suffered a fatality during we may lose production time and Speak up and independent hotline for the year, the medium we may attract negative media and employees to report concerns.
assessment comes from regulator interest.
applying impact and likelihood criteria across this broad range of risk scenarios.
Risk rating n Medium 33 OPERATIONAL continued Supply chain 6 Understanding customer requirements for our production facilities, warehousing and freight of inbound and outbound goods.
Sourcing materials, leveraging our scale and scope to procure products and services cost efficiently and ethically.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 The group operates in many locations Supplier key performance indicators, audits and annual report across the world and is therefore exposed quality management.
The scope of this risk and to a number of risks associated with a opportunity has materially Sourcing from multiple suppliers.
It is fundamental changed and is therefore Research and development alternatives to that we understand customer not comparable with the consider use of non-strategic materials.
requirements and exploit our production prior years assessment.
Expertise in supply chain, logistics, procurement capabilities, warehousing and freight of Risk rating and trade export controls.
It is also important to us that n High our supplies are sourced efficiently and Business continuity management, identification ethically.
A number of strategic materials, of critical failure risks and plans in place to notably pgms, rare earth materials and manage these.
narcotic raw materials, are available from a limited number of countries and suppliers, so ensuring the availability of these products is essential.
The impact of this risk could affect our ability to carry out manufacturing and satisfy customer requirements leading to reputational damage and loss of potential future business.
People 7 Effective recruitment and retention.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 The group relies on its ability to recruit, Employer brand and coordinated graduate annual report retain and develop employees around the recruitment.
A number of groupwide world with the necessary range of skills initiatives are underway to Remuneration strategy with clarity around market and experience.
An inability to recruit and attract and retain talent, best practice and Johnson Mattheys position retain talent may result in a loss of critical thus reducing the impact on base pay, annual and long term incentives, knowledge in the business, delays in of this risk.
achieving targets and suboptimal Talent management process.
This could lead to negative Risk rating Transparency of policies.
n Low Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 34 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2016 1.
Overview RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED OPERATIONAL continued Security of assets 8 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 On any given day, the group has significant Security management systems and site security annual report quantities of high value precious metals or systems.
highly regulated substances on site and in Assay and other process controls.
transit, the security of which is critical.
Security awareness campaigns and training.
Risk rating A material loss due to a breach, failure in Audits of site security systems.
n Low security management systems, security controls or a loss during processing could Stock takes to check inventories.
lead to a number of impacts including Use of approved carriers for transit.
loss restriction of licence to operate, Insurance coverage for losses from theft or fraud.
loss of goods and an inability to supply Liaison with local law enforcement for high customers, increased security costs and risk sites.
an impact on the groups reputation.
Intellectual capital 9 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 We operate in highly competitive markets Management of IP portfolio.
annual report in which innovative, competitively priced, Increased due to advances Non-disclosure activities.
fit for market products are essential.
The in technology and our Use of IP lawyers to provide specialist guidance.
generation and application of technology competitor landscape.
know-how and IP, together with the monitoring of third party IP, is essential in Monitoring of third party IP.
Risk rating maintaining our competitive advantage.
Ensuring that employee behaviours associated n High Failure to identify and protect the groups with intellectual capital are effective.
IP or failure to identify and mitigate against third party IP rights could lead to a loss in business advantage, loss of freedom to operate and reputational damage associated with litigation.
Failure of significant sites 10 Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 While the group operates in a variety of Assessment of critical sites.
annual report locations, certain sites are critical to the No change.
Business continuity plans in place.
group due to their scale or the specific Inventory management to provide critical spares nature of their production activities.
Risk rating Potential risks include a disruptive Use of external suppliers for key activities and n Medium event such as fire, flood or earthquake, services including generators and utilities.
a major incident at site level, such as IT disaster recovery capabilities.
an explosion, or other events such as geopolitical instability.
The consequences associated with this risk include the impact on our ability to manufacture goods and satisfy customer demands, potential loss of market confidence and impact on the overall performance of the group.
35 OPERATIONAL continued Ethics and compliance 11 Doing the right thing Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 Due to the markets in which we operate Code of ethics in place which has been rolled out annual report and the complexity of our supply chain, to all employees with face to face training.
Code of ethics and training the group is exposed to a changing for all employees rolled Use of subject matter experts, internal and external, and increasingly stringent regulatory out this year.
A speak up on legal compliance and risk mitigation matters.
policy has been launched Group and local policies and procedures in place and enhanced reporting Ethical misconduct by our employees including full integration with business processes.
tools have improved inadvertently, knowingly or negligently Group control requirements such as supplier oversight and management or a legal non-compliance through a lack on-boarding, counterparty due diligence and of concerns being raised.
of knowledge and awareness or through payments approval.
Rating has increased as a deliberate breach could lead to a result of better visibility Independent confidential speak up hotline for reputational damage, removal of licence of reporting.
employees, contractors and third parties.
to operate, legal action, impacts on staff morale and loss of business.
Oversight on contractual provisions and commercial arrangements by legal teams.
Risk rating Global network of ethics ambassadors.
n High Emergency response procedures for events such as dawn raids.
Investigation of incidents and allegations of misconduct.
Business transition 12 Failure to manage major programmes and transition from a big small company to a small big company.
Risk and impact Mitigation Changes since 2015 Failure to manage major programmes Communication and employee engagement plans annual report to upgrade our business systems and are in place for all programmes with support from No change.
successfully transition from a big small the GMC as appropriate.
company to a small big company Get fit process adopted across the business Risk rating through appropriate standardisation ahead of planned roll out of new business n Medium and sharing of resources activities.
systems to ensure that sites are prepared for Potential impacts associated with this necessary change.
risk include the organisation failing to Clear business impact assessments prepared adapt to new ways of working and ahead of going live with clear business targets.
ineffective change management could Programme management and governance lead to anticipated efficiencies and cost activities with key performance indicators KPIs savings not being realised.
Further to and red, amber, green RAG review reports.
this, the groups culture could be adversely affected.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
