MANAGING OUR RISKS Managing risk, growing performance The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management To help the Board discharge its responsibilities, the Group has a comprehensive approach to identifying, monitoring, managing and mitigating risk, which is described in the Governance Framework section.
Our Enterprise Risk Management framework clearly defines essential information about the Groups risks and provides a process for escalation through our governance structure, which enables continuous and robust oversight by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
An important part of the Boards remit is to determine our risk appetite and the tolerances within which we must operate.
This is defined as the amount and type of risk we are willing to accept in order to achieve our strategic and business objectives.
At least once a year, the Board formally considers its risk appetite, taking into account our strategic plans, the business environment and the current and likely future condition of our business and operations.
The Board sets our appetite for eight categories of risk.
These are: l Strategic risk l Investment risk l Operational risk l Conduct risk l Regulatory risk l Counterparty credit risk l Balance sheet risk l Reputational risk Definitions of these categories can be found in the Governance Framework section.
As a business, we have a relatively low appetite for risk, and particularly for regulatory, conduct and reputational risk.
Our risk management process identifies the most significant risks we face.
All key risks have a named owner, which is either a member of the Executive Committee ExCo or, for a small number of risks, the ExCo as a whole.
We define the potential impact of each key risk and monitor it using key risk indicators KRIs.
We set our thresholds for each KRI and use them to keep the Board informed about the Groups position in relation to its risk appetite, so we can take action if it seems likely we will exceed this appetite.
The table opposite shows the top ten risks that we face, along with the Boards rating of each risk and how the significance of the risk has changed during the year.
All our top risks fall into the strategic, investment, operational and regulatory categories.
14 Jupiter Fund Management plc StRAteGIc RepORt GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARd RISK RAtING At YeAR eNd OwNeR 2015 2016 StRAteGIc RISK Failure to deliver strategy Chief Executive Officer Low Medium Ability to attract and retain critical staff ExCo Low Low changes in distribution trends Head of Distribution Medium Medium INveStMeNt RISK Sustained market decline ExCo Low Low Sustained fund underperformance Chief Investment Officer Medium Low OpeRAtIONAl RISK Failure to enhance operating platform to support Head of Operations New to High future business requirements top 10 in 2016 Operational control environment Head of Operations Low Medium Failure of critical outsource partner Head of Fund Operations Medium High cyber crime Chief Executive Officer High Medium ReGUlAtORY RISK Regulatory change General Counsel Low Medium Annual Report and Accounts 2016 15 MANAGING OUR RISKS StRAteGIc RISKS RISK FAIlURe tO delIveR StRAteGY ABIlItY tO AttRAct ANd RetAIN chANGeS IN dIStRIBUtION SUStAINed MARKet declINe SUStAINed FUNd cRItIcAl StAFF tReNdS UNdeRpeRFORMANce The risk of failure to achieve our strategic objectives The risk of a severe market and which would impair our ability to deliver value to The risk of failure to attract or retain the people critical The risk of client demand switching to economic downturn which affects all There is a risk that our clients will not meet our stakeholders.
to successfully executing our strategy, including products we do not provide.
The risk of fund managers and all asset types their investment objectives, due to poor continuing to deliver investment outperformance.
critical distribution partner relationships across all geographic markets.
relative performance by one or more of no longer generating client demand or our funds.
pOteNtIAl A failure to achieve one or more strategic objectives The unplanned departure of a member of our Our ability to generate fund inflows and A secular downturn could result in a Weak financial markets specific to our IMpAct could result in a reduced pool of available profit for leadership team could lead to significant redemptions prevent outflows may be jeopardised by reduction in assets under management funds or poor performance by our fund reinvestment and distribution to shareholders.
This from our funds, failure to deliver our strategy or failure fundamental changes in distribution patterns leading to a decline in revenue and managers may lead to our products being would limit growth and potentially long term viability.
to run our business efficiently, resulting in a material or by a sustained market preference for capital levels.
There may be additional uncompetitive or otherwise unattractive to impact on corporate performance.
This would have outflows as investors switch to nonnew or existing clients.
This could result a detrimental impact on profitability and financial assets.
in both outflows and the related decline shareholder value.
in revenues and a failure to attract new business.
MItIGAtION The Board sets the strategy and is responsible for Our culture is a key differentiator for us, enabling us to We continually analyse our markets to Our investment philosophy allows our Jupiter maintains a diversified range of cONtROlS ensuring the Group has the right structure, leadership attract, motivate and retain talented individuals, which in ensure we maintain a diverse product suite fund managers to pursue their own flexible investment products, and aims to and culture to execute it.
We give autonomy coupled that appeals to existing and potential clients.
investment styles and the flexibility to deliver value to our clients across different with personal accountability, and encourage We focus on investment outperformance adjust strategies as far as possible market conditions.
Our investment process The Board and the Executive Committee regularly independence of thought and challenge.
to retain value during unfavourable seeks to meet investment targets within review the strategic options, opportunities and threats.
function is arranged around 12 strategies, providing a market conditions.
Plans, budgets and targets are set to be aligned with In response to the rising demand and framework for repeatable performance, but the teams delivery of the strategic goals.
Progress is monitored supply of passive investment products, We have a broad range of investment Our Investment Risk team works closely themselves are small and nimble.
This culture and and where necessary corrective action is taken.
we focus on the clear differentiation of strategies which enables us to offer with portfolio managers to challenge fund structure gives us clarity of purpose.
We actively our active strategies and routes to markets products suitable for different market risk profiles, assess the risks across the manage succession and transition.
where active solutions are in strong demand.
portfolios and to further develop our We believe that high levels of engagement and equity capabilities.
This challenge process is Our well-defined product development We regularly review our discretionary ownership encourage our people to take personal formally reported to, and overseen by, process enables us to deliver new products expenditure and cost base to ensure responsibility for their work and to strive to enhance our our Risk Committee, which meets quarterly or enhancements, so we can target client sustainability.
Our strong capital position business.
We maintain a remuneration philosophy and and more frequently when required.
groups in a timely and efficient way.
and relatively low cost base means we approach that continues to promote a strong culture of are well placed to cope with this risk.
performance and alignment of employees and We continue to diversify our client base, shareholder interests.
2016 IMpAct Good progress was made in delivering our organic Recruitment was again an important theme in 2016 with Our strong position in the UK provides a The impact of a severe economic As described in the Our Strategic growth strategy, which enabled us to pay the ordinary a number of appointments made to further strengthen stable and profitable base from which we recession that might be expected to Performance section, 66% of our mutual and special dividend, while maintaining sufficient our leadership and investment management teams.
In recent years, we occur once in 25 years was included in fund AUM achieved above median returns resources to continue to invest in our operating have increasingly complemented our UK our assessment of capital adequacy in over a three-year period.
Employee engagement continued to be a core focus for platform and to support growth opportunities.
business with overseas growth, as we 2016.
The analysis concluded that Jupiter 2016.
We implemented a number of initiatives identified Continued diversification of fund optimise existing relationships with large could continue to pay dividends as usual through the employee survey, including improvements to management asset classes and strategies distribution partners in new countries and and would remain adequately capitalised internal communications and the career development enabled us to reduce this risk to low in 2016. create products that appeal to clients in over the three year planning horizon framework.
without needing to raise additional capital.
16 Jupiter Fund Management plc StRAteGIc RepORt GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INveStMeNt RISKS RISK FAIlURe tO delIveR StRAteGY ABIlItY tO AttRAct ANd RetAIN chANGeS IN dIStRIBUtION SUStAINed MARKet declINe SUStAINed FUNd cRItIcAl StAFF tReNdS UNdeRpeRFORMANce The risk of failure to achieve our strategic objectives The risk of a severe market and which would impair our ability to deliver value to The risk of failure to attract or retain the people critical The risk of client demand switching to economic downturn which affects all There is a risk that our clients will not meet our stakeholders.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 MANAGING OUR RISKS OpeRAtIONAl RISKS RISK FAIlURe tO eNhANce OpeRAtING OpeRAtIONAl cONtROl FAIlURe OF cRItIcAl cYBeR cRIMe ReGUlAtORY chANGe plAtFORM tO SUppORt FUtURe BUSINeSS eNvIRONMeNt OUtSOURce pARtNeR ReqUIReMeNtS We could suffer a material error executing a key The failure or non-performance of a third The risk that a successful cyber-attack or The risk that changes in regulation restrict Failure to make the investment and changes required business process, or from our systems or business party provider who we rely on for business fraud attempt could result in the loss of or impact our ability to do business or to maintain a scalable and robust operating platform premises being unavailable.
processing may lead to us failing to deliver clients assets or data or cause significant that we fail to implement changes fit for running and growing our business.
the required service to our clients and or disruption to key systems.
required to meet new regulatory regulatory non-compliance.
pOteNtIAl An inadequate operating platform or poorly A significant error or breach of a client agreement Our relationships with stakeholders may be A significant attack could undermine client Our ability to do or support our business IMpAct implemented changes to the platform could restrict may result in additional costs to redress the issue.
The jeopardised if we provide inadequate confidence in our ability to safeguard may be inhibited, which could lead to our ability to operate effectively, to grow existing unavailability of our key systems or business premises service, resulting in the loss of clients or assets, which could affect our ability to negative financial consequences.
strategies or to implement new strategies quickly and could mean we are unable to act on behalf of our regulatory or financial censure.
retain existing clients and attract new Regulatory censure and the related efficiently.
It may give rise to operational errors which clients and or perform other time critical activities to business.
This could drive negative negative publicity could damage our could be costly from a financial, reputational and ensure the smooth running of our business.
clients confidence in us and affect our regulatory perspective.
ability to generate new business.
MItIGAtION We have established a robust project governance We have efficient and well-controlled processes We subject all third parties who provide Jupiter commits considerable human and We continually monitor regulatory cONtROlS structure, to effectively manage and oversee further and maintain a comprehensive Enterprise Risk us with critical services to a high level of technological resources to preventing developments to assess potential investment in, and changes to, our operating platform.
Management framework as described in detail ongoing oversight, through our established a cyber security incident.
This includes extensive planning, preparation and well in the Governance review.
Supplier Management framework, giving environments are housed in two data We invest in the expertise, systems and managed implementation testing and effectiveness us assurance that they meet our required centres provided by a specialist third party We have continuity and business resumption planning process change necessary to enable assessments.
and offer fully resilient and secure facilities.
in place to support our critical activities.
We have changed regulatory requirements to be We have established a security awareness We have committed considerable focus and resource implemented remote working, including core system Jupiter has formal guidelines for complied with by required dates.
programme to extend knowledge and to ensuring disruption to existing operational activities access for all our essential staff if they cannot travel to managing and overseeing all third-party understanding within the business.
We maintain a robust compliance culture is kept to a minimum as we implement changes.
If our normal business systems or premises relationships, ensuring they receive a level and require all relevant employees to become unavailable, we have alternative premises of scrutiny that reflects their potential risk Jupiter applies best practices from the ISO undertake training on regulatory matters.
including a dedicated office suite equipped with all to our business.
27001 controls framework with additional Our Compliance departments of our critical business systems.
reference to SANS Critical Security Controls in The risk team continues to evolve monitoring programme ensures we order to prioritise our technology defences.
its approach to overseeing these adhere to regulatory controls.
relationships, with resource and focus We have produced an extensive Cyber more clearly defined in relation to key Security Incident Response plan to ensure suppliers.
departmental heads can adequately respond to the growing threat of cyber crime.
2016 IMpAct In 2016, we took significant steps in designing further Focus on controlling potential operational risks Client Assets CASS is an area under In 2016, Jupiter successfully achieved the Work continued through 2016 to enhance upgrades to our current operating platform.
This continues, with work within our operations teams to particular review.
Following new regulatory Cyber Essentials Plus accreditation, an and embed our conduct risk framework.
The successful enhance management through better processes and requirements and the FRCs new CASS initiative backed by the Government, We made significant investments in implementation of these upgrades will further improve closer inter-department interaction.
Assurance Standard in 2016, significant augmenting our earlier Cyber Essentials projects to ensure we make the changes efficiency and scalability, while reducing the risk of progress has been made with redesigning certification, enabling us to reduce this risk The risk rating was increased to medium to recognise necessary to our operating platform to operational errors.
the controls environment at both Jupiter to medium.
the inherent risk to existing business processes when deliver continued compliance with and our third party provider.
We have We have initiated this risk with a high rating given the implementing operating platform upgrades.
In 2016 the raised this risk to high as a result.
work we are undertaking in 2017. focus was on our MiFID II implementation programme.
This risk has increased to high because of the regulatory projects that will be implemented in 2017.
18 Jupiter Fund Management plc StRAteGIc RepORt GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ReGUlAtORY RISK RISK FAIlURe tO eNhANce OpeRAtING OpeRAtIONAl cONtROl FAIlURe OF cRItIcAl cYBeR cRIMe ReGUlAtORY chANGe plAtFORM tO SUppORt FUtURe BUSINeSS eNvIRONMeNt OUtSOURce pARtNeR ReqUIReMeNtS We could suffer a material error executing a key The failure or non-performance of a third The risk that a successful cyber-attack or The risk that changes in regulation restrict Failure to make the investment and changes required business process, or from our systems or business party provider who we rely on for business fraud attempt could result in the loss of or impact our ability to do business or to maintain a scalable and robust operating platform premises being unavailable.
