Principal risks and uncertainties The Group operates a rigorous risk management process The Groups risk appetite influences the culture ofour The Board is responsible for business and how we operate, and this is reflected in ensuring that the exposure to risk our risk management framework as detailed on the following page.
iseffectively managed across the New and existing risks were identified and assessed Group.
It recognises that rigorous over the course of the year as the Groups overall risk safeguards and management profile continued to evolve.
The Executive Team and the Board performed further analysis to prioritise these processes are required to mitigate risks, with a focus on those considered to pose the these risks.
greatest riskto achieving our objectives.
None were deemed to be principal risks.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of theprincipal risks facing the Group.
This included There are business risks faced by Just Eat, such as those that would threaten its business model, those disclosed within Note 35, which are generally futureperformance, solvency or liquidity to ensure faced by other comparable online businesses.
However, theprincipal risks and uncertainties were properly there are also more specific risks and uncertainties identified, evaluated, prioritised and addressed.
that affect our business or specificindustry.
During the course of the year, the Board defines the risk The principal risks presented on the following pages appetite and monitors themanagement of significant are those risks considered by the Board tohave a risks to ensure that the nature andextent of the potentially material impact on the Group not achieving significant risks taken by the Group are aligned with its strategic objectives.
There are additional risks that the overall goals and strategic objectives that have the Group is exposed to that are not considered been communicated.
material but could have an adverse impact.
The EU referendum The vote in favour of the UK leaving the EU Brexit, has increased the level of macroeconomic uncertainty.
Whilst we will remain vigilant, our experience in multiple countries suggests that ourgrowth is typically unaffected in such an environment as overall consumer demand for online takeaway food continues.
We have therefore not considered post-Brexit uncertainty to be a principal risk for the Group.
We are an increasingly international business with over one-third of Group revenues being in currencies other than sterling.
Should current post-Brexit GBP weakness continue, our reported sterling revenues would behigher.
During 2016, our international businesses generated asmall net Underlying EBITDA profit and therefore any foreign exchange impact has been limited.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 20 Strategic report I n t e r d r n a a l o a B u d i t Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Board assessed the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required by the Going Concern provision.
The Board conducted this review for a During 2016, the Board reduced the priority of the period of three years, which was selected for the principal risk of the Groups culture changing, which following reasons: was a principal risk in the previous year.
Mitigating actions taken throughout the year have lessened the Groups strategic plan covers a three-year therisk to a level that the Board no longer considers to period: and be a principal risk in the current year.
The risk factors the significant growth profile anticipated described on the following pages are not an exhaustive fortheGroup both organically and by acquisition list of all risks.
The Group continually monitors and means that forecasting beyond three years is evaluates all these risks.
more subjective: hence, the Board believes a three-year period is the mostappropriate.
Risk management framework The three-year strategic plan considers the The exposure to risk is an inherent part of running Groupscash flows, forecasted Underlying EBITDA, abusiness and the Board recognises that rigorous investment in areas such as marketing and technology safeguards and a sound risk management process and other key financial ratios over the period.
These arerequired to mitigate these risks.
Risk is an agenda metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis, which item at Board meetings and the overall process for involves flexing a number of the main assumptions identifying and assessing business risks and managing underlying the forecast both individually and in their impact on the Group is continually under review.
unison to ensure the business is still viable in a The risk management process follows a sequence stressed environment and any additional financing ofrisk identification, assessment of probability and requirements are identified.
An owner is then assigned to each risk to models the impact of the Groups principal risks manage mitigation activities.
This includes a fall in orders due to a The Executive team supports the Board in monitoring total outage from an unmitigated technology failure, the exposures through regular reviews and a register an unexpected change in legislation and a sudden iskept of all corporate risks.
The risk register and the and sustained inability to process card payments, methodology applied are the subject of continuous allof which are considered individually unlikely but review by senior management and they are updated to have been combined to form a reasonable worst reflect new and developing areas which might impact case scenario.
Where exposures are outside ofour appetite these are communicated to the Board The three-year strategic plan does not include cash alongside actions to reduce the risk.
flows in respect of future mergers and acquisitions.
The Board has assumed that any decisions on future This approach to risk management helps to facilitate acquisitions will have regard to the Companys top-down and bottom-up perspectives across key financial position and future cash flows at that time, business risks within the organisation.
The corporate and that funds will be raised if needed in order for risk register is presented to, and reviewed by, the the Company to be able to continue in operation and AuditCommittee on a regular basis.
meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Board hasareasonable expectation that the Company willbeable to continue in operation and meet itsliabilities as they fall due over the three-year Strategic period oftheir assessment.
objectives Going concern In adopting the going concern basis for preparing thefinancial statements, the Directors have made Monitor Risk appetite appropriate enquiries and have considered the Groups cash flows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and business activities as set out on page 90, in Note 35 to the Groups financial statements Communicate onpages 117 to 120 and the Groups principal risks effectively and uncertainties as set out on pages 22 to 23.
Based on the Groups forecasts, the Directors are satisfied that the Company, and the Group as a whole, Implement Identify and assessrisks have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, thefinancial statements have been prepared on thegoing concern basis.
com 21 e e t M t i a m n a m g o e C m t e i n d t u A Principal risks and uncertainties continued Competition Regulation Technology andmarkets andlegislation dependency Change in risk status Change in risk status Change in risk status Strategic focus area Strategic focus area Strategic focus area 1 2 3 2 3 1 2 3 Risk description Risk description Risk description The Group faces ongoing Introduction of new laws, policies or The Group has a high dependency on competition and potential new regulations, changes in or challenges technology and advanced information entrants to the industry and to to the interpretation or application of systems and, therefore, there is a risk themarkets in which we currently existing laws, policies and regulations, that such technology orsystems operate which could result in a or the failure to obtain required could fail or could notbe scaled lossof market share and a decline regulatory approval or licenses.
rapidly to meet business needs.
In particular in relation to the food In particular, any damage to or failure industry, but more broadly competition of, online systems and servers via Potential impact antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer external attack such as DDOS or Demand for the Groups services access to our restaurant devices and protection, taxation and reporting.
andthereby the commission rates other restaurant systems could result itcan charge, revenues, margin and, in interruptions to consumer services.
Potential impact ultimately, its market share could Costs could be incurred in ensuring beaffected.
compliance with any new laws or Potential impact regulations.
Non-compliance could The inability to service consumers Controls to mitigate be damaging to the Groups orRestaurant Partners could result In line with our strategic initiatives, reputation, and result in penalties inreputational damage and we will continue building our existing and heightened risk in the industry.
This New legislation in relation to the includes focusing on improving the Controls to mitigate food industry could materially customer experience and providing We have invested and committed impact the behaviour of restaurants our Restaurant Partners with more considerable resources into and or consumers to our detriment.
upgrading the existing technology, Strategic partnerships are being ITinfrastructure and communication Controls to mitigate formedto better enable our systems, as well as developing Legislative changes continue to Restaurant Partners to benefit andacquiring new platforms bemonitored by our in-house fromour large restaurant network.
legal, finance, tax and compliance This creates Restaurant Partner functions and our strategic A continuous testing programme loyalty to Just Eat.
responses are adjusted for these.
isemployed to ensure that functionality of product offerings and services These functions work across the ismaintained.
business to ensure we remain compliant with existing regulation Continual monitoring of the market and are able to highlight where isperformed by a dedicated team changes may impact the business.
toensure all new developments areassessed for their impact on The Group manages its risk by ouroperations.
ensuring that risks are identified andunderstood at an early stage The Group has a business recovery and that effective compliance and plan to minimise the disruption reporting processes are in place.
experienced during any potential service interruption.
The Group will monitor carefully future developments that arise out The Group carefully monitors all new of the result of the UK referendum products in development and invests and will engage in any relevant inhigh calibre support when required.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 22 Strategic report Key Cyber security and Business growth Improving the 1 data protection consumer experience 2 Bringing greater choice Change in risk status Change in risk status 3 Driving channel shift No change Strategic focus area Strategic focus area Risk increased 1 2 1 3 Refer to page 18 for a Risk description Risk description summary of our strategy Heightened awareness of Just Eat Challenges in growing and scaling increases the risk of attacks on the business both organically and ourbrand, business operations through mergers and acquisitions.
Potential impact Potential impact Fragmentation of new or expanded Reputational damage and financial operations, which are not aligned losses arising from penalties and withthe Groups strategy.
Loss of fines, and consumers no longer carry control resulting in financial or confidence to trade with theGroup.
Controls to mitigate Controls to mitigate Sophisticated security mechanisms We continue to perform extensive aredeployed to ensure all sensitive duediligence of all new acquisitions and confidential data is fully encrypted.
and closely monitor the market.
Adedicated integration team Regular communications are sent isestablished to ensure all the toour stakeholders to increase their benefits of the new entity are fully awareness of potential threats.
maximised and they are integrated into the Group structure to allow the We have established processes to continued growth in that market.
detect misuse of systems in order toreduce the likelihood of data loss.
Systems areregularly tested and continued investment in infrastructure will ensurethey remain robust.
