JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 44 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups enterprise-wide risk management strategy is to enable all colleagues to take more effective business decisions through a better understanding of risk Risk Change in Description and impact Mitigation and management action Risk outlook riskduring the previous 18 months The Group operates in a market where changes Our approach to legislative change is to Risks from our in pensions legislation can have a considerable participate actively and engage with policy chosen market effect on our strategy and could reduce our makers in the UK, and this will not change.
sales and profitability or require us to hold environment more capital.
The Group offers a wide range of retirement options, allowing it to remain agile in this Strategic objective The Pension Reforms introduced in 2015 have changing environment, and has flexed its had a fundamental impact on the retirement offerings in response to market dynamics.
1 2 3 4 5 income market, which will continue to evolve.
We believe we are well-placed to adapt to the Customers have reacted to Pension Freedoms changing customer demand, supported by our by looking for more flexible retirement solutions brand promise, innovation credentials and and some customers are deferring their financial strength.
Customer needs for a secure income in retirement have, however, not The most influential factors in the successful changed and the Group expects that demand delivery of the Groups plans are closely for guaranteed income for life solutions will monitored to help inform the business.
factors include market forecasts and market share, supported by insights into customer and competitor behaviour.
Writing long-term retirement income and To manage the risk of our longevity Risks from equity release business requires a range of assumptions being incorrect, the Group now ourpricing assumptions to be made based on market data has the benefit of the combined experience of and historical experience, including customers its legacy businesses to provide insights and assumptions longevity, corporate bond yields, interest enhanced understanding of the longevity risks rates, property values and expenses.
These that the Group chooses to take.
Strategic objective assumptions are applied to the calculation of the reserves needed for future liabilities Longevity and other decrement experience is 1 2 3 4 5 and solvency margins using recognised analysed to identify any outcomes materially actuarial approaches.
different from our assumptions and is used for the regular review of the reserving assumptions The Groups assumptions on these risk factors for all products.
may be materially inaccurate, requiring them to be recalibrated.
This could affect the level of Some longevity risk exposure is shared reserves needed with an impact on profitability with reinsurance partners, who perform due and the Groups solvency position.
diligence on the Groups approach to risk selection.
There is a related counterparty risk of a reinsurer not meeting its repayment obligations.
This counterparty risk is typically mitigated through the reinsurer depositing the reinsurance premiums back to the Group or Strategic objectives See page 22 Risk outlook into third party trusts and by collateral arrangements.
Grow our addressable markets and 1 No change broaden our distribution reach For equity release, the Group underwrites Increase profitability through the properties against which it lends using 2 Increased risk superior risk selection valuations from expert third parties.
The Ensure expenses are aligned Groups property risk is controlled by limits Decreased risk 3 with the capital model to the initial loan-to-property value ratio, Improve cost and supported by product design features, limiting 4 efficiency of capital of concentration of risks on specific property Reduce dependency on any types or regions, and monitoring of the 5 single business line or market exposure to adverse house price movements.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Risk Change in Description and impact Mitigation and management action Risk outlook riskduring the previous 18 months The financial services industry continues to see We monitor and assess regulatory Risks from a high level of regulatory change and intense developments on an ongoing basis and engage regulatory regulatory supervision.
The regulatory agenda fully with the regulators.
Our aims are to for the coming year covers many areas directly implement any required changes effectively, changes relevant to the Group.
and to deliver better outcomes for our customers and competitive advantage for Strategic objective The Prudential Regulation Authority PRA the business.
started an industry-wide review during 2016 1 2 3 4 5 of the valuation and capital treatment of Regulatory approval was obtained in 2015 equity release mortgages, which could prompt for Just Retirement Limited to use an internal changes in the Groups approach in this respect.
model to calculate its Solvency Capital Requirement SCR under Solvency II.
As The Treasury Select Committee is undertaking a consequence of the merger, the Group has an enquiry into the operation of Solvency II to applied for regulatory approval to use its supplement its work on the relationships that internal model to calculate a Group SCR.
The the UK may now seek with the EU.
The ultimate Group has gained approval from the PRA for terms of the UKs exit from the EU could have the recalculation of the transitional measure significant consequences for the regulation on technical provisions TMTP.
and legislation that applies to the Groups operations.
We will continue to work closely with the PRA to understand and seek to influence its developing The Solvency II risk margin is particularly views on solvency capital.
sensitive to movements in interest rates, which can cause volatility.
The introduction of the The Group responded directly to the PRA matching adjustment to meet Solvency II discussion paper DP 1 16 on equity release requirements has made management of mortgages, and through work with the liquidity within the Group more complex.
Association of British Insurers and Equity Release Council.
Any potential changes needed The FCA is developing a strategy to address the to our internal model or matching adjustment challenges for financial services of the ageing criteria resulting from the PRAs equity release UK population and is pursuing other reviews mortgage review will be carefully reviewed.
and initiatives pertinent to the retirement and mortgage markets.
Where possible, we seek to actively participate in all regulatory initiatives which may affect or The EU General Data Protection Regulation provide future opportunities for the Group.
We GDPR comes into effect on 25 May 2018. aim to champion outcomes that are positive for Although many of the GDPRs requirements consumers by ensuring their retirement needs are already present in the UK Data Protection are understood.
We develop our strategy by Act 1998 DPA, its requirements are more giving consideration to planned political prescriptive and the rights of data subjects are and regulatory developments and allow for clearer and easier for data subjects to enforce.
contingencies should outcomes differ from our expectations.
The Group is actively engaged in the insurance industrys work with the UK government and regulators on the potential form of the UKs exit from the EU.
We manage sensitive personal data in accordance with existing DPA requirements but are reviewing our existing practices and processes to ensure they remain compliant as the new regime comes into force.
On 4 April 2016 the merger of Just Retirement Given the complementary business models Risks arising and Partnership Assurance completed to form of the two organisations, business as usual from the JRP Group plc.
The purpose of the merger is to activity has been maintained and strategic post-merger deliver significant strategic and financial development moved forward at the same time benefits for the combined Group.
The integration integration process, which is currently ahead of schedule, process Integration of the two businesses is a complex reflects this approach and is being carefully process and may take longer, or cost more, than managed and overseen by senior management expected to deliver the intended synergies, and the Board.
Strategic objective or those synergies may not be fully realised.
During the integration process, management Our integration philosophy is best of both 1 2 3 4 5 could be distracted from day-to-day business, and this is being applied as key decisions are resulting in missed opportunities.
made for the future of the business: this also sets the tone for the culture of the organisation The process of combining two organisations going forward and is a key focus for the may have an undesirable effect on the culture management team.
of the new Group, impacting its effectiveness in the short term.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 46 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Change in Description and impact Mitigation and management action Risk outlook riskduring the previous 18 months The premiums paid by the Groups customers Economic conditions are actively monitored Risks from the are invested to enable future benefits to be and alternative scenarios modelled to better economic paid.
The economic environment and financial understand the potential impacts of significant market conditions have a significant influence economic changes and to inform management environment on the value of assets and liabilities and on the action plans.
An adverse market Strategic objective could increase the risk of credit downgrades It is anticipated that the UKs withdrawal and defaults in our corporate bond portfolio.
from the EU will have limited direct impact 1 2 3 4 5 on the Group as it is almost wholly UK based The macro-economic outlook is unclear, driven with no services provided into the EEA, and its by uncertainty regarding the UKs future trading customers and policyholders are predominantly arrangements with the EU.
Any changes to the regulatory has introduced material uncertainty for the UK environment as a result of the UKs withdrawal economy in the medium and long term.
It is too are being monitored, but a long-term departure early to be clear on the long-term implications of from the Solvency II specifications, for example, the vote for the UK economy and indeed the wider is considered unlikely.
economic impacts on the rest of Europe and the world: market conditions can be expected to be The Groups strategy is to buy and hold volatile for some time to come.
high-quality, lower-risk assets in its investment portfolio to facilitate management of the asset The macro-economic outlook will also and liability matching position.
Portfolio credit be impacted by US policy following the risk is managed by specialist fund managers inauguration of a new President and the executing a diversified investment strategy in outcome of European elections, in particular investment grade assets while adhering to in France and Germany, later in 2017. counterparty limits.
In an environment of continued low interest In a low interest rate environment, improved rates, investors may be more willing to accept returns are sought by diversifying the types, higher credit and liquidity risk to improve geographies and industry sectors of investment investment returns.
Such diversification creates an exposure make it difficult to source sufficient assets to to foreign exchange risk, which is controlled offer attractive retirement income terms.
Swaps and credit spreads similarly affect the income that swaptions are used to reduce exposures to can be made available, although margins from interest rate volatility.
The credit exposure to our equity release portfolio help offset this risk.
the counterparties with whom we transact these instruments is mitigated by collateral Most defined benefit pension schemes arrangements.
link member benefits to inflation through indexation.
As the Groups Defined Benefit The Groups exposure to inflation risk through fide-risking business volumes grow, its exposure the Defined Benefit fide-risking business is to inflation risk increases.
A fall in residential property values could reduce Liquidity risk is managed by ensuring that assets the amounts received from equity release of a suitable maturity and marketability are held redemptions and may also affect the relative to meet liabilities as they fall due.
Sufficient attractiveness of the equity release product to liquid assets are maintained so the Group can customers.
The regulatory capital needed to readily access the cash it needs should business support the no-negative equity guarantee in cash inflows unexpectedly reduce.
the equity release product also increases if property values drop.
Uncertainty following the There is little short-term volatility in the Groups EU Referendum could result in property values cash flows, which can be reliably estimated in stagnating or even falling in some, or all, UK terms of timing and amount.
Conversely, significant future rises flow forecasts predict liquidity levels both short in property values could increase early term and long term and stress tests help us mortgage redemptions, leading to a loss understand any potential periods of strain.
TheGroups liquidity requirements have been comfortably met over the past year and Market risks may affect the liquidity position forecasting confirms that this position can be of the Group by, for example, having to realise expected to continue for both investments and assets to meet liabilities during stressed market business operations.
conditions or to service collateral requirements due to the changes in market value of financial derivatives.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Risk Change in Description and impact Mitigation and management action Risk outlook riskduring the previous 18 months We believe everyone deserves a fair, fulfilling The Group actively seeks to differentiate its Risks to the and secure retirement.
Our aim is to help business from competitors by investing in the Groups brands people to rethink retirement to achieve this.
Fairness to Our Just brand reflects the way we intend to customers and high service standards are at and reputation conduct our business and treat our customer the heart of the Just brand and were a shared and wider stakeholder groups.
ethos of the Groups legacy Just Retirement Strategic objective and Partnership Assurance businesses and we There is a risk that the Groups brands and encourage our staff to take pride in the quality 1 2 3 4 5 reputation could be damaged if the Group is of service they provide to our customers.
found to be acting, even unintentionally, below the standards we set for ourselves.
Damage Engaging our employees in the Just brand and to our brand or reputation may adversely its associated values has been, and remains, affect our underlying profitability, through a critical part of our post-merger integration reducing sales volumes, restricting access to activity.
The Groups system of internal control, distribution channels and attracting increased and associated policies and operational regulatory scrutiny.
procedures, has been updated following the merger and defines the standards we expect Additionally, the Groups brands and reputation of all employees.
could be threatened by external risks such as regulatory intervention or enforcement action, either directly or as a result of contagion from other companies in the sectors in which we operate.
The Group relies on its operational processes The Group maintains a suite of risk Risks and IT systems to conduct its business, management tools to help identify, measure, arisingfrom including the pricing and sale of its products, monitor, manage and report its operational measuring and monitoring its underwriting risks including, but not limited to, those arising operational liabilities, processing applications and from operational processes and IT systems.
processes and maintaining customer service and accurate These include a risk management system, IT systems records.
There is a risk that these processes risk and control assessments, risk event and systems may not operate as expected, management, loss reporting, scenario analysis may not fulfil their intended purpose or may and risk reporting through the ORSA.
Strategic objective be damaged or interrupted by increases in usage, human error, unauthorised access, The Group maintains newly modified plans 1 2 3 4 5 natural disaster or similarly disruptive events.
and controls to minimise the risk of business Any failure of the Groups IT and communications disruption and information security related systems and or third party infrastructure on events, commensurate to that of our peers.
which the Group relies could lead to costs Detailed incident and crisis management plans and disruptions that could adversely affect also exist to ensure effective responses.
These the Groups business as well as harm the are supported by specialist third parties for our Groups reputation.
mass notification call cascade system, and our workplace recovery centre.
Large organisations, including the Group, are increasingly becoming targets for cyber-crime, Our approach to information security is under particularly those organisations that hold constant review as the cyber-threat landscape customers personal details.
Due diligence is performed on all exception and a cyber-attack could affect partners to ensure that they work to the same customer confidence.
high security standards as the Group.
We remain vigilant to the range of cyber-risks but recognise the speed of change in cyber-threats means that a risk exposure remains.
The Group has recently established an Information & Resilience Risk team, reporting to the Group Chief Risk Officer, to oversee the Groups strategy and controls in this area.
JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 48 Governance Trustees and scheme sponsors Trustees and scheme sponsors Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements JRP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Providing member security & fide-risking pension liabilities Defined Benefit pension schemes fide-risking their liabilities by securing member benefits with an insurance contract Addressable market 600 Billion
