Risk management Effective risk management Effective risk management is of critical importance for the operation of our business, shaping the Groups strategy and protecting its stakeholders.
Further details of the Groups approach to internal control are set The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and out in the Governance Framework report on pages 68 and 83. determines the Groups risk strategy, assessing the balance of risk necessary for the Group to carry out its business successfully and Risk management framework to achieve its strategic goals.
The Group operates a formal and rigorous risk management The Audit Committee oversees the Groups risk framework, designed to ensure that risks are clearly identified, managementframework.
effectively managed and continually monitored.
The Projects Assurance Committee monitored risks relating to Under this framework, risk profiling exercises are undertaken by thedelivery of the Groups major growth projects.
Its work operating businesses, and at division and Group level, to identify, concluded in 2016. evaluate and control risk.
The Group Risk Manager coordinates the The Operations Ramp Up Assurance Committee monitors risks risk assessments and identification activities, as well as facilitating relating to the ramp up of operations at the Groups major the development of appropriate responses to identified risks.
Board and its committees are provided with detailed information The Health, Safety and Environment Committee reviews health, to ensure that they are aware of the risks to the business and their safety and environmental risk management across the Group.
respective responsibilities are set out opposite: The Remuneration Committee ensures that the remuneration structure does not encourage excessive risk-taking bymanagement.
The Nomination Committee ensures that the composition oftheBoard and its Committees is appropriate to oversee riskmanagement.
The Chief Executive and Executive Committee implement the risk strategy determined by the Board.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk identification Risk register Monitoring Action plan and assessment and risk map and control Modification 56 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Board of Directors Audit Committee Health, Safety and Remuneration Nomination Operations Ramp Environment Committee Committee Up Assurance Committee Committee from 1 January 2017 Projects Assurance Committee to October 2016 Chief Executive and Executive Committee Assurance Internal audit department Assesses assurance processes and advises management Speak-Up helpline Group, Divisions and Operations Confidential external whistleblowing facility for employees and other stakeholders Internal policies, procedures and training Instruction and support for employees to ensure that best practices are followed Identification of principal risks theGroup risk map to ensure that risks continue to be accurately Through the risk management framework, the Groups principal represented.
This continual monitoring process indicates where risks are identified and each risk is assessed according to the mitigating actions need to be taken.
Lower risk items are also potential severity of its effect and the likelihood of occurrence.
continually assessed and monitored by management.
The principal risks are placed on the Group risk map.
The Board A description of our principal risks, including impact and mitigating and Audit Committee receive benchmarking of the Groups actions, can be found on pages 59 to 62. principal risks against industry peers, review reports on the Groups risk environment and risk management activities and monitor www.
com 57 Risk governance Operations Viability Statement In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Assuming commodity prices perform in line with market consensus Board has assessed the prospects of the Groups viability and has and Bozshakol and Aktogay production is in line with expectations selected a period of three years for this assessment.
The Board the Board considers there to be adequate liquidity throughout considers this timeframe to be appropriate as it covers the period the viability period provided that current borrowing facilities are in which the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects are expected to maintained and without any increase in available liquidity from the ramp up to capacity output and the Groups gearing metrics PXF facility.
will fall from their current elevated levels.
In addition, given the The Board is confident that a refinancing of the PXF facility is current uncertainties in the global economic outlook and for achievable on terms that are satisfactory to the Group which commodity prices, a longer-term period of assessment is not would provide adequate liquidity throughout the viability period considered appropriate.
in the event of a sustained reduction in the copper price from In making the assessment of viability the Board has considered current levels or lower than expected production from Bozshakol the significant available liquidity on hand, the current status of and Aktogay.
Bozshakol and Aktogay and the principal risks to which the Group In a more severe downside scenario, where a sustained reduction in is exposed, as set out on pages 59 to 62.
The most relevant risks to the copper price is combined with lower than expected production the assessment of viability are commodity price risk, new project from Bozshakol and Aktogay and an increase in operating costs, delivery and commissioning, liquidity risk and foreign exchange and the Group would need to take mitigating actions in addition to the inflation risk.
Down-side sensitivity analysis has been performed to refinancing of the PXF facility.
The Board believes it is increasingly assess the impact of a sustained reduction in the copper price from unlikely, though not implausible that these events could occur due current levels, a slower than expected ramp up at Bozshakol and tothe finely balanced copper market and the current progress at Aktogay and higher than anticipated cost inflation at the Groups the major growth projects.
In such a scenario, the Board would operations.
The analysis considered severe scenarios but not those need to consider the deferral of uncommitted capital costs, new which the Board considered to be implausible.
sources of available financing and or a refinancing of the Groups As detailed in the Going concern section on page 116 of the existing debt facilities to provide sufficient liquidity throughout the financial statements, the Groups PXF and CAT facilities are subject viability assessment period, which, given the amounts required, to financial covenants, which are forecast to breach if tested for the theBoard believes is achievable.
The Group intends to enter discussions Following an assessment of the principal risks, the Board confirms with the banks to achieve a refinancing of the PXF facility in the that it has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to first half of 2017 in order to amend the financial covenants to continue in operation and will continue to meet its liabilities as they ensure a breach is not triggered and to increase available liquidity fall due over the next three years.
by extending the facility amount and the duration of the facility.
The Board is confident the banks will view such a refinancing favourably provided the Groups debt service obligations continue to be maintained and considering the short-term nature of the breach and the quality of the Groups assets, in particular the Bozshakol and Aktogay mines which have long operational lives and provide large scale output at low cash costs.
The waiver obtained to the 31 December 2016 covenant testing and the additional $50 million commitments made available and drawn in December 2016 are further evidence of the support of the Group by its banks.
58 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016
