Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Managing risk KWEs approach to risk management At KWE, assessment of risk is a cornerstone of our strategy and our risk management framework is fundamental to its Board delivery.
Our integrated approach reflects a combination of a top-down Audit strategic view with complementary bottom-up operational Committee processes.
The top-down approach involves a review of the external environment in which we operate, to guide an assessment of the risks which we are comfortable exposing the business to in pursuit of our strategy.
The bottom-up Investment Manager process involves the identification, management and monitoring of risks in each area of our business to ensure that risk management is embedded in the business operations and policies.
Oversight of this process is provided through Investment Advisors maintenance of a composite risk register at the Group-level as well as regional risk registers in target markets where we operate through regulated vehicles.
This approach ensures that operational risks are fully considered in determining the Staff of Investment Manager Group risk appetite and corresponding strategy of the business.
Processes Risk identification Assessment & Quantification Mitigating Actions Ongoing Monitoring Reporting to Board Boards role in the process Investment Managers role in the process The Board is ultimately responsible for determining the nature The Investment Manager acts as KWEs Alternative Investment and extent of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its Fund Manager AIFM for the purposes of the Jersey Financial strategic objectives.
Its policy is to have systems in place which Services Commissions JFSC The Alternate Investment Fund optimise the Companys ability to manage risk in an effective Managers Directive AIFMD related regulations, and is and appropriate manner.
By regularly reviewing the risk appetite responsible for risk management.
The Investment Manager is of the business, the Board ensures that the risk exposure responsible for the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, remains appropriate at any point in the cycle.
Importantly the monitoring, and managing risks facing the business, together Board perceives risk not only as having a potential negative with maintaining controls to manage these risks.
The Investment influence on the business but also as an opportunity for financial Manager in turn places reliance on its advisory teams to monitor outperformance as we have access to the Investment Managers and manage operational risk on an ongoing basis, as well as expertise to take and manage risks.
As a property company in identifying emerging risks and putting appropriate responses the post-Brexit world, exposure to risk is inherent in our business in place.
but is subject to an extensive range of mitigating controls.
Risk registers, which exist at both the Group and regional levels Audit Committees role in the process where the Group invests through regulated vehicles, provide a The Board has delegated responsibility for detailed assessment framework for all staff of the Investment Manager group to of the risk management process to the Audit Committee.
contribute to delivering our strategy by recognising their shared At each quarterly meeting, the Audit Committee carries out a responsibility for the effective management of risk.
detailed review of the risk register, the control processes run by the Investment Manager, and the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken by the Investment Manager and reports its findings to the Board.
35 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing risk continued Mapping our principal risks 7 Risk unchanged since last year 3 6 10 5 Risk decreased since last year 1 9 4 8 Risk increased since last year 2 Low Medium High Likelihood of occurrence after mitigation Macro-economic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Low European growth and weak Regular review of the economic productivity indicators, coupled with the environment to assess whether any UK exit from the EU and an increase in changes in outlook present risks, as protectionist rhetoric in the USA albeit well as opportunities, which impact General economic alongside an apparently expansionary execution of our strategy conditions fiscal policy remain a concern in our Broad mandate to investment current markets of operation.
management team allowing for flexible approach to investing across Impact: Medium A slowdown in economic growth real estate markets in Europe, with increases the risk of lower than expected limited restrictions across asset class, Likelihood: High rental levels, occupancy deterioration and sector or capital structure, resulting in asset valuation uncertainty.
risk diversification across the portfolio High occupancy levels 95% and long Link to business model: WAULT 7.1 years to first break, making any deterioration in the occupier market have a muted short-term effect on the Groups turnover 36 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Potential impact before mitigation Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Macro-economic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Reduced appetite for real estate lending Diversified borrowings between may adversely affect our ability to secured and unsecured debt and a refinance facilities and reduce our weighted average expiry of 6.1 years financing capacity for future investments.
BBB stable credit rating reaffirmed Availability of by S&P during the year Strong relationships with our financing finance partners, credit rating agencies and advisors Impact: Low Ready access to debt markets through EMTN programme Likelihood: Low Medium Link to business model: Strategic risks Risk Impact Mitigation Poor execution of our investment strategy Benefits from strong investment could result in significant sourcing capability: long-standing underperformance and reduced market relationships ensure access to Failure to implement and profitability.
future opportunities Expert local knowledge, combined poor execution of the with significant and continued Specific execution risks include, among investment strategy investment in people and others: infrastructure Timing of investment and divestment Investment decisions subject to risk decisions Impact: Medium High evaluation: post acquisition, Incorrect allocation of capital continuous monitoring of KPIs, Exposure to any development risk or Likelihood: Low business plan targets and financial significant refurbishment programme metrics Failure to implement the approved business plan Link to business model: Excessive exposure to one particular sector, asset, tenant or regional concentration Property development projects inherently Currently no significant development carry risks with them.
15% NAV limits on Planning risk: the inability to secure aggregate development costs planning consent due to political, reducing the overall potential impact of Development and legislative, regulatory and other risks development risk inherent in the planning environment Access to strong and experienced construction Construction risk: timing delays, construction and development reliance on third parties, including the management team Impact: Medium risk of contractor failure, and additional Strong discipline of extensive cost overruns consultation, design and technical Likelihood: Low Occupier risk: occupiers may be work pre-project commencement reluctant to take space upon project Assessment of market cycle and likely completion customer demand pre-commitment to Link to business model: new developments and pre-lets 37 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing risk continued Operational risks Risk Impact Mitigation Adverse interest rate or foreign currency Combination of fixed rate debt and movements may result in reduced interest rate caps.
2016 92% of borrowings were fixed or Leverage and Treasury hedged Breach of bank facility or bond covenants Foreign currency movements offset could result in default and the by a combination of natural hedging Impact: Medium requirement to repay debt ahead of through local currency borrowing and planned maturities.
derivative instruments, such as cross Likelihood: Medium currency swaps.
As at 31 December Lack of control over bank accounts and 2016 87% of Euro assets are hedged cash movements across multiple in this manner Link to business model: jurisdictions and or failure to monitor the Regular monitoring of LTV and creditworthiness of counterparties could associated covenants on an actual result in sub-optimal returns or financial and forecast basis loss.
Prudent treasury management policy: ensuring sufficient cash levels for unforeseen contingencies, and all loan documentation includes cure rights for covenant breaches Dedicated treasury management team: robust cash controls and monthly cash sweep mechanisms Continuous monitoring of credit-rating and deposit rates of banking partners Underlying income, rental growth and Monitoring our market letting capital performance could be adversely exposure including vacancies, affected by weakening occupier demand, upcoming expiries and breaks, tenants Occupier demand, resulting from variations in economic in receivership or administration and conditions in our target markets and WAULTs tenantdefaults and corresponding weakening of consumer Working with our tenants to tailor their income sustainability confidence and investment.
space requirements to business needs Engaging experienced letting agents, Changing consumer and business with track records and expertise Impact: Medium High practices, new technologies, legislation relevant to the particular asset class and alternative locations may result in Increasingly diversified tenant base Likelihood: Low Medium earlier than anticipated obsolescence of and monitoring our exposure to our buildings, if evolving requirements are individual occupiers or sectors.
December 2016, no single tenant Link to business model: accounted for more than 7.7% of Failure to monitor rent collection rates and topped-up annual rent control arrears could lead to increased Undertaking appropriate occupier bad debt rates and financial loss.
covenant checks, with ongoing reviews Regular liaison with and oversight of property managers to ensure prompt rent collection and chasing of any arrears 38 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Operational risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation We rely on the Investment Manager for Effective working relationship its real estate investment, asset and between the Board and the development management expertise, Investment Manager, with regular Dependence on the which drives our financial and operational oversight and review performance.
Close alignment of interests with Investment Manager those of our other shareholders, with The Investment Managers failure to significant capital investment in KWE Impact: High retain, develop and incentivise key by the Investment Manager group personnel or to allocate appropriate time Appropriate financial incentivisation Likelihood: Low Medium and resources, may impact business and alignment through share-based relationships, reputation and the remuneration arrangements with the achievement of the Groups investment Investment Manager group Link to business model: objectives.
Highly competitive performance driven remuneration packages offered to attract and retain senior management team.
Low staff turnover Regulatory and compliance risks Risk Impact Mitigation Non-compliance with multi-jurisdiction Dedicated team to monitor regulatory regulatory requirements, including but not compliance and develop protocols to exclusive to AIFMD, UK listing, disclosure deal with upcoming changes and transparency rules, and money Up-to-date and regular training Regulatory and laundering and financial crime legislation, programmes in place could adversely affect our financial Robust control systems and Environmental position through fines and penalties, and procedures are in place and tested damage to our reputation and operating regularly to ensure effectiveness Impact: Medium status.
Specialist environmental consultants engaged to advise on environmental Likelihood: Low Medium Increased environmental and health and and health and safety regulations to safety regulation may lead to higher ensure compliant operations costs.
Robust sustainability policy in place, Link to business model: and annual monitoring of sustainability As tenants increasingly differentiate objectives and targets between properties based on energy efficiency and related environmental factors, occupational demand may reduce if our buildings do not meet future requirements.
39 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing risk continued Regulatory and compliance risks continued Risk Impact Mitigation Increased taxation or other associated Robust procedures in place to ensure that charges, or changes to interpretations of the Group is managed and controlled in existing taxation laws affecting the real local jurisdictions, with appropriately estate sector and or jurisdictions in qualified and experienced boards Taxation which the Group operates or holds Developments in the taxation environment assets may have a material adverse in the countries that we operate in Impact: Medium effect on financial conditions, residency monitored both by experienced investment status, Group performance and results.
management team and expert advisers Likelihood: High Ongoing engagement with tax authorities The Irish Finance Act 2016 introduced and industry associations, to better certain amendments to the tax treatment understand future legislation and, where Link to business model: of structures associated with investing in possible, mitigate the impact property in Ireland.
Whilst the impact of Appropriateness and cost-efficiency of the the new legislation is not entirely known, Groups corporate and tax structure it may affect the general investment regularly reviewed appetite for Irish real estate and create a negative investor sentiment.
The UK Governments consultation due Spring 2017 on bringing non-resident companies UK income into the corporation tax regime may result in a change to the Groups overall tax charge.
Changes in governments may result in new direct and indirect taxation policies which may increase cost in relation to investing in real estate.
Following recent government statements Geographically diverse portfolio reducing and the UK Supreme Court ruling, the the overall exposure to the UK.
Assets held triggering of Article 50 by March-end in Ireland, Spain and Italy account for 44% 2017 seems more certain.
This will no of the portfolio, diluting the impact of UK Political doubt prolong market uncertainty.
downward valuations on the overall portfolio at 31 December 2016 Impact: Medium High As we enter into a lengthy period of Low level of voids, with occupancy at a uncertainty during the formalisation of high 95% and the tenant base extremely Likelihood: High exit terms and resetting of trade diverse with over 480 tenants.
In particular, relationships, there exists a downside no exposure to City of London or Canary risk to UK valuations and potentially Wharf assets and financial services Link to business model: occupier demand.
tenants account for a small percentage of NOI and not based in Central London.
With an increased likelihood of a hard Significant cash and undrawn credit line UK exit from the EU and its single liquidity 681.5 million at 31 December market, there may be potential significant 2016 job relocations out of the UK, with Good LTV covenant headroom.
We note companies considering a new EU base.
UK portfolio values would have to fall c. This may adversely impact the UK 50% for the Group bond LTV covenant to London office market but is currently be breached or a greater than c. 30% fall hard to predict.
across the whole portfolio Foreign exchange volatility, as has been The outcome of the Brexit negotiations proven during 2016, mitigated by natural may have a longer term macro-economic matching in Euro denominated borrowings impact resulting in lower GDP growth, or derivative instruments which sustained occupier demand weakness significantly mute the impact on NAV and low rental growth.
40 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Portmarnock Hotel & Golf Links, Co Dublin, Ireland Acquired July 2014 135 room hotel Newly refurbished reception area Newly refurbished restaurant facility 3.
Asset repositioning Unlocking value Planning permission was secured to undertake a material refurbishment at Portmarnock programme which included a new 1.
2. elevated podium entrance, a Bottom up Active asset 1.
B ottom up investment strategy investment &portfolio refurbishment of 90 bedrooms, a newly We acquired Portmarnock, a four-star strategy management renovated reception, Seaview lounge, hotel with an 18 hole golf links facility, restaurant, gym and spa offering.
It is attractively located, being the only Unlocking The Bernard Langer designed golf resort hotel with a golf links offering value links benefited from a substantial within Dublin city centre.
upgrade as we commenced a rolling refurbishment of the course, which 2.
A ctive asset & portfolio has translated to a 20% increase in management 4.
Rigorous Asset Portmarnock was acquired as an capital repositioning unflagged hotel, this allowed us to management transform and reposition the facility.
Total refurbishment spend Operationally we improved all aspects of the hotel which enhanced the overall customer experience, drove room 9.8m revenue and increased golf green fee rates.
Strong trading resulted in a 57% Stabilised yield on cost growth in ADR since acquisition further upside will be captured as trading benefits from a recently completed capital programme.
6.9% 41 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
