Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements we expect our people to follow in A downside sensitivity analysis, Principal risks their day-to-day activities, no as well as a consideration of any matter where they work in the mitigating actions available to the and uncertainties world, and tells others that they group, were applied to the groups can rely on our integrity.
The Code three-year cash flows forecasted is just one element of the groups as part of the business planning wide-reaching Ethics and process and presented to the Board Compliance programme, which for discussion, further to review by aims to ensure compliance with the Audit Committee.
The Board our ethical standards.
discussed the process undertaken by management, and also reviewed the results of stress testing How we identify risk performed to provide an illustration Our risk management process has of the reduction in cash flows that been built to identify, evaluate, would be required to break the analyse and mitigate significant groups covenants or exhaust all risks to the achievement of our available borrowing facilities, to strategy.
Our risk identification ensure that the sensitivity analysis processes seek to identify risks was sufficiently rigorous.
Risk management Our risk appetite from both a top down strategic The Board is responsible for We use an assessment of the level perspective and a bottom up local setting the groups risk appetite of risk and our associated risk operating company perspective.
Viability statement and ensuring that appropriate risk appetite to ensure the appropriate In accordance with provision C. 2.2 management systems are in place.
focus is placed on the correct risks.
The Board of the 2016 revision of the Code, The Board reviews the groups The Board has overall responsibility the Directors have assessed the principal risks throughout the year for risk management, the setting prospects of the group over a Risk identification as part of its normal agenda, of risk appetite and the three-year period.
and impact adopting an integrated approach implementation of the risk The groups principal risks are to risk management by regularly management policy.
The Board i The Board selected the analysed on a gross prediscussing the principal risks as a reviews and challenges the three-year period as: mitigation and net postpart of key agenda items.
In groups principal risks and a. the groups business planning mitigation basis.
addition, once a year the Board uncertainties on an ongoing basis.
and budget processes are formally assesses the groups carried out over a three-year Risk trends principal risks, taking the strength of The Audit Committee period which provides the The ongoing review of the groups the groups control systems and The Audit Committee ensures relevant estimates: and principal risks focuses on how our appetite for risk into account.
adequate assurance is obtained b. three years is a reasonable these risks may evolve.
Since the over the risks that are identified approximation of the publication of last years Annual The Board delegates responsibility as the groups principal risks.
maximum time taken from Report, our principal risks have for day-to-day risk management to The Audit Committee is also procuring a project to changed as follows: the Executive Committee, including responsible for the independent completion and therefore the identification, evaluation and review and challenge of the reflects our current revenue monitoring of key risks facing the Increased risks adequacy and effectiveness of earning cycle.
group and the implementation of Risk 1 Market risk: a rapid the risk management approach.
ii The review included cash flows group-wide risk management downturn in our markets and other key financial ratios processes and controls.
With further European elections, Executive Committee over the three-year period.
a new US president and the UKs The Executive Committee is These metrics were subject The Audit Committee keeps the negotiated exit from Europe, we responsible for the identification, to sensitivity analysis which effectiveness of the groups risk expect more short term volatility reporting and ongoing involves flexing a number of the management systems under review in the markets.
We have seen management of risks and for main assumptions underlying and reports to the Board on the market conditions in South East the stewardship of the risk the forecast both individually results of its review.
The occurrence Asia, Australia and Canada become management approach.
This downside of any material control issues, serious increasingly more challenging.
Executive Committee reviews sensitivity analysis was carried accidents or major commercial, and assesses the key strategic out to evaluate the potential financial or reputational issues, or risks to the group and the impact on the group if both the Developing the viability the identification of new significant outputs of the assessment are effects of the global financial statement risks, are reported to the Board sent to the Divisional Presidents crisis were to be repeated and In developing the viability and or Audit Committee as for inclusion in their local risk there was a substantial charge statement, it was determined appropriate.
that a three-year period should The review also made certain be used, consistent with the Divisional Presidents assumptions about the normal Culture period of the groups business Divisional Presidents are level of capital recycling likely to The Board is aware that the planning processes and reflecting responsible for the identification, occur and considered whether effectiveness of risk management a reasonable approximation of reporting and ongoing additional financing facilities is dependent on behaviours.
In the maximum time taken from management of risks in their would be required.
2016 we launched a refreshed procuring a project to completion.
The outputs Code of Business Conduct across of these assessment exercises The Directors assessment has our group to provide a common Management reviewed the are reviewed and challenged by been made with reference to the and consistent framework for principal risks, and considered the Executive Committee as part groups current position and responsible business practices.
which of these risks might of their assessment of the key prospects, the groups strategy, It reinforces the standards that threaten the groups viability.
It strategic risks facing the group.
the Boards risk appetite and the was determined that none of the groups principal risks and how individual risks would in isolation these are managed, as detailed in compromise the groups viability, the Strategic report.
and so a number of different severe but plausible principal risk combinations were considered.
Keller Group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued On the basis of the above and To achieve our objective Risk Inability to finance our business other matters considered and of being the worlds Losing access to the financing facilities necessary reviewed by the Board during the to fund the business.
leading geotechnical year, the Board has reasonable contractor, we recognise Potential Breach of banking covenants or failure to continue expectations that the group will be impact in business or meet our liabilities.
able to continue in operation and that we must have a good meet its liabilities as they fall due understanding of the risks Mitigation Procedures to monitor the effective management over the next three years.
In doing of cash and debt, including weekly cash reports we face, those inherent so, it is recognised that such and regular cash forecasting.
in our strategy and future assessments are subject to a level of uncertainty that increases operations and those with time and, therefore, future Case study posed by external outcomes cannot be guaranteed Market risk Financial risk conditions.
We aim to or predicted with certainty.
Our management framework includes standard financial dashboards.
continuously monitor These were developed at the end of 2015 and implemented from 2016.
We monitor a number of financial and non-financial metrics and those risks, our risk Going concern narrative sections of the dashboards allow local management to The groups business activities, management and internal identify the key risks and opportunities for their business units.
together with the factors likely to controls systems and The dashboards are used in monitoring and reviewing Divisional and affect its future development, evolve our management Business Unit performance on a monthly basis and in more detailed performance and position are quarterly reviews by the Executive Committee.
set out in the Strategic report.
also reported in the same format and monitored monthly by the Board.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows and liquidity position Movement in risk This way of reporting is enabling us to calibrate performance are described in the Finance Increased consistently across our three Divisions and 21 business units.
We Directors report, with details of No change are able to benchmark our business units and learn from those who the groups treasury activities, Reduced excel in certain areas, such as cash management, and identify more long-term funding arrangements quickly those business units that are under-performing and take the and exposure to financial risk necessary mitigating actions.
included in note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The group has sufficient financial resources which, together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its contractual and commercial commitments and any proposed dividends.
The group is therefore well placed to manage its business risks.
After making enquiries, the Directors have Risk A rapid downturn in our markets formed the judgement at the Inability to maintain a sustainable level of financial time of approving the financial performance throughout the construction industry statements, that there is a market cycle which grows more than many other reasonable expectation that the industries during periods of economic expansion group has adequate resources to and falls harder than many other industries when continue in operational existence the economy contracts.
For this Potential Failure to continue in operation or to meet reason, they continue to adopt the impact our liabilities.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Mitigation Diversification of our markets, both in terms Financial Statements.
of geography and market segment.
Leveraging the global scale of our group.
Having strong local businesses to address geographic markets.
42 Keller Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Market Financial risk risk Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Failure to procure new contracts Risk Product and or solution failure A failure to continue to win and retain contracts on Failure of our product and or solution to achieve satisfactory terms and conditions in our existing the required standard.
and new target markets if competition increases, Potential Financial loss and consequent damage to our customer requirements change or demand reduces impact brand reputation.
due to general adverse economic conditions.
Mitigation Continuing to enhance our technological and Potential Failure to achieve targets for revenue, profit operational capabilities through investment in impact and earnings.
our product teams, project managers and our Mitigation Continually analysing our existing and target engineering capabilities.
markets to ensure we understand the opportunities Risk Ineffective management of our contracts that they offer.
Failure to manage our contracts to ensure that Structured bid review processes in operation they are delivered on time and to budget.
throughout the group with well-defined selectivity Potential Failure to achieve the margins, profits and cash criteria that are designed to ensure we take on impact flows we expect from contracts.
contracts only where we understand and can manage the risks involved.
Mitigation Ensuring we understand all of our risks through the bid appraisal process and applying rigorous Risk Losing our market share policies and processes to manage and monitor Inability to achieve sustainable growth, whether contract performance.
through acquisition, new products, new geographies or industry specific solutions.
Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects.
Potential Failure to achieve targets for revenue, profits impact and earnings.
Risk Causing a serious injury or fatality to an employee or member of the public Mitigation Continually seeking to differentiate our offering Failure to maintain high standards of Safety through service quality, value for money and and Quality.
Potential Damage to employee morale leading to an A Business Development function focusing on our impact increase in employee turnover rates, loss of customers requirements and understanding our customer, supplier and partner confidence and competitors.
damage to our brand reputation in an area that Minimising the risk of acquisitions, including we regard as a top priority.
getting to know a target company in advance, Mitigation A Board-led commitment to achieve zero often working in joint venture, to understand the accidents.
operational and cultural differences and potential synergies, as well as undertaking these through Visible management commitment with Safety thorough due diligence and structured and Tours, Safety Audits and Safety Action groups.
Implementing management systems that Implementing annual efficiency and improvement conform to Occupational Health & Safety programmes to help us remain competitive.
Risk Non-compliance with our Code of Business Conduct Extensive mandatory employee training Not maintaining high standards of ethics and programmes.
compliance in conducting our business or failing Risk Not having the right skills to deliver to meet legal or regulatory requirements.
Inability to attract and develop excellent people to Potential Losing the trust of our customers, suppliers and create a high-quality, vibrant, diverse and flexible impact other stakeholders with consequent adverse workforce.
effects on our ability to deliver against our strategy Potential Failure to maintain satisfactory performance and business objectives.
impact in respect of our current contracts and failure Substantial damage to Kellers brand and or large to deliver our strategy and business targets financial penalties.
Mitigation Having clear policies and procedures in respect Mitigation Continuing to develop and implement leadership, of ethics, integrity, regulatory requirements and personal development and employee engagement contract management.
programmes that encourage and support all our people to achieve their full potential.
Maintaining training programmes to ensure our people fully understand these policies and requirements.
Operating and encouraging the use of a whistleblowing facility.
Keller Group plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic risks Operational risks
