STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Managing our risks The Groups principal risks are set out below, along with mitigating actions.
There may be other risks, unknown or currently considered immaterial, which might become material.
The risks set out below are not in order of likelihood of occurrence or materiality and should be viewed, as with any forward looking statements in this document, with regard to the cautionary statement.
Health & safety Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Mining is a hazardous industry.
Health and safety The Groups goal is for zero fatalities and to minimise health Delivering major incidents could result in harm to people, as and safety incidents.
Policies and procedures are designed to growth projects well as production disruption, financial loss and identify and monitor risks and to provide a clear framework Optimisation of reputational damage.
This is supported by regular training existing assets and awareness campaigns for employees and contractors.
Significant investment is being made into health and safety Be a socially practices.
Bozshakol and Aktogay are open pit mines which responsible are inherently safer operating environments.
operator Further details of the Groups HSE function are set out intheCorporate Responsibility report.
Business interruption Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Operations are subject to a number of risks In-house and third-party specialists are utilised to identify Delivering major not wholly within the Groups control, including: and manage operational risks and to identify improvements.
growth projects geological and technological challenges: weather Equipment and facilities are maintained appropriately Optimisation of and other natural phenomena: damage to or and regularly inspected.
Property damage and business existing assets failure of equipment and infrastructure: loss or interruption insurance programmes provide some interruption to key inputs such as electricity and protection from major incidents.
water and the availability of key supplies and Should an outage occur at the Balkhash smelter the Group services, including the Balkhash smelter.
believes it could sell concentrate directly to customers.
Any disruption could impact production, may require the Group to incur unplanned expenditure and negatively impact cash flows.
Political Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group could be affected by political instability A proactive dialogue is maintained with the Governments Delivering major or social and economic changes in the countries in of Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan across a range of issues.
growth projects which it operates.
This could include the granting Developments are monitored closely and lobbying is Optimisation of and renewal of permits and changes to foreign conducted where appropriate.
Kazakhstan is one of the existing assets trade or legislation that could affect the business most politically stable and economically developed countries environment and negatively impact the Groups in Central Asia and the Board continues to view the political, Take advantage business, financial performance and licence social and economic environment within Kazakhstan of natural to operate.
favourably and remains optimistic about the conditions resource forbusiness in the region.
com 59 Principal risks New project construction and commissioning Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic returns The Bozshakol and Aktogay major growth projects Delivering major due to an inability to recover mineral resources, design have been designed using modern, proven growth projects or construction deficiencies, a failure to achieve expected equipment and have experienced management operating parameters or because of capital or operating teams.
New projects are subject to rigorous costs being higher than expected.
Failure to effectively assessment prior to approval including feasibility manage new projects or a lack of available financing may or technical studies and capital appraisal.
Specialists prevent or delay completion of projects.
are utilised throughout the life cycle of projects.
Project management and capital expenditure These risks will continue in 2017 during the ramp up of planning and monitoring procedures are in place the Aktogay sulphide and Bozshakol clay plant.
The speed to review performance against milestones and of ramp up is dependent on the successful start-up and budgets.
This includes the Operations Ramp Up operation of equipment and the performance of suppliers Assurance Committee which reports to the Board.
These factors could result in delays whichcould impact cash flows, liquidity and financial results.
Further details regarding the major growth projects are included in the Operating Review.
Community and labour relations Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group operates in areas where it is a major employer, The Group engages with community Delivering major where employees are represented by labour unions and representatives, unions and employees and growth projects where it may provide support to the local community.
This aims to address concerns raised by different Optimisation of may impose restrictions on the Groups flexibility in taking stakeholders.
Through responsible behaviour, existing assets certain operating decisions.
Failure to identify and manage acting transparently, promoting dialogue and the concerns and expectations of local communities and complying with commitments the Group minimises Be a socially the labour force could affect the Groups reputation and potentially negative impacts.
The Group has responsible social licence to operate, and result in production disruptions a social programme for employees and their operator and increases in operating costs.
Wage negotiations could dependants and works closely with authorities be impacted by higher commodity prices, higher domestic on social matters.
Bozshakol and Aktogay are in inflation or the continued weakness of the tenge.
remote locations where community relations risk is reduced.
Further details of the Groups social programme are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Employees Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group is dependent on its ability to attract and retain The Group actively monitors the labour market Delivering major highly skilled personnel.
Failure to do so could have a negative to remain competitive in the hiring of staff growth projects impact on operations or the successful implementation and provides remuneration structures and Optimisation of of growth projects and result in higher operating costs development opportunities to attract and retain existing assets to recruit required staff.
The remote location of some key employees.
The Bozshakol and Aktogay operations increases this challenge.
operations teams have a detailed recruitment and Be a socially training plan and includes international workers responsible with appropriate expertise during the initial operator operational years to assist the successful ramp up of the operations.
Reserves and resources Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Groups ore reserves are largely based on an estimation The Groups ore reserves and mineral resources Delivering major method established by the former Soviet Union.
There are are published annually in accordance with the growth projects numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, criteria of the JORC Code and reviewed by Optimisation of which if changed, could require the need to restate ore an independent technical expert.
This includes existing assets reserves and impact the economic viability of affected mine site visits where considered appropriate operations and development projects.
and the conversion from the former Soviet Take advantage Union estimation to that prescribed by the JORC of natural Code.
Drilling and exploration programmes are resource conducted to enhance the understanding of opportunities geological information.
inCentral Asia 60 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Legal and regulatory compliance Impact Mitigation Link to strategy In Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan all subsoil reserves belong Management engages with the relevant regulatory Delivering major to the State and subsoil usage rights must be renewed.
authorities and seeks appropriate advice to ensure growth projects Legislation, including subsoil use laws and taxation have compliance with all relevant legislation and subsoil Optimisation of been in force for a relatively short period of time and may use contracts.
A specialist department is tasked existing assets be subject to change and uncertainty of interpretation, with monitoring compliance with the terms of application and enforcement.
Management works closely Take advantage with the tax authorities in the review of proposed of natural Non-compliance with legislation could result in regulatory amendments to legislation.
Further details of resource challenges, fines, litigation and ultimately the loss of operating the Groups tax strategy and risk management opportunities licences.
Substantial payments of tax could arise for the are set out in the Financial Review.
Appropriate inCentral Asia Group, or tax receivable balances may not be recovered monitoring and disclosure procedures are in place as expected.
Environmental compliance Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Mining operations involve the use of toxic substances Policies and procedures are in place to set out Delivering major and requires the storage of large volumes of waste required operating standards and to monitor growth projects materials in tailings dams, which could result in spillages environmental impacts.
The Group liaises with Optimisation of andsignificant environmental damage.
The Group is subject relevant governmental bodies on environmental existing assets to environmental laws and regulations which are continually matters, including legislation changes.
developing, including those to tackle climate change.
Failure Be a socially Bozshakol and Aktogay utilise modern technology to comply with applicable laws could lead to the suspension responsible which will improve the Groups environmental of operating licences, the imposition of financial penalties operator efficiency compared to historic operations.
orcostly compliance costs and reputational damage.
Furtherdetails of the environmental measures Increased levels of production from Bozshakol and Aktogay being taken by the Group are set out in the will increase the Groups environmental footprint and energy Corporate Responsibility Report.
Commodity price Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group regularly reviews its sensitivity to The Groups results are heavily dependent on the Delivering major fluctuations in commodity prices.
The Group does commodity price for copper and to a lesser extent, growth projects not normally hedge commodity prices, but may theprices of gold, silver and zinc.
Commodity prices can enter into a hedge programme where the Board Optimisation of fluctuate significantly and are dependent on several factors, determines it is appropriate to provide greater existing assets including world supply and demand and investor sentiment.
certainty over future cash flows.
The Group The financial impact of commodity price movements on Take advantage adopts a prudent approach in its financial planning theGroups financial position will increase with the ramp of natural and investment appraisal, reflecting the volatility upin output from Bozshakol and Aktogay.
opportunities inCentral Asia Foreign exchange and inflation Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Fluctuations in rates of exchange or inflation in the Where possible the Group conducts its business Optimisation of jurisdictions to which the Group is exposed could result and maintains its financial assets and liabilities in existing assets infuture increased costs.
As the functional currency of US dollars.
The Group generally does not hedge the Groups operations is the local currency, fluctuations its exposure to foreign currency risk in respect inexchange rates can give rise to exchange gains and losses ofoperating expenses.
Further details are set inthe income statement and volatility in the level of net outin note 31 to the financial statements.
assets recorded on the Groups balance sheet.
com 61 Principal risks Exposure to China Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Sales are made to a limited number of customers in China, Bozshakol and Aktogay produce a copper Delivering major with Chinese sales to increase further as copper concentrate concentrate that is attractive to Chinese smelters, growth projects output increases in 2017.
Treatment and refining charges are being clean and high in sulphur content.
The Optimisation of dependent upon Chinese smelting capacity and the level of Group has established good relationships with existing assets copper concentrate supply in the region.
strategic customers in China and has negotiated sales contracts for its 2017 production.
The Group Take advantage China is an important source of financing to the Group with also intends to process a small portion of Bozshakol of natural long-term debt facilities of $3.2 billion at 31 December 2016. and Aktogay copper concentrate under a tolling resource In addition, the Group uses contractors, services and arrangement with the Balkhash smelter.
inCentral Asia The Group maintains relationships with a number of international lending banks, having the PXF facility and DBK facility in place and has the flexibility to consider other sources of capital if required.
Acquisitions and divestments Impact Mitigation Link to strategy The Group may acquire or dispose of assets and businesses A rigorous assessment process is undertaken to Optimisation of which fail to achieve the expected benefit or value to the assess all potential acquisitions and divestments existing assets Group.
Changing market conditions, incorrect assumptions by specialist staff, supported by external advisers Take advantage or deficiencies in due diligence could result in the wrong where appropriate.
Due diligence processes are of natural decisions being made and in acquisitions or disposals failing undertaken and material transactions are subject resource todeliver expected benefits.
The Restructuring was effected to Board review and approval, including ensuring opportunities under the laws and regulations of Kazakhstan which are the transaction is aligned with the Groups strategy, inCentral Asia subject to change and open to interpretation, including the consideration of the key assumptions being applied legal and tax aspects of the Restructuring in 2014, which and the risks identified.
could give rise to liabilities for KAZ Minerals.
Liquidity Impact Mitigation Link to strategy Forecast cash flows are closely monitored and the The Group is exposed to liquidity risk if it is unable to meet Delivering major financing strategy is set by the Board.
Adequate payment obligations as they fall due or is unable to access growth projects levels of committed funds are maintained with acceptable sources of finance.
Non-compliance with financial USD 1,108 million cash and committed facilities Optimisation of covenants could result in borrowing facilities becoming uncommitted and repayable.
at 31 December 2016. existing assets Take advantage The debt financing of the Bozshakol and Aktogay projects The Group has a successful track record of raising of natural has resulted in an elevated net debt level.
During 2016 a $300 million credit facility resource net debt is expected to peak during 2017 and reduce as was agreed with DBK and the existing PXF facility opportunities Bozshakol and Aktogay ramp up to full capacity.
The Group intends inCentral Asia to resume discussions with the PXF banks over Failure to manage liquidity risk could have a material impact a longer-term refinancing of the facility, including on the Groups cash flows, earnings and financial position.
renegotiation of covenants, following the waiver obtained earlier in the year related to the period ended 31 December 2016.
Further details regarding going concern and viability are included in note 2 to the financial statements.
62 KAZ Minerals Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REPORT 64 Corporate governance overview 66 Board of Directors 68 Governance framework 84 Remuneration report 104 Other statutory information www.
