Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 Principal risks and uncertainties The nature of the industries and the business environment in which the Group operates means that its operations are subject to a number of inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Board has carefully considered the Groups principal risks and the controls in placeto mitigate these risks.
This year, theriskof a significant decline in the property market following the EU Referendum result has been included as a principal risk.
10 The assessment of these risks and controls is a key part of the ongoing 6 11 management ofthe business.
The Board recognises that consistent andeffective risk management is vital to achieving its strategicpriorities.
4 1 Each principal risk is described on the following pages, together with a 9 2 summary of the mitigating actions taken.
An indication of the strategic 3 priorities most likely to be affected by the risk has also been included.
5 8 7 The heat map opposite sets out the Boards assessment of the probability and the potential impact of the Groups principal net risks after mitigating actions.
The market The definitions of Probability and Impact are as follows: Likelihood Impact Improbable Possible Probable Low Medium High Has happened A relatively A relatively The exposure is The risk may be Threatens the in the Group, infrequent frequent well-understood.
tolerated provided viability of the but reasonably occurrence occurrence that the benefits Group: or contains a infrequently for the Group.
Cost of mitigation are considered to reasonable likelihood or not to a is relatively low outweigh the costs of danger topeople: material extent.
or the risk is significantly.
or would negatively otherwise covered affect the Groups by risktransfer.
At worst, the reputation orbrand impact upon to a reasonably reputation material extent.
orbrand is considered transient orlocalised.
When assessing its risk appetite, Kier balances risk with opportunity.
The following summarises the categories of mitigating actions withrespect to the Groups principal risks: Tolerate Terminate Control Transfer Acknowledge the existence Take steps which are Implement actions which Re-assign accountability, of a particular risk and designed to eliminate are designed to minimise responsibility and authority take a considered decision the risk.
the probability or the impact for the management of the to accept it.
risk to another stakeholder from theappropriate willing to acceptthe risk.
level of management may be required.
27 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Likelihood Improbable Possible Probable Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Risk Mitigation 1.
Contract delivery The Group has an increasing focus onlonger-term service contracts.
Potential risks are OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The Group has several hundred live mitigated, controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and contracts atany point in time and the procedures.
These include regular contract reviews of financial performance against risks to which the Group is exposed are budget as well as assessing end-life forecasts.
Project risk registers are alsoreviewed.
dependent on thenature of the work, The procurement function manages sub-contractor and supplier relationships the location, the duration and the legal acrosscontracts.
form of the contract, amongst other matters.
Ifthese risks are notmanaged Monthly reviews are supplemented by a quarterly review process, which operates across effectively, the Group may suffer all divisions of theGroup.
contract losses, delays and potential reputational damage.
There has been a specific focus during the year on upgrading the key financial control environment across the Group.
These improvements have had a positive impact on Relevant strategic priorities: identifying potentially under-performing contracts.
A further development to mitigate this risk is a Group commercial training programme for OLD ICONS NEW ICONS all front line staff, which is designed to ensure a consistent approach with respect to the management of contract risks across the Group.
People The Group monitors employee turnover closely.
Pay and conditions are reviewed against The Group depends on members of the prevailing marketto ensure that the Group remains competitive.
itssenior management team and on aflexible, highly skilled, diverse and The Group has put in place succession planning and employee development processes.
These include an ongoing talent review process and the completion of succession planning analysis across all business units.
If the Group does not succeed OLD ICONS NEW ICONS inattracting, developing and Further mitigating actions to this risk include: retainingskilled people, as well as understanding and embracing the Conducting an employee engagement survey in 2016, with improvements noted in the OLD ICONS NEW ICONS diversity ofthose people, it may engagement and enablement scores since the previous survey in2014: notbeable to grow the business The completion of a refreshed leadership development programme for senior leaders.
In addition, the leadership profiles and skills of the business leaders have been assessed to inform development programmes: and Relevant strategic priorities: A review of employee terms and conditions across all business units andthe roll-out of a revised grading system.
Systems The Group recognises that information technology plays a fundamental role in supporting OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The efficient operation of the Group its business.
Information technology activity is managed by the Groups IT department in is increasingly dependent on the partnership with the business and according to agreed service levels.
To mitigate system proper operation, performance, risks, significant investments are being made, subject to Board review andapproval, such security and development of its as the implementation of the new ERP system.
The Group is maintaining legacy There is a dedicated project team which deals with the design and implementation of the systems prior to implementing newERP system.
The project to establish a single finance shared services centre is being an ERP system.
If implementation implemented at the same time.
isunsuccessful, this may impact the Groups efficiency and profitability.
Key mitigations to the risk include: Relevant strategic priorities: Conducting an initial pilot for the ERP system across a small part of the Group so as to preserve business continuity: Assessing the learning points from the pilot: Conducting an independent assessment of the ERP system control environment: and Providing independent project assurance on the delivery of the ERP system.
The Group has introduced robust protection for cyber security threats and made a number of improvements to front-office systems during the year.
28 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Strategic priorities: Operate a safe and Accelerate growth to Achieve top quartile Provide sector-leading Attract and retain Ensure the business is sustainable business be a top three player performance and customer experience, highly motivated, supported by investment inour chosen markets efficiency for clients and for high-performing teams in technology and their customers back-office systems OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Risk Mitigation 4.
Tender pricing The Groups appetite for long-term, large,  construction contracts is OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The work for which Kier tenders is often limited.
This is influenced by the desire to maintain quality of workload and to manage risk.
complex and long-term with significant Tenders for contracts are subject to a governance structure which includes Group-wide associated risks.
Tender assumptions standing orders, with approval bythe Chief Executive Finance Director, other Executive may be inaccurate or the risks Directors or divisional directors, depending upon thevalue and nature of thecontract.
associated with the tender may not Tenders with defined specific risks are reviewed by the Groups Risk ReviewCommittee.
If tenders are under-priced, contract losses and Current mitigations include the Group-wide commercial training programme for all front potential reputational damage will line staff, which is designed to ensure a consistent approach with respect to the result.
If tenders are over-priced, management of contract risks across the Group.
Funding A Group-wide initiative has increased the focus on cash forecasting andworking OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The Property and Residential divisions capital management, with regular reviewswith managing directors and finance require finance to be provided by the directors, identification of cash generating opportunities andimproved reporting Group and external sources.
Construction and Services divisions rely on Group bonding facilities.
Without Borrowing facilities have recently been renegotiated and extended.
The Group has strong, these, revenue and profit would reduce.
long-term relationships with the providers of its bonding lines and has an in-house team which monitors headroom and advises on bond terms and conditions.
Relevant strategic priorities: The Groups Investment Committee is responsible for approving capital investment andoptimising the allocation of capital.
The Property division utilises a number of joint ventures to manage risk and enhance returns.
Joint venture partners are carefully selected to mitigate operational risk within projects.
By entering joint ventures, the Groupcan ensure that the Property division is not over-exposed to any one sector, geographical location or individual property.
The Residential division works withhousing associations and is seeking to develop jointventure relationships, in each case to mitigate its funding risks.
The market The Group has: The Groups strategy depends on the level ofexpenditure within both the A wide regional network of offices across the UK, which is well integrated into local public and privatesectors.
Smaller communities, theclient base and the supply chain: markets will likely result in lower A high number of framework agreements and partnerships with Government, local revenue for the Group.
authorities and the privatesector: and An integrated offer, with Property typically peaking earlier in an economic cycle and Relevant strategic priorities: Services later, which providesanatural mitigation against the effects of a recession.
The Group also carries out monthly and quarterly reviews of its workload and forecasts its overhead levels as apercentage of future work in order to maintain an appropriate ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
There have been a number of market assessments of trading sensitivities during the year particularly before and after the EU Referendum vote.
The Group has undertaken contingency planning to consider and assess the associated market risk of the result of the EU Referendum vote.
29 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation 7.
Change The Groups change programmes are tightly controlled by appropriate project governance.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS The Group has recently grown significantly, principally through the Significant progress has been made during the year with respect to the integration of the acquisitions of May Gurney and legacy Mouchel businesses.
In particular, the operating models of the Kier and Mouchel Mouchel.
This growth has resulted businesses have, where appropriate, been integrated.
inanumber of areas of change within the Group.
Each of these areas needs There is a steering committee for both the ERP system and single finance shared services careful management.
centre projects, together with independent project assurance.
There have also been regular updates to the Board on progress throughout the year.
Two of the most significant change programmes are the implementation of During the year, the Board approved a new Code of Conduct, one of the aims of which is to OLD ICONS NEW ICONS the ERP system and the establishment promote a consistent set of behaviours to support the management of change throughout the of the single finance shared services Group as it continues to grow.
Unless carefully managed, these programmes risk diverting managements attention away from core operations, causing a loss of focus on key market opportunities, a loss of control of the existing business and an adverse effect on the Groups operational and financial performance.
Safety Detailed policies and procedures exist to mitigate such risks and are subject to review and The Groups activities are inherently monitoring by the operating businesses and SHE specialists.
Each business has a director complex and potentially hazardous and who is responsible for co-ordinating health and safety activities.
The SHE audit programme require the continuous monitoring and identifies common areas of non-compliance across the Group, helping to drive management of health, safety and improvements.
Compliance is monitored in a number of ways including audit, leadership environmental risks.
Failure to manage these risks The Groups behavioural change programme is designed to develop behaviours at couldresult ininjury to employees, supervisor and workforce level, while the Visible Leadership Programme is encouraging OLD ICONS NEW ICONS sub-contractors or members of the engagement by management with employees working on the Groups site.
public or damage to the environment.
This could also expose the Groupto significant potential liability, particularly OLD ICONS NEW ICONS in the light of new sentencing guidelines, and to reputational damage.
Relevant strategic priorities: 30 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report 145 Governance Report 4688 Financial Statements 89148 OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Strategic priorities: Operate a safe and Accelerate growth to Achieve top quartile Provide sector-leading Attract and retain Ensure the business is OLD ICONS NEW ICONS sustainable business be a top three player performance and customer experience, highly motivated, supported by investment inour chosen markets efficiency for clients and for high-performing teams in technology and their customers back-office systems OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Risk Mitigation 9.
Reputation With the increasing profile of the Group, the ability to monitor and measure the Groups The Groups ability to tender for new reputation through client and customer feedback is key.
business and its relationship with customers, supply chain partners, The steps taken by the Group to maintain, protect and enhance its reputation include OLD ICONS emploNEW ICONS yees and other stakeholders Group-wide customer satisfaction monitoring, maintaining relations with Government, depends in large part on the good effective leadership, community engagement and striving to operate a safe and reputation that it has established sustainable business.
andhowit is perceived by others.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS TheGroups growth targets may not In addition, the management of the Groups principal risks, as described in this section beachieved if its reputation is of the Annual Report, assists to maintain and protect its reputation.
Relevant strategic priorities: OLD ICONS NEW ICONS 10.
Property market The risk mitigation strategies include work-in-progress monitoring, carrying a robust Following the EU Referendum vote, forward order book in the Residential division and minimising exposure to the cyclical theGroup has identified the potential market by purchasing schemes with an appropriate lifecycle.
In addition, the Government OLD ICONS NEW ICONS for asignificant decline in the UK has put in place further controls since the last market downturn, such as the Mortgage property marketas a potential risk to Credit Directive and the Help to Buy scheme, which have assisted to mitigate the risks the Property andResidential divisions.
associated with the residential market.
If this decline occurred, then the financial performance of the Property On new developments, the business is careful to control speculative risk.
The Kier Property and Residential divisions would likely division operates a largely non-speculative approach to investments.
The Group has undertaken contingency planning to consider and assess the associated Relevant strategic priorities: market risk of the result of the EU Referendum vote.
Compliance The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory developments and conducts risk The Group is subject to a number of assessments to assess material changes to applicable law and regulation.
complex, demanding and evolving legal and regulatory requirements.
A breach The Group mitigates the compliance risk in a number of ways, including requiring that all of laws or regulations could lead to ofits subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and sub-contractors comply with applicable laws disputes, investigations or legal and regulations, updating itspolicies to ensure that it complies with changes in legislation proceedings, resulting in a disruption and regulation and providing training on relevant issues.
ofbusiness ranging from additional costs incurred on a project or in the The Group operates and encourages the use of a whistleblowing helpline, enabling OLD ICONS NEW ICONS overall management of the breach, employees to raiseconcerns.
tocivil and or criminal penalties as wellas reputational damage.
Examples of current or future changes in law and regulation which are considered as likely to be relevant to the Group include: Relevant strategic priorities: The Modern Slavery Act 2015: a working group was established during the year to address the requirements of the legislation please seefurther details on page 25 : COP21: our CR Leadership Group is taking steps to ensure compliance: and General Data Protection Regulation: steps are being considered to ensure compliance with the regulations, which come into force in 2018.
Related information: Read more Viability statement Page 48 31 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
