Strategic Report Risks Given the scale of our businesses, the Board of Directors recognises also added information relating to the movement in the level of risk that the nature, scope and potential impact of our business and exposure during the year.
We have considered the risk exposure in strategic risks are subject to constant change.
As such, the Board has the last year and whether the risk exposure is increasing, decreasing implemented the necessary framework to ensure that it has sufficient or remains unchanged.
visibility of the principal risks and the opportunity to regularly review During the year the Board has also considered the nature and level the adequacy and effectiveness of our mitigating controls and of risk that we are prepared to accept in order to deliver our business strategies.
The approach combines a top-down strategic view at strategies, and has reviewed and approved our internal statement of Company level and a bottom-up operational view of the risks at risk appetite.
This describes both the current and desired levels of Operating Company level.
acceptable risk, supported by high level qualitative risk statements, This year the Company has carried out a strategic review and ensuring that risks are proactively managed to the level agreed by prepared a plan for the next five years.
The Board has considered the Board.
the risks following the strategic review of the business.
Even with The Corporate Governance report on page 39 describes the systems the changes made to our plan, our risks remain unchanged, apart and processes through which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The risk relating to our investments failing to deliver has The Board considers that the principal risks to achieving its strategic been separated into two risks, reflecting the importance of the aims are set out below.
Unified IT platform in delivering the strategic initiatives.
We have Strategic Risks Unified and unique offer Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period Organising Kingfisher We are organising the business differently, becoming more of a single No Change.
At this stage of the as a more unified unified company rather than a collection of individual businesses.
The transformation our risk exposure has company with a new Leadership Team structure reflects the new organisational design.
not changed in the last year.
As we unified customer progress through the transformation As with all initiatives undertaken, the Leadership Team monitors offer rather than a the level of risk we are exposed to the programme and benefits realisation on a regular basis, ensuring collection of individual will increase as larger parts of our sufficient resources are available to deliver the requirements.
A Business businesses fails to structure and supply chain are Transformation function has been created to coordinate and monitor deliver the anticipated impacted.
KPIs and key milestones have been identified and tracking benefits area we are ensuring we have put in place.
plans in place to mitigate the The Board also monitors progress via regular updates from the Business increasing risk.
Transformation function and the leaders of the strategic initiatives.
We will continue to ensure that changes are only implemented once we have completed an appropriate level of planning and testing, relative to the risk.
In addition, we ensure that the assumptions and insight that support the introduction of new products or services will deliver the benefits to both our customers and our shareholders prior to their introduction.
Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period We fail to deliver We aim to offer customers a product range which is differentiated from No Change.
We believe our risk the benefits of a that of our competitors through innovation and exclusivity.
We are creating exposure is currently stable given more unified and a complete, unified, unique and leading offer.
In doing so we are developing the stage of the project.
As we unique offer and a new organisational design and a new set of accountabilities.
We have: progress and the level of Cost standardised of Goods Sold COGS impacted project teams to identify the optimum opportunities for presenting the activities and increases this may change.
same products in our stores across Europe in six leading ranges with processes bathroom and outdoor being focused upon first: strong project management processes in place, including capturing lessons learned for continuous improvement: initiatives to take the best practice and best product from across the Company: validation and governance processes in place for business case approvals of range and procurement decisions, including approvals of Operating Company-based exceptions: clearly defined range and purchasing standards, principles and methodology with guidance and support from expert leads: performance of the ranges and brands is tracked and strategies updated accordingly: and a strong sourcing network which is focused on securing Company buying opportunities.
Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period A lack of perceived Significant investment in pricing to reinforce and communicate our No Change.
This continues to be price competitiveness, value credentials.
a key area of focus for us and we particularly when believe we are taking the necessary This is supported by: compared to more steps to stabilise our risk exposure.
the use of improved customer insight and analytical tools to optimise discount based or product ranging and pricing strategies: and online competitors, more targeted use of online and mass media tools to communicate and would affect our ability reinforce price perception for example, price comparison websites, such to maintain or grow as www.
com 31 Risks continued Unified and unique offer continued Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period We fail to deliver our Our commitment to sustainability remains one of Kingfishers key values No Change.
The risk exposure in this sustainability targets and across the organisation we continue to ensure that we engage with and area may increase as we develop our due to not integrating take advice from our expert partners BioRegional and Forum for the Future.
unified offer and we will be more reliant our sustainability plan We have the following steps in place to manage and monitor this risk: on sustainability being integrated in into the day-to-day the operations.
as part of our business planning process we set and annually review operations of the sustainability plans for each business: business monthly Board reports monitor the progress of our largest Operating Companies in achieving their sustainability targets: data is reported annually to the Company and signed off by the local boards: within each business responsibility has been assigned to a team or individual for the delivery of the sustainability targets: meetings of the sustainability teams are held twice a year to exchange best practice and progress common initiatives: and we have appointed a Sustainability Director for Offer and Supply Chain to develop specific delivery plans for implementing the Companys sustainability targets and policies relating to products and supply chain.
Digital, Retail operations, Unified and unique offer Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period We fail to create a We continue to invest in our omnichannel strategy and technologies, and No Change.
We are exposed to risk in culture of innovation take learnings from our businesses that have well developed models e. g. this area, particularly in failing to keep in our offer, format Screwfix.
We are developing a platform which will be rolled out across the pace within the digital area.
However, and digital channels Company to offer alternative channels for customers.
Our investment in the we feel the steps we have taken this to stimulate consumer IT strategy programme will provide systems and capabilities to respond to year have ensured that we are better spend and deliver the changing ways that customers shop.
Brilliant Basics are being developed positioned to fulfil our digital ambitions.
desired sales growth for each step of the customer journey.
This is managed and monitored by our Digital Forum.
We are enhancing the skills and experience in the Digital area to deliver the strategy.
We continue to invest in our existing store portfolio whilst seeking to minimise its cost base and optimise sales densities.
Where there are opportunities to expand and innovate we will do so using a combination of existing and new formats.
We will pursue low risk market entry and new flexible store format strategies based on the utilisation of current skills and capabilities available within the Company.
Operational efficiency Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period Our investments fail We continually review and assess opportunities for expansion, in terms Increasing.
We are investing significant of both online and bricks and mortar retail, across all of the territories to deliver value to capital expenditure over the first three the Company and regions in which we operate.
This is therefore an area of increased focus We are investing in our financial and operational systems to develop for us to ensure we take the steps a Company-wide IT solution.
The Unified IT platform is supported and to deliver value.
monitored via the programme team and programme office.
Each Operating Company is represented and the idea is to standardise as far as possible.
Regular updates are given to the Leadership Team and all decisions are approved in line with our investment methodology.
Country and market entry strategies are based on the application of a proven operating model and supported by the part of the business with the most relevant experience, capabilities and capacity to successfully lead a market entry strategy.
We also ensure that any proposed acquisition or market entry strategy is subject to an appropriate level of challenge and due diligence from both the Leadership Team and specialist Company functions which may include Tax, Treasury, Legal, Finance and Risk and Internal Audit.
This due diligence is also supported by external and independent advisers when necessary.
Following an acquisition, integration plans are prepared and monitored at Operating Company and Company levels.
Existing management teams are supplemented with Company resources to monitor and assist with the integration.
All investments are evaluated and monitored via our post investment review methodology in place across the business.
32 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 32 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Operational efficiency continued Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period Our Unified IT The key aims of the Unified IT platform are to meet changing customer No Change.
Whilst we have successfully platform programme needs, make it easier for stores to serve customers, establish unified and completed our pilot and roll-out has fails to deliver the integrated processes and systems across the Company and build a flexible started, and is progressing to plan, requirements in line and future proof systems architecture.
The Unified IT platform will underpin we still have the majority of the with the plan needed the delivery of the other strategic pillars.
It represents a significant change implementation to deliver across to enable and support to the business.
To ensure this change is managed alongside the our estate, therefore we feel that the delivery of the interdependencies with the other projects, the programme is the risk remains unchanged.
Company strategy monitored via the Transformation reporting process.
Within the programme: a rigorous change control procedure is in place with the Leadership Team having final approval on all functional changes: an extensive pilot has been completed, testing the end-to-end system and circa 80-90% of the overall functionality: the roll-out plan avoids a big bang implementation approach, instead gradual increments are implemented over a short period of time, ensuring dual running kept to a minimum and allowing any issues to be identified and resolved before moving on: and the approach to implementation and business change has been established by the first Operating Company in the roll-out and is the foundation for all other roll-outs.
In order to support the Company strategy it is essential that the solution takes advantage of emerging technologies and trends.
Applications are being provided which provide flexibility to areas where innovative ideas are most likely, tools are typically agnostic and therefore can be interchanged in the event this is required.
The digital IT team is integrated within the overall IT function with common release management and operations in place.
Maintaining a team with the necessary skills, expertise and knowledge is important to maintain the pace and to mitigate risk of roll-out.
We have used our existing partners to support our needs in some areas.
We have maintained a central team who established the template and we supplement resources with local roll-out teams.
The Leadership Team and the Board also receives regular updates to monitor progress.
Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period We fail to identify and Ensuring we operate efficiently and reduce our costs is a key area of focus No Change.
Wave 1 is progressing well maximise potential for us.
As part of our five-year planning process each business reviews its and therefore our risk exposure cost reductions and cost base and identifies potential savings which are then monitored as in this area has remained stable.
efficiency savings part of the budgeting and forecasting processes.
As part of our investment in IT we have identified a number of benefits and benchmarked these externally.
One of our strategic pillars is optimising our operational efficiency which is driven by our goods not for resale GNFR opportunity.
A project team is in place to review categories of spend across the Company and not only identify cost savings but also opportunities to work in a more effective way.
The project teams are supported by a Steering Group whose responsibilities include monitoring plans, milestones and the financial impact for each category.
New category solutions, including process changes, are reviewed in detail with operational experts, and where appropriate on a store-by-store basis.
All aspects are appropriately considered before decisions are made.
com 33 Risks continued People Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period We do not make the Across our businesses we are developing our talent and building No Change.
We now have a clear necessary investment our leadership capacity.
Specific examples of this include: understanding of the scale of the in our people to change and plans in place to deliver The Chief People Officer is leading the work to improve our capabilities, ensure that we a more unified Company.
ensuring we have effective KPIs and relevant reward structures.
We are have the appropriate aligning reward structures across the Company.
capacity, skills and We continue to invest in development activities for our store-based experience colleagues and in how we support and recognise the role of our customer advisers across the organisation.
We are creating a strong pipeline of developing talent through structured programmes including graduate and high potential schemes, for example the LEAD programme for the development of senior leaders.
Operational risks Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period Uncertainty The spread of countries within which the Company operates aids in Increasing.
There are a number surrounding the the mitigation of this risk.
However, with continuing market volatility and of uncertainties relating to the resilience of the uncertainty across all of the economies in which we operate, particularly UKs potential exit from the EU and global economy and within the Eurozone, we continue to monitor potential exposures and risks heightened geopolitical tensions increased geopolitical and provide effective risk management solutions to both our businesses within some of our markets.
volatility may impact and our strategic suppliers.
These include: both consumer the provision of supply chain finance programmes to support suppliers: confidence and the support from a strong portfolio of international banking partners that long-term sustainability provide flexibility, access to funding and reliable local retail cash and and capabilities of our card payment processing services: supplier base diversification of cash holdings across a number of financial institutions with the strongest short-term credit rating: an appropriate and prudent mix of hedging policies, cash deposits and debt financing to minimise the impact of foreign exchange currency volatility on the Company: the geopolitical drivers for uncertainty and volatility in the Eurozone are being monitored continuously, such that if risks escalate, measures are implemented to ensure there is sufficient and co-ordinated contingency planning: a cross-functional steering group established to monitor developments in Russia, consider business continuity action and undertake scenario planning: and active monitoring of the Brexit situation via a cross-functional team consisting of our Government Affairs, Treasury and Tax teams.
Work has begun to consider the implications of Brexit, including presenting potential implications of this to the Board.
Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period We fail to maintain With 74,000 employees and millions of customers visiting our stores No Change.
Our Safety Network a safe environment each week, robust health and safety systems are a priority.
The Board is is embedded in the business and is for our customers and committed to creating and sustaining a safe environment for both our staff working with the Operating Companies store colleagues which and customers and regularly reviews and challenges health and safety to ensure our minimum standards are results in a major performance, standards and targets across our businesses.
maintained during the transformation incident or fatality that and adopted in new areas as needed.
As regulatory requirements vary from country to country, each Operating is directly attributable Company is required to designate a director with specific responsibility for to a failure in our health and safety.
This person is then responsible for ensuring that a written health and safety health and safety policy is communicated, that appropriate health and safety management systems arrangements are in place to protect our employees and customers and that we comply with local regulatory requirements.
These individuals are supported by Health & Safety managers who are all members of our Safety Network.
We also have Company-wide health and safety minimum standards in place to ensure consistent compliance across the Company.
The Company Health & Safety Committee sets the policy and standards for the Company.
Compliance is monitored across our businesses through a programme of self-certification and health and safety audits, with issues reported through local Audit Committees and escalated to the Leadership Team, Audit Committee or Board where necessary.
34 Kingfisher Annual Report 2015 16 34 Kingsher Annual Report 2015 16 Strategic Report Operational risks continued Principal risk How we manage and monitor the risk Movement in the period Kingfishers Both employees and suppliers working for or with Kingfisher must conduct No Change.
Going forward some of our reputation and brand themselves according to our minimum standards of ethics and behaviours strategic initiatives may increase our are affected by a as defined by our Code of Conduct.
Responsibility for compliance with our exposure to regulatory and legislative major environmental Code of Conduct rests with each Operating Company Chief Executive and requirements.
However, we are putting or ethical failure, a appropriate resources are available to our businesses to ensure that both steps in place to mitigate this.
significant corporate staff and suppliers are aware of and comply with the Code, and our fraud or material businesses can manage the legislative or regulatory challenges non-compliance presented by their respective jurisdictions.
with legislative We have policies and procedures in place to support each of the or regulatory environmental, ethical, fraud, legislative and regulatory areas.
Experts in requirements resulting each field monitor and manage the risk in their respective areas at a local in punitive or custodial level and are supported by Company functions.
For any new requirements procedures introduced project teams are put in place to identify the additional steps needed and to ensure these are adopted across the Company.
The Audit Committee and the Board receive information on any changes in this area and monitor any issues which occur.
Viability statement Going concern In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate The directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure commitments, Governance Code, the Directors have considered the prospects of expected cash flows and borrowing facilities, they have a reasonable the Company over a period longer than the 12 months required by expectation that Kingfisher plc and the Kingfisher group of companies the going concern provision.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The Board has concluded that the period for this review should these financial statements.
Further details of the Companys liquidity be three years in line with the usual business planning period.
are available in the Financial Review on page 25.
However, for this year, as the Company has carried out a strategic review covering five years, our viability assessment has been carried out over a five year period to January 2021.
By selecting the viability review period as five years in line with the strategic planning process Strategic Report Approval the Board has been able to review sufficient information to form a The Strategic Report is approved for and on behalf of the Board by: reasonable expectation as to the Companys longer-term viability.
Vronique Laury The five year plan produced as part of the strategic review provides consolidated plans at both the Company and Operating Company Chief Executive Officer level.
The plans also consider the Companys cash flows, committed 23 March 2016 funding and liquidity positions, forecast future funding and key financial metrics.
Sensitivity analysis of the main assumptions underlying the plans was also carried out.
The plan was approved by the Board and year one provides the basis for setting the financial budgets and KPIs that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance during the year.
In addition, as in previous years, the Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business, including those that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out on pages 31 to 35.
Scenarios have been developed to test the Companys resilience to the occurrence of these risks.
Stress testing has also been performed and taken into consideration for the assessment.
As a result of the steps taken above the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five year period of the assessment.
