STRATEGIC REPORT Simon Gadd reviews the risk landscape And to what degree is your risk Solvency II, itself, remains profile impacted by the external fundamentally a new regime and environment?
we expect further development as regulatory understanding of its Obviously factors like financial practical operation evolves.
market volatility and the low interest rate environment can have an impact, Can you elaborate on some but a core element of our risk of the dynamics underpinning management framework is scenario the capital requirements under planning, and this ensured for example Solvency II?
that we were well prepared for a range Our internal model seeks to ensure of financial market conditions in the run that we hold sufficient capital reserves up to and post the EU referendum.
to survive our assessment of a worse How different are the risks in case 1-in-200 year event.
For example, SIMON GADD your international markets?
the impact of scenarios similar to the GROUP CHIEF RISK Great Depression, the recent financial The international markets we OFFICER crisis or an epidemic like the Spanish have entered are those in which we Flu outbreak in 19191920.
The capital have a proven track record in the requirement is in addition to our best UK, and for which we have built up estimate of the reserves that we need significant knowledge of the risks.
to hold to meet anticipated obligations But there will always be some Simon Gadd was appointed Group to customers and other liabilities.
Alongside the group Chief Risk Officer in 2013.
He leads Solvency II rules also require us to recruiting local expertise, a key role a team of 150 risk professionals who hold a risk margin.
This creates more of my team is to provide objective provide our businesses with expert inherent volatility to be managed review and challenge to ensure advice and guidance on risk and on the Solvency II balance sheet.
were cognisant of these risk factors.
capital management, alongside Finally, what are the key risks ensuring risk taking remains The Solvency II regime has on your radar for 2017?
now been in place for over a year.
Political events look set to dominate Simon, can you update us on the 2017, with potential for shocks to The main change for Legal & General groups risk profile?
financial markets as they seek to under Solvency II has been the evaluate the impacts for global trade 2016 has seen continued growth introduction of risk adjusted measures and growth.
Central bank responses across our businesses, particularly in to determine regulatory capital to changing economic indicators and pensions risk transfer and lifetime requirements, which the group is the reactions of financial markets will mortgages, and we have made further permitted to calculate using its own also be a key area to watch.
Cyber investments in the UKs infrastructure.
risk based capital model, known as an crime also continues to be a risk for The groups core risk profile, however, internal model.
We have been using the financial services as a whole, and continues to reflect those risks for risk based capital for many years as the regulatory change agenda is set which we have a deep understanding a tool in running our businesses, and to continue.
including annuitant longevity and credit we have incorporated new Solvency II portfolio management.
derived measures in our frameworks for the allocation of capital amongst our businesses, setting our risk appetite and evaluating large transactions.
40 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT | RISK MANAGEMENT Our business is to manage risks We summarise below our core risk exposures and our risk management approach.
Our risk landscape Our risk-based capital model FINDING WHAT YOU NEED We are exposed to longevity, mortality, We assess on an ongoing basis the morbidity and household insurance capital that we need to hold above Detailed information can be found risks transferred to us by customers of our liabilities to meet the groups in our risk supplement.
com our annuities, protection and general strategic objectives and ensure investors reporting-centre insurance businesses: Investment continued solvency.
In prior years within this section, we have risks, from holding portfolios of assets Our model seeks to measure by included descriptions of the risks we face, to meet our obligations to our business line and risk type, the how our risk management framework customers and to deliver returns to operates, as well as a narrative description capital we assess as being required of our appetite in relation to our main risk shareholders: and operational risks to survive a worse case 1-in-200 year areas.
As our risk management processes in respect of our business processes event, taking account of correlations and policies are well established, the and IT systems, as well as broader reality is that these descriptions do not between risks.
Pages 42 and 43 significantly change from year to year.
regulatory and legislative risks that can provide further details our model Accordingly, we have created a Risk arise in the environments in which we and how we integrate it with our management supplement that contains operate.
Where we directly engage in all of these narrative descriptions, which risk management framework.
can be found within our Corporate house building, we are also exposed Reporting Centre.
Our risk appetite to construction risk.
We illustrate the We have clearly defined quantitative nature of insurance risks on page 42. and qualitative expressions for the types of risk that were prepared Our risk management to be exposed to in pursuit of our framework business strategy, the minimum capital Centred on our risk appetite, our risk coverage that we wish to maintain management framework comprising and the degree of volatility of earnings formal risk policies: risk assessment that we will seek to avoid.
Further and scenario planning processes: information is provided on page 42. defined reporting procedures: and Our principal risks and risk oversight activities, is designed uncertainties to enable us to select those risks that An assessment of principal risks and can give us sustainable returns and uncertainties along with the associated to closely manage those risks that trends and outlooks, and the steps are unrewarded and to optimise we take in mitigation is on pages 44 the capital that we hold so that we and 45. can deliver our strategy.
We expand A more detailed review of the groups on our approach to scenario planning inherent risk exposures and high level on page 42. control processes are set out at notes 8 and 18 of the financial statements.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 41 STRATEGIC REPORT | RISK MANAGEMENT Risk appetite Planning for Uncertainty Whilst were living longer, our Our risk appetite sets the ranges and While the nature of our core risks are experience of annuitant mortality is limits of acceptable risk taking for the relatively constant, external factors performing well relative to pricing, and group as a whole.
We express our particularly those impacting financial as rates of mortality improvement overall attitude to risk using the markets can change the quantum of move slowly, we have time to respond following statements and measures.
When adverse events arise, to emerging trends.
the speed and timing can often leave Strategy: We manage a diversified Our risk based capital requirement little time to respond.
Therefore an portfolio in which we accept risk in the for longevity effectively reflects our important element of the groups normal course of business and aim to assessment of the additional capital approach to risk management is deliver sustainable returns on risk based that we may need should our scenario analysis, where we assess capital in excess of cost of capital.
assumptions for future life expectancy the possible range of outcomes from Minimum return on equity over the prove to be materially incorrect.
uncertain future events and develop planning cycle.
Under Solvency II, the risk margin proactive actions that we may take to requirements mean that longevity can Strategy: We have an appetite for risks ensure we continue to operate within be unattractive to add new risk to our we understand and are rewarded for, our risk appetite.
Currently, however, we and which are consistent with delivery Ahead of the UK referendum on retain US longevity risk as it diversifies of our strategic objectives.
membership of the EU we recognised well against US mortality risk and back Maximum economic capital to be the uncertainty to the outcome would book UK longevity risk.
deployed over the planning cycle.
increase investment market volatility, Our exposure to mortality and morbidity Capital: We aim to maintain an trigger potential changes in interest risk, the risk of premature death or appropriate buffer of capital resources rates and could lead to significant serious illness of our policyholders over the minimum regulatory and movements in currency markets.
We mostly arises in our UK Workplace economic capital requirements.
analysed the relationships between Protection and US Term Insurance Minimum statutory and economic these risk factors, how our business businesses, where the risks were capital coverage ratios.
could be impacted and the potential exposed to are epidemic and poor Earnings: We have a low appetite implications for our earnings and underwriting.
We seek to reinsure for volatility of earnings: in particular capital requirements.
We also identified our catastrophe risks and closely volatility arising from risks where the management actions that we manage our underwriting processes Legal & General has more exposure could take, and as the referendum to minimise the risk of error.
Our UK than the wider market.
approached, we selectively hedged Retail Protection business is extensively Maximum acceptable variance in equity and currency positions to control reinsured, such that we retain low earnings compared to plan.
levels of exposure to mortality and Customer: We treat our customers Whilst scenario analysis can never morbidity risks on our balance sheet.
with integrity and act in a manner completely remove uncertainty, having Own Risk and Solvency that protects or enhances the a clear plan of action that may be Assessment ORSA group franchise.
taken as a scenario evolves, ensures Our ORSA process is an ongoing Customer and reputation the group is well positioned to respond analysis of the groups risk profile and risk dashboard.
to emerging threats and can take the sufficiency of capital resources Liquidity: We expect to be able to advantage of any market dislocations to sustain our business strategy over meet our payment and collateral that may arise.
The process, which obligations under extreme, but Managing Insurance Risks covers the whole group considers how plausible, liquidity scenarios.
The pricing of long-term life insurance the risks to which we are exposed Minimum liquidity coverage ratio.
business requires assumptions to may evolve over the planning cycle: the The metrics we use to assess be made for future trends in the life impacts of a range of more extreme acceptable risk taking include expectancy and general health of those stresses and scenarios on those risks: economic and Solvency II measures that we insure, and assessing the and the consequential impacts on the of capital usage, return on capital, lives that we underwrite relative to groups solvency position.
The ORSA and surplus emerging.
We also make process is integrated into our business Further information on our appetite assumptions on how long business will risk and capital management activities for specific risks can be found in the be retained.
We are inherently exposed and aligned with the strategic planning Risk management supplement: to the risk that actual experience may process to inform forward looking www.
com diverge to our assumptions.
As such, it is a reporting-centre supplements key business management tool In our pension risk transfer businesses for the group.
we are exposed to longevity risk, the risk that those that we insure live longer than we anticipate.
42 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 MANAGING RISKS STRATEGIC REPORT | RISK MANAGEMENT Capital Management Group Board viability statement approved in January 2017 which Our risk-based capital model seeks The group strategy is developed, and resulted in the detailed business plan to provide a quantitative assessment economic decisions are made, based for 2017 through to 2021. of the groups risk exposures.
It forms on long term expected assumptions.
The business plan includes a number part of the suite of tools that we use This reflects the groups business of assumptions in line with the overall to evaluate our strategic plans, set model which combines managing group strategy including: risk appetite, allocate capital and credit, longevity and mortality risks Growth in the international evaluate product pricing.
We also over long term relationships.
The asset management and use our capital model to assess group is subject to external regulation insurance businesses significant transactions, including large including the Prudential Regulatory Growth in the investment Regime for Insurers which requires pension risk transfer deals.
The key in real assets output from our capital model is the the group to manage and monitor generation of capital requirements.
these longer term risks to ensure Continued optimisation of capital that it can continue to meet its strategies for Solvency II We calibrate our model to a 99.5% value at risk confidence level over one policyholder obligations.
Completion of the fide-cluttering year, equivalent to ensuring that we Against this background, the Directors of the non-core activities hold sufficient capital to survive our have made an assessment of the The Board receives regular updates assessment of a worse case 1-in-200 viability of the company in accordance from the business units and the risk year event.
In terms of capital with the provisions of the Combined committee in the normal course of requirement, credit and insurance Code with reference to the current business to perform ongoing longevity risks remain our most position and the potential impact of monitoring of performance across all significant risks.
Market risk, which the principal risks identified, the metrics and to consider changes in includes equity, property and interest execution of the groups strategy, macroeconmic trends or strategy.
rate risks, are also more material the risk appetite of the board and Whilst the business plan represents risks for which we hold capital.
the processes and controls in place the Boards best estimate of the to mitigate the principal risks and groups future prospects, stress and uncertainties as detailed in this scenario testing is carried out on the Strategic Report.
plan as part of the groups Own Risk This assessment covers a three year and Solvency Assessment ORSA timeframe which is underpinned by the considering the potential impact of detailed business plan for 2017-2019 aspects of the principal risks facing which includes all of the groups key the business.
These stresses included metrics across performance, capital, a prolonged period of weak global solvency and liquidity.
The Directors economic growth, deflation, disorderly have no reason to believe that the defaults in geographic regions and group will not be viable over a longer other geopolitical events.
The results of Credit risk period.
Given the inherent uncertainty these stresses showed that the group Market risk which increases as longer timeframes would be able to withstand the impact, Insurance risk are considered, the Directors consider over the forecast period, by making Operational risk three years to be an appropriate adjustments in its operating activity Miscellaneous timeframe upon which they can report in the normal course of business.
with a reasonable degree of confidence.
Based upon this assessment the The business plan, which is Directors confirm that they have a underpinned by the groups strategy reasonable expectation that the group and reflects the principal risks detailed will continue in operation and meet its on pages 44 and 45 respectively, is liabilities, as they fall due, over the next built from the ground up on a divisional three years.
The directors use the plan to assess the prospects of the group through the strategic planning process.
The strategic planning process includes an annual review of the ongoing plan with full Board participation as part of the Group Board Strategy Day.
Part of the Boards role is to consider whether the plan continues to be reflective of changes in macroeconomic trends.
The latest annual review process was MANAGING RISKS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 43
