STRATEGIC REPORT | RISK MANAGEMENT Principal risks and uncertainties The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks are set out below including details of how they have been managed or mitigated.
Further details of the groups inherent risk exposures are set out at notes 8 and 18 ofthe financial statements.
Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Reserves and our assessment of capital We regularly appraise the assumptions We undertake significant analysis of the requirements may require revision as a result of underpinning the business that we write.
variables associated with writing long-term changes in experience, regulation or legislation.
Certain extreme events, however, could insurance business to ensure that a The writing of long-term insurance business require us to adjust our reserves.
For suitable premium is charged for the risks requires the setting of assumptions for longexample in our annuities business, while we take on, and that reserves continue term trends in factors such as mortality, lapse recent trend data suggests the rate of to remain appropriate for factors including rates, valuation interest rates, expenses and longevity improvement may be slowing, mortality, lapse rates, valuation interest credit defaults.
Actual experience may require were inherently exposed to the risk that rates, expenses and credit defaults.
recalibration of these assumptions impacting a dramatic advance in medical science We remain focused on developing a profitability.
Management estimates are also beyond that anticipated leads to an comprehensive understanding of longevity required in the derivation of Solvency II capital unexpected change in life expectancy.
science and continue to evolve and develop metrics.
These include modelling simplifications This could require adjustment to reserves our underwriting capabilities for our to reflect that it is not possible to perfectly as improvements in mortality emerged.
Our use of reinsurance model the external environment, with In our protection businesses, the also acts to reduce the impacts of adjustment necessitated where new data emergence of new factors with potential significant variations in life expectancy and emerges.
Forced changes in reserves can also to cause widespread mortality morbidity mortality.
The sensitivities of our business arise from regulatory or legislative intervention or significant policy lapse rates may to selected scenarios are set out on page impacting capital requirements and profitability.
similarly require us to re-evaluate reserves.
Investment market performance and conditions 2016 has seen volatility in financial markets We model our business plans across a in the broader economy may adversely impact as they have responded to uncertainties in broad range of economic scenarios and take earnings, profitability or surplus capital.
the global economy and political events, account of alternative economic outlooks The performance and liquidity of investment such as the UK referendum on membership within our overall business strategy.
Our markets, interest rate movements and inflation of the EU.
For Legal & General the vote to ORSA process plays an integral part in our impact the value of investments we hold in leave has little direct impact on trading, as business planning ensuring a clear link shareholders funds and those to meet the our customer base is located very largely between capital sufficiency and the nature obligations from insurance business, with the in the UK, the US and Asia.
It is, however, of risks to which we may be exposed.
As set movement in certain investments directly probable that a potentially lengthy period out within the Strategic Report on pages 10 impacting profitability.
Interest rate movements of negotiation and an uncertain outcome to 25, we have sought to ensure focus upon and inflation can also change the value of our will create ongoing uncertainty for financial those market segments that we expect to obligations.
We use a range of techniques to markets and the broader UK economy in be resilient in projected conditions.
For manage mismatches between assets and which we operate: with potential for asset example, investing in real assets provides liabilities.
However, loss can still arise from price shifts should uncertainty lead markets both enhanced returns to our slow money adverse markets.
Interest rate expectations to reappraise their value.
Potential also and reduces exposure to the volatilities of leading to falls in the risk free yield curve can also exists for renewed financial stress in Europe traded investments.
We cannot, however, create a greater degree of inherent volatility to be driven by political events and residual completely eliminate risk.
Sensitivities to managed in the Solvency II balance sheet, than weaknesses in the Euro currency banking interest rates, exposure to worldwide equity the underlying economic position would dictate, systems.
Broader geo-political events also markets and currencies are set out on page potentially impacting capital requirements and have potential to cause shocks to financial 164, page 148 and page 151, respectively.
In addition, significant falls in markets, with stressed conditions having investment values can reduce fee income to potential to create illiquidity in bond our investment management business.
markets exaggerating the impacts of any significant market correction.
In dealing with issuers of debt and other types A material deterioration in economic We actively manage our exposure to default of counterparty the group is exposed to the risk conditions inherently increases potential risks within our bond portfolios, setting of financial loss.
for a widening in credit spreads as financial selection criteria and exposure limits, and A systemic default event within the corporate markets price for increased uncertainty, using the capabilities of LGIMs global credit sector, or a major sovereign debt event, which in turn may impact our Solvency II team to ensure the risks are effectively could result in dislocation of bond markets, balance sheet surplus.
Current factors that controlled, and if appropriate trade out significantly widening credit spreads and in may trigger a reassessment include the to improve credit quality.
We also seek to extreme scenarios trigger defaults impacting changing global economic outlook with closely manage risks to our Solvency II the value of bond portfolios.
We are also uncertainties following the UK referendum balance sheet through monitoring factors exposed to banking, money market and on EU membership and other political that could give rise to a heightened level reinsurance counterparties, and settlement, events potentially exacerbating down side of default risk.
However, we can never custody and other bespoke business services, risks: a renewed banking crisis within the completely eliminate default risks a failure of which could expose us to both Euro zone area: and default on debt linked or their impacts to our Solvency II balance financial loss and operational disruption of to emerging markets.
sheet, although we seek to hold a strong our business processes.
Under Solvency II, balance sheet that we believe to be prudent a widespread widening of credit spreads and for a range of adverse scenarios.
downgrades can also result in a reduction in our Solvency II balance sheet surplus, despite already setting aside significant capital for credit risk.
44 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT | RISK MANAGEMENT Risks and uncertainties Trend and outlook Mitigation Changes in regulation or legislation may There remains a significant regulatory We are supportive of regulation in the have a detrimental effect on our strategy.
change agenda, both from the EU and from markets in which we operate where it Legislation and government fiscal policy within the UK.
Current changes in EU driven ensures trust and confidence and can be influence our product design, the period of regulation include GDPR, UCITS V, MIFID II a positive force on business.
We seek to retention of products and required reserves for and PRIIPS.
While over the longer term, the actively participate with government and future liabilities.
Regulation defines the overall UK exit from the EU will potentially lead to regulatory bodies in the UK and Europe to framework for the design, marketing, taxation a re-writing of some legislation, until the assist in the evaluation of change so as to and distribution of our products: and the UK formally leaves and the UK Government develop outcomes that meet the needs prudential capital that we hold.
Significant legislates otherwise, EU derived legislation of all stakeholders.
Internally, we evaluate changes in legislation or regulation may will remain in force.
There is also the risk change as part of our formal risk increase our cost base, reduce our future that EU exit negotiation proposals have assessment processes, with material revenues and impact profitability or require unintended consequences for the operation matters being considered at the Group us to hold more capital.
The prominence of the of the UK financial services sector.
There Risk Committee and the Group Board.
risk increases where change is implemented also continues to be significant change in Our internal control framework seeks to without prior engagement with the sector.
the tax environment including the global ensure ongoing compliance with relevant The nature of long-term business can also implementation of the OECD BEPS legislation and regulation.
We cannot, result in some changes in regulation, and the recommendations and the prospect of however, completely eliminate the risks that re-interpretation of regulation over time, having significant US tax reform.
With regard to controls may fail or that historic accepted a retrospective effect on our in-force books of UK regulation, alongside the PRA ensuring practices may be reappraised by regulators, business, impacting future cash generation.
the effective operation of Solvency II, the resulting in sanction against the group.
FCA continues to focus on its approach to consumer regulation, with the inherent risk that thematic reviews of historic industry practices lead to unanticipated additional costs.
New entrants may disrupt the landscape There is already strong competition in all We are executing a digital strategy, using of the markets in which we operate.
our markets, and although we have had platforms that allow for growth and high As has been seen in other business sectors, considerable past success at building scale scale.
Alongside our direct insurance it is possible that alternative digitally enabled to offer low cost products, we recognise that business that enable customers to purchase providers of financial service products emerge markets remain attractive to new entrants.
our protection products on-line, we with lower cost business models or innovative We are also cognisant of the potential continue to enhance our online capabilities service propositions and capital structures for entry by scale overseas competitors for auto-enrolment, investment platforms disrupting the current competitive landscape.
who may have lower return on capital and individual retirement products requirements and be unconstrained by ensuring focus on customer engagement Solvency II.
A material failure in our business processes or Our plans for growth and the digitalisation Our risk governance model seeks to ensure IT security may result in unanticipated financial of our businesses, together with the that business management are actively loss or reputation damage.
regulatory change agenda, inherently engaged in maintaining an appropriate We have constructed our framework of internal increase the profile of operational risks control environment, supported by risk controls to minimise the risk of unanticipated across our businesses.
We continue to functions led by the Group Chief Risk financial loss or damage to our reputation.
invest in our system capabilities and Officer, with independent assurance from However, no system of internal control can business processes to ensure that we Group Internal Audit.
The work of the Group completely eliminate the risk of error, financial meet the expectations of our customers: Audit Committee in the review of the loss, fraudulent actions or reputational damage.
comply with regulatory, legal and financial internal control system is set out on page We are also inherently exposed to the risk that reporting requirements: and mitigate 64.
We recognise however, that residual risk third parties may seek to disrupt our online the risks of loss or reputational damage will always remain and have designed our business operations, steal customer data or from operational risk events and external risk governance framework to ensure that perpetrate acts of fraud using digital media.
when adverse events occur we can deploy appropriate responses.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 45 GOVERNANCE 46 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 GOVERNANCE Governance New Horizons day-care centre in Hn Goleg, Barry they learnt to Contents Our commitment to inclusion and appreciate the realities that people Board of Directors 48 diversity means that we seek to with physical disabilities face on a improve how we help vulnerable daily basis.
One service user in the Letter from the Chairman 50 customers.
day centre said: We felt needed in Governance report 52 a way.
When Legal & General came Nominations Committee report 58 Our customer services team in in and gave us this voice it was Audit Committee report 61 Cardiff wanted to offer better really empowering.
service to vulnerable customers Group Risk Committee report 66 by understanding their needs and Directors report on remuneration 68 preferences.
By working with New Horizons, a day-care centre WATCH THE VIDEO People from New Horizons Day Centre talk about their experiences.
com fastread2016 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 47
