Risk management Risk management continued EMERGING RISKS The Group considers the following to be risks that have the potential to increase in significance and affect the performance of the Group.
These risks are considered alongside the Groups operating plan.
Risk Key mitigating actions Regulatory and legal: The industry continues to witness increased We continue to embed the strategic conduct agenda across all areas government and regulatory intervention in the financial sector with of the Group ensuring that the customer is at the heart of our business increasing regulatory rules and laws from both the UK and overseas planning, whilst working closely with regulatory authorities and industry affecting the Groups operation.
bodies to ensure that the Group canidentify and respond to the evolving regulatory and legal landscape.
Programmes in place to deliver regulatory and legal change requirements.
Macroeconomic headwinds and political uncertainties: Political Internal contingency plans recalibrated and regularly reviewed uncertainties over the UKs relationship with EU Countries remains with forpotential strategic, operational and reputational impacts.
US election outcomes and European elections adding to a globally Engagement with politicians, officials, media, trade and other uncertain political and macroeconomic outlook.
bodiestoreassure our commitment to Helping Britain Prosper.
Wide array of risks considered in setting strategic plans.
Capital and Liquidity is reviewed regularly through committees, ensuring compliance with risk appetite regulatory requirements.
IT resilience and cyber: Increasing digitisation places greater reliance Continued delivery of cyber control framework and investment on the provision of resilient and secure services to customers.
increases in the volume of cyber-attacks could disrupt service for Operational Resilience activities will be combined with currency customers, causing financial loss reputational damage.
upgrades to form a new Technology Resilience programme.
Response to market changes agility : As technology and customer Organisational and behavioural effectiveness is regularly reviewed, needs change, the typical banking model is evolving and as such, ensuring simplicity efficiency, supporting the Group's strategy.
operational complexity has the potential to restrict our speed of Sustained and continuing investment in digital capability and customer response.
channels: plans updated to reflect market trends customer behaviour.
Strategic use of customer data: Impacts of Data Regulation in Assessment of the possible impacts of legislation is ongoing: delivery respect of data sharing, data privacy and data loss, noting the need of enhanced systems and processes to fulfil related regulatory to defend against dynamic external challengers and consumer requirements.
Failure to address growth in data movement or Chief Data Officer reviewing operating model and identifying understand the Supply Chain Third party controls may increase opportunities to enhance the associated control environment.
exposure to Cyber Fraud leading to conduct reputational issues.
Ring-fencing: Legislation and rules impact the business and operating Updates reported to Board and GEC on key components of model and cost of serving customers effectively.
EU Exit heightened nonring-fence programmes.
implementation risk may require a change to target business The Group is actively engaged with HM Treasury, the PRA and FCA operational model adding complexity, timescales and execution costs.
toensure that it is able to fully implement the restructuring required toimplement ring-fencing by the January 2019 deadline.
Resolution: Plans are in place to deliver on bail-in-able debt MREL Early engagement with investors: capitalising on our name in the for the Group by 1January 2022 interim target 1January 2020 : market, and spread issuance over the time window available.
uncertainty surrounds investor appetite pricing as many banks will approach the same investor base over a similar period.
Geopolitical shocks: Current uncertainties could further impede the Risk appetite criteria limits single counterparty bank non-bank global economic recovery.
Events in China, Russia, the Middle-East, as exposures complemented by a UK-focused strategy.
well as terrorist activity, have the potential to worsen economic outlook Financial Stability Forum develops and maintains Stability Response and funding conditions.
Plan: acting as a Rapid Reaction Group, when external crises occur.
