Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 CAPITAL STRESS TESTING Methodology The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory Overview requirements, achieved through comprehensive construction of Stress testing is recognised as a key risk management tool within the macroeconomic scenarios and a rigorous divisional, functional, risk Group by the Board, senior management, the businesses and the Risk and executive review and challenge process, supported by analysis and Finance functions.
It is fully embedded in the planning process and insight into impacts on customers and business drivers.
of the Group as a key activity in medium term planning and senior management is actively involved in stress testing activities via a strict The engagement of all required Risk and Finance areas is built governance process.
into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of each risk drivers impact upon the business plans is understood The Group uses scenario stress testing for: and documented.
The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress testing ensure that a clear link is shown between the Risk identification: macroeconomic scenarios, the business drivers for each area and To understand key vulnerabilities of the Group under adverse the resultant stress testing outputs.
All material assumptions used in economic conditions.
modelling are documented and justified, with a clearly communicated Risk appetite: review and sign-off process.
Modelling is supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group Model GovernancePolicy.
Assess the results of the stress test against the Groups risk appetite to ensure the Group is managed within its risk parameters.
Governance Inform the setting of risk appetite by assessing the underlying risks Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing are under stress conditions.
assigned to senior management and the Risk and Finance functions Strategic and capital planning: throughout the Group.
This is formalised through the Group Business Planning and Stress Testing Policy and Procedure, which are reviewed Allow senior management and the Board to adjust strategies if the plan does not meet risk appetite in a stressed scenario.
Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, chaired by the Chief by demonstrating capital adequacy, and meet the requirements Risk Officer and attended by the Chief Financial Officer and other of regulatory stress tests that are used to inform the setting of senior Risk and Finance colleagues, is the Committee that has primary the Groups PRA and management buffers see Capital Risk on responsibility for overseeing the development and execution of the pages159to 166.
The review and challenge of the detailed stress forecasts, the key Risk mitigation: assumptions behind these, and the methodology used to translate Drive the development of potential actions and contingency plans the economic assumptions into stressed outputs conclude with the to mitigate the impact of adverse scenarios.
Stress testing also links divisional Finance Directors, appropriate Risk Directors and Managing directly to the Groups Recovery Planning process.
The outputs are then presented to GFRC, Group Regulatory stress tests Asset and Liability Committee Group Risk Committee Group Executive Committee and Board Risk Committee for Group-level During 2016, the Group was subject to the European Banking executive review and challenge, before being approved by the Board.
Authoritys Europe-wide stress test with the Group's results significantly above our minimum capital requirements.
The concurrent UK stress test run by the Bank of England was also undertaken in 2016.
HOW RISK IS MANAGED IN As announced in November, the Group comfortably exceeded the LLOYDS BANKING GROUP capital thresholds set by the Prudential Regulation Authority and was The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF see risk overview, not required to take any action as a result of thistest.
page 27 is structured around the following nine components which meet and align with the industry-accepted internal control framework Internal stress tests issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the At least on an annual basis, the Group conducts macroeconomic Treadway Commission.
stress tests of the operating plan, which is supplemented with The RMF provides the Group with an effective mechanism for higher-level refreshes if necessary.
The exercise aims to highlight the developing and embedding risk policies and risk management key vulnerabilities of the Groups business plan to adverse changes strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
in the economic environment, and to ensure that there are adequate It also seeks to facilitate effective communication on these matters financial resources in the event of a downturn.
Reverse stress testing Role of the Board and senior management Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of the Key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include: Groups strategies and plans to extreme adverse events that would cause the business to fail, in order to facilitate contingency planning.
setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF: The scenarios used are those that would cause the Group to be approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies: unable to carry on its business activities.
Where reverse stress testing the cascade of delegated authority for example to Board reveals plausible scenarios with an unacceptably high risk when sub-committees and the Group Chief Executive : and considered against the Groups risk appetite, the Group will adopt effective oversight over risk management consistent with the measures to prevent or mitigate that risk, which are then reflected riskappetite.
Risk appetite Other stress testing activity Risk appetite is defined within the Group as the amount and type of The Groups stress testing programme also involves undertaking risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate see The assessment of liquidity scenarios, market risk sensitivities and Groups approach to Risk page 116. scenarios and business specific scenarios see the principal risks on pages 123 to169 for further information on risk specific stress testing.
If required, ad hoc stress testing exercises are also undertaken to assess emerging risks, as well as in response to regulatory requests.
This wide ranging programme provides a comprehensive view of the potential impacts arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects the nature, scale and complexity of the Group.
119 Risk management Risk management continued challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert Governance frameworks risk and control advice to help management maintain an effective The Policy framework is founded on Board-approved key principles risk and control framework.
for the overall management of risk in the organisation, which are The Risk Directors: aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite and based on a current and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material provide independent advice, oversight and challenge risks to the organisation.
The principles are underpinned by a to thebusiness: hierarchy of policies which define mandatory requirements for risk design, develop and maintain policies, specific functional risk management and control which are consistently implemented type frameworks and guidance to ensure alignment with business across the Group.
imperatives and regulatory requirements: The risk committee governance framework is outlined below.
establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, Three Lines of Defence model the RMF is implemented through oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust a Three Lines of Defence model which defines clear responsibilities and efficient compliance with relevant risk-type risk appetites and accountabilities and ensures effective independent oversight and andpolicies: assurance activities take place covering key decisions.
lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon Business lines first line have primary responsibility for risk decisions, scanning and regulatory development for their risk type: and identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their propose risk appetite and oversight of the associated risk profile areas of accountability.
They are required to establish effective across the Group.
governance, and control frameworks for their business to be Risk identification, measurement and control the process for compliant with Group Policy requirements, to maintain appropriate risk identification, measurement and control is integrated into the risk management skills, mechanisms and toolkits, and to act within overall framework for risk governance.
Risk identification processes Group risk appetite parameters set and approved by the Board.
are forward looking to ensure emerging risks are identified.
Risks Risk Division second line is a centralised function providing are captured in comprehensive risk logs registers, and measured oversight and independent constructive challenge to the using robust and consistent quantification methodologies.
The effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, measurement of risks includes the application of stress testing providing proactive advice and guidance, reviewing challenging and scenario analysis, and considers whether relevant controls and reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring that arein place before risks are incurred.
Risk monitoring, aggregation and reporting identified risks are Group Audit third line provides independent and objective logged and reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as necessary assurance designed to add value and improve the organisations to the appropriate committee.
The extent of the risk is compared to operations.
It helps the Group accomplish its objectives by bringing the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
When a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the actions the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance and timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk within processes.
Group Audit provides independent assurance to given tolerances.
There is a clear process for escalation of risks and the Audit Committee and the Board that risks within the Group risk events.
are recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group Audit is fully independent of the business and All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review CER the Risk Division, and seeks to ensure objective challenge to the annually, reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
putting in place a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
Mandate of the Risk Division the objective of Risk Division is The CER reports are approved at Divisional Risk Committees or to provide both proactive advice and constructive challenge to the directly by the relevant member of the Group Executive Committee to business.
It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of confirm the accuracy of the assessment.
This key process is overseen a strategic approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and independently challenged by Risk Division, reviewed by Group and RMF agreed by the Board that encompasses: Audit against the findings of its assurance activities, and reported to the Board.
embedded effective risk management processes: Risk culture supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the transparent focused risk monitoring and reporting: underlying culture, or shared behaviours and values, which sets out provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the in clear terms what constitutes good behaviour and good practice.
Board, executives and management on strategic issues and horizon In order to effectively manage risk across the organisation, the scanning including pending regulatory changes: and functions encompassed within the Three Lines of Defence have a constructive dialogue with the first line through provision of a clear understanding of risk appetite, business strategy and an advice, development of common methodologies, understanding, understanding of and commitment to the role they play in delivering education, training, and development of new tools.
A number of levers are used to reinforce the risk culture, including tone from the top, clear accountabilities, effective communication Risk Division, headed by the Chief Risk Officer, consists of eight Risk and challenge and an appropriately aligned performance incentive Directors and their specialist teams.
These teams provide oversight and structure.
and independent challenge to business management and support senior management and the Board with independent reporting on Risk resources and capabilities appropriate mechanisms are in risks and opportunities.
Risk Directors, responsible for each risk type, place to avoid over-reliance on key personnel or system technical meet on a regular basis under the chairmanship of the Chief Risk expertise within the Group.
Adequate resources are in place to serve Officer to review and challenge the risk profile of the Group and to customers both under normal working conditions and in times of ensure that mitigating actions are appropriate.
stress, and monitoring procedures are in place to ensure that the level of available resource can be increased if required.
Colleagues The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading undertake appropriate training to ensure they have the skills and an industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the knowledge necessary to enable them to deliver fair outcomes for Groupby: customers, being mindful of the Groups strategic conduct agenda, providing a regular comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile, Customer Treatment Policy Standards and Financial Conduct both current and emerging key risks, and management actions: Authority requirements.
with input from the business areas and Risk Division proposing There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the Group risk appetite to the Board for approval, and overseeing Groups investment in customer and product systems and processes.
performance of the Group against risk appetite: This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and developing an effective RMF which meets regulatory requirements reporting leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
for approval by the Board, and overseeing execution and compliance: and 120
