Strategic report Risk overview Effective risk management, governance and control As a Group, managing risk effectively is fundamental to our strategy Capital strength and to operating successfully.
We are a simple, low risk, UK focused, The Group continues to maintain a strong capital position, with retail and commercial bank with a culture founded on a prudent apro forma CET1 ratio of 13.8 per cent, through a combination of  appetite for risk.
strong statutory profit driven by good underlying profit and lower PPI, along with lower risk-weighted assets.
Risk-weighted assets A strong risk management culture is crucial for sustainable growth reduced by 3percent to 216 billion, reflecting the continued and within Lloyds it is at the heart of everything we do.
fide-risking of theportfolio, and were primarily driven by active Our approach to risk is founded on an effective control framework portfolio management including asset sales, an improvement which guides how our colleagues approach their work, the way they inasset qualityand capital efficient securitisation activity.
behave and the decisions they make.
Risk appetite defined as the The Group was also subject to the UK stress testing run amount and type of risk that we are prepared to seek, accept or bytheBankof England: passing on all levels, with no capital tolerate is approved by the Board and is embedded within inadequacies identified.
policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
Asset quality Achievements in 2016 Effective risk management ensured asset quality remained strong As a Group we have continued to deliver against our strategic with no deterioration in the underlying portfolio.
The impairment priorities in 2016, simplifying and strengthening the business whilst charge increased to 645 million 2015: 568 million with the asset growing in targeted areas.
Risk has created a strong foundation to quality ratio increasing slightly to 15 basis points, but this was largely enable this progress, ensuring we react appropriately to the ever due to lower provision releases and write-backs.
The gross asset changing macro-economic and regulatory environment.
Our quality ratio remained unchanged at 28 basis points.
Our prudent prudent risk culture and appetite, along with close collaboration risk appetite and robust risk management framework were also with the business, has enabled effective decision making and the reflected in impaired loans, which reduced by over 1 billion to achievement of a number of risk related deliverables in the year.
8.5billion, and the impaired loans ratio, which continued to fall These included: andis now below 2 per cent.
Conduct The Group's conduct strategy programme was fully implemented in2016, embedding conduct into the everyday management of our business, ensuring that we retain a consistent and relentless focus on delivering improved customer outcomes through an open transparent culture.
RISK AS A STRATEGIC DIFFERENTIATOR Group strategy and risk appetite are developed together to ensure one informs the other to deliver on our purpose to help Britain prosper whilst becoming the best bank for customers.
Risks are identified, managed and mitigated using our comprehensive Risk Management Framework RMF, see page 27 and our clearly defined risk appetite, embedded in policies, authorities and limits provides a clear framework for effective business decision making.
Theprincipal risks we face, which could significantly impact the delivery of our strategy, are discussed on pages 28 to 31.
We believe effective risk management can be a strategic differentiator, in particular: Prudent approach to risk Implementing a prudent approach to risk appetite across the Group, aligned to the embedding of a strong risk culture, driven both from thetop and across the wider business, ensures we operate within risk appetite.
Strong control framework The Groups RMF acts as the foundation for the delivery of effective risk control and ensures that the Group risk appetite is continually developed and adhered to.
Business focus and accountability Effective risk management is a key focus and is included in key performance measures against which individual business units are assessed.
The business areas in the first line of defence are accountable for risk but with oversight from a strong and importantly independent, second line of defence RiskDivision.
Effective risk analysis, management and reporting Continuing to deliver close monitoring and stringent reporting to all levels of management and the Board on a regular basis ensures appetitelimits are maintained and subject to stressed analysis at a risk type and portfolio level.
Sustainable growth Embedding a risk culture that ensures proactive support and constructive challenge takes place across the business is important fordelivering sustainable growth.
26 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 and external regulations, law, corporate governance and industry Risk governance bestpractice.
This helps us to ensure we continue to meet our The Board approves the Groups overall RMF and sets risk appetite, responsibilities to our customers, shareholders and regulators.
both of which are designed to ensure that we manage our risks in Our risk appetite and the policy framework define clear parameters the right way to achieve our agreed strategic objectives.
It has a within which our business units must operate in order to deliver the dedicated Risk Committee of Non-Executive Directors who keep best outcome for customers and stakeholders.
An updated risk the design and performance ofthe Groups RMF under close appetite statement was approved by the Board in 2016. andregular scrutiny and interact closely with the executive risk management committee operating atGroup Executive Committee The Board delegates authorities for risk management through level.
The Board and senior management encourage a culture of theGroup Chief Executive and the management hierarchy to transparency and openness to ensure that issues are escalated individuals, an approach which is consistent with the focus of promptly to them where required.
theSenior Managers and Certication Regime SM&CR on the principle of individual accountability.
At a senior level, executives The Board approved RMF and risk appetite are put into effect using aresupported in their decision making by a committee-based an enterprise-wide framework which applies to every area of the governance structure.
The concept of individual accountability business and covers all types of risk.
The framework is designed forrisk management is embedded in the RMF and culture at toensure we follow a consistent approach to risk management everylevel, and guides the way all employees approach their andreporting throughout the Group, so that all risks are fully work, behave and make decisions.
understood and managed in relation to our agreed risk appetite.
Itincludes our policies, procedures, controls and reporting.
An important element of the framework is the maintenance ofstrong internal controls which are owned and operated by A high level structure is shown in the diagram below.
The Groups risk governance The framework is reviewed, updated and approved by the Board at arrangements supported the effective implementation of the least annually to reflect any changes in the nature of our business requirements of the SM&CR which came into force in 2016.
Accountability for ensuring risk is Conrmation of the effectiveness managed consistently with the Risk of the Risk Framework and Framework approved by the Board underlying risk and control Setting risk appetite and strategy.
Approval Board Authorities Board of the risk management framework and Role Group-wide risk principles Review risk appetite, frameworks and principles Through Board-delegated Executive to be recommended to the Board.
Be exemplars of Senior Authorities there is effective oversight of risk risk management management consistent with risk appetite Management Role Determined by the Board and Senior The Risk Appetite Framework ensures Management.
Business units formulate their our risks are managed in line strategy in line with the Groups risk appetite with our risk appetite Risk appetite Supporting a consistent approach to Supports a consistent approach Group-wide behaviour and risk decision making.
to enterprise-wide behaviour Consistency is delivered through the policy and decision making Governance frameworks framework and risk committee structures Monitoring, oversight and assurance Maintains a robust control framework, ensures effective risk management identifying and escalating emerging risks Three Lines of Mandate of the across the Group and supporting sustainable growth defence model Risk Division Dened processes exist to Carried out by all three identify, measure and control Risk identication, Risk monitoring, lines of defence and is an our current and emerging risks integral part of our control measurement aggregation and and control reporting effectiveness assessment In line with our Codes of Processes and infrastructure Responsibility.
Culture are being invested in to Risk resources ensures performance, risk further improve our risk Risk culture and capabilities and reward are aligned management capabilities Risk-specic needs Risk-type specic denedindetailfor sub-frameworks Primary risk drivers implementationby e. g. credit risk each business 27 Strategic report Risk overview continued Continued uncertainty surrounding the political and The most significant risks which could macroeconomic environment remains but the potential impacts impact the delivery of our long-term ofexternal factors have been considered in all principal risks and uncertainties to ensure any material uncertainties continue to strategic objectives and our response, bemonitored and are appropriately mitigated.
are detailed below Principal risks and uncertainties are reviewed and reported regularlyand no new risks have been identified in the year.
The Group has considered many of the potential implications following the UKs vote to leave the European Union and the impactto its customers, colleagues and products as well aslegal, regulatory, tax, finance and capital implications.
PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Impairment charge Credit risk Read more on page 124 Delivering sustainable growth The risk that customers and or other counterparties whom we have Credit policy, incorporating prudent lending criteria, aligned 2016 645m eitherlent money to or entered into a financial contract with, or other with Board approved risk appetite, to effectively manage risk.
We have a conservative and well balanced UK credit portfolio, managed through the economic cycle 2015 568m counterparties with whom we have contracted, fail to meet their 0 645 Robust risk assessment and credit sanctioning to ensure we andsupported by strong credit portfolio management.
financialobligations, resulting in loss to the Group.
Impaired assets Credit risk decisions are consistent, fair and responsible, taking account of customers circumstances.
Extensive and thorough credit processes and controls to ensure Adverse changes in the economic and market environment we operatein Wesupport sustainable growth and meet our targets in the Helping Britain Prosper Plan while staying 2016 8,495m orthe credit quality and or behaviour of our customers andcounterparties effective risk identification, management and oversight.
2015 9,590m could reduce the value of our assets and potentially increase our write downs Effective, well-established governance process supported Impairments remain below long term levels and are expected to increase as the level of write-backs and allowances for impairment losses, adversely impacting profitability.
Emerging credit risks that have the potential to increase impairment include Example: Early identification of signs of stress leading to prompt action theglobal and UK economic environment, in particular increasing interest rates, as it can impact Whilst we have a deep understanding of credit risks across our commercial, inengaging the customer.
mortgage and other portfolios: a changing economic environment, e. g. interest rate rises, can impact on customer affordability and therefore our performance.
Mandatory, legal and regulatory Regulatory and legal risk Read more on page 166 Delivering sustainable growth investment spend The risks of changing legislation, regulation, policies, voluntary codes of Ensure we develop comprehensive plans for delivery ofall legal practice and their interpretation in the markets in which we operate can have and regulatory changes and track their progress.
Group-wide We are committed to operating sustainably and responsibly, and commit significant resource 2016 555m asignificant impact on the Groups operations, business prospects, structure, projects implemented to address significant impacts.
andexpense to ensure we meet our legal and regulatory obligations.
2015 454m costs and or capital requirements and ability to enforce contractual obligations.
Continued investment in people, processes, training and IT to assess 0 555 We respond as appropriate to impending legislation and regulation and associated consultations impact and help meet our legal and regulatory commitments.
Examples: andparticipate in industry bodies.
We continue to be subject to significant ongoing and new Increased regulatory oversight and Prudential regulatory requirements.
Engage with regulatory authorities and industry bodies on legislation, regulation and court proceedings.
forthcoming regulatory changes, market reviews and investigations.
Increased legislative requirements, such as ring-fencing legislation.
Conduct risk appetite metric Conduct risk Read more on page 145 Creating the best customer experience performance-Group Conduct risk can arise from a number of areas including selling products Conduct risk appetite metrics provide a granular view on how tocustomers which do not meet their needs: failing to deal with customers our products and services are performing for customers.
As we transform and simplify our business, minimising conduct risk is critical to achieving our strategic 2016 92.1% complaints effectively: not meeting customers expectations: and exhibiting goals and meeting market and regulatory standards.
Product approval, review processes and outcome testing 2015 87.4% behaviours which do not meet market or regulatory standards.
supported by conduct management information.
0.0 92.1 The successful transition of our customer-focused Conduct Strategy into Business as Usual, following Example: Learning from past mistakes through root cause analysis and robust review by the Group Customer First Committee, supports our vision of being the best bank for The most significant conduct cost in recent years has been PPImis-selling.
clear customer accountabilities for colleagues, with rewards customers, enabling the creation of the best customer experience through learning from past mistakes.
The development of a refined framework for addressing thematic issues impacting customers in vulnerable circumstances.
Availability of core systems Operational risk Read more on page 152 Creating the best customer experience We face significant operational risks which may result in financial loss, Continual review of our IT environment to ensure that systems 2016 99.97% disruption of services to customers, and damage to our reputation.
These and processes can effectively support customers requirements.
We recognise that resilient and secure technology is critical to creating the best customer experience 2015 99.97% include the availability, resilience and security of our core IT systems and 0 100 Enhancing the resilience of systems that support critical business andmaintaining trust across the wider industry.
thepotential for failings inour customer processes.
processes with independent verification of progress on an Heading The availability and resilience of IT systems remains a key strategic priority and the Cyber programme annualbasis.
Examples: continues to focus on enhancing cyber security controls.
The control environment is regularly assessed 2016 00,000 A resilient IT environment is critical to providing reliable services to Investing in enhanced cyber controls to protect against external through internal and third party testing.
2015 00,000 customers and enabling sustainable growth.
threats to the confidentiality or integrity of electronic data, or the availability of systems and responding to findings from third The dynamic threat posed by cyber risk on the integrity of electronic party industry testing.
dataor the availability of systems.
Best bank for customers index People risk Read more on page 168 Creating the best customer experience Key people risks include the risk that we fail to maintain organisational skills, Focused action to attract, retain and develop high calibre 2016 78% capability, resilience and capacity levels in response to increasing volumes people.
Delivering initiatives which reinforce behaviours to Continued regulatory change relating to personal accountability and remuneration rules could affect the 2015 78% of organisational, political and external market change.
generate the best outcomes for customers and colleagues.
0 100 Groups ability to attract and retain the calibre of colleagues required to meet our changing customer Managing organisational capability and capacity to ensure there needs.
We continue to focus on developing colleagues, their capabilities and skills in order to create the Example: are the right skills and resources to meet our customers needs.
best customer experience and to respond quickly to the rapidly evolving change in customers decision Inability to attract or retain colleagues with key skills could impact the making, in an increasingly digital marketplace.
Effective remuneration arrangements to promote appropriate achievement of business objectives.
colleague behaviours and meet regulatory expectations.
1 This key risk indicator is also a key performance indicator KPI.
28 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Impairment charge Read more on page 124 Delivering sustainable growth 2016 645m We have a conservative and well balanced UK credit portfolio, managed through the economic cycle 2015 568m 0 645 andsupported by strong credit portfolio management.
Wesupport sustainable growth and meet our targets in the Helping Britain Prosper Plan while staying 2016 8,495m within prudent risk appetite.
2015 9,590m Impairments remain below long term levels and are expected to increase as the level of write-backs andreleases normalise.
Emerging credit risks that have the potential to increase impairment include theglobal and UK economic environment, in particular increasing interest rates, as it can impact customerand counterparties affordability.
Mandatory, legal and regulatory Read more on page 166 Delivering sustainable growth investment spend We are committed to operating sustainably and responsibly, and commit significant resource 2016 555m andexpense to ensure we meet our legal and regulatory obligations.
2015 454m 0 555 We respond as appropriate to impending legislation and regulation and associated consultations andparticipate in industry bodies.
We continue to be subject to significant ongoing and new legislation, regulation and court proceedings.
Conduct risk appetite metric Read more on page 145 Creating the best customer experience performance-Group As we transform and simplify our business, minimising conduct risk is critical to achieving our strategic 2016 92.1% goals and meeting market and regulatory standards.
2015 87.4% 0.0 92.1 The successful transition of our customer-focused Conduct Strategy into Business as Usual, following robust review by the Group Customer First Committee, supports our vision of being the best bank for customers, enabling the creation of the best customer experience through learning from past mistakes.
Availability of core systems Read more on page 152 Creating the best customer experience 2016 99.97% We recognise that resilient and secure technology is critical to creating the best customer experience 2015 99.97% 0 100 andmaintaining trust across the wider industry.
Heading The availability and resilience of IT systems remains a key strategic priority and the Cyber programme continues to focus on enhancing cyber security controls.
The control environment is regularly assessed 2016 00,000 through internal and third party testing.
2015 00,000 Best bank for customers index Read more on page 168 Creating the best customer experience 2016 78% Continued regulatory change relating to personal accountability and remuneration rules could affect the 2015 78% 0 100 Groups ability to attract and retain the calibre of colleagues required to meet our changing customer needs.
We continue to focus on developing colleagues, their capabilities and skills in order to create the best customer experience and to respond quickly to the rapidly evolving change in customers decision making, in an increasingly digital marketplace.
29 Strategic report Risk overview continued PRINCIPAL RISKS KEY MITIGATING ACTIONS KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Insurance Life and Pensions present Insurance risk Read more on page 167 Creating the best customer experience value of new business premiums Key insurance risks within the Insurance business are longevity, persistency and Processes for underwriting, claims management, pricing and product design seek to control exposure.
Longevity risk is expected to increase as our presence in the We are committed to meeting the changing needs of customers by working to provide a range of 2016 8,919m and bulk pricing experts support the bulk annuity bulkannuity market increases.
Longevity is also the key insurance risk in the Groups insurance products via multiple channels.
The focus is on creating the best customer experience by 2015 9,460m proposition.
0 9460 helping customers protect themselves today whilst preparing for a secure financial future.
The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions Insurance General Insurance Examples: Strategic growth initiatives within Insurance are developed and managed in line with a defined risk are regularly reviewed for both the Insurance business and gross written premiums Increases in life expectancy longevity beyond current assumptions will increase appetite, aligned to the Group risk appetite and strategy.
the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes.
thecost of annuities and pension scheme benefits.
2016 1,108m Property insurance exposures are mitigated by a broad Uncertain property insurance claims impact Insurance earnings and capital, e. g. extreme reinsurance programme.
2015 1,148m 0 1148 weather conditions, such as flooding, can result in high property damage claims.
1,2 Common equity tier 1 ratio Capital risk Read more on page 159 Delivering sustainable growth A comprehensive capital management framework The risk that we have a sub-optimal quantity or quality of capital or that capital 2016 13.8% thatsets and monitors capital risk appetite, including isinefficiently deployed across the Group.
Ensuring we hold an appropriate level of capital to maintain financial resilience and market confidence, 2015 13.0% dividend policy appropriately.
0.0 13.8 underpins our strategic objectives of supporting the UK economy and delivering sustainable growth.
Example: Close monitoring of capital and leverage ratios to ensure 2 A worsening macroeconomic environment could lead to adverse financial Leverage ratio Looking ahead, there are a number of regulatory capital framework changes which are yet to be finalised.
we meet current and future regulatory requirements.
performance, which could deplete capital resources and or increase capital These changes are being monitored closely as there is a risk that these could lead to higher capital Comprehensive stress testing analysis to evidence 2016 5.0% requirements due to a deterioration in customers creditworthiness.
capital adequacy under various adverse scenarios.
requirements in the longer term.
2015 4.8% Regulatory liquidity Funding and liquidity risk Read more on page 154 Delivering sustainable growth Holding liquid assets to meet potential cash and The risk that we have insufficient financial resources to meet our commitments 2016 121bn collateral outflows, regulatory requirements and astheyfall due, or can only secure them at excessive cost.
We maintain a strong funding position in line with our low risk strategy.
Our funding position has been 2015 123bn maintaining a further pool of secondary assets that 0.0 123.4 significantly strengthened in recent years and our loan to deposit ratio remains within our target range.
Example: canbe used to access central bank liquidity facilities.
Our funding and liquidity position is underpinned by a significant and stable customer Loan to deposit ratio Liquid assets now exceed our total wholesale funding.
This provides a substantial buffer in the event of Undertaking daily monitoring against a number of deposit base and is supported by strong relationships with corporate customers and amarket-wide stress which could reduce our options to fund our balance sheet in future.
market and Group-specific early warning indicators, 2016 109% certain wholesale market segments.
A deterioration in either the Groups or the UKs maintaining a contingency funding plan detailing credit rating, or a sudden and significant withdrawal of customer deposits, would 2015 109% actions and strategies available in stressed conditions.
adversely impact ourfunding and liquidity position.
Governance risk Read more on page 169 Delivering sustainable growth Leveraging our considerable change experience to Against a background of increased regulatory focus on governance and risk meet ring-fencing and resolution planning requirements management, the most significant challenges arise from the requirement to improve Ring-fencing will ensure we become safer and continue to create the best customer experience by providing and the continuing evolution of SM&CR.
the resolvability of the Group and to ring-fence core UK financial services and activities further protection to core Retail and SME deposits, increasing transparency of our operations and Programme in place to address ring-fencing and from January 2019 and further requirements under the SM&CR which come into force facilitating the options available in resolution.
In close and regular contact with from March 2017.
Resolution planning is intended to reduce the probability of failure and, through ensuring continuity regulators to develop plans for our anticipated ofcritical banking services, the impact on customers should we fail.
Example: operating and legal structure.
Non-compliance with or breaches of ring-fencing, resolution and SM&CR Our Governance framework and strong culture of ownership and accountability enabled effective, on time, Evolving risk and governance arrangements that requirements will result in legal and regulatory consequences.
compliance with the SM&CR requirements which came into force from March 2016 and preparation for the continue to be appropriate to comply with regulatory SM&CR Certification requirements effective from March 2017. objectives.
Pension surplus deficit Market risk Read more on page 146 Delivering sustainable growth The risk that our capital or earnings profile is affected by adverse market rates, in particular Structural hedge programmes implemented to manage 2016 244m interest rates and credit spreads in the Banking business, equity and credit spreads in the liability margins and margin compression, and the We manage our exposure to movements in market rates throughout the year, leading us to promote low 2015 736m Insurance business, and credit spreads in the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes.
Groups exposure to Bank Base Rate.
-244 736 volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive customer proposition with market risk hedging strategies Equity and credit spread risks are closely monitored tosupport strategic aims, including delivering sustainable growth.
Examples: and, where appropriate, asset liability matching is Earnings are impacted by our ability to forecast and model customer behaviour Mitigating actions are implemented to reduce the impact of market movements, resulting in a more undertaken to mitigate risk.
accurately and establish appropriate hedging strategies.
This allows us to more efficiently utilise available capital resources to deliver The Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes have The Insurance business is exposed indirectly to equity through thevalue of future sustainable growth.
increased their credit allocation and hedged against management charges on policyholder funds.
Credit spread risk within the Insurance Consistent with similar pension schemes, the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes were adversely nominal rate inflation movements.
business primarily arises from bonds and loans used to back annuities.
Credit spreads impacted by the credit spread volatility in the third quarter of 2016.
The interest rate and inflation hedging affect the value of the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes liabilities.
Stress and scenario testing of Group risk exposures.
2 The CET1 and leverage ratios at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are reported on a pro forma basis, including dividends paid by the Insurance business in February 2017 30 and February 2016 respectively, in relation to prior year earnings.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2016 KEY RISK INDICATORS ALIGNMENT TO STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND FUTURE FOCUS Insurance Life and Pensions present Read more on page 167 Creating the best customer experience value of new business premiums We are committed to meeting the changing needs of customers by working to provide a range of 2016 8,919m insurance products via multiple channels.
The focus is on creating the best customer experience by 2015 9,460m 0 9460 helping customers protect themselves today whilst preparing for a secure financial future.
Insurance General Insurance Strategic growth initiatives within Insurance are developed and managed in line with a defined risk gross written premiums appetite, aligned to the Group risk appetite and strategy.
2016 1,108m 2015 1,148m 0 1148 1,2 Common equity tier 1 ratio Read more on page 159 Delivering sustainable growth 2016 13.8% Ensuring we hold an appropriate level of capital to maintain financial resilience and market confidence, 2015 13.0% 0.0 13.8 underpins our strategic objectives of supporting the UK economy and delivering sustainable growth.
2 Leverage ratio Looking ahead, there are a number of regulatory capital framework changes which are yet to be finalised.
These changes are being monitored closely as there is a risk that these could lead to higher capital 2016 5.0% requirements in the longer term.
2015 4.8% Regulatory liquidity Read more on page 154 Delivering sustainable growth 2016 121bn We maintain a strong funding position in line with our low risk strategy.
Our funding position has been 2015 123bn 0.0 123.4 significantly strengthened in recent years and our loan to deposit ratio remains within our target range.
Loan to deposit ratio Liquid assets now exceed our total wholesale funding.
This provides a substantial buffer in the event of amarket-wide stress which could reduce our options to fund our balance sheet in future.
2016 109% 2015 109% Read more on page 169 Delivering sustainable growth Ring-fencing will ensure we become safer and continue to create the best customer experience by providing further protection to core Retail and SME deposits, increasing transparency of our operations and facilitating the options available in resolution.
N A Resolution planning is intended to reduce the probability of failure and, through ensuring continuity ofcritical banking services, the impact on customers should we fail.
Our Governance framework and strong culture of ownership and accountability enabled effective, on time, compliance with the SM&CR requirements which came into force from March 2016 and preparation for the SM&CR Certification requirements effective from March 2017.
Pension surplus deficit Read more on page 146 Delivering sustainable growth 2016 244m We manage our exposure to movements in market rates throughout the year, leading us to promote low 2015 736m -244 736 volatility earnings and offer a comprehensive customer proposition with market risk hedging strategies tosupport strategic aims, including delivering sustainable growth.
Mitigating actions are implemented to reduce the impact of market movements, resulting in a more stable capital position.
This allows us to more efficiently utilise available capital resources to deliver sustainable growth.
Consistent with similar pension schemes, the Groups Defined Benefit Pension Schemes were adversely impacted by the credit spread volatility in the third quarter of 2016.
The interest rate and inflation hedging programmes remain effective.
2 The CET1 and leverage ratios at 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015 are reported on a pro forma basis, including dividends paid by the Insurance business in February 2017 and February 2016 respectively, in relation to prior year earnings.
31 BUILDING BRITAINS FINANCIAL RESULTS CONSTRUCTION SKILLS Afaque Quareshi is retraining for a career in construction thanks to the collaboration between Lloyds Bank, London Summary of Group results 33 Borough of Newham and Lendlease.
The Group has Five year financial summary 39 provided 1million to support training and recruitment Divisional results 40 through its Construction Skills Fund, which was established to address the skills gap in the construction sector.
Other financial information 49 139 industry recognised qualifications delivered in 2016 thanks tothe Skills Fund
