London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties OVERVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS: Strategic Risks Financial Risks Operational Risks Global economy Credit risk Technology Regulatory Change & Compliance Market risk Security threats Competition Liquidity risk Change management Transformation Capital risk Settlement and custodial risks Reputation Brand Employees KEY: Risk Level Increasing Risk Level Static Risk Level Decreasing STRATEGIC RISKS Risks related to our strategy including the implementation of strategic initiatives and external threats to the achievement of our strategy.
The category also includes risks associated with reputation or brand values.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Global economy The broader footprint of the Group has improved the geographical As a diversified markets infrastructure business, we operate in a broad range diversification of the Groups income streams.
The Group mitigates the of equity, bond and derivative markets servicing clients who increasingly foreign exchange translation exposure created by ownership of overseas seek global products and solutions.
If the global economy underperforms, businesses by matching, to the extent possible, the currency of its debt to lower activity in our markets may lead to lower fee revenue.
the currency of its income streams.
This is supplemented as required by a hedging programme using market standard derivative instruments.
During 2016 market volatility followed results from referenda in the UK and Material foreign currency transactions relate mainly to M&A and dividend Italy and elections in the US.
During 2017, the potential for political upheaval related payments and are hedged as required by Group Treasury Policy.
continues with further elections across Europe and this, combined with continued uncertainty regarding both the future of the UKs relationship The Group performs regular analyses to monitor the markets and the with the European Union and its broader direction, could impact the potential impacts of market price movements on the business.
include Key Risk Indicator tracking, stress testing, and hedging.
We continue to actively monitor the ongoing developments following the In particular, the outcome of the UK referendum on membership of the EU result of the UK referendum.
Special Committees have been set up to injected notable uncertainty into global markets and weakened sterling.
respond to the risks to our operations.
The Group has formulated Despite signs of economic stability towards the latter end of 2016, the contingency plans to remain well positioned to service its clients.
prospect of a lengthy negotiation period upon triggering Article 50 may weigh on market sentiment and reduce activity, including IPOs and further The Financial Risk Committee closely monitors and analyses multiple issues.
Customers may also start contingency plans if location of specific market stress scenarios and action plans in order to minimise any activities in the UK appears threatened by UK exit negotiations.
impacts stemming from a potential deterioration of the macroeconomic environment.
The stress scenarios are regularly reviewed and updated in Strong economic data from the US in 2016 has resulted in the second response to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
interest rate hike by the US Federal Reserve in consecutive years and there is potential for further rate increases during 2017.
There is, however, uncertainty in the global economic outlook and US forecast growth could fail to materialise.
The US approach to financial services regulation may also impact market volatlity.
Ongoing geopolitical tensions continue to add uncertainty in the markets and may impact investors confidence and activity levels.
For more information, see Market trends and our response on pages 12 15, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 123 127.
47 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Regulatory change and compliance Changes in the regulatory environment form a key input into our strategic The Group and its exchanges, other trading venues, clearing houses, planning, including the impact on our growth strategies, both organic and index administrators, central securities depositories, trade repository and inorganic.
We monitor regulatory developments continually and engage other regulated entities operate in areas that are highly regulated by directly with regulatory and governmental authorities at national, EU and governmental, competition and other regulatory bodies.
There is a range of measures which impact our business directly or indirectly We continue to develop our relationships with the key political stakeholders including MiFID MiFIR, EMIR, Benchmark Regulation, SFTR and BRRD.
in the EU, North America and Asia.
Potential impacts from regulatory In addition, the European Commission reached agreement with the Council change are assessed and, depending on the impact, opportunities are and Parliament on the Prospectus Regulation in a form which supports both developed and mitigating strategies and actions are planned.
EU and international issuers across LSEGs equity and fixed-income markets.
As the various regulatory initiatives progress, there will be greater certainty New provisions will support SMEs, secondary issuance and retail bond investors.
about their likely final form.
The Group continues to focus on remaining Provisions supporting larger European markets survived review after the Brexit well positioned to respond to regulatory developments and further referendum.
There is a risk that the UKs exit from the EU may lead to opportunities exist for the Group to deliver solutions to help the market considerable regulatory change.
The Group monitors developments closely.
address the changing regulatory environment.
The MiFID and MiFIR secondary legislation is nearly completed and the rule The Group continues to maintain systems and controls to mitigate sets will come into effect on 3 January 2018.
Key provisions on Open Access compliance risk.
Compliance policies and procedures are regularly and SME Growth Markets are complete and we do not expect significant reviewed to ensure that Group entities and staff are compliant with changes to near-final secondary legislation affecting market data and applicable laws and regulations and uphold our corporate standards.
Further delay to legislation finalisation could impact All staff across the Group are subject to mandatory compliance training.
Group system change projects and put implementation timelines at risk.
CCP regulatory initiatives are ongoing.
In November 2016, the European Commission proposed a framework for recovery and resolution of CCPs.
This work is being conducted in parallel with the development of international standards from CPMI-IOSCO and FSB.
The European Commission has also confirmed the areas of EMIR that will be modified as part of the official review of the regulation.
The Basel III rules on capital requirements for banks exposure to CCPs and BCBS leverage ratio need to be adjusted to mitigate any impact on our CCP clearing volumes, with implications for the Groups revenues.
However, the European Commission published proposed changes in November 2016 to the EU Capital Requirements Regulation which largely neutralise the effects for European clients.
The changes would allow CCP clearing members to reduce their exposure measures by the amount of initial margin received from clients for CCP cleared derivatives.
This will reduce leverage ratios, thus removing a financial barrier for clearing members to offer client clearing.
The Benchmarks Regulation primary legislation was completed in 2016 and secondary legislation will be completed this year, with all rules coming into effect in January 2018.
The regulation enshrines the IOSCO Principles and we view the new rule set positively as it raises standards across the industry.
There is increasing legislative and regulatory focus on cyber security, data protection and emerging technology.
LSEG fully supports emerging regulatory regimes for these issues, as they increase the standards for clients, vendors and other third parties with whom we interact.
Regulators are monitoring the development of innovative financial services technologies, but no legislative proposals have yet been proposed.
Negotiations also continue on a possible Financial Transaction Tax FTT.
During 2016 little progress was made, however a FTT could adversely impact volumes in financial markets.
There is a risk that one or more of the Groups entities may fail to comply with the laws and regulatory requirements to which it is, or becomes, subject.
In this event, the entity in question may be subject to censures, fines and other regulatory or legal proceedings.
For more information on regulatory changes, see Market trends and our response on pages 12 15.
48 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Competition Competitive markets are, by their very nature, dynamic, and the effects of The Group operates in a highly competitive industry.
Continued competitor activity can never be fully mitigated.
Senior management consolidation has fuelled competition including between groups in actively engages with clients and the Group undertakes constant market different geographical areas.
monitoring and pricing revision to mitigate risks.
Commercial initiatives are aligned with our clients and this is complemented by an ongoing focus In our Capital Markets operations, there is a risk that competitors will improve on technology.
their products, pricing and technology in a way that erodes our businesses.
There is strong competition for primary listings and capital raises from other The Groups track record of innovation and diversification ensures the Group global exchanges and regional centres.
offers best-in-class services with a global capability.
The Group is focused on integrating acquisitions and delivering tangible synergies.
This is supported In Post Trade Services, competition will continue to intensify as we see a shift by robust governance and programme management structures.
towards open access and interoperability of CCPs and legislative requirements for mandatory clearing of certain OTC derivative products.
While this may We maintain a dedicated international team who promote the benefits of create new business opportunities for the Group, competitors may respond listing on our markets to international issuers, the global advisory more quickly to changing market conditions or develop products that are community and other stakeholders.
The Groups Information Services business faces competition from a variety of sources, notably from other venues that offer market data relating to securities that are traded on the Groups equity markets, as well as from index providers which offer indices and other benchmarking tools which compete with those offered by the Group.
Furthermore, if the Groups share of equity trading on its revenue were to come under further pressure, the Groups market data offering might be seen by current and prospective customers as being less valuable, which may adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
In Technology Services, there is intense competition across all activities and there are strong incumbents in some of our growth areas.
Transformation The LSEG Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF ensures The Group is exposed to transformation risks risk of loss or failure resulting appropriate Risk Management across the Group, and the governance of from change transformation given the current levels of change and the Group following a merger or acquisition is aligned and strengthened as alignment activity taking place across the Group.
As part of the alignment appropriate.
The Group performs regular reporting of change performance, processes, the Group targets specific synergy deliveries.
A failure to successfully align the businesses of the Group may lead to an Each major initiative is overseen by a steering committee which monitors increased cost base without a commensurate increase in revenue: a failure the associated risks closely and is typically chaired by the Chief Financial to capture future product and market opportunities: and risks in respect of Officer and includes Executive Committee members.
Regular reports are capital requirements, regulatory relationships and management time.
submitted to the Executive Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
The additional work related to M&A and alignment activities could have an adverse impact on the Groups day-to-day performance and or key strategic initiatives which could damage the Groups reputation.
The size and complexity of the recent acquisitions and the recent merger proposal have increased the Groups change management and transformation risks.
However, it has also increased its opportunities to compete on a global scale.
Reputation Brand LSEG has policies and procedures in place which are designed to ensure the A number of the Groups businesses have iconic national brands that are appropriate use of the Groups brands and to maintain the integrity of the well-recognised at international as well as at national levels.
reputation of the Groups businesses and their valuable brand names are LSEG actively monitors the use of its brands and other Intellectual Property a key selling point.
Any events or actions that damage the reputation or in order to prevent or identify and address any infringements.
brands of the Group could adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results.
The Group protects its intellectual property by relying upon a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, Failure to protect the Groups Intellectual Property rights adequately could confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with its result in costs for the Group, negatively impact the Groups reputation and affiliates, clients, customers, suppliers, strategic partners and others.
affect the ability of the Group to compete effectively.
Further, defending or enforcing the Groups Intellectual Property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
49 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued FINANCIAL RISKS The risk of financial failure, reputational loss, loss of earnings and or capital as a result of investment activity, lack of liquidity, funding or capital, and or the inappropriate recording, reporting and disclosure of financial results, taxation or regulatory information.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Credit risk Clearing Clearing As CCP members continue to work towards strengthening of their balance CCPs in the Group are exposed to credit risk as a result of their clearing sheets, the risk to LSEG CCPs of a member default, reduces, although activities.
Default by a CCP clearing member could adversely affect that CCPs continuing geopolitical uncertainty continues and the banking sectors of revenues and its customers goodwill.
CCPs authorised in the EU are required some countries remain stressed.
The financial risks associated with clearing to make a proportion of their regulatory capital available to cover default operations are further mitigated by: losses after the defaulters resources have been exhausted and prior to Strict CCP membership rules including supervisory capital, financial allocation of losses to non-defaulters and so, in extreme circumstances, a strength and operational capability default could lead to a call on the Group CCPs own capital skin-in-the-game.
CCPs may also be exposed to credit exposure to providers of infrastructure The maintenance of prudent levels of margin and default funds to cover services such as Central Securities Depositaries CSDs and concentration exposures to participants.
Members deposit margin, computed at least banks.
In addition, certain CCPs within the Group have interoperability margin daily, to cover the expected costs which the clearing service would arrangements with other CCPs requiring collateral to be exchanged in incur in closing out open positions in a volatile market in the event of proportion to the value of the underlying transactions.
A default fund sized to cover the default of the two members with the largest exposures in each service using a suite The relevant clearing provider entities within the Group are therefore exposed of extreme but plausible stress tests mutualises losses in excess of to the risk of a default of other CCPs under such arrangements.
margin amongst the clearing members Non-Clearing Regular Fire Drills are carried out to test the operational soundness CCPs and other parts of LSEG Group are also exposed to credit risk as a result of the CCPs default management processes of placing money with investment counterparties on both a secured and unsecured basis.
Losses may occur due either to the default of the Infrastructure providers are regularly assessed in line with policy.
investment counterparty or of the issuer of bonds bought outright or Non-Clearing received as collateral.
Policies are in place to ensure that investment counterparties are of good credit quality, and at least 95% of CCP commercial bank deposits are secured.
CCP and non-CCP counterparty concentration risk is consolidated and monitored daily at the Group level and reported to the Executive Committee and to the Board Risk Committee, including limits and status rating.
For more information on this risk see the Post Trade Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 26 30, and Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 123 127.
Market risk Clearing Clearing The margins and default funds referred to above are sized to protect against The Group CCPs assume the counterparty risk for all transactions that latent market risk.
The adequacy of these resources is evaluated daily by are cleared through their markets.
In the event of default of their clearing subjecting member and customer positions to extreme but plausible stress members, therefore, credit risk will manifest itself as market risk.
As this scenarios encapsulating not only historical crises, but theoretical market risk is only present in the event of default this is referred to as forward-looking scenarios and decorrelation events.
All our CCPs are latent market risk.
The latent market risk includes interest rate risk, compliant with the appropriate regulatory requirements regarding margin foreign exchange risk, equity risk and commodity price risk as well as calculations, capital and default rules.
Latent market risk is monitored and country risk, issuer risk and concentration risk.
This risk is greater if managed on a day-to-day basis by the risk teams within the clearing market conditions are unfavourable at the time of the default.
Committees overseeing market risks meet on a regular basis.
Non-Clearing Non-Clearing The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk as a result of its Foreign Exchange FX risk is monitored closely and translation risk is broadening geographical footprint.
There are, however, also benefits managed by matching the currency of the Groups debt to its earnings of global diversification including reduced exposure to local events to protect key ratios and partially hedge currency net assets.
To ensure such as the UK Brexit vote.
this is effective, and also to manage any local FX transaction risks, foreign exchange derivatives including cross-currency swaps are used under a The Group is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities control framework governed by LSEG Board approved policy.
A changing environment of increasing interest rates in 2017 may increase the Groups exposure to these risks.
The split between floating and fixed debt is managed to support the Groups target of maintaining an interest coverage ratio that underpins a good investment grade credit rating.
Authorised derivatives can be used to supplement a mix of floating rate loan borrowings and fixed rate bond debt to achieve the Groups Policy objective.
For more information on this risk, see Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 123 127.
50 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Liquidity risk Clearing Clearing The Groups CCPs have put in place regulatory compliant liquidity plans for There are two distinct types of risk to which the Group CCPs are exposed day-to-day liquidity management, including contingencies for stressed that are commonly referred to as liquidity risk market liquidity risk and conditions.
The Groups CCPs have multiple layers of defence against funding liquidity risk.
The former is the risk that it may be difficult or liquidity shortfalls including: intraday margin calls, minimum cash expensive to liquidate a large or concentrated position and is addressed balances, access to contingent liquidity arrangements, and, for certain under market risk.
The latter is the risk that the CCP may not have enough CCPs, access to central bank liquidity.
cash to pay variation margin to non-defaulters or to settle physically Under the ERMF, CCP investments must be made in compliance with securities delivered by a non-defaulter that cannot be on-sold to a defaulter the Group CCP Financial Risk Policy as well as the policies of the CCPs and this is the subject of this section.
These policies stipulate a number of Risk Management The Groups CCPs collect clearing members margin and or default funds standards including investment limits secured and unsecured and liquidity contributions in cash and or in highly liquid securities.
Committees overseeing CCP investment risk meet regularly.
sufficient ongoing liquidity and immediate access to funds, the Groups Each CCP monitors its liquidity needs daily under stressed and unstressed CCPs deposit the cash received in highly liquid and secure investments, assumptions and reports to the Group Financial Risk Committee each month.
such as sovereign bonds and reverse repos, as mandated under EMIR: securities deposited by clearing members are therefore held in dedicated Non-Clearing accounts with CSDs and or International Central Securities Depositaries Requirements for liquidity including headroom requirements are set out ICSDs.
The Groups CCPs also hold a small proportion of their investments in the Group Treasury Policy.
The Group maintains liquidity facilities and in unsecured bank and money market deposits subject to the limitations monitors its requirements on an ongoing basis.
The successful operation of these investment activities is Group Treasury risk is monitored daily and is managed within the contingent on general market conditions and there is no guarantee that constraints of a Board approved policy by the Group Treasury team, and is such investments may be exempt from market losses.
overseen by the Treasury Committee a sub-Committee of the Financial Risk Non-Clearing Committee chaired by the CFO.
An update on Group Treasury risks and Liquidity risk in a non-clearing context is the risk that the firm may be actions is provided monthly to the Financial Risk Committee and to each unable to make payments as they fall due.
Capital risk The Groups Capital Management Policy provides a framework to ensure the Principal risks to managing the Groups capital are: Group maintains suitable capital levels both at Group and solo entity levels, and effectively manages the risks thereof.
The Groups Treasury Policy In respect of regulated entities, capital adequacy compliance risk recognises the need to observe regulatory requirements in the management the risk that regulated entities do not maintain and report sufficient of the Groups resources.
qualifying capital to meet regulatory requirements and capital reporting compliance risk the risk that regulated entities fail to comply The Risk Appetite approved by the Board includes components related with capital reporting and regulatory obligations.
If a regulated entity to the Groups leverage ratios and capital risks: Key Risk Indicators are in the Group fails to ensure that sufficient capital resources are monitored regularly.
The Group maintains an ongoing review of the maintained to meet regulatory requirements, this could lead to loss of capital positions of its regulated entities and operates within capital limits regulatory approvals and or financial sanctions which are overseen by the Treasury Committee, the Financial Risk Committee, the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Group can In respect of regulated and unregulated entities, commercial capital manage its capital structure by varying returns to shareholders, issuing adequacy and quality risk the risk that Group and solo entities do not new shares or increasing or reducing borrowings.
The Board reviews maintain both sufficient quantity and quality of capital to meet dividend policy and funding capacity on a regular basis and the Group commercial requirements and investment return risk the risk that maintains comfortable levels of debt facility headroom.
capital is held in subsidiaries or invested in projects that generate a return that is below the Groups cost of capital The Group regularly assesses debt and equity markets to maintain access to new capital at reasonable cost.
The Group is mindful of potential impacts on Availability of debt or equity capital whether specific to the Group or its key metrics when considering changes to its capital structure.
driven by general financial market conditions For more information on this risk, see Note 2 to the accounts, Financial Risk Management on pages 123 127.
51 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL RISKS The risk of loss, or other adverse consequences to the business, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Technology The performance and availability of the Group systems are constantly Secure and stable technology performing to high levels of availability and reviewed and monitored to prevent problems arising where possible and throughput continues to be critical to the support of the Groups businesses.
ensure a prompt response to any potential service interruption issues.
Technology failures may impact our clients, potentially leading to a loss of The Group continues actively to identify, manage and mitigate risks trading or clearing volumes or impacting our information services activities.
associated with the consolidation of IT development and operations.
The Group continues to consolidate its IT development and operations Regular rigorous Business Impact and Operational Risk Scenario Analysis in its shared services company LSEG Business Services Ltd and in the are performed in conjunction with the Group Risk and Group Business MillenniumIT infrastructure to provide greater control and efficiency.
Continuity & Crisis Management functions to identify, assess and remedy There is a risk that as the Group continues to consolidate its IT development potential system and governance vulnerabilities.
and operations it creates single points of failure for multiple Group The Groups technology teams mitigate the risk of resource over-stretch businesses, systems and services.
by ensuring prioritisation of key development and operations activities, The focus of activity in MillenniumIT means there is also a risk of resource and resource utilisation and allocation are kept under constant review.
over-stretch to meet both the requirements of the Group and those of third The MillenniumIT systems are designed to be fault tolerant and alternative parties.
Continued innovation and investment in new trading information standby computer facilities are maintained to minimise the risk of systems can lead to further resource stretch in coping with increased system disruptions.
volumes and new product development.
The Group actively manages relationships with key strategic IT suppliers The Group also has dependencies on a number of third parties for the to avoid any breakdown in service provision which could adversely affect provision of hardware, software, communication and networks for elements the Groups businesses.
Where possible the Group has identified alternative of its trading, clearing, settlement, data and other systems.
suppliers that could be engaged in the event of a third party failing to deliver on its contractual commitments.
The Group actively monitors new technological developments and opportunities such as Blockchain.
For more information, see the Technology Services section of the Segmental Review on pages 34 35.
Security threats Security threats are treated very seriously.
The Group has robust physical The Group is reliant upon secure premises to protect its employees and security arrangements, and extensive IT measures are in place to mitigate physical assets as well as appropriate safeguards to ensure uninterrupted technical security risks.
operation of its IT systems and infrastructure.
The threat of cyber crime The Group is supported by the Centre for the Protection of National requires a high level of scrutiny as it may have an adverse impact on our Infrastructure CPNI in the UK, with both physical and IT security teams business.
Additionally, new emerging technologies can change the level monitoring intelligence and liaising closely with police and global of cyber security risk.
A third party security monitoring service is retained The Group and its appointed third party service providers could suffer a to assist with monitoring global physical security events with the potential security breach resulting in the loss or compromise of sensitive information to impact Group operations.
both internal and external or loss of service.
A major information security The Group continues to proactively invest in and enhance its information breach could have a significant negative impact on our reputation and on security control environment and cyber defences as it delivers to its Cyber the confidence of our clients.
Terrorist attacks and similar activities directed against our offices, The Group has well established and regularly tested business continuity operations, computer systems or networks could disrupt our markets, and crisis management procedures.
The Group risk function assesses its harm staff, tenants and visitors, and severely disrupt our business dependencies on critical suppliers and ensures robust contingency operations.
Civil or political unrest could impact companies within the measures are in place.
Long-term unavailability of key premises or trading and information outages and corruption of data could lead to the loss of client confidence and reputational damages.
Security risks have escalated in recent years due to the increasing sophistication of cyber crime.
52 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK LEVEL Change management The senior management team is focused on the implementation of the The considerable change agenda is driven by both internal and external Groups strategy and the project pipeline in view of their importance to the factors.
Internal factors include the diversification strategy of the Group Groups future success.
Each major project is managed via a dedicated and its drive for technology innovation and consolidation.
External factors Programme Board overseen by members of the Executive Committee.
include the changing regulatory landscape and requirements which Software design methodologies, testing regimes and test environments necessitate changes to our systems and processes.
are continuously being strengthened to minimise implementation risk.
There are a significant number of major, complex projects and strategic actions underway concurrently, that, if not delivered to sufficiently high standards and within agreed timescales, could have an adverse impact on the operation of core services, and revenue growth, as well as damaging the Groups reputation.
The volume of simultaneous change could also lead to a loss of client goodwill if the execution is not managed appropriately.
Synergies and cost benefits may not be delivered to anticipated levels.
For more information, see the Chairmans statement on pages 4 5, and the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 7.
Settlement and custodial risks Operational risk is minimised via highly automated processes reducing The Groups CCPs are exposed to operational risks associated with clearing administrative activities while formalising procedures for all services.
transactions and the management of collateral, particularly where there The CSD mitigates IT risks by providing for redundancy of systems, are manual processes and controls.
While the Groups CCPs have in place daily backup of data, fully updated remote recovery sites and SLAs with procedures and controls to prevent failures of these processes, and to outsourcers.
Liquidity for CSD operations is provided by European National mitigate the impact of any such failures, any operational error could have Central Banks.
a material adverse effect on the Groups reputation, business, financial condition and operating results.
In addition, the Group provides routing, netting and settlement services through its CSDs to ensure that cash and securities are exchanged in a timely and secure manner for a multitude of products.
There are operational risks associated with such services, particularly where processes are not fully automated.
A failure to receive funds from participants may result in a debiting of the Groups cash accounts which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and operating results.
Employees The Group operates a performance management and appraisal system The calibre and performance of senior management and other key which assesses performance against financial objectives, strategic employees, taken together, is critical to the success of the Group.
deliverables and the way colleagues collaborate and deliver in line with The Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel is dependent on a the Groups values and behaviours.
Turnover in each division and country number of factors.
This includes but not exclusively prevailing market in addition to any critical staff turnover is closely monitored with mitigation conditions, compensation packages offered by competing companies and taken where needed.
These factors also encompass the Groups A performance-related bonus and pay review process for all employees is ability to continue to have appropriate variable remuneration and retention conducted annually and Long Term Incentive Plans, aligned with performance arrangements in place, which help drive strong business performance and metrics to deliver the Groups strategic goals and to enhance shareholder value impact the size of the local labour force with relevant experience and the are offered to critical high performers.
Regular benchmarking of reward and number of businesses competing for such talent.
There can be no incentive systems is performed to ensure they are competitive.
assurance that the Group will be successful in attracting and retaining the personnel it requires, which may adversely affect the Groups ability to We continue to enhance our talent management approach and maintain a conduct its business through an inability to execute business operations rigorous in-house recruitment and selection process.
A training budget and strategies effectively.
coordinated centrally allows a coordinated approach to development across the Group.
Development opportunities are provided for all employees with additional investment offered to identified key talent and executives as well as coaches for key senior successors.
The Group undertakes comprehensive annual reviews of critical roles, succession, talent pipelines and risk analysis to minimise the impact of the loss of key staff critical to the operation of the business.
There is a focus on internal moves, key external hires and an approach to succession which is reviewed by the Nominations Committee which is responsible for considering succession plans for key senior positions.
For more information, see Our wider responsibility on pages 36 37 and Remuneration Report on pages 70 95.
