London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Risk Management oversight The management of risk is fundamental to the successful execution Maintaining operational stability by facilitating orderly market operations: of our Strategic Plan and to the resilience of our operations.
the Groups operations are delivered in a secure and efficient manner The Group adopts a proactive approach to risk management.
without disruption During 2016 the Group successfully navigated a number of major Maintaining stakeholder confidence: the Groups stakeholders have geopolitical events ensuring continuity of the Groups standards confidence in its ability to deliver its strategic objectives with robust and in the support and servicing of key markets and clients.
effective governance and operational controls LSEGs Risk Culture Group Risk Appetite While our formal risk framework codifies the objectives and practices that govern LSEGs Risk Appetite is defined as the level of risk that the Group will accept in our processes, our risk culture determines the manner in which we manage risks pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The Group Risk Appetite Statement, proposed every day.
by the Executive Committee, is approved by the Board at least annually and is determined in conjunction with the Groups strategy and aligned to the Strategic Our management culture embeds risk awareness, transparency and accountability.
The components of Risk Appetite that relate to CCPs are also A strong emphasis is placed on the timely identification and reporting of risk approved by the Boards of each CCP within the Group, in compliance with EMIR exposures and in the strategic analysis of prevailing or anticipated risks.
The responsibility for identifying and managing risks rests with management and with the Executive Committee, with independent oversight from our Group The Group Risk Appetite is cascaded down to each business unit.
Regular Risk Management Team and from the Group Board Risk Committee.
Our risk reporting at both Group and Business Unit levels uses Risk Appetite as a culture is one of our most fundamental tools for effective risk management.
benchmark that can then be incorporated into the Group Risk Policy Framework.
Our behaviour framework feeds into the criteria that we use to assess the effectiveness of our risk culture and the communication, escalation and use Risks that are outside Risk Appetite are escalated to Executive Committee members of risk analysis to make strategic decisions.
and to the appropriate Risk Committee.
The Risk Appetite status is also reported to the Board Risk Committee and to the Board for all aggregated Group risks.
Strategic Risk Objectives LSEGs Strategic Risk Objectives derive from the strategy of the Group, which is 3 Lines of Defence defined annually by the Board.
The risk objectives of the Group are as follows: LSEGs risk control structure is based on the 3 lines of defence model: Maintaining a strong risk culture throughout the Group: the Risk The First line Management is responsible and accountable for identifying, Management Framework is embedded within divisions and functions assessing and managing risk Maintaining stable earnings growth: the strategic growth of the business is The Second line Risk Management and Compliance is responsible for delivered in a controlled manner with long-term value enhancement and low defining the Risk Management process and policy framework, providing volatility of underlying profitability challenge to the first line on Risk Management activities, assessing risks and reporting to the Group Board Committees on risk exposure Maintaining capital requirements: the Group has sufficient capital resources to meet regulatory requirements, to cover unexpected losses and to meet the The Third line Internal Audit provides independent assurance to the Board Groups strategic ambitions and other key stakeholders over the effectiveness of the systems of controls and the Enterprise Risk Management Framework Maintaining liquidity: the Group retains or has adequate access to funding to meet its obligations, taking into account the availability of funds Overall Risk Assessment Adhering to regulatory requirements: the Group conducts activities at all Key risk categories include strategic, operational, and financial risks, the latter times in full compliance with its regulatory obligations including credit, clearing and market risks.
We recognise that each of these risks, if not properly managed and or mitigated, could have an impact on the Group and on its subsidiaries reputation.
Indications of the relative sizes of these risk types are shown overleaf.
LSEG Risk Appetite Components Risk Management Approach Risk Culture Our approach to managing risks includes a bottom up and a top down approach.
Key external and internal factors are stress tested across our Group operations to STRATEGIC RISKS assess the potential impact on the financial results, strategic plans and operational resilience.
Stakeholder confidence The risk function is centralised at the Group level with the exception of the CCPs where each clearing house has its own risk team in compliance with the EMIR Earnings requirements.
The functions main role is to maintain a fit for purpose Group FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL Enterprise Risk Management Framework and recommend to the Risk Committee and to the Board Risk Appetite statements.
It also reviews and monitors the risk profile of the Group and of its subsidiaries and ensures it remains within Risk Capital Appetite.
The function supports the Risk Committee members by providing reports on the Groups risk profile and timely escalation of exceptions.
It also monitors compliance with rules and regulations and develops and maintains Group Liquidity frameworks to facilitate the identification, assessment, reporting and monitoring of all the principal risks that could materially impact the reputation, financial Counterparty Concentration position or operations of the Group.
CCP Financial Resources 44 Compliance Operational Stability London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Strategic Report Risk Management oversight Risk Management Cycle The Groups Risk Management process is set out in the Risk Management Cycle.
LSEG Risk Management Cycle The key to the cycle is that it both begins with, and feeds back to, the Business Business Strategy which is ultimately determined by both internal and external drivers.
Strategy This ensures that the management and assessment of risk remains a fundamental component of the Groups strategic decision making process.
Risk management activity supports the Economic Capital business strategy The Group has developed an economic capital model that enables the Group to consistently assess risk and the economic effects of risk-taking activities.
The components of the model and their relative contribution to total Group Risk Risk economic capital are shown in the chart below.
The Operational risk component, Monitoring Appetite which represents the majority of the Groups economic capital, is quantified with an Advanced Measurement Approach AMA using a hybrid approach of internal Monitor and report The level of risk scenario loss data and scaled external loss data.
on our risks that LSEG is willing to accept in pursuit of our strategy LSEG Economic Capital Components Risk Risk Capture Policies Credit Risk Identify all key Minimum Clearing Risk risk exposures standards for our Market Risk people and monitor Operational Risk compliance Strategic Risk Stress Testing Capabilities and Viability Statement The Groups viability statement is underpinned by the Groups stress testing process.
Under this process, a set of severe but plausible scenarios appropriate to the business of the Group and reflecting our principal risks are defined by Current Risk Focus Management, and the financial impact of each on the Group is quantified.
Current risks on which we continue to focus relate to: The stress test scenarios may be updated during the year where the external environment changes.
Geopolitical Uncertainty: Political uncertainty has been a key risk theme for the Group during 2016 and will persist during 2017, most notably with respect A three year horizon is used for LSEGs financial viability statement, consistent to the timing, progress and outcome of the negotiation process of the UKs with the Groups strategic planning cycle.
The scenario impacts were evaluated relationship with the EU.
General elections in the EU and change of political on the Groups key financial metrics: liquidity headroom: leverage: interest cover: direction in the US introduce the potential for unexpected outcomes and may and regulatory capital headroom.
impact investors confidence Regulatory Change: The introduction of new regulations including MiFIR and In addition, a set of compounded stresses was evaluated to provide further MiFID II will affect the operations of the Group as well as those of our users confidence on the ongoing financial viability of the Group even under very and customers.
There will be a sizeable implementation impact as a result of highly stressed environments.
The process and final output of the stress tests the incoming regulation and increased regulatory risk was reviewed by management and by the Board and Audit Committee.
They also reviewed and discussed reverse stress testing, which was performed to Transformation: The size and complexity of the recent acquisitions, and assess what would be required to breach the Groups covenants.
potential future merger, increase the transformation risk, whilst delivering opportunities to compete on a global scale The Directors financial viability statement is contained in the Directors Report Liquidity: The repo market has been adversely affected by banks contracting on page 99. their balance sheets in response to forthcoming leverage restrictions.
This has impacted CCPs who use secured investments, such as reverse repos, CCP Risk Management and Oversight as mandated under EMIR, to maintain sufficient ongoing liquidity and Each of the Groups CCPs complies with the appropriate regulatory requirements.
immediate access to funds Consequently, they each manage their risk under the governance of their Board of Directors and of their internal risk management structure.
The Group monitors the Security and Resilience: The security and resilience of systems represents a CCPs aggregated risks positions by using tools that measure the overall exposure key global emerging risk to counterparty risk, credit risk including latent market risk where a default can The Group has an ongoing programme of development and enhancement of its result in a CCP having the market risk inherent in the defaulters portfolio and Enterprise Risk Management Framework ERMF.
The ERMF metrics and indicators liquidity risk.
It uses a bottom-up approach for the monitoring of operational risks.
include stress testing used to monitor risks against risk appetite to respond to emerging or expected risks.
The Groups CCPs are managed in accordance with our ERMF, which includes a focused CCP Financial Risk Policy, that specifies minimum risk standards for Going forward, we will continue to strengthen our Risk Management by building margin confidence level, default fund cover, liquidity, counterparty concentrations, on the frameworks we have put in place.
Accordingly, we believe the Group is well new member assessment, reporting and collateral.
This promotes consistency in positioned to exploit new opportunities in the year ahead.
the oversight of our clearing risks while protecting the independence of the CCPs risk management processes as required by relevant regulation.
45 London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2016 Risk Management oversight continued CCP Risk Management and Operations During 2016, the Groups CCPs faced a number of challenging, politically driven, The Groups CCPs interpose themselves between two counterparties in a trade market events, including the UKs decision to leave the European Union, and assume the legal counterparty risk for eligible transactions that are cleared presidential elections in the United States, and the Italian Constitutional referendum.
If either party defaults on the trade, the CCP becomes Through these turbulent times the Groups CCPs continued to successfully support accountable for the defaulters risk and associated liabilities.
key markets and its membership to their usual stringent standards.
Fundamental to a CCPs risk process is its collection of quality collateral from Further information on the Groups clearing related risk is contained in the clearing members and clients as security for potential defaulter risk.
The CCPs Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 50. have in place a variety of margin models, across asset classes, to calculate the collateral requirements appropriate to each members risk position.
Clearing LSEG Risk Governance Structure members are also required to pledge collateral to the default fund s, the overall The Risk Governance of the Group is as follows and presented diagrammatically size of which, for each clearing service, is computed to at least the Cover 2 level below: large enough to cover the two members that would create the largest liability The Board is responsible for determining the Group Risk Appetite.
The Board given a simultaneous default under extreme but plausible market conditions Risk Committee and the Audit Committee receive regular reports presenting and allocated across the members of the clearing service.
the aggregate risks of the whole Group measured against the Appetite The ERMF defines roles and responsibilities for risk management oversight The adequacy of the CCPs Financial Resources Margins and Default Fund and activities, including for the Board, the Executive Committee and contributions collected from its members is assessed on a daily basis and sub-Committees thereof reported regularly in accordance with the CCP Financial Risk Policy using Group Risk Appetite as a benchmark.
The Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures The Financial and Operational Risk Committees monitor and report on the PFMI produced by CPMI-IOSCO provide the minimum Risk Management risk profile of the Group: review and challenge the application of the Group standards that a CCP should apply: however, LSEG CCPs apply more stringent risk framework: recommend Risk Appetite Statements to the Executive margin confidence levels in most cases.
Committee and monitor compliance with the relevant risk policies The Group has a Business Continuity Management framework in place which If a clearing member fails, the collateral collected is used by a CCP to complete the is managed and maintained through a fully established Business Continuity trades and fulfil the failed organisations obligations.
This ensures that the party on Programme.
The Business Continuity Programme is overseen by the the other side of the trade is not negatively impacted by the default.
The margin is Business Continuity Board, a sub-committee of the Operational Risk calculated to cover market moves up to a certain confidence level.
If losses exceed the Committee.
The Business Continuity Board receives the self-certification defaulters financial resources, then under EMIR Regulation the CCP is required to results of all the Groups Business areas utilise a specified proportion of its own capital skin-in-the-game before it can utilise the assets of non-defaulters.
The skin-in-the game represents a proportion of the The New Product and Market Committee reviews and recommends business CCPs own capital that is sufficient to act as an incentive for CCPs to minimise the cases to the Executive Committee ensuring product innovation and new operational risk related to default management.
Once the skin-in-the-game has been market risks are appropriately identified and assessed exhausted, further losses are allocated to members via funded member contributions Each Group-level risk is owned by a member of the Executive Committee who is to a mutualised default fund for each asset class or group thereof followed by further responsible for managing or mitigating the risk in order to remain within Risk cash calls known as assessments and then a loss distribution waterfall set out in the Appetite.
The Board and the Risk Committee receive presentations on material CCP rulebook.
CCP operational risk is managed using a bottom-up approach and is risks and related mitigants as appropriate.
aligned with the Groups operational risk management approach.
The Reports of the Audit and of the Risk Committees, on pages 6469, provide details on the work carried out to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for risk management and systems of internal control.
LSEG Risk Governance FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE LSEG Board Audit Risk Committee Committee Executive Committee Financial Operational Risk New Products Committee Committee Committee Treasury Business Committee Continuity Board 46
