Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risk management An integrated approach Risk management is an essential component Our counterparty risk exposures at corporate Assessment of principal risks ofour approach, both to the management of and fund level are closely monitored.
The risk to The directors confirm that they have carried investment funds on behalf of investors, and the the Groups balance sheet from counterparty outa robust assessment of the principal risks management of Man Groups business on defaults remains low.
We are conscious, facing the Company, including those that would behalf of shareholders.
however, of the continued risk of individual threaten its business model, future performance, events or downturns in market sentiment and solvency or liquidity.
The directors describe Ultimate responsibility for risk management continue to take a conservative approach to these principal risks on pages 38 and 39 rests with Man Groups Board, however, counterparty selection.
andexplain how they are being managed accountability is embedded throughout all ormitigated.
Our risk management Man Group is subject to regulation on a framework requires that the business operates globalbasis: the Group continues to focus on Brexit within acceptable risk tolerances, as defined keeping our operational and risk management The UKs decision by referendum to exit from bythe Boards risk appetite.
Our governance frameworks appropriate for our evolving global the EU may lead to political, legal, tax and structure provides a foundation for ongoing business.
In the Principal risks and mitigants economic changes.
This may impact general oversight in a dynamic environment.
section on pages 38 to 39 we have noted a economic conditions in the UK and various Independent fund boards are responsible for number of regulatory developments.
protecting the interests of fund investors.
continues to evolve at different paces across the world.
It is not yet clear the extent to which EU Developments in 2016 regulations will remain applicable or will be Investment underperformance continues Our operating model is reliant on technology replaced by different UK regulations with tobethe biggest risk facing the Group.
therefore the heightened threat from cyber-crime respect to investment managers following Performance fees declined by 73% compared remains an area of increased focus for aUK exit from the EU or what legal or to 2015, as described on page 33.
cooperation arrangements the UK may has continued to bolster its broad range of putinplace with the EU.
investment styles and products in key markets.
We continue to seek the most efficient ways tofund our regulatory capital and liquidity A UK exit may impact investment managers This year the Group launched Man Global requirements.
In October, we began a share ability to access markets, make investments, Private Markets Man GPM.
Private market repurchase programme which will return attract and retain employees, enter into strategies are run in long duration funds, $100million of capital to shareholders.
As at agreements on its own behalf or on behalf of increasing FUM longevity, while continuing 31 December 2016, the programme was its funds or continue to work with non-UK todiversify Mans product offering.
GPMwill over time develop strategies across privatemarkets such as real estate, credit, and infrastructure.
As part of this strategy a number Man Groups governance of key hires were made in 2016, along with the announcement of the Aalto acquisition.
The committees below have been given a mandate by the Board and the CEO to oversee The expansion of our diversified the risk management framework.
These committees provide assurance to the Board that productoffering is supported by our balance risk has been managed according to the risk appetite statements.
sheet, which we have utilised to continue the Groupsseeding programme.
2016 has seen Board the launch of several new funds including the GLG Emerging Markets Debt strategy and AHL CEO Audit and Risk Committee Oxon.
Whilst the Group is exposed to a decline The Audit and Risk Committee ARCom is a in the value of seed investments, supporting the Executive Committee committee of the Board which has oversight development of new products will increase and oftheassurance functions see page 56 for The Executive Committee is accountable diversify revenues.
forallrisks assumed in the business and is responsible for the execution of appropriate risk Markets in 2016 have been characterised management discipline.
In June, following the UKs EU membership referendum, credit spreads widened and the value of the British Pound fell sharply.
The US presidential Risk and Finance Committee electionresulted in short-lived market volatility, a stronger US Dollar and increased yields on The Risk and Finance Committee RAF oversees the operational, regulatory and reputational risks US Treasuries.
facedby the Group and the internal control environment.
It also approves actual and contingent use of the Group Balance Sheet and monitors the adequacy of economic capital and liquiditybuffers.
The RAF is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer CFO.
36 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Mans risk appetite statements Viability statement The plan is also stress tested in a The risk appetite statements are set by the The Directors confirm that they have a numberofdownside scenarios as part Board and cover all significant risk categories.
reasonable expectation that the Group will ofthe Groups Internal Capital Adequacy They apply to both the investment management continue to operate and meet its liabilities, Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Board functions and Man Group itself.
The statements as they fall due, for the next three years.
also receives regular updates throughout express the Boards appetite for risk, promote a Athree year period was selected as this is the year of the internally assessed level of risk aware culture and set out objectives and consistent with the Groups business economic capital requirement, relative to boundaries for Man Groups business.
The Directors assessment has been The Medium-Term Plan and ICAAP The primary goal of risk management is madewith reference to the Groups assessments are augmented throughout tosupport the achievement of the Groups currentposition and prospects, the Groups the year by regular briefings at the Audit objectives by encouraging an appropriate strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the andRisk Committee by business unit balance between risk-seeking and risk-averse Groups principal risks and how these are headson strategy, risk and controls, as activities, in a controlled and regulatory managed, as described in this section of the wellas dashboards across risk, compliance, compliant context.
The principal risks are linked finance and internal audit.
The principal risks to each of the Groups strategic priorities, as are considered within the Boards risk The governance framework and control shown on pages 12 to 13. appetite framework.
environment within the Group have been The strategy and associated principal risks designed to manage risks in accordance with form the basis of the Groups Medium-Term risk appetite.
The Board and ARCom receive Plan.
This covers a three year period, and regular reporting on the Groups risk profile and includes downside scenario testing.
In the event that The Groups Medium-Term Plan is built breaches to risk appetite occur, these will be byaggregating the expected business resolved in line with the Groups procedures performance across the Group, and then and processes.
The statements are reviewed stressing key business assumptions periodically by the Board.
particularly those regarding investment performance and fund flows.
A summary of theriskappetite statements is available at www.
Three lines of defence The overall risk management framework at Man Group is based on the three lines of defence 1st 2nd 3rd model, and is overseen by the Audit and Risk Committee as delegated by the Board.
Business The framework instils the principles of direct Management responsibility for risk management in each Compliance business unit.
Embedding accountability at thebusiness level is the first line of defence.
The business units are monitored by a number ofrisk control functions i. e. Risk, Compliance, In Business Risk Internal External which form the second line of defence.
Management Audit Audit The independent review and oversight provided by Internal Audit is the third line of defence, which independently evaluates the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management, Risk control and governance processes.
Operational 1 Management Although Man Group and the investors in its products are susceptible to losses, we believe ourrisk management framework supports long-term value through the process of 1 Includes the Groups financial controls framework risk-awaredecision making.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 37 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Our comprehensive risk framework Principal risks and mitigants includes strategic, financial and operational risks to both Man Group and our funds.
Risks Mitigants Status Man Groups investment businesses each have 2016 was a challenging year with volatile markets 1.
Investment underperformance risk Fund underperformance on an absolute basis, clearly defined investment processes designed and a number of significant political events leading to target and deliver on the investment mandate to varied performance across Mans funds.
relative to a benchmark or relative to peer groups would reduce FUM and may result in lower of each product.
We focus on hiring and retaining The discussion of Man Groups performance is on highly skilled professionals who are incentivised to subscriptions and higher redemptions.
This risk is pages 10 to 29. exacerbated at times of volatile markets.
This may perform within the parameters of their mandate.
also result in dissatisfied clients, negative press and Man Groups diversified range of products and reputational damage.
strategies across the alternatives marketplace mitigates the risk to the business from Lower FUM results in lower management fees and underperformance results in lower performance underperformance of any particular strategy.
Man Group conducts regular liquidity tests on its funds and endeavours to manage resources Adverse market moves and high volatility may sharply increase the demands on the liquid in such a way as to meet all demands for fund redemptions according to contractual terms.
resources in Man Groups funds.
Market stress and increased redemptions could result in the deterioration of fund liquidity and in the severest cases this could lead to the gating of funds.
Regulatory risk Man Group regularly conducts independent Man is experiencing an increase in the breadth reviews for all its products to assess compliance and complexity of regulations globally including the Regulatory risk is the risk that a change in laws and regulations will materially impact Man Group or the with regulations as they emerge and change.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II, Dodd Frank and the Senior Managers Certification sector or market within which it operates.
Man Group continues to liaise directly and Regime SMCR among others.
These may result Man Group offers an increasingly wide range of indirectly with competent authorities e. g. FCA, in an increase in regulatory risk in the short-term as investment products covering multiple strategies IOSCO, ESMA, HMT, NFA, DFSA and CSRC these regulations are implemented.
from a global network of offices.
It is licensed in through its Global Compliance department which multiple jurisdictions, which results in Man Group consists of 38 specialists covering Corporate, being subject to a matrix of regulations.
Investment Management, Sales and Marketing and FinancialCrime.
The Financial Conduct Authority in the UK is Man Groups lead regulator.
Requests for seeding capital are assessed on their Seeding book risks increased in 2016 reflecting 3.
Balance sheet market risk Man Group uses capital to seed new funds to build strategic rationale for the business.
Approvals are new funds added to the programme.
The seed granted by the Seed Investment Committee SIC, portfolio was not negatively affected by market our fund offering and expand product distribution.
Man Group is therefore exposed to a decline in value which is comprised of senior management, Risk volatility around Brexit.
Investments are subject to risk limits, of the seeding book.
Asset reallocations by the UK pension plan trustees an exit strategy and are hedged to a benchmark in 2015 2016 balanced the liabilities to UK gilt rates.
Man Group also underwrites the risks related to where appropriate.
The positions are monitored theUK defined benefit pension plan which closed The plan maintained a surplus throughout the year.
regularly by Group Risk and reviewed by the SIC.
to new members in 1999 and future accrual in 2011.
The plan is well funded, but is exposed to changes The UK pension plan has a low net exposure to equities and UK interest rates.
Longevity risk in net asset versus liability values.
remains, but is uncorrelated to Man Groups Volatile markets can place additional, often shortotherrisks.
term, demands on the balance sheet.
Man Group is exposed to having insufficient liquidity resources to Man Group has access to a revolving credit facility meet its obligations.
Risk and Control Self-Assessment RCSA is at Previous acquisitions have been integrated into the 4.
Operational risk Operational risk is defined as the risk resulting from the core of our assessment and management Groups governance and operating model.
An Aalto of operational risks.
Key risk indicators and integration project is underway and will be a priority inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, or from external events.
operational risk events are regularly reviewed.
Man Group continues to outsource a number of Man Groups operations team has implemented The Groups assessment of operational risk amethodology including KPI monitoring to confirm remains stable.
functions that were previously performed internally.
The risk is that the outsourced service providers that outsourced service providers are delivering asrequired.
do not perform as required, resulting in knock-on implications for our business as a whole.
Our Risk and Compliance teams independently Acquisitions into the Group introduce short-term review the businesses risk assessments including integration risks and the appropriateness of integration risks risk mitigation plans.
Internal Audit evaluates the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, control and governance processes.
38 Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Risks Mitigants Status Cyber-crime attacks are growing in terms of 5.
Information security risk We have deployed a number of preventative and Technology and information security are central to detective controls to defend our IT systems against scale and complexity as hackers continuously cyber-attack including regular staff training.
In 2016 this seek to circumvent software improvements.
Information security risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from cyber-crime, included social engineering, safe web browsing, social media and physical security.
malicious disruption to our networks or from the theft, misplacing, interception, corruption or deletion However, the fast pace of innovation by cyber-criminals of information.
makes it particularly challenging to assess the effectiveness of our defences and deliver protection against this increasing threat.
Discretionary trading risk Our operating model enforces strict segregation of This risk is inherent to active asset management duties.
Preventative and detective controls operated by and we see no change to this risk currently.
The risk that investment managers either intentionally or unintentionally fail to execute and or the Groups Compliance, Operations and Risk teams are in place.
book trades correctly, or fail to adhere to investment mandates or regulatory rules.
This includes insider Front office systems provide automated checks dealing and market abuse, misrepresenting trading and controls at portfolio and trade level.
Each positions trades and misallocation between funds.
investment management business has dedicated risk Man Group may need to compensate for management personnel who monitor portfolio profiles anylossesarising from such trades, as well and provide independent challenge.
as facethe possibility of fines, lawsuits and In addition all investment managers are subject to reputationaldamage.
thorough pre-employment checks and are required to undertake regular mandatory training.
Man Group diversifies its deposits across a number of Increased regulatory scrutiny and capital 7. Credit counterparty risk The risk that a counterparty with which the the strongest financial counterparties, each of which is requirements for investment banks has improved approved and regularly reviewed for creditworthiness the overall stability of Mans counterparties.
fundsorMan Group have financial transactions becomes distressed.
by the Counterparty Monitoring Committee CMC.
The Individual names had periods of heightened CMC also oversees contingency planning ahead of concern and these were monitored by the CMC.
Shareholders and investors in Man funds and significant market or political events.
products are exposed to credit risk of prime brokers, clearing houses, depository banks and The Group Risk function monitors the credit spreads guarantee providers.
and ratings of the approved counterparties on a dailybasis.
Man Group also provides loans to guaranteed Guaranteed products are closely monitored, and products, and so is subject to counterparty risk tocertain investor funds.
leverage is actively adjusted such that the risk of defaulton balance sheet loans to funds is small.
Legal risk Man Group operates a global legal framework The breadth of the Groups offering together which underpins all aspects of its business and is with the international nature of our business The global nature of Man Groups business, the expansion of its investment businesses and the resourced by experienced legal teams.
These teams means that new complex and extensive are physically located in Man Groups key trading regulations e. g. MiFID II are likely to create acquisition of new investment businesses, with corporate and fund entities located in multiple jurisdictions helping them to understand the context challenges for the Groups legal team.
and impact of any legal requirements.
jurisdictions and a diverse investor base makes Management is confident that the breadth and itsubject to a wide range of laws and regulations.
Emphasis is placed on proactively analysing new depth of the teams expertise means that the Failure to comply with these laws and regulations legaldevelopments to assess likely impacts and overall legal risk profile remains stable.
may put Man Group at risk of fines, lawsuits or mitigate risks.
In response to the financial crisis, an unprecedentednumber of new laws have arisen which are applicable to Man Group.
While the legislative response has been global, implementation is local which leads to variations of approach between key jurisdictions.
Our reputation is dependent on both our operational Man continues to enjoy a good reputation and 9.
Reputational risk The risk that an incident or negative publicity and fund performance.
Our governance and control this risk is assessed as stable.
structure helps mitigate operational concerns, and undermines our reputation as a leading alternative investment manager.
Reputational damage could our attention to people and investment processes are designed to comply with accepted standards of result in significant redemptions from our funds, and could lead to issues with external financing, credit investment management practice.
ratings and relations with our outsourcing providers.
Business and investment processes are designed In 2016, our CEO, Manny Roman decided to 10.
Key staff retention risk The risk that a key person to the business leaves with a view to minimise the impact of losing any step down.
Luke Ellis, previously President of keyindividuals.
the Group was appointed CEO.
Other key roles oris unable to perform their role.
were also filled by internal successors.
Succession plans and deferred compensation Retention risk increases in years of poor performance.
schemes are in place to support the retention of senior Man Group has continued to be able to attract investment professionals and key management.
and retain an array of talented individuals across the Group.
Voluntary staff turnover remains low.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2016 39
