Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Principal Risks and Uncertainties The following risks are, in the opinion of the Board, the principal risks which affect Marstons and are notlisted in any particular order of priority.
It isnotintended to be a complete analysis of all risks and may changeover time.
Strategic pillars Risk context The risk Potential impact affected Mitigation Disruption to key suppliers Disruption to trade Assessment of suppliers resilience and Business continuity 1 logistics, food, drink, impacting upon profit.
capacity during the tender process before 1 Marstons receives many of its or shortage of essential appointment.
supplies of goods and services commodities could from single sources.
4 Periodic supplier site visits to assess crisis significantly impact planning.
5 Contingency planning to switch products or services supplied.
Movement External events can be disruptive and require an effective response.
In 2015 Marstons was able to adapt quickly to a shortage of CO gas with minimum impact 2 onproduction.
Changes in regulation Increased regulation Maintain excellent levels of compliance Regulatory 1 4 impacting upon the cost affecting Marstons through training and monitoring.
2 Marstons operates across ofbusiness, or obstructing directly, or our heavily regulated areas Robust health and safety management systems.
suppliers, could alcohol licensing, food service, 2 5 Active consultation with Government, trade increase the cost alcohol production, transport, bodies and the BBPA.
of compliance and property development and 3 6 or damage our Risk and Compliance Committee monitors property management.
reputation proposed legislative changes and structures operations accordingly to minimise impact where possible.
Movement The Pubs Code introduced in 2016 has increased the legislative requirements for large pub companies such as Marstons when dealing with franchisees, tenants andlessees.
The Government announced that the National Living Wage would increase to 9.00 per hour by 2020.
Future increases in the National Minimum Wage or National Living Wage above inflation could continue beyond 2020.
Breaches of health and Significant damage Health and safety management systems.
Health and safety, 1 4 safety or food hygiene to reputation and 3 Dedicated health and safety managers.
including food regulations have in recent ultimately the value of Continual documented inspections.
hygiene years attracted media the Group could follow 2 5 attention and higher from a serious breach Well understood policies and procedures.
Escalation of potential threats to safety to seniormanagement.
Movement The increased diversity of our estate, the range of pub formats and the continued development of our menus can all increase the challenge of maintaining high standards of safety.
Recent trends in accident rates have shown a decrease, however the challenges posed by working in busy and evolving environments are continually changing.
Loss, theft Reduction in the Anti-virus and firewall protection.
Information 1 4 or corruption of data.
Denial effectiveness of 4 Access control, password protection and Technology of service.
Marstons has a heavy reliance interruption and 2 5 upon IT networks to operate Network controls and monitoring.
efficiently, process transactions Regulatory fine as Penetration testing and remediation.
3 aresult of the loss Backup procedures.
Data recovery plans and rehearsals.
Movement Global cyber risk threat remains and it is recognised that this risk will continue to evolve.
Theft of personal data is more common.
Marstons has conducted penetration testing on its network for many years.
Specific cyber risk reviews and internal audits have been conducted in recent years on IT governance, the protection of personal data by a team independent of our IT department, security of mobile phones and network attack monitoring.
Our six strategic pillars are: Offering the best consumer experience: quality, service, Operating a high quality pub estate 1 4 valueand innovation Targeting pub growth: investing in pub-restaurants and Premium pubs, Leadership in the beer market 2 5 further developing Franchise Increased investment in rooms Ensuring people are at the heart of our business 3 6 22 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Strategic pillars Risk context The risk Potential impact affected Mitigation Failure to attract or retain Financial targets and Training and induction programmes.
Our staff and licensees 2 the best people.
strategic objectives 5 Increased demand for high Development of our Ways of Working.
Marstons Staff appraisals and development operates in a very competitive 4 programmes.
environment: the achievement Staff engagement survey and identifying action of its strategic objectives has a 6 points for teams.
heavy reliance upon the quality of its managers.
Flexible agreements with our tenants and franchisees.
Movement The sustained growth in our business has allowed for improvements in training programmes, and given more opportunity for staff to progress.
The opening of our newly refurbished head office early in 2016 has provided an exciting and engaging environment, encouraging creativity amongst our staff and interaction between teams.
Breach of financial Loss of investor Detailed management accounts, budgets Financial covenants, covenants with our lenders.
1 6 pension fund deficit Inadequate funding of reputational damage.
Constant monitoring of financial ratios.
and accounting the pension scheme.
Potential loss as 2 Internal audit programme.
Incorrect reporting a result of fraud.
Breach of covenant, Annual external audit.
The Groups financial system 3 Unauthorised transactions.
resulting in additional has to handle a large number Extensive segregation of duties.
financial operating of transactions securely.
Access controls over the financial systems restrictions.
Accurate reporting of financial 5 accurately aligned with responsibilities.
results is key to running the Levels of authority appropriately authorised.
business effectively and critically important for compliance with Monitoring pension investment yields, financial covenants.
increasing contributions to the pension deficit based upon actuarial reports in order to clear the deficit within a reasonable timeframe.
Movement There are strong controls mitigating this risk to a low level.
There has been no change in the risk since last year.
Risk likelihood, control and impact Post mitigation Low Key control Impact of the risk Low priority Higher priority The Risk number corresponds to the Principal Risks.
Continuity The general profile of our highest risks is one of rising likelihood.
This includes high impact risks such as IT security and health and 1 safety.
All of the principal risks are however still considered to be Our staff well controlled despite the upward pressure.
licensees 4 3 2 5 Regulation Financial IT security Health andsafety 6 High control Low likelihood High likelihood 23
