Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Our Risks and Risk Management Risk management Key actions in 2016 The Corporate Risk Director operates an enterprise-wide risk management process in order to identify, monitor and report those risks Risk & Compliance Committee formed.
which are key to achieving the strategic objectives.
The key risks and Improved protection of personal data.
controls, and their ownership, are documented.
The effectiveness of the Internal audit strategy approved.
controls at reducing risk to an acceptable level is considered and reported to the Audit Committee.
Risk appetite Next steps for 2017 The Board have a clear understanding of the key risks which Marstons Strengthening our cyber protection monitoring.
faces, which is based upon the executive managements understanding of those risks and the effectiveness of the controls operated to manage Mapping our personal data.
This understanding instructs the Boards appetite for risk and Development of our crisis plans.
influences the strategy set by the Group in order to meet the aims of its Improving staff awareness of our whistleblowing procedure.
The Board regularly discuss internal and external factors which have a bearing on their appetite for risk.
The Audit Committee seeks assurance that risk is controlled within tolerance limits.
The executive management are tasked with producing reports Internal controls which provide sufficient information for the Board to continually assess The Board is responsible for the Group's systems of internal control and its risk appetite.
risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The extent of management reporting to the Board is sufficient for the Board to assess Risk documentation and assessment their risk appetite in the context of the risks and opportunities at any point Marstons has developed a portal on which to register all the key risks in time.
This allows the Board to make reasonable decisions enabling the of the business.
Each risk is attributed to an owner within the business Group to accomplish its strategic objectives and make Marstons who has visibility at all times of the current assessment of the risk.
The portal allows risks to be grouped and categorised so they are visible at appropriate management levels within the business.
Key controls The Board has performed a robust assessment of the principal risks and actions are attributed to risks and business owners.
The register of faced by the Group in achieving its strategic objectives.
The management risks on the portal is essential to the enterprise-wide risk management and mitigation of risk is delegated to the Executive Directors and other process at Marstons, allowing the complete range of risks to be senior management.
captured, from high impact corporate risks to more local site specific The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, and is risks.
The flexibility of reports from the portal is able to keep pace with responsible for the implementation of strategy, monitoring performance changes to risk and organisational changes.
and overseeing risk management and internal control.
Actions required The assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties is a continual are communicated to the senior managers across the Group.
The registration of these risks is Each operating division of the Group MIT MBC has a management made within the portal alongside the other key risks of the business.
committee which meets regularly to consider: the actions required for The selection of the principal risks is conducted by the executive Marstons to achieve its business objectives supported by Our Ways of management and the Board, with the assistance of the Corporate Risk Working taking into account all risks and opportunities, and whether any Director.
The principal risks are reported to the Board and the Audit improvements in controls are required.
Management are responsible for monitoring and reporting upon the effectiveness of the controls to the Board.
The managers assessment of the effectiveness of the key business controls is facilitated by Internal Audit and considered by the Board annually.
The key features of the internal control system are: a clearly defined management structure operating within a framework of policies and procedures covering authority levels, responsibilities and accountabilities: a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, with the annual Group budget and projections for future years being formally approved by the Board: established procedures for planning, approving and monitoring capital expenditure and major projects: Board approval is needed for all major investment, divestment and strategic plans and programmes: and at each meeting the Board reviews financial and non-financial progress towards the Groups goals.
Control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
By their nature, such systems provide only a reasonable and not absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of the law.
20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information The Leadership Group Business Continuity Steering Committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer chaired by the Corporate Risk Director The Leadership Group comprises the senior management team and The continuous operations of the Group are essential for the strategic provides a group perspective on areas of key importance, including: pillars to be achieved.
Marstons operations are heavily reliant upon its IT network and it is essential that the Group has effective contingency Financial performance plans were the network to be impeded.
The service of our customers Policies and practices is also reliant upon the continual supply of goods and services from Group Services our suppliers.
Corporate culture and values The Business Continuity Steering Committee considers the resilience of the Group to dealing with disruption.
Contingency plans are collected The Leadership Group provides a forum at a senior level, for the from across the business and stored on our portal: they are subject to a consideration of the key risks to the business, the control environment periodic review co-ordinated by the Committee.
The business impacts and the internal audit plan.
of disruption are considered with managers in order to guide our crisis Supporting Committees planning.
Our sites rehearse their response to incidents and emergency Marston's operates a number of supporting committees within its communication across the Group.
The contingency plans of our key governance framework in order to focus attention on particular areas of suppliers are also collected and assessed.
risk requiring senior management attention.
In recent years Marstons has shown a high degree of resilience to Risk & Compliance Committee external events which have not been allowed to disrupt operations.
chaired by the Group Secretary These include a flood at Cockermouth brewery in December 2015, and a The Committee is attended by a broad range of senior managers who shortage of CO gas in the UK during 2015 which required us to quickly 2 are best placed to understand the changing risk environment within adapt our production process to switch our reliance upon this gas.
which Marstons operates, including the Corporate Risk Director and Internal Audit Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee considers key corporate risks The Internal Audit function is managed by the Corporate Risk Director as well as emerging risks.
Aspects of legal compliance are considered and is independent of the operational functions of the Group.
The internal by the Committee particularly when legislation is emerging or now in audit strategy is risk based, so it focuses its attention upon the greatest operation such as The Pubs Code.
This ensures that senior management risks to the Group.
The strategy is approved by the Audit Committee and is more widely aware of the impact of emerging risks or new areas of aims to provide a sufficient level of assurance regarding the strength of compliance, and thereby can develop, or update, processes that meet the control environment as well as supporting continual improvement in those obligations within the required timeframe.
are informed when necessary on areas of risk and compliance by the Committee members.
The Committee reports to the Board to inform The Corporate Risk Director has a reporting line to the Group Secretary their assessment of risk.
who sits on the Executive Committee.
In addition, the Corporate Risk Director has access to all the Executive Committee members and meets Data Security Committee regularly with the Audit Committee Chairman throughout the year.
chaired by the Group Secretary The internal audit projects are planned with the assistance of senior The increased threat of data theft is recognised as a key risk by Marstons.
management and the Risk & Compliance Committee, and the results The Group has policies and practices in place in order to provide a high are reported to the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit also monitors legal level of protection regarding data.
The protection of the personal data of compliance, pub financial controls and health and safety practices on a our customers, employees and the public is treated as a priority.
held internally is protected by a firewall and there are policies on IT usage which provide a robust framework of controls.
The operation of these controls is tested by external penetration testing, annual PCI compliance accreditation, and specific cyber risk tests conducted by security experts.
The Data Security Committee is attended by relevant managers from across the business that have knowledge of the sensitivity of the data held, the controls protecting the data and Marstons legal obligations.
Data protection is an increasing risk because of a variety of factors.
Cyber attacks on UK corporates are on the increase: in a technology driven world the amount of personal data stored by companies is increasing, as are the legal obligations in preparation for the General Data Protection Regulation to be applied from 2018.
