STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management and Principal Risks Managing risk to deliver strategic objectives Managing risk is key to the delivery of long-term sustainable improvement inshareholder value.
All risks are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives.
Approach to risk management Achievements in 2016 Risk management is the responsibility of the Board and is a key In addition to the delivery of ongoing process and system factor in the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Board enhancements that are designed to mitigate risk, the Groups establishes the culture of effective risk management and is riskfunction has placed particular emphasis on the following areas responsible for maintaining appropriate systems and controls.
during the year: The Board sets the riskappetite and determines the policies and Capital structure.
A detailed review of the Groups capital structure procedures that are putinplace to mitigate exposure to risks.
has been undertaken to ensure it remains aligned with corporate Process growth objectives and the external market riskenvironment.
There is a formal ongoing process to identify, assess and analyse Cyber risk.
In light of increased cyber risk within the wider market, risks and those of a potentially significant nature are included in this has continued to be a major focus area for risk assessment.
The conclusion of the Groups internal Following the completion of a series of internal audit projects auditor, KPMG, is that the process continues to be a robust undertaken by KPMG, further improvements have been made mechanism for monitoring and controlling the Groups tomitigate risk, and improve IT security, business continuity principal risks.
The Group Risk Register is reviewed and updated at least every 6 Access to Funding.
This was included within the Groups principal months and the overall process is the subject of regular review.
Risks risks in 2015, but this year access to external funding has not been are recorded with a full analysis and risk owners are nominated who referred to separately due to a reduction in perceived risk.
This is due have authority and responsibility for assessing and managing the to our existing committed bank facilities and continuing operational risk.
All risks are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and cash generation, which has seen the Group become cash positive each risk is analysed for impact and probability to determine at31 December 2016. exposure and impact to the business and the determination of a gross risk score enables risk exposure to be prioritised.
External risks include the weather, political and economic conditions, the effect Priorities for 2017 oflegislation or other regulatory actions, the actions of competitors, The priorities for the Groups risk function in 2017 are: foreign exchange, raw material prices and pension funding.
Internal risks include investment in new products, new business strategies Cyber risk.
The rapid pace of change in the wider environment and acquisitions.
necessitates cyber risk remaining a key priority for 2017.
Further internal audit assignments are planned to ensure that the Group The Group seeks to mitigate exposure to all forms of strategic, remains proactive in this area.
financial and operational risk, both external and internal.
The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored Supply chain management.
Proactive supply chain management and such controls are subjected to internal audit and periodic continues to be a focus area for the Group against a background of testing in order to provide independent verification where this is wider economic uncertainty and anincreased risk of cost inflation.
The effectiveness and impact of key controls Health and safety.
This remains an area of focus as the Group are evaluated and this is used to determine a net risk score for continually strives to reduce health and safety risk and improve each risk.
The process is used to develop action plans that are used performance.
Additional staff training will be undertaken in 2017. to manage, or respond to, the risks and these are monitored and Significant increases in the financial penalty regime have increased reviewed on a regular basis by the Groups Audit Committee.
the potential impact of health and safety incidents.
20 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Framework Risk appetite The Group is prepared to accept a certain level of risk to remain competitive but continues to adopt a conservative approach to The Board determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the risk management.
The risk framework is robust and provides clarity procedures that are put in place to mitigate exposure to risk.
in determining the risks faced and the level of risk that we are prepared to accept.
Marshalls continues to put in place detailed The Audit Committee plans to manage all risks through strategies that are designed to has delegated responsibility from the Board to oversee risk either treat, transfer or terminate the source of the identified risk.
management and internal controls: Viability Statement reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control procedures: and After considering the principal risks overleaf, the Directors have monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the assessed the prospects of the Group over a longer period than independence of the external audit.
theperiod of at least 12months required by the going concern basis of accounting.
The Directors consider that the Groups risk Executive Directors Internal audit management process satisfies the requirements of provision are responsible for the independently review the C. 2.2ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code.
effectivemaintenance of effectiveness of internal theGroups Risk Register: controlprocedures: The Board considers annually, and on a rolling basis, a 3-year oversee the management report on effectiveness of strategic plan, which is assessed with reference to the Groups ofrisk: management actions: and current position and prospects, the strategic objectives and the monitor risk mitigation and provide assurance to the operation of the procedures and policies to manage the principal controls: and AuditCommittee.
risks that might threaten the business model, future performance monitor the effective and target capital structure.
In this assessment security, flexibility implementation of action plans.
andefficiency are the guiding principles that underpin the Groups capital structure objectives.
Operational managers are responsible for the identification of operational and strategic risks: The Board considers 3 years to be an appropriate period of are responsible for the ownership and control of specific risks: and assessment as this aligns with the Groups strategic plan and the Directors also consider that they have reasonable visibility of the are responsible for establishing and managing the implementation ofappropriate action plans.
A 3-year period is consequently considered appropriate forthe Viability Statement.
The Groups strategic plan includes an integrated model that incorporates income statement, Risk heatmap balance sheet and cash flow projections.
Key KPIs and financial ratios are reviewed along with the ongoing appropriateness of all assumptions used.
Scenario planning is undertaken along with 2 stress testing against downside sensitivities.
The stress testing reflects the principal risks that could conceivably threaten the Groups ability to continue operating as a going concern and has 4 critically assessed downside scenarios that might give rise to sales volume reductions, deteriorating operating margins and increases in interest rates.
None of the individual sensitivities applied impact the Directors assessment of viability.
The stress testing applied in 2016 9 8 6 1 reflects the more cautious economic outlook and theGroups detailed approach to capital structure and forecasting.
Amore 7 3 significant stress test sensitivity has been applied to reflect a 5 dramatic economic downturn and the Groups updated Risk Register, which identified external market factors as being the key risk.
The stress testing has aimed to replicate the financial impact of the last recession as the core sensitivity, with significantly reduced sales volumes giving rise toa 33 per cent decrease in revenue over the next 3 years.
LOW MEDIUM HIGH Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a LIKELIHOOD reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next 3 years.
1 Macro-economic 5 Competitor activity 7 Cost and availability andpolitical of rawmaterials Principal risks and uncertainties 6 Threat from new The Directors have undertaken a robust, systematic assessment 2 Weather technologies 8 Environmental and new business ofthe Groups principal risks.
These have been considered within 3 Cyber security risks 9 Corporate, legal models and regulatory thetimeframe of 3 years, which aligns with our Viability 4 Customers Statementabove.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 21 IMPACT LOW MEDIUM HIGH STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management and Principal Risks continued 1 2 3 Macro-economic Weather Cyber security risks andpolitical LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK The Group is dependent on the level of The Group is exposed to the impact of Inadequate controls and procedures over activity in its end markets.
Accordingly, it prolonged periods of bad weather.
the protection of intellectual property, is susceptible to economic downturn and sensitive employee information and POTENTIAL IMPACT the impact of Government policy.
Adverse working conditions could give The failure to improve controls against POTENTIAL IMPACT rise to disruption and delays that might Increased macro-economic uncertainty reduce short-term activity levels.
This cyber security risk quickly enough, giventhe rapid pace of change and the could lead to lower activity levels which could reduce sales and production could reduce sales and production volumes and therefore have an adverse continuing introduction of new threats.
volumes and therefore have an adverse effect on the Groups financial results.
POTENTIAL IMPACT effect on the Groups financial results.
MITIGATING FACTORS Risk of data loss causing financial Theimpact of exchange rate fluctuations The Group has a continuing focus on andreputationalrisk.
could also have an adverse impact on new product development, including MITIGATING FACTORS material costs.
Use of IT security policies.
MITIGATING FACTORS The Group is developing its internal The Group closely monitors trends The undertaking of regular cyber flooring offer and International strategy security risk audits by specialists and andlead indicators, invests in market in order to diversifyits activities.
research and is an active member thequick introduction of mitigation The development of the Groups controls and other recommended ofthe CPA.
The Group benefits from the diversity asignificant opportunity.
ofits business and end markets.
Sensitive data is currently restricted CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR toselected senior and experienced The Group focuses on sales employees who are used to handling opportunities and strategic growth such data.
initiatives, together with quality, Weather conditions are beyond serviceand its supply chain.
Where sensitive data is made available The Group focuses on its supplier to third parties it is done under relationships, flexible contracts and confidentiality agreements with theuse of hedging instruments.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR Given the perception of increased global This remains a high profile area and economic uncertainty, this risk has considerable focus is being given increased and this is reflected in wider topromoting awareness of IT economic forecasts.
There continues to be growth potential Appropriate tools and training procedures incertain focus areas, e. g. Rail, Water are in place to protect sensitive data Management and Street Furniture, and when stored and transmitted between forward indicators in the core business parties e. g. encryption of hard drives, remain positive.
restricted USBdevices, secure data transmission mechanisms and third party The economic outlook for the Eurozone security audits.
remains difficult, although proactive development of the product range continues to be positive.
Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Relationship building Brand development Sustainable profitability Organic expansion Effective capital structure andcontrolframework 22 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 4 5 6 Customers Competitor activity Threat from new technologies and new business models LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK The UK business has a number of key The Group has a number of existing Reduction in demand for traditional customers, in particular the national competitors who compete on range, products.
Risk of new competitors and merchants.
This is partly as a result of price, quality and service.
theconsolidated nature of this market.
Potential new low cost competitors may beattracted into the market through POTENTIAL IMPACT POTENTIAL IMPACT The loss of a significant customer may increased demand for imported natural The increased competition could stone products.
give rise to a significant adverse effect reducevolumes and margins on onthe Groups financial results.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATING FACTORS The increased competition could reduce MITIGATING FACTORS The Group focuses on brand and new volumes and margins on manufactured Good market intelligence.
product development, quality and and traded products.
Flexible business strategy able customer service improvement.
The Group maintains a national network The Group has unique selling points that Significant focus on research and of manufacturing and distribution sites.
differentiate the Marshalls branded offer.
The Group undertakes ongoing reviews The Group focuses on quality, service, Development of a digital strategy.
of trading policies and relationships and reliability and ethical standards that maintains constant communication CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR differentiate Marshalls from withcustomers.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR The Group continues to have the The ongoing diversification of the business, lowestcost to market.
the continued development of the Marshalls The Group has a continuing focus brand and the focus on new products and Although the underlying risk continues, onnew product development.
greater manufacturing efficiency continue the effective management of key tomitigate the risk.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR relationships and the ongoing diversificationof the business are servingto mitigate the risk.
The more uncertain market environment has not led to any significant changes in competitive pressure.
Although there is continuing demand for imported natural stone products, the fall inthe value of Sterling during 2016 has arguably reduced the competitive risk.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Marshalls plc 23 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk Management and Principal Risks continued 7 8 9 Cost and availability Environmental Corporate, of rawmaterials legal and regulatory LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY LINK TO STRATEGY NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK NATURE OF RISK The Group is susceptible to significant The impact of the Environmental The Group may be adversely affected increases in the price of raw materials, Protocol leads to the need for byanunexpected reputational event, utilities, fuel oil and haulage costs and increasingly expensive processes.
e. g. an issue in its ethical supply chain decreases in vehicleavailability.
ordueto ahealth and safety incident.
An environmental contamination As demand increases, the Group is eventmay lead to a prosecution and POTENTIAL IMPACT potentially more exposed to the risk of toreputational loss.
An incident could lead to a disruption temporary raw material shortages.
tothe supply of products for customers POTENTIAL IMPACT and toincreased costs as well as a POTENTIAL IMPACT An incident could lead to disruption to potential negative impact on the The increased costs could reduce production and to financial penalties as Groupsreputation.
marginsand may be further impacted in wellas a potential negative impact on the event of imbalances in the mix of theGroups reputation.
Significant increases in the penalty regime regional activity.
have increased the potential financial MITIGATING FACTORS impact of health and safety incidents.
The risk of market demand exceeding raw The Group uses professional specialists material supply could lead to inefficient covering carbon reduction, water MITIGATING FACTORS production, which could reduce margins.
The Group employs compliance procedures, policies and independent The Group focuses on the MITIGATING FACTORS audit processes which seek to ensure implementation of ISO standards.
The Group benefits from the diversity that local, national and international ofits business and end markets.
The Group has a formal Group regulatory and compliance procedures sustainability strategy focusing on The Group focuses on its supplier are fully complied with.
relationships, flexible contracts and the CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR use of hedging instruments.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR The Group utilises sales pricing and purchasing policies designed to The Group has undertaken internal The Group is unable to predict future mitigatethe risks.
restructuring to provide greater focus changes in environmental laws or policies The Group uses specialist forspecialist teams and continues to or the ultimate cost of compliance with deliveryvehicles.
improve compliance procedures within such laws or policies.
CHANGE IN RISK IN THE YEAR Health and safety and the potential impact of the Bribery Act continue to be Cost inflation remains a risk as demand high profile risk areas.
These areas are forraw materials increases against a receiving additional management focus, backdrop of increased economic but the impact of the underlying risk uncertainty.
All importers are faced hasincreased.
The risk of temporary shortages is mitigated by proactive supply chain management and the use of alternativesuppliers.
Strategic objectives: Shareholder value Relationship building Brand development Sustainable profitability Organic expansion Effective capital structure andcontrolframework 24 Marshalls plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
