F O R E I G G N N E X B I C R N H N A A N N A G E L D & P G & L & O S B A Y E L G L E E L C T O N A O R M T Y S T S S E D R O N N U U L O R A P C C I S T 27 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 OUR PERFORMANCE RISK MANAGEMENT As with any business, we face risks and uncertainties on a daily basis.
Eff ective risk management places us in a better position to be able to achieve our strategic objectives.
APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT KEY AREAS OF FOCUS under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The statement is designed to strengthen The Board is accountable for carrying This year the Group Board has placed stewardship and to encourage directors out a robust assessment of the principal signi cant focus on fide ning our risk to focus on the longer term.
Further detail risks facing the Company, including those appetite.
At the highest level, this is an on this can be found on page 47. threatening its business model, future expression of the types and amount of performance, solvency and liquidity.
risk we are willing to take or accept to PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES On behalf of the Board, the Audit achieve our strategic and operational Committee reviews the eff ectiveness objectives.
It is a key consideration in Overleaf are details of our principal risks of the Group risk management processes.
decision-making across the Group and and uncertainties and the key mitigating helps us fide ne the mitigating activities activities in place to address them.
It is Each business area is responsible for required to manage our risks.
recognised that the Group is exposed to formally identifying and assessing their risks wider than those listed.
We disclose risks half-yearly, measuring them against Following on from last years progress, those we believe are likely to have the a fide ned set of criteria, and considering we have taken our risk appetite work greatest impact on our business at this likelihood of occurrence and potential a step further and the Board has agreed moment in time and which have been impact to the Group.
The Group Risk a set of Group-level appetite statements.
the subject of debate at recent Board function facilitates a similar exercise with The purpose of these is to articulate the or Audit Committee meetings.
Executive Board members, combining Boards desired risk-taking approach, information to provide a consolidated and to support the business in its To achieve a holistic view of the risks view.
The top risks based on likelihood management of a number of principal risks.
facing our business, we consider those and impact as illustrated below form our The current statements summarise normal that are external to our business, core Group Risk Pro le, which is reported to the risk parameters within which the Group to our day-to-day operation, related to Executive Board for review and challenge, already operates: as our business evolves business change activity, and those that ahead of final review and approval by the we will continue to re ne our risk appetite could emerge in the future.
These principal risks are then statements and approach.
Further detail The diagram below maps our principal risks subject to Board discussion during the can be found on page 48. to our business model.
This mapping helps course of the year, as appropriate.
During 2015 16, the directors also assessed us assess and manage risk, and provides a To drive continuous improvement across the long-term viability of the Company greater understanding of our principal risks the business, the Executive Board monitors in the context of its principal risks.
The in the context of our business operations, the ongoing status of action plans against inclusion of a Viability Statement in Annual including their broader in uence on key risks quarterly.
Reports from 2016 is a new requirement viability, as discussed above.
RISK LIKELIHOOD AND IMPACT RISK AND OUR BUSINESS MODEL Identi cation Risks highlighted and G G 2 1 documented in a CHANGING CLOTHING & HOME G CONSUMER TRANSFORMATION centrally managed BEHAVIOURS 3 BUSINESS risk register TRANSFORMATION N PLAN A 4 CLOTHING & G G HOME SUPPLY Assessment INSPIRATION CHAIN AND LOGISTICS Aim to excite Risks assessed in NETWORK and inspire our customers terms of likelihood 5 of occurrence and IT IN TOUCH CORE INNOVATION N N INTEGRATION N PURPOSE Listen Aim to potential impact MAKING actively improve EVERY on the Group and act things for 11 MOMENT thoughtfully the better SPECIAL M&S.
COM BUSINESS RESILIENCE INTEGRITY Mitigation Strive to do N the right thing 10 6 Required actions INTERNATIONAL FOOD COMPETITION are agreed and PLAN A 9 assigned, with MINOR MODERATE MAJOR CRITICAL CYBER INFORMATION target deadlines SECURITY 8 7 and quarterly IMPACT CLOTHING & FOOD SAFETY HOME ETHICAL AND INTEGRITY status updates SOURCING G N GROSS RISK LEVEL BEFORE MITIGATION NET RISK LEVEL AFTER MITIGATION E I L E O & R P O B I & C U O N S Y E T S I L D E E G V E A B L R G E O X N I T E P & & E D V E S R I E G S N LIKELIHOOD UNLIKELY POSSIBLE LIKELY ALMOST CERTAIN FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 28 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE RISK MANAGEMENT EXTERNAL RISKS In the table below we disclose 11 Whilst these risks are beyond our direct of terrorism have the potential to signi cantly in uenced by uctuations principal risks that may impact control, we recognise the importance impact consumer con dence and in foreign exchange rates.
As part of our business and are strategic or of operating a business model that retail spending on a global scale.
these broader risk factors we have operational in nature.
In addition to has the potential to ex and adapt to Deterioration in Foreign Exchange & speci cally considered the implications these a number of inter-dependent a changing external environment.
Global Economy would not only aff ect of Brexit in terms of the signi cant external risks are also the subject of The first external risk is Sociopolitical consumer con dence in terms of the economic uncertainty that exists in discussion at Group Board and Audit Unrest, where ongoing geopolitical global economy, but the performance advance of the upcoming referendum Committee meetings, as appropriate.
uncertainty, social unrest or the threat of our International business is also on Britains EU membership.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Key to change in risk level Higher Level Lower Nr New risk RISK DESCRIPTION CHANGE IN 2015 16 MITIGATING ACTIVITIES CLOTHING & HOME As we reassert our Clothing Whilst signi cant focus has Workstreams in place addressing product, price TRANSFORMATION & Home quality and style been placed on improving and process.
1 credentials and work to improve product style and quality, Ongoing engagement with customers through data Our future availability, it is important the bene t has yet to be seen gathered by our Customer Insight Unit and focus performance is that we understand and in our sales performance.
groups, regularly shared with key areas of the business.
impacted by a lack address our customers needs Transforming our Clothing Ongoing dashboard monitoring of brand momentum.
of improvement in in order to strengthen brand & Home business to improve Continued focus on product quality and style, product relevance, recognition in an increasingly performance remains a key including adherence to our Clothing Quality Charter.
execution or brand competitive market.
momentum CHANGING Consumer behaviours Changing consumer M&S Venture Lab in place to keep us at the forefront CONSUMER continue to evolve at pace: behaviours is a newly added of technological developments.
2 BEHAVIOURS the proliferation of diff erent risk in recognition of the need Customer Insight Unit and focus groups monitor purchasing channels has been to remain exible in a highly changes in consumer behaviours on an ongoing basis.
Our business unprecedented in recent years.
If we fail Channel strategy regularly reviewed at Board level.
performance will be Nr We need to anticipate changes to meet the expectations Financial modelling of projected channel impacted if we fail in the way our customers shop, of our customers in terms performance to facilitate proactive management to keep pace with including advances in digital of digital advances or the of the store portfolio.
To leverage accessibility of our store behaviours performance and keep pace network this could have a with our competitors, we must signi cant impact on our proactively manage our future performance.
property portfolio and operate a exible business model.
BUSINESS Our business is in a period The addition of Business Business transformation regularly discussed TRANSFORMATION of signi cant transformation, transformation recognises by the Group Board.
3 driven by a variety of internal the importance of ensuring Employee Communications team engaged to As we strive to and external factors.
that our business remains manage associated employee messaging.
transform our Eff ective management and organisationally and Robust programme management practices in place.
business, we must Nr implementation of associated operationally effi cient in an Consultation with Business Involvement Group on ensure that the people and process changes increasingly competitive retail changes related to our peo.
changes we make will be critical, whilst ensuring market, as we continue to are implemented that our day-to-day operations address ongoing performance eff ectively are not adversely impacted.
challenges and enter a new chapter in our history under the leadership of a new CEO.
CLOTHING & HOME The growth of our business 2015 16 saw signi cant Ongoing simpli cation and stabilisation of Castle SUPPLY CHAIN and achievement of strategic progress towards achieving Donington distribution centre.
4 AND LOGISTICS objectives is highly contingent our Clothing & Home supply Phased approach to distribution centre transformation.
NETWORK on the successful execution chain and logistics strategy.
Supply Chain Leadership Group created, supported by of our Clothing & Home supply Our Castle Donington changes to Supply Chain & Logistics accountabilities.
We fail to evolve chain and logistics network distribution centre stabilised Robust programme governance in place, including our supply chainand strategy, the most recent stage and we continued to progress interdependencies with other Group initiatives.
logistics network of which was the launch of with the redevelopment of Ongoing review of progress against agreed to maximise our redeveloped Bradford our Bradford distribution centre.
availability for our distribution centre.
We also rede ned Supply Chain customers and & Logistics accountabilities.
speed up delivery times IT INTEGRATION Our business operates using IT integration is a newly added Proactive simpli cation of IT infrastructure and a large number of complex risk.
Following a period of application landscape through: 5 Business processes and interdependent systems.
investment in technology, Clearly fide ned technology roadmaps for all are not adequately The eff ective integration of there is scope to improve the business areas: and supported as a these is reliant on us having integration between systems Decommissioning of legacy systems.
result of poorly Nr access to and leveraging the to leverage associated bene ts, Clear decision-making process for system changes, integrated IT right skillset, coupled with a drive our business forward and including established IT Change Approval Board.
systems culture of operational precision.
29 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 FIND OUT MORE See our Audit Committee Report on p42-46 Read Risk in action on p47-48 RISK DESCRIPTION CHANGE IN 2015 16 MITIGATING ACTIVITIES FOOD The food market continues to The food market has remained Signi cant focus on product newness and innovation COMPETITION evolve in response to changing challenging in 2015 16.
In to retain point of diff erence and drive customer loyalty.
6 customer behaviours and the response to this we continue Continued focus on product availability for Loss of market increasing in uence of the to monitor our price positioning our customers.
share, due to continental discounters.
and to leverage our strengths.
Regular review of price positioning.
market price The ongoing polarisation Simply Food expansion to provide convenience fide ation or between value and premium for our customers.
changes in the means it is important that we Review of key lines to improve comparability competitive continue to provide a point of with competitors.
landscape diff erence through newness, product quality and innovation, as well as convenience.
FOOD SAFETY As a leading retailer of quality The external pressures facing Dedicated team responsible for ensuring that AND INTEGRITY fresh food, it is of paramount the food industry continued all products are safe for consumption through 7 importance that we eff ectively to evolve in 2015 16.
Fraudulent rigorous controls and processes.
A food safety or manage safety and integrity, behaviour in the supply chain Continuous focus on product quality.
integrity related especially as we grow our global remains a signi cant risk, Proactive horizon scanning, including focus incident occurs food business and given the whilst regulatory requirements on fraud and adulteration.
or is not eff ectively risk of fraudulent behaviour in are becoming increasingly Robust store, supplier and depot auditing managed the supply chain.
However, in response, programme in place.
our strong control environment Crisis management plan in place.
CLOTHING & The promotional nature of The Clothing & Home margin Clearly fide ned sourcing policies and procedures.
HOME ETHICAL the retail environment, risk included in last years Mature supplier ethical auditing programme in place, 8 SOURCING coupled with inherent cost base report has been replaced by involving independent third party auditors.
pressures, make achievement this Clothing & Home ethical Regional compliance teams providing ongoing Our ethical of margin targets a key objective sourcing risk.
standards continue Nr for the business.
Against this the importance of our strong Factory listening groups in place.
to be of high background, it is critically ethical behaviours and the Member of the Ethical Trading Initiative.
importance as important that we maintain our role they play in achieving we make changes high ethical standards and the our business objectives as to our sourcing strong control environment we continue to improve our strategy under which we operate.
CYBER The business is subject 2015 16 saw a number of major Security controls in place including policies, INFORMATION to external threats from organisations subjected to procedures and security technologies.
9 SECURITY hackers or viruses, or cyber-attacks.
The external Ongoing monitoring of developments in cyber sensitive data is accessed threat pro le is ever changing, security threats, engaging with third party We experience without authorisation.
and the regulatory environment specialists where appropriate.
a major breach supporting data protection is Control of sensitive data through limited and in cyber, system also becoming more stringent.
monitored access and the roll-out of systems or information possessing enhanced security.
security Established team dedicated to managing security requirements for M&S.
INTERNATIONAL To drive pro table growth, International performance Geographic spread mitigates against localised we need to ensure that our has remained challenging in geo-political or economic risks.
10 The performance infrastructure and underlying 2015 16.
We are working to Local market knowledge provided by franchise of our International processes and systems are improve all aspects of our and joint venture partnerships.
business and suffi ciently robust, and that International business Performance monitoring by region, country and ful lment of our our brand resonates across including our business model, store, including focus on like-for-like performance strategy is aff ected international markets.
supply chain, systems and the and action planning for poor performing stores.
by a lack of brand skillset of our people.
International representation in key Group initiatives.
COM As our online traffi c grows and Whilst this risk continues to Dual site M&S.
com command centre operates 24 7 BUSINESS our network infrastructure and be important especially as to monitor website availability and performance.
11 RESILIENCE operating model evolve, it is online traffi c grows, the Social media monitored to observe and respond to increasingly important to ensure resilience and performance trends in customer experience.
com business and of our M&S.
com platform and Business continuity plans, incident reporting and of our M&S.
com key dependencies are resilient.
Castle Donington distribution management procedures are well established platform or at our centre have improved and tested, with regular monitoring including Castle Donington signi cantly in 2015 16. quarterly Business Continuity Committee meetings.
distribution centre Proven resilience plans in place for the impacts our ability M&S.
to trade online Notes: The Group Risk Pro le will evolve as mitigating activities reduce net risk over time, or as new risks emerge.
Three new risks have been added to the Group Risk Pro le since the prior year IT integration, Changing consumer behaviours and Business transformation : the remaining risks have essentially remained the same, with the exception of one risk where the emphasis has changed from Clothing & Home margin to Clothing & Home ethical sourcing.
Four risks have been removed from the Group Risk Pro le since the prior year Our people, staff retention, IT change and Programme and workstream management.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and the numerical referencing does not denote an order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse eff ect on the business.
These less material risks are kept in view in case their likelihood or impact should show signs of increasing.
Further information on the financial risks we face and how they are managed is provided on pages 113-116.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
