Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISKS and uncertainties MERLIN'S RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK OVERSIGHT - THE BOARD TOP DOWN Overall responsibility for risk management and internal control systems Sets strategic objectives and defines risk appetite Provides tone and direction for risk management processes Monitors risks against Group strategy to ensure they are proportionate and considered MONITORING AND REPORTING - REGULAR UPDATES TO THE BOARD Commercial and Strategic Risk Health, Safety and Security Audit Committee Management Committee HSS Committee Oversight, Chaired by the CFO Chaired by the Group Chairman Chaired by a Non-executive Director identification, Members from the Members from the Board and Members are Non-executive Directors assessment Executive Committee Executive Committee and mitigation at corporate Meets quarterly Meets four times a year Meets five times a year level Responsible for oversight and guidance Responsible for the promotion of a Responsible for ensuring that the on the identification, mitigation and positive and proactive safety culture to Group meets its external financial monitoring of commercial risk.
ensure that the Group complies with reporting and compliance obligations, legislation, meets or exceeds industry manages the mitigation of financial risks standards and above all safeguards as well as assessing the effectiveness of our guests, employees, visitors and the Groups overall approach to risk contractors within our care.
Oversight of the treatment of animals Oversight and guidance on the Oversight and guidance on the in our care to ensure we meet the high identification, mitigation and monitoring identification, mitigation and standards our stakeholders expect.
of risks in connection with HSS.
monitoring of risks in connection with financial management.
Annual review of the output of attractions and central functions risk assessment workshops.
Participation in the regular cycle of HSS, strategic, and operational reviews, to assess whether material changes in the external landscape or recent trading trends require an alternative approach to monitoring and managing risk.
INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Management Structure Identification, assessment Strategic Planning, Risk Management and mitigation and Business Performance Monitoring at attraction and function Policies and Procedures level Controls - Financial, Operational, IT, HSS, Business continuity RISKS BOTTOM OPERATIONAL SAFETY SECURITY ANIMAL WELFARE UP MARKET FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGICAL ENVIRONMENTAL 47 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISKS and uncertainties The Board gains assurance over risk management systems Risk appetite from the regular reporting it receives on the structured internal In fulfilling the Groups strategy, proportionate and considered assurance programmes covering both financial processes and commercial risks are taken to maximise profitable growth and health, safety and security controls across the Group.
In addition, sustainable returns for its investors.
The amount of risk the Group independent third party subject matter experts are also used for is willing to take to achieve such commercial success must never detailed reviews concerning specific risk issues.
compromise the health, safety and security of guests, employees, contractors, animals or other visitors.
It must also be aligned Internal control framework with the Groups policies on sustainability and the environment.
Our internal control framework is designed to ensure: proper financial records are maintained: Quantitative and qualitative measures are used to ensure there the Group's assets are safeguarded: is effective governance, monitoring and measurement of the compliance with laws, regulations and policies and procedures Groups appetite for risk.
Quantitative measures include defined including those relating to health and safety matters: and financial and non-financial targets such as EBITDA, ROCE, and effective and efficient operation of business processes.
Qualitative measures consider items such as reputational impact and compliance with laws The framework is supported by The Merlin Way, our corporate and regulations.
values, which underpin everything we do.
It is the Board's aim that these values should drive good behaviours and actions by In assessing the principal risks the Group faces, the risk appetite all employees.
parameters set by the Board fall into two distinct categories: Compliance risk - this covers the requirement to comply with The key elements of the internal control framework are legislative or regulatory requirements in all territories where described below: the Group operates.
It includes, but is not limited to, ride safety, accounting practices, fraud and bribery, as well Management structure as ensuring compliance with the Groups values and ethical Our management structure has clearly defined reporting lines, principles.
In these circumstances the Board is risk averse and accountabilities and authority levels.
The principal operating does not countenance any breaches in compliance obligations.
business units are led by a member of the Executive Committee Commercial risk - this covers the willing acceptance of a risk and each attraction has its own senior leadership team.
The Group manages this type of risk by employing an appropriate analysis of threats and Strategic planning, risk management and business opportunities together with structured review processes, performance monitoring independent expert opinions and decision-making authority Our five year strategic plan being the current year together with levels.
Factors such as the scale of possible commercial four future years is updated by management and reviewed by upside, the potential market size, the quantum of downside the Board annually.
This also includes an assessment of how the risk and timescales involved may all be relevant to principal risks could prevent strategic objectives being achieved.
Business objectives and performance measures are set Risk management annually together with budgets and forecasts.
Regular business Attraction and central function risk registers record the principal performance reviews are conducted at both Operating Group risks faced for each of the following three components: health, and individual attraction level.
safety and security: commercial and strategic: and financial process.
The registers include a risk rating based on an Our pipeline for the delivery of new attractions is reviewed assessment of likelihood and impact, after taking into account regularly to: existing mitigating control measures, for example management assess whether new compelling experiences and attractions oversight and independent review.
Where this assessment in development are progressing according to schedule: indicates a high residual risk, further assessment is performed identify new ideas and assess fit with our brand portfolio: and both locally and by the risk management committee to consider if further mitigating action is required.
assess the expected commercial returns.
Policies and procedures Regular reviews of the risk registers and planned actions provide the basis for ongoing risk management.
A formal review process The Group maintains policies and procedures across all areas takes place annually to ensure that the significant risks and of the business.
The appropriateness and application of these is mitigating activities at an attraction and Operating Group level continuously monitored to ensure compliance, as well as to assess are incorporated into the strategic business planning cycle.
their appropriateness as the business grows and external factors change.
Assurance concerning compliance with the policies and procedures comes from a number of sources that include HSS, financial and operational audit activities and self-certification.
48 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISKS and uncertainties Controls Business continuity planning - the Group has in place disaster Our key controls are as follows: recovery plans incorporating escalation procedures and crisis Operational - there are a range of control measures and management protocols.
More performance indicators in place to ensure the effective and broadly, business continuity plans exist to allow attractions efficient operation of our attractions and to give our guests to reinstate performance in the event of adverse events.
Health, Safety and Security - all our sites operate using a Plans for 2017 well established Safety Management System designed to ensure We continue to refine and strengthen our internal control that they operate in compliance with relevant regulatory framework where required within our existing estate and and legislative requirements.
Regular HSS internal audits are recently opened attractions.
undertaken to confirm this is the case, ensuring that any safety and security matters are understood and dealt with promptly.
The implementation of accesso, our new admissions system, Further information can be found in the HSS Committee is expected to help in this regard as it will deliver improvements Report on pages 70 to 75. in our control framework through standardisation of business Information Technology - the Group has a wide range of IT processes and greater automation of transactional level and technical, security, and disaster recovery controls to ensure that period end control activities.
it has a stable infrastructure platform from which to operate.
Financial - our controls are designed to prevent and detect Principal risks financial misstatement or fraud and operate at three levels.
Management has identified and agreed the principal risks with Oversight controls are typically performed by senior managers the Board, which are set out on the following pages.
Of these, at Group and business unit level.
Month end and year end a number are deemed to be generic risks facing businesses procedures are performed as part of our regular financial including, but not limited to: failure to comply with financial reporting and management processes.
Transactional level reporting regulations, adverse movements in foreign exchange controls operate on a day-to-day basis.
To specifically address and interest rates, credit risk and non-compliance with legislation.
potential fraud risks at a transactional level, a group of profit protection professionals are employed to support management in addressing these risks at an attraction level.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance The outputs from these reviews were then used to perform liquidity and Code 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a debt covenant headroom analysis, including the downside sensitivity four year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the review based on principal risks.
potential impact of the principal risks documented on pages 50 to 52 While the review has considered all the principal risks identified by the of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm Group, severe but plausible events were focused on for enhanced stress that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able testing.
Examples include ride safety incidents and acts of terrorism.
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the The results take into account the controls implemented by the Group period until December 2020. as well as the availability and likely effectiveness of specific mitigating The Groups strategic planning process occurs annually on a rolling basis, actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence in the middle of the year, covering the current year plus four further years.
of the identified underlying risks.
The diversification of the Groups The strategic plan considers all elements of the Groups growth strategy.
attractions helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption for It focuses on capital investment in the existing estate, where the review many of its principal risks, for example extreme weather conditions or period matches or is in excess of pre-determined capital investment changing economic and political environments.
It is important to note that cycles: new business development including the roll out of Midway a significant portion of planned spending on both the existing estate and attractions and the development of committed new LEGOLAND parks: for new business development is discretionary in nature.
This gives us and the expansion of our accommodation portfolio.
The Group also flexibility to manage cash flows.
Merlins ability to flex the cost base considers strategic acquisition opportunities and other uncommitted and the ability to rephase or delay capital investment provides some potential major capital projects within the plan period to assess the protection to our viability in the face of macro events or uncertainty availability of appropriate funding.
Accordingly the Directors have not in the Groups control.
determined that a four year period to December 2020 is an Merlins banking facilities currently mature in March 2020.
Taking into appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
account Merlins profitability and financial position it is anticipated that The Board also carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks the Group will be able to refinance these bank facilities.
The Group will facing the Group, including those that would threaten its growth drivers, undertake a process to extend or replace these facilities well in advance future performance, solvency or liquidity as well as the Groups approach of the expiry date and therefore the Group does not consider there to to risk management as set out in this Strategic Report.
be any material impact on the viability assessment.
49 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISKS and uncertainties The tables on the following pages highlight the significant specific the principal risks and internal control processes have been risks identified through the Groups risk assessment processes considered by management and the Board throughout the that have the potential to impact on the strategic development year: and of the Group.
no significant failings or weaknesses in internal control processes have been identified.
The three risk committees consider both gross and net risk.
Gross risk reflects the risk exposure and risk landscape before Based on its review throughout the year, the Board is satisfied considering how risks are managed.
Gross risks are assessed in that the risk management and internal control systems in place comparison to the previous year as to whether they are stable, remain effective.
Net risk reflects the residual risk after risk mitigation factors.
EU Referendum The Board has considered the impact of the UKs referendum Effectiveness of risk management and internal on membership of the EU Brexit upon the business and control systems reflected on its previous risk assessments in light of this In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, development.
Given the Groups global footprint and the fact the Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the that an attractions cost base and supply chain will sit largely in Group's risk management and internal control systems, and the individual country of operation, the impact is limited.
In the confirms that: short term, currency movements have affected our London there is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, managing businesses as described elsewhere in this Annual Report and and monitoring the Group's principal risks: have affected the translation of the results of our overseas managements assessment of the principal risks is considered operations into Sterling as set out in the Group Financial to be appropriate and those risks that have the potential to Review on pages 38 to 42.
These conditions may continue impact liquidity have been considered in the assessment of into the future.
In the medium term, a shift in the availability the Group's viability: of skills in the UK workforce could impact recruitment in our UK businesses, which the Group will continue to monitor.
Gross Description risk trend How risks are managed Health, safety and security risk HSS Safety Health and safety is one of Merlins Stable Regular review of performance as well as key policies Key Performance Indicators.
Proactive ownership of HSS risks by line management Serious incidents leading to guests, staff members based on the provision and adoption of HSS policies, or contractors being harmed as a result of: Codes of Practice and guidance notes.
a failure to follow prescribed safety management Competent and trained operational and engineering staff, systems in connection with the operation monitoring and inspecting facilities in accordance with a of rides: planned maintenance and inspection regime backed up inadequate maintenance and management by professional HSS teams.
of buildings, infrastructure and vegetation: Utilisation of HSS systems to support the management substandard build quality, asset degradation, of risks with annual risk register and action planning fire, flood, storm or utility failure.
Regular internal and independent external auditing Furthermore, this could undermine confidence to and review regimes.
visit the Groups attractions and adversely impact on Contractor selection, approval and monitoring by the reputation and growth potential of the business.
Security Sabotage or a terrorist attack on: Increasing Application of detailed security protocols before guests or employees access an attraction e. g. bag searches.
a ride or attraction leading to a guest or staff Regular reviews of attraction infrastructure to reduce the member or animal in our care being harmed: or opportunity for physical threats to guests, staff or animals.
a location in which the Group operates.
Regularly tested major incident management plans.
This could influence guest confidence to visit the Co-operation with local and national security forces.
Groups attractions or the attraction's location Availability of appropriate insurance cover.
thereby impacting on the growth potential of the business.
50 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RISKS and uncertainties Gross Description risk trend How risks are managed Commercial and strategic risk Innovation, Customer satisfaction is one of Merlins Stable Regular and detailed customer feedback collected at brand Key Performance Indicators.
Data analysed against challenging development satisfaction targets and actions taken accordingly.
Our growth potential could be impacted if guests: and customer Ongoing investment in our attractions continually consider our offerings are either outdated, satisfaction refreshes the experiences for customers.
no longer relevant or enjoyable: or Engagement with the public and social media for provide negative social media comments that concerns in order to take any requisite action.
adversely influence the likelihood of a customer to visit an attraction.
People Staff engagement is one of Merlins Increasing Plans to drive greater productivity through availability and Key Performance Indicators.
resource efficiencies and more motivated, better expertise rewarded employees.
The increasing cost of Personal development plans in place at all levels of the attracting and retaining appropriately experienced business to encourage long term employment stability.
and well-motivated customer service orientated Succession planning processes embedded across the staff could impact guest satisfaction and the Group and proactively managed.
successful delivery of planned future expansion.
Annual employee survey to monitor employee engagement and to identify opportunities to develop HR policies and processes.
Competition Competition: Increasing Diversification to reduce reliance on individual and Intellectual attractions or locations.
for leisure time: Property IP Ongoing investment in sites to ensure continued from new or existing providers of location appeal to visitors.
based entertainment: and Competitor research and monitoring.
for IP around which compelling propositions Dedicated in-house creative team to deliver are created.
new and innovative compelling propositions and intellectual property.
This could restrict the ability of the Group to grow in line with the strategic objectives.
Foreign Changes in exchange rates can have a positive or Stable Increased hedging as a result of further global exchange rates adverse impact on inbound tourism.
If exchange diversification of the Groups operations.
impacting rates work against a country in which the Group Ability to proportionally upweight marketing activity international generates a high proportion of its revenue this towards either domestic or international audiences tourism can adversely impact visitation.
Animal welfare Incidents or staff behaviours leading to animals Stable External zoo licence audits ensure appropriate in our care being harmed as a result of: animal care.
An internal ethics committee and the Merlin Animal a failure to follow prescribed welfare Welfare and Development team monitor the protocols: or treatment of animals in our care.
inadequate maintenance and management A comprehensive range of policies, standards, procedures of buildings, infrastructure and vegetation.
and guidelines specifically addressing animal acquisition, welfare and display.
Furthermore, this could result in reputational Training programmes for all staff that interact damage.
A negative reaction from the general with animals.
public would undermine the performance of the Planned preventative maintenance programmes to business and limit the potential for growth.
ensure buildings, infrastructure and vegetation remain suitable for displaying the animals in our care.
Availability The ability of the Group to grow in line with Stable Experienced site search and business development and delivery of the strategic objectives could be inhibited by teams, working several years in advance to maintain new sites and the lack of: a strong pipeline of expansion opportunities.
attractions Sites regularly update their development masterplans economically viable sites to locate Midway and teams work closely on fostering links with local attractions and LEGOLAND parks: and communities and planning authorities.
timely approval of planning consent required for The introduction of a dedicated New Openings team building new rides and attractions.
in 2015 expands the Groups resources to support its roll out strategy.
51 Mer Merlin Enter lin Entertainments plc tainments plc Ann Annual Repor ual Report and t and Accounts 20 Accounts 201 16 6 RISKS and uncertainties Gross Description risk trend How risks are managed Commercial and strategic risk continued IT robustness, The Group has various IT systems and applications Increasing IT strategy focused on ensuring the long term stability technological operating across its estate, the obsolescence or of operating systems and data security, whilst keeping developments failure of which could impede trading or the ability pace with the changing face of consumer IT expectations.
and cyber to operate an attraction.
Increasing resilience and stability of the Groups IT security infrastructure and security through an expanded use of Without the technical developments necessary secured hosting partners and penetration testing regimes.
to meet consumer or business expectations the Further security measures have been put in place to Group may fail to deliver the growth required mitigate the increasing threat of cyber security risk.
Failure to put in place adequate preventative measures, if attacked, could lead to data loss or inability to use the IT systems for a prolonged period.
Financial process risk Anti-bribery and While Merlins business model is lower risk relative Stable A well embedded corporate culture in which fraud corruption to other industries as the majority of transactions and bribery at any level are not tolerated.
are of low value and from individual customers, Global fraud and bribery training programme in place a number of the territories in which Merlin is alongside a fraud policy sign off for all staff.
operating and proposing to enter have a greater Effective financial and contractual controls with regard to historic propensity for incidents of bribery procurement activities.
Internal audit monitors purchasing and corruption.
A separate profit protection team monitors for theft or Any such incident could lead to either criminal other criminal activity across the Group and ensures or civil prosecution, fines and cause reputational best practice for protection is shared between sites.
A whistleblowing policy is in place together with an independently operated employee hotline.
Liquidity A lack of liquidity could inhibit the ability of Reducing The Group has a 300 million multi-currency Cash flow risk the Group to grow in line with the strategic revolving credit facility to assist with seasonal cash objectives if: flow requirements as necessary.
Weekly cash flow forecasts are prepared to ensure insufficient cash is generated during peak liquidity for business operations on an ongoing basis.
trading periods to cover fixed costs and capital Plans cover at least four future years and are investments including strategic acquisitions, the reviewed regularly to ensure sufficient financial roll out of Midway attractions, the development headroom exists and to meet the covenant tests of new LEGOLAND parks and new set out in the Groups banking facilities.
accommodation offerings : or Merlin maintains strong relationships with a number changes in the global credit market impact the of lenders and keeps the debt markets under review Groups long term ability to meet current in order to ensure that funding can be obtained at growth targets.
the right time and at the right price to ensure the availability of funds to meet its strategic growth plans.
The continued geographical expansion of the Group reduces the exposure to any one peak trading period.
Foreign Merlin generates its main profits in Sterling, Increasing The Group presents constant currency figures where exchange Euros and US Dollars and has long term appropriate to show the underlying results of the translation risk debt in these currencies.
Group excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate translation differences.
Merlin reports its results in Sterling and is therefore Treasury policies in place and reviewed annually subject to translation risk from exchange rate with regular reviews of currency exposures.
fluctuations when reporting its consolidated results.
Broad match of borrowings in the currencies of underlying profits.
Currency exposures hedged where appropriate.
