ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT growing metro bank safely and sustainably Risk management framework The Risk Oversight Committee assists The second line of defence comprises Metro Bank seeks to adopt best practice in the Board in providing leadership, the Risk Management function, providing corporate governance, risk management direction and oversight with regard governance and oversight for all and control appropriate to the size to the Banks risk governance and significant risk categories, such as credit and complexity of the business.
Given management, and also assists the Board risk, compliance and conduct risk, the nature of the activities undertaken in fostering a culture within the Bank operational risk, market risk, interest rate by Metro Bank, principal risks and that emphasises and demonstrates the risk and liquidity risk.
uncertainties the Bank faces are: benefits of a risk-based approach to risk The third line of defence is Internal Audit, strategic risk: management and internal control.
providing independent assurance through credit risk: Internal Audit reviews, the results of which market risk including interest rate risk: The Banks risk management policies are are reported to the Audit Committee.
liquidity risk: established to identify and analyse the conduct risk: risks faced by the Bank, to set appropriate Effective risk management is core to Metro compliance and regulatory risk: risk limits and controls and to monitor Banks approach to doing business.
operational risk: and risks and adherence to limits.
management policies and controls are A description of strategic, credit, reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market, liquidity, conduct, compliance The Board has ultimate responsibility for market conditions and the Banks activities.
and regulatory, operational and setting the Banks strategy, corporate Through training and management financial crime risk and how they objectives and risk appetite.
The strategy standards and procedures, the Bank aims are managed is set out below.
and risk appetite take into consideration the to develop a robust and effective control interests of customers, shareholders and environment in which all colleagues Strategic risk other stakeholders.
The Board specifically understand their roles and obligations.
Strategic risk is the risk that Metro Bank approves the level of risk which the Bank fails to achieve short and long-term is willing to accept, and ensures there is an Metro Banks Chief Risk Officer CRO is business objectives because of a failure adequate framework in place for reporting accountable for leading the Risk function, to maintain its unique culture: maintain its and managing those risks.
It is responsible which is independent from the Banks differentiated model through delivering for maintaining an appropriate control operational and commercial functions.
She unparalleled levels of service and environment to manage the principal risks, is responsible for ensuring that appropriate convenience: or develop the products, and for ensuring the capital and liquidity risk management processes, policies capabilities, and competitive position resources are adequate to achieve the and controls are in place, and that they necessary to attract new customers, Banks objectives within its risk appetite.
are sufficiently robust, thereby ensuring compete effectively and withstand that key risks are identified, assessed, market volatility.
This could result in The Board has delegated responsibility monitored and mitigated.
The CRO is a failure to create FANS or to deliver for reviewing the effectiveness of the also responsible for providing assurance outcomes expected by stakeholders Banks internal controls to the Audit to the Board and Directors that the customers, colleagues, shareholders, Committee.
The Audit Committee principal risks are appropriately managed investors, communities and regulators.
monitors and considers the internal control and that the Bank is operating within its environment, focusing on operational risk appetite.
The CRO has access and The Bank manages this risk through risks, internal and external audits and a dotted reporting line to the Chairman frequent consideration of a broad credit assurance, and is assisted in its of the Risk Oversight Committee.
range of management information and oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal key performance and risk indicators at Business Risk Committees, the Executive Audit undertakes both regular and ad The Bank operates a model with three hoc reviews of risk management controls lines of defence for risk management: Leadership Team and the Board.
The Bank also conducts regular reviews and procedures, the results of which The first line of defence is operational are reported to the Audit Committee.
management, managing risk by of performance against the business plan also at the Executive Leadership maintaining appropriate systems and controls that are operated and effective Team and these will provide early warnings of where plan delivery is at risk.
24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC Credit risk Market risk The Banks Board of Directors sets Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due Market risk is the risk that changes in the Banks risk appetite and policy for to an obligors failure to meet the terms market prices, such as interest rates managing liquidity risk and delegates of any contract or failure to perform as or prices of investment securities, will responsibility for oversight of this policy agreed.
The Bank has detailed lending affect the Banks income or the value and its implementation to the ALCO.
The policies to ensure credit risk-taking is of its holdings of financial instruments.
Treasury team manages the Banks liquidity based on sound credit risk principles, The objective of the Banks market risk position on a day-to-day basis under the including sector and concentration management strategy is to manage oversight of the Chief Financial Officer limits.
Credit risk is overseen by the and control market risk exposures and ALCO.
Detailed daily management CRO, Credit Sanctioning Committee, within acceptable parameters to information is circulated to the Treasury Credit Policy and Appetite Committee ensure the Banks solvency while team and relevant members of the and the Risk Oversight Committee.
optimising the return on risk.
Executive Leadership Team regarding the outcome of the Banks combined stressThe CRO is responsible for managing the Day-to-day management of market risk test scenario.
The Banks approach is to Banks credit risks through the following: is the responsibility of the Treasury team ensure that it can meet payments as they Defining the Enterprise Risk Management with oversight from Treasury Risk.
fall due in both normal conditions and in structure and quantifying the Banks risk the event of a severe liquidity stress, and appetite.
The Bank aims to minimise earnings that it can survive a severe liquidity stress Formulating credit policies covering shocks or surprises.
The Bank does not event and continue as a going concern.
collateral requirements, credit undertake proprietary trading activities and assessment, risk grading and reporting, only holds high-rated investment securities.
Conduct risk documentary and legal procedures and Management monitors exposures to Conduct risk is the risk that the Banks compliance with regulatory and statutory price risk and movements in investment operating model, culture or actions requirements.
value on a regular basis through Asset result in unfair outcomes for customers.
Establishing the authorisation structure and Liability Management Committee Effectively managing risks that may impact for the approval and renewal of credit ALCO and regular Treasury reporting.
our customers is a priority for the Bank, facilities.
which manages conduct risk consistently Limiting concentrations of exposure to The Bank does not sell derivatives or with its overall risk appetite and aligned counterparties and industries for loans other complex products to customers.
Conduct risk may arise and advances and similar exposures and from any aspect of the way the Banks by issuer, credit rating and market Liquidity risk business is conducted and the Banks aim liquidity for investment securities.
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank is to avoid business conduct that may will encounter difficulty in meeting result in unfair outcomes for its customers.
The Bank aims to have a well-balanced obligations associated with its loan portfolio, through the economic financial liabilities that are settled by The Bank has a range of controls in cycle, weighing risk and reward delivering cash or another financial place to mitigate this risk.
There are appropriately in lending decisions.
The asset, or will incur a disproportionate advantages inherent in the combination Bank has detailed lending policies to cost in meeting said obligations.
of its transparent, service-led business ensure credit risk-taking is based on model and absence of legacy issues.
The sound credit risk principles.
Limits are The Bank aims to hold a prudent level of simplicity of the Banks product range set for each borrower, together with liquidity to cover unexpected outflows and and its culture of delivering unparalleled large exposure limits consistent with ensuring it would be able to meet financial levels of service and convenience prudential regulatory rules.
The Bank commitments for an extended period.
to its customers help to ensure the consistent delivery of fair customer also measures concentration risk, loan Recognising the potential difficulties in arrears and bad debts.
For quantification monetising certain assets, higher-quality outcomes.
This has resulted in a low level of reportable complaints, which is of credit risk, Metro Bank uses the targets for liquid assets are set for the Standardised Approach assessed under initial part of a stress period.
The Bank has below the industry average.
The Bank constantly analyses the root cause of Basel II, Pillars 1 and 2.
The Bank is assessed the level of liquidity necessary in the process of developing more to cover both systemic and idiosyncratic complaints and underlying trends to identify opportunities to improve service sophisticated internal models in order risks and an appropriate liquidity buffer to seek regulatory approval to apply the is maintained at all times.
As well as cash provision while delivering consistently fair outcomes for its customers.
Advanced Approach to the calculation and balances at the Bank of England, of credit risk exposures in due course.
the Bank holds a range of marketable assets, including covered bonds and government debt, which are highly liquid assets.
The Bank also maintains a balance sheet structure that limits reliance on potentially volatile sources of funding.
25 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC RISK FACTORS AND MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Compliance and regulatory risk Cyber security against new and emerging threats.
It Compliance and regulatory risk is the Cyber-crime continues to pose a significant has induction and training programmes risk of financial loss or reputational threat to the financial services industry for Metro Bank colleagues covering all damage due to regulatory sanctions as a whole and the Bank has invested in aspects of financial crime to support them such as fines or penalties, restriction or technology and expertise to strengthen in protecting customers and assets.
suspension of business, or the cost of defences in this area.
A dedicated mandatory corrective action as a result Information Security team is responsible The Bank has adopted a robust framework.
of failing to adhere to applicable laws, for leading the work in this area, including It assesses and monitors risks in relation to regulations and supervisory guidance.
anti-phishing, data loss prevention and customers, relationships, transactions and overseeing patching of the IT estate.
payments, with the purpose of ensuring The Board is focused on responding there are tailored, risk-based systems and effectively and in a timely manner to The Bank partners with industrycontrols in place to manage potential risks, changes in the regulatory environment leading experts to ensure that any and avoid losses, reputational impacts or to ensure that compliance with risk management approach is robust degradation of customer experience.
and proportionate, and evolves in The Bank allocates appropriate line with developing threats.
Through the three lines of defence resource to ensure that it continues model the Bank addresses the oversight to achieve regulatory compliance.
The Bank is a member of several and monitoring of the systems and industry forums that share threat controls through the following key Operational risk intelligence, enabling it to keep abreast areas: i the Banks risk and control Operational risk is the risk of direct or of external developments that carry self-assessment: ii dedicated, specialist indirect impact from failed or inadequate the potential to affect operations.
The colleagues operating the systems and processes, people or systems, or Bank also collects intelligence and controls in the first line of defence, exposure to external events.
The impact assesses its exposure, leading to the overseen by the second line Antican be financial or non-financial in implementation of preventative measures.
Money Laundering AML Risk team: nature.
Non-financial impact includes It continues to invest in cyber security.
In addition, customer detriment, regulatory action key risk indicators are in place with or reputational consequences.
Financial crime regular reports through the appropriate Financial crime is the risk of financial loss Bank Committees and the Board.
The Bank aims to maintain robust or reputational damage due to regulatory operational systems and controls and to fines or penalties, restriction or suspension The Bank has made significant investment be able to respond to unexpected events of business or cost of mandatory to enhance systems, controls and people in an organised and timely manner though corrective action as a result of failing to to support the execution of its business rigorous planning and testing.
Each comply with prevailing legal and regulatory strategy and to ensure it has robust and business line undertakes an assessment requirements relating to financial crime sustainable models as it grows.
This of key risks and risk exposures.
Each including internal or external fraud, money includes the implementation of a new risk exposure is assessed to determine laundering, terrorist financing, bribery and monitoring and surveillance system for the appropriate controls.
In addition, corruption and sanctions compliance.
, counter terrorist the three lines of defence model is financing and sanctions.
The Bank used: firstly, business owners own and The Bank is required to have in place anticipates further enhancements over manage risks and controls: the second effective procedures, systems and controls the coming months as result of significant line sets standards and defines tools to to detect and prevent financial crime.
The change in financial crime regulation.
be used to manage risk: and the third Bank is committed to complying with line provides independent assurance its legal and regulatory responsibilities Emerging risks and mitigations over the other two lines of defence.
in relation to financial crime, and has Metro Bank has identified a number no appetite for non-compliance.
of emerging risks that have the The implementation of this approach potential to impact the activities takes the form of the first line of defence The Banks growth plans continue and of the Bank and they include: maintaining a risk and control selfit is dedicated to maintaining a robust assessment for each business area, control environment that enables it to Compliance and competition regulation recording that areas risks rated by impact respond effectively to emerging financial Increased use of market studies as a and likelihood, before and after taking crime threats, which are becoming more regulatory tool is likely, following the into account any mitigating controls.
frequent, more varied and more innovative.
market studies on cash savings and credit The need to protect Metro Bank, its cards.
The Banks key risk mitigation in this customers, assets and society from the respect is to continue to place the impact of financial crime has never been customer at the heart of its business.
The Bank constantly reviews its internal systems and processes Key areas of regulatory focus affecting to ensure they provide adequate protection the Bank in 2017 include the Payment Services Directive and the remaining requirements under the Senior Managers 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 METRO BANK PLC and Certification regimes.
Other domestic Metro Banks technology stack enables VIABILITY STATEMENT initiatives captured in the Financial colleagues to focus exclusively on Conduct Authoritys FCA Mission creating a great customer experience.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the revised UK Corporate Governance Statement include an increased focus The Bank uses that technology to simplify on vulnerable customers, behavioural and accelerate customer processes.
Code, the Board has assessed the prospects of the Group and Parent economics, pricing for risk and a Company over a longer period than the planned ageing population strategy.
Data integrity and systems resilience 12 months that has in practice been the Reliance on systems infrastructure is focus of the going concern provision.
Further studies from the FCA and growing, with any weaknesses causing a Competition and Markets Authority greater impact.
The Bank will continue to Whilst the Bank prepares a forecast are likely to be announced as the year invest to ensure it meets all applicable and spanning a seven year period, the Directors progresses.
Digital channels, cyber new standards and uses third parties that concluded that a four-year period was risk and systems infrastructure and ensure a high level of protection and appropriate for the assessment, as it resilience are likely to remain high on resilience.
The creation of a Chief Data is the period over which the financial the regulatory agenda, as will changes Officer in 2016 was designed to ensure that forecasts have greatest certainty, and to the macroeconomic environment.
an appropriate framework and controls are is in line with the period management in place to manage the increasing risks consider when determining the 2020 Financial crime prevention associated with data management.
These forecasts are To tackle money laundering and corruption updated annually and reflect the Groups and recover the proceeds of crime and Digital established strategy of creating FANS counter terrorist financing, the Anti Money Internet and mobile technologies are through our unique culture and integrated Laundering Directive IV is due to take effect changing the way banks interact with model of stores and technology, in in July 2017 and The Criminal Finances customers and increasing our reliance order to raise low-cost, sticky deposits Bill is being considered by Parliament.
Metro and low-risk diversified lending.
Bank is investing in its digital platforms Prudential regulation and building resilient and secure Key assumptions included in the The Bank of England will be phasing in technologies.
Technological evolution model include store, deposit and the setting of a minimum requirement will require the Bank to continue to be lending growth, as well as remaining for own funds and eligible liabilities vigilant from a security perspective, and appropriately capitalised.
This is applicable to all UK also to assess and review our conduct forecast period, we expect to raise banks and full compliance must be in approach on an ongoing basis.
debt to fund our anticipated growth.
The Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA has also introduced Changes in accounting standards Forecasts were subject to appropriate new underwriting standards for buy-toThe new reporting requirements downside stress and sensitivity analysis let mortgage contracts which came into under International Financial Reporting over the assessment period, taking account force in part in January 2017, with the Standards 9 introduce new credit loss of the Groups current position, the remainder in force in September 2017. models, and a programme to deliver Groups experience of managing change models and policies standards to fulfil and the impact of a number of severe Changes to data protection legislation the requirements is underway.
yet plausible scenarios, based on the These will result in increasing principal risks outlined in the Risk factors regulatory scrutiny on the Banks data Political changes and management section of this report processing activities.
Metro Bank is The political environment in the UK, page 24 to 27 of the Annual Report.
investing significantly in a Bank-wide Europe and on a global scale impacts General Data Protection Regulation Metro Banks operations.
Recent political Based on the results of this analysis, the GDPR implementation project developments, including Brexit, have an Directors have a reasonable expectation which commenced in January 2017. as yet unknown impact on the way the that the Group will be able to continue in Bank operates and serves customers.
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall Growth due over the period of their assessment.
The pace of growth experienced by This report was approved by the Board Metro Bank has the potential to increase and was signed on its behalf by: operational risk.
As a result, the Bank has invested heavily in people and infrastructure to meet this challenge.
Metro Vernon W. Hill, II Banks superior customer experience is Chairman supported by an end-to-end technology 2 March 2017 infrastructure that provides a single customer view, allowing enhanced customer service and colleague efficiency.
27 Strategic report Governance Financial statements
