Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties The RMF contains a continuous cycle of review and reporting over Risk management overview the year.
No fewer than five times a year, following one to one The board is responsible for ensuring the effective interviews with the business area directors and Group Function identification, assessment and management of risk heads, the individual risk registers are consolidated to form the across the Group.
As the Group has grown following Group risk profile.
The Group risk profile is reported to the Executive the transformational acquisition of TAG in November Directors for monitoring, review and challenge.
A report is made toevery Audit Committee meeting in the year for review and 2014, so the board has enhanced the risk management tochallenge the effectiveness of the RMF, and then approval by process to ensure that it is robust.
As part of the RMF an annual review of risk is also operation of, and central to, the risk management undertaken, this is aligned with the annual review of Internal process is the culture of the Group, led by the board, Audit.
These annual reviews focus on areas for improvement ofopenness, transparency, trust and accountability.
intheprocess, as well as the key emerging areas of risk for the Groupinthe year ahead.
An area of focus in the forthcoming year Onbehalf of the board the audit committee reviews isto strengthen the approach to risk appetite and so ensure a and challenges the effectiveness of the risk consistent risk based decision making process across the Group.
Principal risks and uncertainties A review of the Groups overall risk management framework was The Group, in common with all businesses, could be affected undertaken at the start of the year.
In the year the board put in byrisks and uncertainties that may have a material effect on place a new Risk Management Policy and Procedure which included itsbusiness operations and achieving its strategic objectives a revised Risk Management Framework RMF.
A key component includingits business model, future performance, solvency or of the RMF for the board was that, whilst the RMF enables a liquidity.
These risks could cause actual results to differ materially robustassessment of risk, it is also practical and proportionate.
The board is mindful of the Thisensures that the RMF is embedded into the day-to-day business interdependencies of some risks.
Where possible, the Group processes across the Group, to drive risk awareness and risk culture.
seekstomitigate these risks through its RMF and internal Going forward the board will continue to build upon the RMF to controls, but thiscan only provide reasonable assurance respond to any future change in the Groups risk profile.
As part of andnotabsolute assurance against materiallosses.
the assurance for the board the operation of the RMF is facilitated by an independent Internal Risk Management function.
Individual Following the UK vote on 23 June 2016 to leave the EU there is risks are also mapped onto the Internal Audit plan for the year likely to be a protracted period for many months of uncertainty seepages 58 to 59 for the report on internal control.
The RMF andnegotiation whilst the political and legal issues are resolved.
isalso subject to an annual review by Internal Audit.
Wehave put in place a Brexit Working Group and have processes inplace to assess, respond, monitor and track the impact of Brexit Risks are identified, assessed and recorded by the Micro Focus on our businesses and associated risks as matters progress and andSUSE businesses and the Group functions.
Each business howthe business can seek to mitigate these risks.
The uncertainty areadirector and Group function head is responsible for the has created an immediate impact on the financial markets in identification, assessment and management of risk in their area.
currency fluctuations and this is reflected in our Treasury risk Each risk is owned by an individual in that area.
The process onpage 37. includes the use ofrisk registers, one to one interviews with business area directors, Group function heads and board The following are the principal risks and uncertainties, potential members.
Risks are assessed on agross and net basis against impacts and mitigations that are relevant to the Group as a provider aconsistent set of criteria defined by the board.
The criteria of software products and associated services at this time.
The list measureslikelihood of occurrence against potential impact to the ofprincipal risks includes risks reported in the FY15 and the FY16 Group including financial results, strategic plans, operations and interims relating to Products, Go to Market models, Competition, reputation.
Each risk is given a risk tolerance.
The assessment Employees and Macro-economic environment as well as newly includes current and emerging risks, as well as internal and reported risks in relation to Change Management, IT Systems and externalthreats.
The board is responsible for determining the Information, Legal and regulatory compliance, Intellectual property, riskappetite for the Group and takes a balanced approach to Treasury and Tax as part of the new RMF referred to under the risktoensure an appropriate position between risk aversion, Riskmanagement overview above.
There may be other risks opportunities and gains in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
Existingcontrols and improvement actions are recorded on theriskregister for each risk.
Please also refer to the section on internal controls within the corporate governance report on pages 48 to 53.
32 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Products Risk To remain successful the Group must ensure that its products continue to meet the requirements of customers.
Investment in research and innovation in product development is essential to meet customer and partner requirements in order to maximize revenues and corporate performance.
The Group has a large number of products, at differing stages of their life cycle.
The extent ofinvestment in each product setneeds to be managed and prioritized considering the expected future prospects, to ensure an effective balance between growth and legacy products.
Potential impact Mitigation If products do not meet the requirements of The Group continued to improve the interaction between Product Management, customers they will seek alternative solutions, Product Development, Sales and Marketing.
The Groups structured approach to resulting in the loss of new revenue managing its products was further enhanced during the year.
Following the TAG opportunities and the cancellation of existing acquisition, to build a strong plan and foundation on which to deliver the Groups contracts.
Insufficient focus on key research potential, the Group carried out a detailed analysis of the individual products, their and development projects may damage the markets, customers and growth potential.
long-term growth prospects of the Group.
Poor cross-selling of Micro Focus and SUSE As from the start of the year the Group has operated as two product portfolios, products could reduce the prospects for MicroFocus and SUSE.
All of the Groups products are managed through the global additional revenue streams goingforward.
product management and development organization, with a geographic Go to Market organization.
The Micro Focus, NetIQ, Attachmate and Novell products are managed as a portfoliounder Micro Focus, with a defined strategy, target market andgrowth profile for each product.
To capitalize on the growth potential of the SUSEProduct Portfolio these are managed separately and dedicated resources concentrate on development, customer care and sales, marketing andengineering.
To ensure appropriate leadership and the continued evolution of the twoproduct portfolios, on 1 February 2016 Chief Executive Officers forMicro Focus and SUSE were appointed to the board.
On17 July 2015 the Group acquired Authasas BV, a Dutch entity proving Multi Factor Authentication for the security market which isembedded inTAG products.
On 22 March 2016 the board announced the acquisition of Spartacus Acquisition Holdings Corp, theholding company of Serena Software Inc. Serena, which willbecome part of the Micro Focus Product Portfolio, to further enhancethe strategy of efficient management of mature infrastructure software products.
Serenas position in the Source Code Change Management segment will be integrated into theIT Development andOperational Management Tools sub-portfolio ofMicro Focus, which will complement the Micro Focus Product Portfolio inCOBOL Development, HostConnectivity and CORBA.
At SUSE there was anincrease in headcount in theyearfocused on the development, customer care and sales, marketing and engineeringof theSUSEProduct Portfolio.
33 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Go to Market GTM models Risk For the Group to succeed in meeting revenue and growth targets it requires successful GTM models across the full product portfolio, with effective strategies and plans to exploit channel opportunities and focus the sales force on all types of customer categories.
Inaddition, effective GTM models will be more successful if accompanied by compelling Micro Focus and SUSEbrand awarenessprogrammes.
Potential impact Mitigation Poor execution of GTM plans may limitthe Following the integration review the Group undertook a major restructuring to create success of the Group by targeting the wrong aglobal product group with geographic GTM sales organizations.
Revenue plans customers throughthe wrong channels and aresupported by a range of measures to monitor and drive improvements inGTM usingthe wrongproduct offerings.
operating models in both Micro Focus and SUSE.
To ensure appropriate leadership andthe continued evolution of the two businesses, on 1 February 2016 Chief Executive Officers for Micro Focus and SUSE were appointed to the board.
The dedicated sales teams operate by portfolio but management are targeted on the sales of both Micro Focus and SUSE Product Portfolios.
Operationally there are quarterly business reviews with all geographies and monthly reviews with regional presidents: the President ofSales for both Micro Focus and SUSE participate in their respective weekly  to review sales performance andGTM priorities.
Customer sales cycles are reviewed regularly and a bid review process is in place to monitor and maximize customer revenue opportunities.
In addition to sales performance reviews, marketing and product development programmes are assessed regularly tooptimize levels of qualified pipeline and ensure that marketing programmes are supported by appropriate product offerings.
A series of measures are in place to focus the direction of the sales force towards abroad range of customer categories.
These measures include detailed bid management, tailored quota targets and robust pre-sales management.
In addition, brand awareness programmes are in place and reviewed on an on-going basisto draw on differentiated and consistent PR plans across key geographies.
These are supported by targeted industry analyst relations to reach and raise Micro Focus and SUSE brand awareness through key marketplace influencers.
Brand building is also supported bygrowing a customer reference programme and online programme such as effective search engine optimization, use of social media and improved corporate websites.
In the year the Product to Market process was standardized so that execution was on amore consistent basis.
Micro Focus continued to run the internal sales certification programme, to improve the level of expertise across the sales force and the Micro Focus Sales Academy, the initiative through which it hires graduate sales representatives to enhance the sales capability and train up new talent with the potential toprogress withinthe sales organization.
Competition Risk Comprehensive information about the markets in which Micro Focus and SUSE operate is required for the Group to assess competitive risks effectively and to perform successfully.
Potential impact Mitigation Failure to understand the competitive Group product plans contain analysis of competitive threats and subscriptions landscape adequately and thereby identify toindustry analyst firms are leveraged to better understand market dynamics and where competitive threats existmay damage competitor strategies.
In addition, customer contact programmes are analyzed for the successful salesof the Groups products.
Micro Focus and SUSE continue to monitor and review intelligence on market threats to focus on offering best in class service tocustomers.
34 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Employees Risk The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated employees, at all levels of the Group, is critical to the success and future growth of the Group in all countries in which it operates.
Employees require clear business objectives, and a well communicated vision andvalues, for the Group to achieve alignment and a common sense of corporate purpose among the workforce.
Potential impact Mitigation Failure to retain and develop skill sets, The Group has policies in place to help ensure that it is able to attract and retain particularly in sales and research and employees of a high calibre with the required skills.
These policies include training, development, may hinder the Groups career development and long-term financial incentives.
Leadership training schemes salesand development plans.
Weak are in place to support management development and succession plans.
The Group organizational alignment and inadequate also has in place a performance management andappraisal system.
The measures incentivization may lead to poor fortalent management will continue to beenhanced to ensure a rigorous recruitment performance and instability.
It could and retention process which isalignedto business as usual as well as the strategic alsohave an adverse impact on the plans for the Group.
Succession plans have been developed and are in place for realization ofstrategic plans.
keyleadership positions within the Company.
In the year the Group took significant action to develop its management capability both internally, by training and promotions, and through external hires.
On 1 March 2016 the Group appointed a dedicated Group Human Resources Director: previously the role had been combined with business operations.
Change management Risk The Group is engaged in a number of major change projects including acquisitions to grow the business by strengthening the portfolio of products and capabilities, and projects to standardize systems and processes.
The successful integration of businesses willbuild a solid base for further expansion.
These projects expose the Group to transformation risks.
Potential impact Mitigation Failure to analyze, execute and The Group has an established acquisition strategy and focus on efficient execution co-ordinatethe various projects successfully inmature infrastructure software products.
The Group undertook the transformational mayresult inthe disruption of the on-going acquisition of TAG which was followed by the comprehensive Integration Review.
business without delivering the benefits InMarch 2016 the Group announced the acquisition of Serena.
All projects are run oftheoperational efficiencies and or inadedicated Programme Management Office by an appropriately experienced team, commensurateincrease in revenues.
utilizing external resources as required.
There are detailed and robust governance Inaddition, this may affect the ability disciplines around each project.
The board monitors and reviews progress against all toexecute strategic plans for growth.
On 1 March 2016 the Group appointed a dedicated Group Business Operations and Integration Director previously the role had been combined withGroup HR to ensure that execution of the various projects are successfully aligned so as to minimize any disruption to business as usual.
35 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued IT systems and information Risk The Groups operations, as most businesses, are dependent on maintaining and protecting the integrity and security of the IT systems and management of information.
The Group may experience a major breach of system security or cyber-attack Potential impact Mitigation Disruption to the IT systems could adversely The Group has in place a highly skilled technology team which constantly monitors affect business and Group operations in and reviews the performance and availability of theGroup IT systems including any avariety of ways, which may result in an risk of cyber-attack.
In the year the Group enhanced this team and reviewed the IT adverse impact on revenues and Security Management System.
Policies and processes are in place for the protection reputationaldamage.
The Group has in place well established and tested business continuityplans.
Legal and regulatory compliance Risk The Group operates across a number of jurisdictions.
Compliance with national and regional laws and regulations is essential to successful business operations.
Potential impact Mitigation Failure to comply could result in civil or The Group has in place policies and procedures to mitigate these risks.
The Groups criminal sanctions as well as possible fines legal and regulatory team, enhanced by specialist external advisors as required, and reputational damage.
There is a compliance committee and market abuse and insider dealing committee which report into the board.
All staff are subject to mandatory compliance training.
Intellectual property Risk Failure to adequately protect the Groups intellectual property and brands.
Potential impact Mitigation Failure could adversely affect the ability of the There are procedures in place across the Group to ensure the appropriate protection Group to compete in the market place and and use of the Groups brands and intellectual property, which aremonitored by the affect the Groups revenue and reputation.
36 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Consolidated financial Company financial Additional information statements and notes statements and notes Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Treasury Risk The Group operates across a number of jurisdictions and so is exposed to currency fluctuations.
The risk of foreign exchange fluctuations may be increased as a result of Brexit.
The Group targets a Net Debt to Facility EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times and may requireadditional debt funding in order to execute its acquisition strategy.
Potential impact Mitigation The relative values of currencies can The Groups operations are diversified across a number of currencies.
Changes in fluctuate and may have a significant foreign exchange rates are monitored and exposures regularly reviewed and actions impacton business results.
taken to reduce exposures where necessary.
The Group provides extensive constant currency reporting to enable investors to better understand the underlying business Insufficient access to funding could performance.
limittheGroups ability to achieve itsdesiredcapital structure or to The Group has significant committed facilities in place, the earliest of which matures completeacquisitions.
in November 2019, and sufficient headroom to meet its operational requirements.
The Group seeks to maintain strong relationships with its key banking partnersand lenders and to proactively monitor the loan markets.
The Group also has strong engagement with the providers of equity capital, which represents an alternative source of capital.
Tax Risk The tax treatment of the Groups cross-border operations is subject to the risk of challenge under tax rules and initiatives targeting multinationals tax arrangements, including the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project and EU state aid rules.
Potential impact Mitigation Tax liabilities in various territories in which Tax laws, regulations and interpretations are kept under on-going review by the the Group operates could be significantly Groupand its advisors.
The Group reviews its operations, including the structuring of higher than expected.
intra-Group arrangements, on a periodic basis to ensure that risks are identified and mitigated accordingly.
External professional advice is obtained to support positions taken in financial statements and local tax returns where there is significant uncertainty or risk of challenge.
Macro-economic environment Risk The Group operates a global business and is exposed to a variety of external economic and political risks which may affect the Groups business operations and execution of the strategy.
Potential impact Mitigation Adverse economic conditions could affect The spread of jurisdictions allows the Group to be flexible to adapt tochanging sales, and other external economic or localized risk to a certain extent.
The Group has business continuity plans and crisis political matters, such asprice controls, management procedures in place in the eventof political events or naturaldisasters.
could affect the business and revenues.
