Strategic Report Our risks Like any other business, we are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, which are influenced by both internal and external factors, often outside our control.
In this section, we describe the principal risks that could have a material effect on the Groups ability to deliver against its strategy together with the controls and activities in place to mitigate such risks.
Risk factors Management of risk Day-to-day management of the Groups risks We provide information on the nature of each In general, the geographical spread of the is, and continue to be, owned by the relevant principal risk.
Not all potential risks are listed Group provides a natural hedge against many management team.
A member of the executive below: some risks are excluded because the of the principal risks identified on the following management team is assigned responsibility for Board considers that they are not material to pages.
During the year, the Board promoted devising risk treatment plans to eliminate, the Group as a whole.
Our processes aim to and renewed its focus on risk management minimise or transfer the relevant risks for which provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance through the restructuring of its oversight and they are responsible, and they undertake that the risks significant to our business have management of risk with the formation of a regular reviews of the risk register and progress been identified and addressed.
Additionally, dedicated Board Risk Committee.
A new with risk management plans.
there may be risks that are not reasonably dedicated group management risk committee The Board Risk Committee met three times foreseeable at the date of this report such that also was established with the regional during 2016 and focused on embedding the the Group can assess fully their potential operational heads and functional heads as new structure, the recruitment of the new impact on the business.
members and led by the Group Chief Executive Group Risk Manager and updating the Groups Officer, with assistance from the Internal Audit The order in which risks are presented below is risk management framework, shown below.
function as shown in the diagram below.
To not indicative of the relative potential impact on support this new structure, recruitment is The Board retains overall responsibility for risk the Group.
The risks may, to varying degrees, underway for a Group Risk Manager who will management and for ensuring that the Groups impact the Groups revenues, profits, net take the lead on the Groups programme of risks are managed appropriately.
assets, financial and other resources and workshops to review in detail and update risk reputation.
It is often difficult for management registers where necessary and follow up and to assess with accuracy the likely impact of an support management in measuring and event on reputation, as any damage often may addressing the identified risks through be disproportionate to the events actual appropriate mitigation plans to ensure each risk financial impact.
falls within the Groups risk appetite.
Board of Directors Overall accountability for strategic risk management Board Risk Committee Audit Committee Responsible for oversight of the Groups Support the oversight & challenge of the effectiveness of the Enterprise Risk Management Groups financial risk management & mitigating controls with responsibility for the approval of the Groups principal risks Group Management Risk Committee Group Internal Audit Operational accountability for management and control Review of effectiveness of internal controls of risks and implementation of mitigation measures 26 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Viability risk assessment VIABILITY STATEMENT Material risks are identified through a detailed In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the bottom up approach as well as a holistic top Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, down review.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency The bottom up review encompasses the or liquidity.
This assessment involved a review of the prospects of the Group over identification, management and monitoring of the three year period to 31 December 2019 taking into account the Groups strategy risks in each area of the business including the and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed over this time period, as hotels and ensures that risk management detailed above.
controls are embedded in the businesses operations.
The Directors believe the three year period to be appropriate for the reasons stated above.
The three year plan review is supported by regular Board briefings provided by The top down review led by the Board Risk management and the discussion of any new initiatives undertaken by the Board in its Committee, supported by management, normal course of business.
evaluates the Groups operating environment, as explained above, with a particular focus, in Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group conjunction with the Audit Committee, on the will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities, as they fall due, over the cash flows of the Group for the three financial period to 31 December 2019. years ending 31 December 2019.
Such evaluation also includes sensitivity analysis based on a significant decline in hotel profit due to a combination of the principal risks, as set out on pages 28 to 30, materialising for a sustained period or failing to renew debt facilities maturing in the period as they fall due.
Review period The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a variety of periods.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved, the period over which the Directors consider it possible to form a reasonable expectation as to the Groups longer-term viability, is the three year period to 31 December 2019.
This three-year period has been selected for several reasons.
First, the three-year period is in line with the Groups rolling strategic and financial planning.
Plans are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis: and Second, the landscape of online competition has been changing rapidly and is likely to continue to change further in the foreseeable future.
It would be difficult to form a reasonable judgment of how the online marketplace will evolve beyond a period of three years.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27 Strategic Report Our risks continued Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk trend year Risk and Potential Impact Mitigating Activities on year Reputation and brand protection Quality of service delivery Consistent delivery of service and product quality is vitally Generally the Group operates properties which it owns, and product important to creating and maintaining brand loyalty and value and therefore is able to exercise control over the service perception and influencing consumer preference.
Lack of and product quality of those hotels.
investment in the Groups assets or the removal of a significant For those hotels we own but do not operate, such as number of rooms from inventory in order to complete needed the Novotel New York Times Square, the Group asset refurbishment programmes could have a significant impact on manages those properties to ensure compliance with its those factors and therefore on the revenues that hotels are service levels and contractual requirements.
As supply increases, particularly in our key The Group continues to develop property specific gateway cities, business may be lost to newer hotels and or asset management plans which focus on the capital rates may have to be reduced to remain competitive.
requirements of each property in terms of regular maintenance and product enhancement to help ensure In addition, management of third-party owned hotels under the products remain competitive.
Refurbishments are management agreements, particularly in the Middle East and phased appropriately in order to minimise the impact of China regions, and the use of joint ventures in the Middle East those programmes on operations, to the extent possible.
and other markets gives rise to the risk of non-performance on The Group currently endeavours to reinvest one-third of its the part of the hotel owners and joint venture partners, and the EBITDA into its hotel estate.
ability of the relevant hotels to deliver service and product The Group has in place brand and operating standards, quality to Group brand and operating standards, especially and regularly refreshes those, to provide for consistent when the strategic objectives of those parties are not fully service delivery and product quality among its hotels, even aligned with those of the Group if they are owned by third parties and or operated through joint ventures.
Management representatives are assigned to manage the relationships with joint venture partners and third party hotel owners.
Intellectual property rights In 2015 the Group allocated its hotels and brands into Future growth and pricing power and the image and and brands reputation of the Group in general will, in part, be dependent distinct collections and updated its brand and marketing on the recognition of the Groups brands and perception of standards to enhance and clarify its brand portfolio.
the values inherent in those brands.
The ability of the group to Substantial investment continues to be made in protecting protect its intellectual property rights in those brands is the Groups brands from misuse and infringement, by instrumental in preventing them from deteriorating in value.
way of trade mark registration, enforcement of intellectual property rights and domain name protection.
The Group In addition, the proliferation of e-commerce and online sales utilises third party online brand monitoring and protection channels, whether through affiliates, online travel agencies, agencies to assist with the Groups enforcement activities.
meta search websites or otherwise, can give rise to brand confusion and further dilution if the Groups intellectual property is not used appropriately and in accordance with the Groups brand and marketing standards.
Increasing competition The hotel industry operates within an inherently cyclical The Groups flexible financial control and revenue marketplace where competition, both online and offline, is management systems help it to control costs and achieve increasing.
An increase in market room supply, without better yields in volatile trading conditions.
corresponding increases in demand, may lead to downward The Group continues to refresh its digital marketing pressure on rates, which in turn could negatively impact the strategy and invest in its e-commerce, customer Groups performance.
relationship management, revenue management and reservations systems in order to help increase rates, retain With regard to online competition, the Groups hotel rooms existing customers and generate new business.
are booked through a number of distribution channels, one of Since 2014, a new advanced central reservations which is the online travel agency OTA.
OTAs tend to have system has been in place providing a platform for future higher commission rates than more traditional distribution enhancements.
Additionally, the Groups website and channels and are taking an increasing share of bookings loyalty programme are in the process of being upgraded across the sector.
Over time, consumers may develop loyalties to help improve brand recognition and drive more to the OTAs rather than to our brands.
These trends may bookings through the Groups own, less costly distribution impact our profitability.
In addition, sharing economy channels.
platforms, such as Airbnb, may expand their market share and compete with more traditional business and leisure accommodations.
28 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Risk and Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk trend year on year Talent management and succession The Group has a strong service culture supported by Execution of the Groups strategy depends on its ability to attract, develop and retain employees with the appropriate performance management and recognition systems, compensation and benefits arrangements, and training skills, experience and aptitude.
This becomes more difficult as world travel becomes more prevalent and competition in the and development programmes.
Labour relations are actively managed on a regional and local basis.
During 2016 the Group, implemented changes to its below Board level executive compensation to enhance Failure of the Group to properly plan for the succession of key management roles may cause operational disruption, employee engagement and performance.
potentially delaying the execution of the Groups strategies and increasing costs and inefficiencies.
Financial The Group operates in numerous jurisdictions and trades in The Groups internal Treasury Management Committee various international currencies, but reports its financial results monitors and addresses treasury matters, including in pounds sterling.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates investment and counterparty risks, in accordance with the and interest rates may either be accretive or dilutive to the Groups treasury policy.
The Board and Audit Committee Groups reported trading results and net asset value.
receive regular updates on treasury matters.
Foreign exchange exposure is primarily managed through Unhedged interest rate exposures pose a risk to the Group the funding of purchases and repayment of borrowings when interest rates rise, resulting in increased costs of funding from income generated in the same currency.
and an impact on overall financial performance.
Interest rate hedges are only used to manage interest rate risk to the extent the perceived costs are considered to outweigh the benefits of having flexible, variable-rate debt.
Compliance and corporate responsibility Legal and regulatory The Group operates in many jurisdictions and is exposed to The Group continues to monitor changes in the regulatory compliance the risk of non-compliance with increasingly complex statutory environments in which it operates, identify its compliance and regulatory requirements, including competition law, obligations and implement appropriate compliance and anti-bribery and corruption and data privacy compliance training programmes.
The Group has comprehensive regimes.
Non-compliance with such regulations, which differ global and, where applicable, regional policies and by jurisdiction and are an area of increasing focus by procedures in place to address competition law, data regulators, could result in fines and or other damages, privacy, ethical business conduct, whistle-blowing, antiincluding reputational damage, being incurred, particularly in corruption and bribery, gifts and hospitality and charitable the event a data breach should occur.
The Group maintains in place industry standard insurance In addition, the Group may be at risk of litigation from various cover to mitigate many potential litigation risks, such as parties with which it interacts, either through direct contractual employment practices liability, workers compensation and arrangements or as a result of providing services to general liability policies.
Significant costs could be incurred where claims The Group has controls in place to manage and help are not insured or are not fully insured, and litigation could give mitigate the risks associated with its various contractual rise to reputational damage being suffered and management relationships, from execution through to termination, distraction.
insured and uninsured litigation and other disputes.
Regular litigation reports are provided to the Board.
In certain countries where the Group operates, particularly in emerging markets, local practices and the legal environment may be such that enforcement of the Groups legal rights is challenging.
Health and safety and social The Group is exposed to a wide range of regulatory The Group has established and maintains health and responsibility requirements and obligations concerning the health and safety safety and environmental management systems which it of employees, visitors and guests.
Failure to implement and seeks to align with the requirements of ISO 14001 and maintain sufficient controls regarding health and safety issues OHSAS 18001.
By using these standards the Group is could expose the Group to significant sanctions, both civil and committed to working to the highest standards of health criminal, financial penalties and reputational damage.
and safety and to an internationally accredited system.
The Group has adopted various corporate responsibility Furthermore, as a significant property owner and operator of initiatives in relation to its employees, guests and the hotels in multiple jurisdictions, the Group must do more than environment.
The Groups operating regions have flexibility simply comply with local regulations.
We must act in a to tailor such initiatives and adopt new ones to better responsible way towards our stakeholders and the conform to local and regional customs and practices.
communities in which our hotels operate.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29 Strategic Report Our risks continued Risk and Potential Impact Mitigating Activities Risk trend year on year Vulnerability to cyber attacks or fraud Increasing reliance on online distribution channels and Periodically the Group engages external consultancy transactions over the internet and the aggregation and storage firms to conduct security and penetration testing services of guest and other information electronically, both on in relation to the Groups websites and implements company-controlled servers and networks and in cloud-based enhancements where necessary.
Also, as part of the environments, present heightened risks of attacks affecting the Groups PCI-DSS compliance activities, all regions operation of those systems and networks and or a potential conduct additional internal and external penetration loss or misuse of confidential or proprietary information.
The testing annually as required.
occurrence of cyber risks could disrupt business, the ability of The Company has in place, and regularly reviews, cyber the Group to take or fulfil bookings or lead to reputational and insurance coverage to protect against certain cyber risks.
monetary damages, litigation or regulatory fines.
Software systems are regularly updated to allow for the latest security updates and patches to be installed.
In addition, various aspects of the Groups operations are Where the Group outsources critical information required to achieve compliance with the payment card technology systems, including its point of sale and property industry data security standards PCI-DSS, and failure to do management systems, the Group utilises reputable so could result in penalties and or withdrawal of credit card suppliers that have industry-standard or best-in-class payment facilities.
The Groups hotels utilise Oracles MICROS property management system, for example.
The regional information technology teams have developed disaster recovery plans and guides with regard to their high-priority systems that need to be up-andrunning, and tests are conducted on select mission-critical systems annually to verify their recoverability offsite.
Information technology policies and procedures have been updated to reflect implementation of the latest PCI-DSS compliance standards.
Natural, geopolitical and economic events Sustained levels of occupancy and the Groups ability to The Group has in place disaster recovery, crisis response optimise room rates and profitability can be adversely affected and business continuity plans to enable it to respond to by various external events that may reduce travel or increase major incidents or emergencies.
Management pro-actively monitors geopolitical developments and seeks to identify emerging risks at the Such events, which often are beyond the control of earliest opportunity and implements ownership structures, management, may be localised to a particular community, city internal controls and other steps to minimise these or country or they may have a wider international impact.
exposures to the greatest extent possible.
The Groups flexible financial and revenue management Examples of such events include severe weather conditions and natural disasters, acts of terrorism, war or perceived risk systems help it to control costs and achieve better yields in volatile trading conditions.
of armed conflict, epidemics, nationalisation of assets or restrictions on the repatriation of funds, increased travel costs, The Groups insurance requirements are regularly reviewed by management to ensure that the coverages obtained industrial action and political and or social unrest.
Notably the UK referendum on EU membership and while we have not are appropriate to the companys risk profile relative to the cost of cover available in the relevant markets.
seen any immediate or material impacts from that decision aside from significant exchange rate fluctuations, we recognise The wide geographic spread of the Groups properties is a natural hedge against the impact of natural, geopolitical that the coming years will be challenging in the UK and are monitoring political and macro-economic developments and economic events.
Appropriate insurance coverage may not be available in the market in some instances or coverage may not be available on commercially viable terms.
Approval of Strategic Report The Strategic Report comprises the following sections: Chairmans statement, Business review and strategy, Key performance indicators, Financial performance and regional performances, Corporate responsibility which incorporates information relating to greenhouse gas emissions required to be included in the Directors report and Our risks sections.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: Aloysius Lee Group Chief Executive Officer 16 February 2017 30 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 HARD DAYS NIGHT HOTEL LIVERPOOL Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31 Governance GOVERNANCE For more information online at: millenniumhotels.
com THE CHELSEA HARBOUR HOTEL 32 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Governance 34 Board of Directors 36 Directors report 40 Corporate governance statement 45 Audit Committee report 48 Directors remuneration report 65 Nominations Committee report 67 Statement of Directors responsibilities 68 Independent auditors report Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 33
