Risks and uncertainties Keeping risk in control Overview Management support, involvement and This section highlights enforcement is fundamental to the success Risk management is critical to our corporate the top 10 principal risks of our risk management framework and each responsibilities and to the delivery of shareholder member of the Executive Committee takes value.
Risk is at the heart of everything we do and uncertainties that responsibility for the management of the as an organisation.
Therefore, the process for specific risks associated with their function.
identifying and assessing risks and opportunities affect the Company, Our Group risk register clearly outlines the is an integral and inseparable part of the alignment of each key risk to an Executive together with the key management skills and processes which are Committee member and an action owner, the core of our business.
to ensure responsibilities are formally aligned.
mitigating activities in place There is an established Risk Committee in Therefore, there is a robust and transparent to manage those risks.
place, which met on six occasions in FY 2016 process in place to provide an appropriate level and continues to meet on a quarterly basis to of direction and support in the identification, This does not represent review the key risks facing the business.
Key assessment and management of those aspects of risks identified are reviewed and assessed by the business which have the potential to damage a comprehensive list of the Risk Committee in terms of their likelihood seriously our financial position, shareholder value, and impact, within the Groups Key Risk Heat all of the risks that the our responsibilities to our staff and customers, Map, in conjunction with associated risk our reputation and our relationship with key mitigation plans.
The processes that are used Company faces, but stakeholders.
to identify and manage risks are described in focuses on those that the Internal Control and Risk Management statement on page 52. are considered to be most relevant at Our three lines of defence the current time.
1st 2nd 3rd Executive Committee Financial authority limits Group Assurance Leadership group Risk Management Operational Practice Team management processes Internal controls and Audit Committee processes Risk Committee Internal policies and Health and Safety Team procedures Technology Specialists Training Legal Support 20 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement 1 Market risks A Declining sales performance Right team and structure in place.
Brand alignment ensures the Risk increasing right research gets done and is acted on.
This risk falls into three main categories: Daily, weekly and periodic sales reporting, monitoring and scrutiny Sales: There is a risk that declining sales activity is in place.
may adversely affect our market share and profitability, reducing headroom against Our Eat Drink Share panel provides robust, quick and cost effective securitisation tests.
This is our own panel of 27,000 M&B guests whom we can use for research purposes for quick and cost-effective insights.
Consumer and market insight: If M&B fails to manage and develop its existing Primary research in partnership with brand category teams.
and new brands in line with consumer Working with suppliers to tap into their research.
needs and market trends due to failure to obtain or use sufficient insight in a timely Each brand has its own pricing strategy.
manner, this may lead to a decline in Price promotions are in line with the agreed strategy.
Pricing and market changes: If price changes are not intelligently applied due to Consumer insight led innovation process and development for a lack of appreciation of market sensitivities new brands.
and elasticities, this may result in decreased Reduce customer complaints by improving the local management revenue and profit.
of social media responses ie TripAdvisor.
Online guest satisfaction survey to collect guest feedback.
This feedback together with the results of research studies is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated guest insight team to ensure that the relevance to guests of the Companys brands is maintained.
21 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement 1 Market risks continued B Cost of goods price increases Overall, price increases are mitigated as Mitchells & Butlers leverages Risk increasing its scale to drive competitive cost advantage and collaborates with This risk falls into three main categories: suppliers to increase efficiencies in the supply chain.
The fragmented nature of the food supply industry on the world commodity markets Food: The price of goods increases due to gives the Company the opportunity to source products from a number increases in demand and uncertainty of of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
Key mitigating supply, leading to decreased profits.
activities for food and drink are detailed below: Drinks: The price of drinks goods increases Food: due to changes in demand, legislation, exchange rates and production costs, A Food Procurement Strategy is in place.
Full reviews have been carried out on key categories to ensure Goods not for resale: Increases in the optimum value is achieved in each category.
price of goods not for resale and utilities A full range review was completed in early 2015 ensuring the correct costs as a result of increases in global number of products suppliers.
demand and uncertainty of supply in producing nations can have a significant Regular reporting of current and projected inflation.
impact on the cost base, consequently Good relationships with key suppliers.
Drinks: Each drinks category has a clearly defined strategic sourcing plan to ensure company scale is leveraged, supply base is rationalised and consumer needs are met.
Good relationships with key suppliers.
Supplier collaboration programmes are in place.
Plans in development to mitigate Sugar Tax.
Risk is increasing mainly due to the devaluation of sterling following Brexit, changes in Government raising risk of punitive duty changes and the introduction of the Sugar Tax in 2018.
Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement 2 Operational risks A People planning and development The Company makes significant investment in training to ensure that Risk decreasing its people have the right skills to perform their jobs successfully.
Mitchells & Butlers has a strong guest focus, Furthermore, an employee survey is conducted annually to establish and as such it is important that it is able to employee satisfaction and engagement and this is compared with other attract, retain, develop and motivate the companies, as well as previous surveys.
Where appropriate, changes in best people with the right capabilities working practices are made in response to the findings of these surveys.
There is a risk that without the right people our customer Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that they remain service levels would be affected.
competitive and a talent review process is used to provide structured succession planning.
B Business continuity and crisis The Company has in place crisis and continuity plans that are tested No movement management and refreshed regularly.
Mitchells & Butlers relies on its food and drink The Companys third-party back-up facility, for retail support centre supply chain and the key IT systems underlying employees, has been successfully tested to ensure critical business the business to serve its guests efficiently and systems are able to function in the event of a disaster.
Supply chain interruption, IT FY 2016, departmental Business Continuity Plans have been revised, system failure or crises such as terrorist activity updated and reviewed by the Risk Committee.
or the threat of disease pandemic might restrict sales or reduce operational effectiveness.
22 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report 2to35 Governance 36to81 Financial statements 82to138 Shareholder information 139 Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement 2 Operational risks continued C Information security and In FY 2016 a detailed review of information security, disaster recovery No movement disaster recovery and IT resilience was performed in order to highlight any gaps and address any challenges that had been presented in exploring the There is a risk that inadequate disaster viability of a disaster recovery test for our business critical applications.
recovery plans and information security During the year a number of improvements have been made, including: processes are in place to mitigate against a system outage, or failure to ensure Establishment of an Information Security Steering Group.
appropriate back-up facilities covering key Group Assurance review of Information Security controls.
business systems and the recovery of critical data and loss of sensitive data.
Review and implementation of appropriate cyber security governance policy and procedures.
Ongoing security awareness initiatives have been and continue to be undertaken.
D Wage cost inflation A detailed review of the risks associated with successfully implementing Risk increasing the National Living Wage has been completed.
This review has been There is a risk that increased costs undertaken at a strategic level and seeks to ensure that appropriate associated with the introduction of the mitigating actions are in place, some of which are in relation to how the National Living Wage may adversely impact Group carefully manages productivity and efficiency across the estate.
Implementation of the National Living Wage will continue to remain an area of focus in FY 2017.
We are currently trialing a new Time and Attendance system to improve the management controls and reporting of staff hours.
E Borrowing covenants The Company maintains headroom against these risks.
The finance No movement team conducts daily cash forecasting with periodic reviews at the There are risks that borrowing covenants Treasury Committee, the roles of which include ensuring that the are breached because of circumstances Board Treasury Policy is adhered to, monitoring its operation and such as: agreeing appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board.
A change in the economic climate leading In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant compliance to reduced cash inflows: or is performed and frequent communication is maintained with the Securitisation Trustee.
A material change in the valuation of the property portfolio.
F Pension fund deficit The Company has made significant additional contributions to reduce No movement the funding deficit.
In May 2014, the Company reached agreement on The material value of the pension fund the triennial valuation of the Group pension schemes as at 31 March deficit remains a risk.
2013, at an increased funding shortfall of 572m March 2010 valuation 400m.
The value of total deficit at the end of FY 2016, following the revised contributions, is 337m FY 2015 350m.
23 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk category and description Controls mitigating activities Movement 2 Operational risks continued G Failure to operate safely and legally Mitchells & Butlers maintains a robust programme of health and safety No movement checks both within its restaurants and pubs and throughout the supply A major health and safety failure could lead chain.
The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses a number of technical to illness, injury or loss of life or significant partners including food technologists, microbiologists and allergen damage to the Companys or a brands specialists to ensure that our food procedures are safe.
independent audits of trading sites are performed to ensure that procedures are followed and that appropriate standards are maintained.
Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are subject to regular safety and quality audits.
Comprehensive health and safety training programmes are in place.
H Food supply chain safety M&B has a Safety Assurance team and uses a number of technical No movement partners including food technologists, food safety experts, a Malicious or accidental contamination in the microbiologist, allergy consultants, trading standards specialists, supply chain could lead to food goods for nutritionists, etc.
resale being unfit for human consumption or being dangerous to consume.
This could M&B uses a robust system of detailed product specifications.
lead to restrictions in supply which in turn All food products are risk rated using standard industry definitions causes an increase in cost of goods and and assessment of the way the products are used in M&B kitchens.
reduced sales due to consumer fears and Suppliers are then risk rated according to their products.
physical harm to customers employees.
Each food supplier is audited at least once per annum in respect of safety and additionally in response to a serious food safety complaint or incident.
Longterm viability statement In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have undertaken an assessment, including sensitivity analyses, of the prospects of the Group, for a period of three years to September 2019.
This assessment has been made taking account of the current financial position, compliance with covenants, Company strategy, budget planning process and the key risks and uncertainties, as detailed within the Annual Report.
The Groups strategy provides a long-term direction and is reviewed on at least an annual basis, including three year forecasts, detailing the expected financial impact.
The Directors have therefore concluded, based upon the extent of the financial planning assessment, sensitivity analysis and current financial position that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and will be able to continue in operation and meet all their liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of assessment.
24 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2016
