2016 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Identified principal risks to the achievement of our strategic business objectives are outlined in the section below, together with their potential impact and the mitigation measures in place.
The Board believe these risks to be the most significant with the potential to impact our strategy, our financial and operational performance and, ultimately, our reputation.
There may be other risks which are currently unknown to the group or which may become material in the future.
Our key risk categories continue to be: strategic, financial, operational, and regulatory.
Strategic Risk Event Controls and mitigation Risk movement Continuing uncertainty in economic environment including Brexit creates unstable operating and investment environment for Mitie and its clients Our principal macro economic exposure remains the UK, with The group continues to target strategic high-margin only very limited exposure to the wider global economy.
We are growth areas, underpinned by the right supporting closely monitoring the outcomes of the 2015 Spending Review business infrastructure.
Development of a long-term and the potential for changes in government spending: we await contract portfolio combining a mix of both public the outcome of the Brexit referendum and potential resulting and private sector contracts mitigates the financial policy changes to determine the impact on future contract impact of rapid changes in the economic opportunities.
Regulatory wage inflation and other labour costs environment.
The Board retains formal oversight together with restrictions on specific terms and conditions in and approval of entry into new business areas, relation to certain labour models provides further challenge.
supported by a targeted and considered acquisition Our ability to recognise and respond to variations in the volume, strategy to enhance our capabilities in value and range of services required, particularly from our private complementary areas.
sector clients, may impact the Groups ability to win or retain significant business opportunities.
Resilience is provided by our diverse business portfolio during times of economic change, with varying demands on our resources dependent on the way in which our client base responds to the economic cycle.
Protecting our reputation Maintaining our strong reputation is critical for the achievement Our strong corporate governance framework of our strategic objectives.
Our growth and financial targets supported by our core values and behaviours forms could be significantly impacted through an adverse impact to the basis for ensuring the protection of our our reputation leading to a loss of confidence from our current, reputation.
This framework is communicated or potential, client base.
Such an impact on reputation could be caused by any incident A strong and consistent tone from the top involving major harm to one of our people or one of our is provided by our senior management to ensure clients partners, or others affected by our services, inadequate our values and expected behaviours are clear and financial control processes, a failure to comply with regulatory understood by everyone.
requirements or corrupt practices involving fraud or bribery.
Our code of conduct forms the cornerstone of our Incidents of these types would potentially result in financial ethical business framework, linking together our penalties, losses of key contracts, an inability to win new policies, procedures, training programmes and business, and or an inability to retain key staff and recruit new expectations of employee behaviour.
The impact would therefore be potentially greater than As our business continues to grow and develop the impact of the underlying incident alone.
into new sectors we will remain strongly focused on protecting the strength of our reputation through effective governance, leadership and the continued enhancement of our ethical business framework.
Financial Risk Event Controls and mitigation Risk movement Financial strength and access to appropriately scaled and diverse sources of funding Although we are an attractive partner to our clients and We maintain strong banking, debt finance and stakeholders including our funding partners due to our equity relationships, and a diverse committed financial strength, deterioration in our financial performance long-term funding portfolio.
could limit our ability to grow either organically or through Our established financial governance arrangements acquisition by restricting our ability to access competitively provide oversight of our financial performance termed funding or by increased costs of borrowing.
including daily monitoring of bank balances, Given that staff costs remain our most significant expenditure, regular forecasting of cash flow and regular the availability of funding from a variety of sources, strong cash financial performance and balance sheet reviews.
flow and working capital remain central to our ability to pay We have a diverse committed long-term funding our people regularly and at specific times.
Funding is therefore portfolio and strong banking, debt finance and critical to the ongoing success and continuity of our business.
com 57 2016 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Financial Controls and mitigation Risk Event Risk movement Reliance on material counterparties We are reliant on several significant counterparties The impact of any potential failure of one counterparty such as insurers, banks, clients and suppliers to maintain is limited due to the development of a diverse range of our business activities.
Our ability to trade and the robust counterparties.
A formal review of material operational and financial effectiveness of our business counterparty risk is undertaken at Board, divisional could be materially affected by a failure of one of these and business level.
The need to maintain effective ongoing relationships with our material counterparties is therefore critical if the Group is to meet its strategic objectives Operational Controls and mitigation Risk Event Risk movement Contract bidding, mobilisation and delivery We see an increasingly complex service offering as Our executive management team oversee our bid, a business differentiator to our clients, supported by mobilisation and delivery processes for large integrated ever more sophisticated and complex technological facilities management contacts.
solutions, and maintaining our strong financial position Teams of experienced bid, mobilisation and delivery is dependent upon our ability to successfully bid, mobilise experts support the contracts through each stage and deliver large scale, complex integrated facilities of development to ensure operation within the management contracts.
When compared to our more traditional business activities, A focus on developing long-term client relationships these solutions necessarily carry increased risk around occurs supported by a strengthened framework to bidding, design, delivery and successful implementation.
retain our existing client base.
Our ability to manage these risks is therefore critical to The development and deployment of sophisticated ensuring the groups growth.
technical solutions to facilitate improved contract delivery is governed by our Board, with governance arrangements operating to provide assurance on their ongoing performance.
Significant health, safety or environmental incident We undertake a broad and diverse range of services The Board maintains a strong focus on providing for our clients, some of which are potentially hazardous effective governance, oversight and management and so the potential to cause significant harm to our standards and a commitment to achieving the highest employees, our business partners, members of the public, standards of quality, health, safety and environmental or to damage the environment exists.
QHSE performance, with QHSE performance continuing to be the first item on every Board agenda.
We maintain an unwavering commitment to safeguarding our people, others who potentially could be affected by our Our well established and award winning employee activities, and protecting the environment wherever we engagement programme, Work Safe Home Safe, operate.
Failure to maintain our high standards could was strengthened during the year, and we continued result in a significant incident affecting an employee, their to maintain our QHSE management systems which family, friends or colleagues: or lead to regulatory action, are certified to the ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS financial impact or damage to our reputation.
To support our management system and engagement programme we focus on developing training programmes to ensure every employee, at every level of the business, has the core competencies required to do their work safely.
58 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Operational Risk Event Controls and mitigation Risk movement Intentional unintentional business disruption through system, process or control failure Our business is underpinned by operational efficiency, Our governance framework, specifically our core with future business performance built upon the use of policies and procedures is continually reviewed and sophisticated, interdependent business systems, with optimised to ensure it remains effective and is fit for greater use and reliance on such systems increasing in the purpose as our business grows and diversifies.
future as we provide more sophisticated services to our We formally review the effectiveness of internal client base.
These systems, combined with our governance controls, supported by a programme of internal audits framework of policies and procedures, remain critical for and self-certification on the operation of key controls the control and success of the business and the and procedures.
achievement of our strategic objectives.
Business critical systems are formally identified and Due to the business critical nature of these systems, subject to testing to ensure effective recovery following operational failure may result in a significant impact on a potential disaster scenario.
IT-related governance operational delivery, or contract management and client oversight is provided by the IT Board comprising expectations, with a breakdown in the controls around high executive management who continue to monitor the volume transactions and compliance areas such as vetting effectiveness of the information security management and employment legislation caused by system failure.
As a system, which is aligned with recognised international result of either operational or system failure, financial standards.
Cyber security arrangements and the threat misstatements, fines for statutory non-compliance and of malicious attacks on our systems are under continual loss of client and or regulator confidence could occur.
surveillance operationally and monitored by the Board.
We have undertaken Cyber Essentials certification and are working towards Cyber Essentials Plus.
An assurance programme is in place to test the adequacy of our mitigation activity.
Operational Risk Event Controls and mitigation Risk movement Attracting and retaining the right people in the right places To achieve our strategic objectives and deliver our longWe focus on training and competency at all levels of term growth aspirations, we need to retain our most skilled the business to ensure the development of our people people at all levels of the business, as well as attracting to enable them to successfully manage the changing new staff to join us.
Of particular importance is the need profile of our business putting the right people, with to have access to a diverse range of views and experience the right skills, in the right places.
We aim to reward and to attract specific technical expertise where the achievement by offering promotion, by ensuring a market may be highly competitive.
pipeline of opportunities exists for staff at every level of the business.
Talent management and succession Failure to retain and develop our existing employees or to planning therefore continues to be a key focus for our attract new talent could impact our ability to achieve our management teams.
We are also looking to the future and aiming to develop the next generation of leaders via our established graduate programme.
Regulatory Risk Event Controls and mitigation Risk movement Non-compliance with the developing regulatory framework Our ability, as a major employer, to respond to the Our governance framework, comprising our code of developing legal and regulatory framework in areas such conduct, policies and procedures and specific training as national living wage, healthcare and the broad range of activity forms the cornerstone of our legal and applicable operational laws is essential to ensure we meet regulatory compliance programme.
our strategic targets and avoid potential material financial Responsibility for ensuring legal and regulatory and reputational impacts associated with non-compliance.
compliance remains primarily with our operational Labour legislation, including the National Living Wage, management teams, supported where necessary with apprentice levy and changes to pension legislation specific technical expertise and related assurance contribute to a change in the cost of our more labour activity.
Management oversight occurs via divisional intensive services.
Challenges associated As a minimum requirement we demand legal and with changes to labour legislation are being addressed regulatory compliance in all of our business areas, covering through a change to our business model, including all our activities, with strong management oversight of our increased focus on technological solutions and a drive compliance status particularly where we operate in a new for greater operational efficiency in our core services.
The developing regulatory framework is proactively monitored to plan and budget for ongoing compliance.
com 59 2016 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued The table below maps our strategic aims with our principal risks, to demonstrate which of the risks could have an impact on the achievement of these strategic aims.
Strategy Increase the Maintain our range and scale Grow our public Expand position of services we services the scale and as the leading provide to our Increase the businesses by breadth of Attract, retain provider of FM top 200 clients provision of developing our higher-value and develop the services in in the UK and technology-led relationships consultancy best people in Risk the UK internationally services with key clients services our industry Continuing uncertainty in economic environment including Brexit creates unstable operating and investment environment for Mitie and its clients Protecting our reputation Financial strength and access to appropriately scaled and diverse sources of funding Reliance on material counterparties Contract bidding, mobilisation and delivery Significant health, safety or environmental incident Intentional unintentional business disruption through system, process or control failure Attracting and retaining the right people in the right places Non-compliance with the developing regulatory framework 60 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016
