Principal Risks & Uncertainties The table below summarises the Boards view of the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Strategic aim: Best site Be the easiest way for people to find the right products for their needs Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2016 Competition Loss of market share or reduction SR Evolution of existing platforms We continued our capital in margins as a result of channels to improve customer investment programme and and platforms not delivering experience and make migrated 24 channels to our new expected benefits to customers comparing products easier.
technology at MoneySuperMarket and the Group.
and launched MoneySuperMarket GO app.
We have seen strong growth across our Insurance and Home Services businesses with a turnaround in Travel.
Reduction in customers if SR Regular engagement with We have continued to develop Changing the Group fails to adapt to customers to understand new products and services which consumer changing consumer behaviours changes in how they utilise reflect how consumers want to behaviour in using new technologies and the Groups services.
engage with us including increasing use of mobile devices MoneySuperMarket GO app, to access the internet or MoneySavingExpert Credit Club social media.
and MoneySavingExpert Cheap Energy Club.
Strategic aim: Earn customer loyalty Trusted destination brands Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2016 Brand strength Loss of confidence by customers SR Innovation and development of MoneySuperMarket focus on in the brands operated by the brands and services which help Best Site and investment behind Group resulting in reduced customers make the most of Best Price has further engagement and loyalty their money.
Investment in advertising across MoneySavingExpert remains the a range of media to maintain brand most trusted by UK families the Groups brands in to save money and manage your customers minds.
The Group maintained marketing spend to deliver visitors direct to the Groups websites.
Reduction in customer loyalty OR The Group seeks to build strong We have worked with providers to Product offering with existing customers and an relationships with providers and give our customers access to best inability to attract new customers operates rigorous checking of its in market offers and products and if the business fails to maintain websites through audit and expanded services such as a competitive price and review to maintain the accuracy pre-approval within credit cards.
Cheap Energy Club operated two successful collective energy switches with market leading deals being taken up by over 300,000 users.
Negative impact on reputation OR Rigorous controls and regular Our technology investments Customer trust and loss of customer trust testing of the Groups systems improved robustness as well as including cyber through the impact of an and infrastructure.
putting customers in control of operational event such as how their personal data is held a cyber attack or misuse of We continue to build and enhance and used.
customer personal data or errors our cyber programme to protect in implementation of new our customers data.
30 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Strategic aim: Preferred partner Be the best way for providers to acquire customers Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2016 Providers may increase their SR The Group seeks to innovate in We have strengthened our Relevance to focus on customer retention the solutions and benefits it can relationships and worked closely partners rather than acquisition or offer to providers and maximise with providers in the seek alternative sources the opportunities for providers to development of new tools and of customer acquisition.
acquire customers in a cost exclusive offers for our effective manner.
We continue to share with providers our improved customer insights to help them understand what our customers want and how they can improve their products.
As an intermediary, the Group OR Rigorous controls and monitoring The Group has invested in quality Data errors and risks claims from providers if of internal processes.
Continuous assurance and testing within inaccuracies errors in operating procedures or quality assurance procedures.
It technology results in incorrect or The Group maintains professional has enhanced its incident incomplete product or customer indemnity insurance to recover management process including data being transferred to or from costs from such claims.
Our results One team always making things better for customers, providers and our business Risk area and trend Description Risk type Mitigating activities Developments in 2016 Economic Weaknesses in the economic SR Building strong relationships with The diversity of the Group environment including as a result providers to ensure that the across a portfolio of brands uncertainty of Brexit may cause providers to Group is able to provide solutions and channels offers the Group reduce product range or tighten to the needs of providers.
protection from cyclical acceptance criteria for customers economic changes.
This may Focusing on maintaining control reduce competition between of the cost base in order that the Our commercial teams focused providers and choice for business is an efficient customer on building stronger relationships consumers.
Changes to existing regulation or SR The Group Risk and Compliance The Group monitors new and Regulation the introduction of new function works across the emerging regulatory regulatory requirements which business to ensure it remains developments.
We have requires changes to the core compliant with existing regulation proactively engaged with business model in order to and is able to highlight where regulators including FCA, Ofgem comply.
changes may impact business particularly in respect of processes.
potential changes to list all energy suppliers on our site and CMA in respect of its Digital Comparison Tools market study.
Risk type: Strategic risk SR Operational conduct risk OR Risk trend: Increasing Decreasing Static Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31
