k I s d i c e r o n s n t s t Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements i o r f o r y l g s i f y n f f e i u t e r n d t a e h u d e Q r Q u s a k n s i t r i f y y f i n t e n t e r d i I s k Risk Management How we mitigate risk Risk management approach Governance and oversight In common with many businesses, the Group faces risk in all areas A governance and oversight structure is in place, with clearly defined of its activity.
The Group seeks to understand its risks and manage lines of responsibility, accountability and delegation of authority.
Effective risk management is vital in enabling the Group to achieve its strategic objectives and to secure the The Board is ultimately responsible for the overall effectiveness of business for the long term, whilst ensuring the desired outcomes risk management across the business, supported by the Risk for consumers.
Risk management is a key element of the Groups Committee.
The Board delegates day to day responsibility to decision-making processes and, alongside its governance structure executive management.
Executive management owns the Group and system of internal control, gives the Board assurance that risks risks, is responsible for ensuring that the business effectively are being appropriately identified and managed, in line with its risk manages risk and takes appropriate and timely action where issues appetite.
The Risk Committee oversees executive management on behalf of the Board in the management of risks.
The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Principal Risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined on pages 30 and 31, along with a description of how they are being managed.
Risk Management Culture Values, behaviours and communication Training, education and awareness Embedding in decision-making Continuous improvement Risk Management Governance and Oversight Framework, policy and procedures Roles and responsiblities Appetite and tolerance Risk Working with third parties Management Process Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27 l o I r d t r n e i s o n k c t i m f d y i n t a i e g x r a i o t s t i t i o i n n n o g M Risk Management continued Role Responsibilities Board Approval of Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
Carry out a robust assessment at least annually of Principal Risks and effectiveness of risk management and internal control policies: and report to shareholders on such matters.
Assessment of the effectiveness of Risk Appetite Framework and system of internal control.
Risk Committee Advise the Board on Risk Appetite Framework and Statement for the Group.
Review and oversight of Risk Register.
Assessment of identification and measurement of risks.
Oversight of executive management in management of risks.
Executive Ensure risk management is an integral part of implementing the business strategy.
Management Operate the business within set risk appetite and tolerances.
1st Line of Responsibility for managing risks and implementing effective controls.
Defence Ensure that appropriate policies are implemented to identify and evaluate risks.
Risk and Monitor against Risk Appetite Framework and Statement, risk profile, control effectiveness and management actions.
Compliance Monitor and update the Risk Register.
2nd Line of Co-ordinate appropriate and timely delivery of risk management information to executive management and the Defence Risk Committee.
Maintain and implement risk policies.
Implement appropriate risk management processes and methodologies.
Advise and challenge management on risk management and internal control processes.
Develop tools, techniques, methodologies, risk framework, analysis, reporting, communication and training.
Internal Audit Monitor effectiveness of risk management processes.
3rd Line of Perform tests of controls effectiveness.
Defence Identify and agree corrective actions with management.
Liaise with Risk and Compliance function.
Report to the Audit Committee.
In addition, the Audit Committee performs an annual assessment of the risk management and internal control framework, covering financial, operational and compliance controls including the: assessment of the risk management framework for identifying and monitoring risks, with consideration of the integration with strategic and business planning processes.
This is supported by independent reporting on risk management and internal controls by the Internal Audit function or independent third parties, including the external auditor: assessment of the extent, frequency and quality of risk management and internal control reporting: review of the resolution of issues arising from internal control failings or weaknesses: and review of the effectiveness of the financial reporting processes.
The Audit Committee makes a recommendation to the Board on effectiveness which the Board considers, together with reports from the Risk Committee, in forming its own view on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems.
28 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management framework Management reporting During 2016, to support the risk management framework, we have Timely and accurate management information is provided to the enhanced our suite of risk management policies, setting right people to support management decisions and manage risk requirements and standards for all areas of risk, in line with risk effectively within the Group.
appetite and which inform the processes and procedures that the Group is measured against.
Reporting enables management: to have clear visibility of the most relevant risks: to identify areas of concern and or priority: have access to detailed information to enable root cause analysis and Risk appetite underlying trends: and identify, escalate and potentially mitigate the Risk appetite defines the level and type of risk the Group is able impact of new operational risk concerns in a timely manner.
and willing to accept in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Groups risk appetite influences the business culture and operating Where risk exposures are identified as being outside appetite, this is decisions, and is reflected in the way risk is managed.
The Group escalated and reported to the Risk Committee, alongside clear Risk Appetite Statement is reviewed at least annually, in line with the action plans to bring the risk within tolerance, with appropriate strategic direction of the Group, recent experience and the timescales.
The type and extent of any mitigating actions will be regulatory environment, and is subject to Board approval.
determined by the level and nature of the risk and the Groups risk appetite.
There are certain risk areas where we have a very low appetite such as complying with applicable laws, including applicable regulatory requirements.
This means that we take actions to try and avoid or Future developments eliminate this risk as far as possible.
In other areas, such as strategy, We continue to embed a risk culture where risk management is part we recognise the importance of managed risk-taking in order to of everyday business decision making and is understood by our achieve business objectives and goals.
wider business, to ensure that all personnel understand the risks faced by the business, how risk is managed, and the part they play.
Risk identification and assessment We will continue to develop management information, risk metrics The Group adopts formal risk identification and management and assurance processes over internal controls building on the work processes which are designed to ensure that risks are properly done to date.
We will ensure that specialist risk knowledge is readily identified and evaluated, in line with risk appetite.
Throughout the available to each of our brands to enable them to take and be fully year quarterly as a minimum, the identification of significant risks is accountable for risk-based decisions, whilst providing an effective informed using a bottom up and top down approach with each level of risk and compliance oversight for the Group.
business area identifying new risks as well as re-assessing those already being monitored.
To aid in the identification of risks and development of associated mitigating actions, risks are categorised into strategic, financial and operational conduct risks.
In addition, robust risk and control assessments are carried out at least bi-annually across all areas of the business, in order to understand the strength and performance of the controls in place, and potential gaps and weaknesses.
Our principal risks as of 31 December 2016 Outlined here are our most significant risks that may affect our future.
We assess the probability of the risk materialising and the impact of the risk on a residual basis taking into account the benefit of mitigating controls 1 Competition 2 Changing consumer behaviour 3 Brand strength 9 4 Product offering 3 5 Customer trust including cyber 1 2 4 6 Relevance to partners 6 7 Data errors and inaccuracies 5 7 8 8 Economic uncertainty 9 Regulation Probability Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29 Impact Strategic, operational conduct Our results Preferred Earn Best site partners customer loyalty
