32 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Our principal risks Proactive approach to risk management In combination with the audit committee, the Boards have conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks to which Mondi is exposed and they are satisfied that the Group has effective systems and controls in place to manage its key risks within the risk tolerance levels established.
Our risk and internal control management The audit committee is responsible for In addition, risk management is embedded framework is designed to address all the reviewing the risk management policy and in all decision-making processes with significant strategic, financial, operational is required to monitor the effectiveness of ongoing review by the Boards and and compliance-related risks that could the risk management processes and report risk assessments forming part of all undermine our ability to achieve our business to the Boards.
Each of our significant risks investment decisions.
The Boards are is reviewed in detail by the audit committee In establishing the overall risk responsible for the effectiveness of the through the course of the year: considering management framework: Groups risk management activities and the detailed risk description: the controls internal control processes.
They have and mitigating actions in place: and the e The Boards and their committees have put procedures in place for identifying, resultant residual risk exposure.
approved the Groups financial, business evaluating, and managing the significant conduct, operating, and administrative Our risk management framework risks that the Group faces.
policies including those relating to delegation of signing authorities and Risk management is by nature a dynamic The details of the review and the risk information security.
The policies provide and ongoing process.
Our well-defined framework and processes on which a framework for the Groups internal approach is flexible to ensure that it remains the review is based are set out below.
control environment and outline required relevant at all levels of the business, and This report only addresses our most standards of behaviour.
Business units dynamic to ensure we can be responsive significant risks.
are required to ensure that they adhere to changing business conditions.
This is to approved Group policies and that particularly important given the diversity Our approach to risk management they have implemented their own of the Groups locations, markets and The Boards have overall responsibility supporting policies.
Our internal control for setting the Groups strategy and for environment is designed to safeguard e In line with the approved delegation managing related risks.
They determine the assets of the Group and to provide of authorities such as the approval of the Groups risk appetite, using a matrix reasonable assurance that the Groups major capital investments, acquisitions, which takes into consideration both the business objectives will be achieved.
and disposals, specific matters likelihood and the magnitude of the impact are reserved for board or executive in the event that the risk event occurs, and The Groups risk rating matrix is based committee approval.
approve the Groups risk management on the residual risk that the Group faces e The audit committee approves the framework.
The Boards have established after taking into consideration the internal annual internal audit plan and the Boards specific risk tolerance levels for each control environment and other mitigating approve the annual budget and threecategory of risk.
The risk rating matrix, with detailed year plan.
descriptions of likelihood and impact criteria, serves as the basis on which each business unit is required to conduct an annual risk review.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 33 Our internal control environment Our internal control environment operates as follows: Operational management Management review and assurance Independent assessment assurance e The organisational structure is regularly e Management are responsible for e The Group has a centrally coordinated reviewed.
Where circumstances dictate, continually reviewing the Groups internal audit function, which makes use changes to the organisational structure operating and financial performance, of local competency, and reports directly are recommended to the executive including monthly management to the audit committee.
committee or Boards to ensure it accounts.
The Groups reporting e Speakout provides a confidential remains relevant.
cycle includes the monthly flash and reporting hotline for reporting management reports, a quarterly e Key policies and procedures covering irregularities.
Follow up is coordinated by outlook, and the annual budget and all main areas of business conduct internal audit and reported on at each three-year plan.
Detailed monthly are approved by the Boards and each audit committee meeting.
management reports and variance business unit is required to adhere to e External assurance is provided through analyses comparing actual and planned these overall Group policies.
external audit which is designed to detect results are prepared.
These regular e Management are responsible for material errors and irregularities.
reviews assist in the early identification of continually reviewing their entitys e The Group is registered with, and potential issues and or emerging risks.
operating and financial performance subject to regular audits by, a number of e A number of Group functions have been and for preparing and reviewing monthly standard setting authorities, such as FSC established to provide oversight, central management accounts.
coordination, and management of certain e On a bi-annual basis, all financial e Mondi is subject to regular review and specialised risk areas.
These include: managers are required to complete vetting by external regulatory bodies information technology, sustainable an internal control assessment as well as non-regulatory parties, development, safety and health, treasury, and provide written confirmation of including annual insurance assessments, and tax.
Each function has boardcompliance with Group policies and sustainable development assurance, and approved policies in place against procedures.
This formal confirmation information security penetration testing.
which conduct throughout the Group highlights any control weaknesses or is assessed.
Through this structured approach, the deficiencies identified.
e Regular reviews of financial and operating control environment is subject to regular performance, progress of significant oversight and review to ensure that there capital investment projects and plans, are no significant deficiencies, that control and a detailed assessment of current weaknesses are identified and addressed, market conditions take place at Group and that new or emerging risks are level and, in more depth, at business identified early and regularly monitored.
Our risk management process The business units conduct an The most significant risks are annual, detailed review of the reported to the Group executive risks in their business unit and committee and subsequently compile a risk register which to the audit committee and Boards.
is reviewed and approved by the individual operating and executive committees.
It is the responsibility of these committees to evaluate the risks facing the business, assess the controls and other mitigating actions that are in place and evaluate the residual risks.
34 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Our principal risks Our most significant risks 1.
Industry productive capacity Over the course of the past year, the audit committee has reviewed each of the 12 2.
Product substitution 3 1 13 principalrisks set out below.
Fluctuations and variability in theGroups risk management and internal selling prices or gross margins control processes, the committee has 4.
Country risk 11 4 considered both internal and external audit 5.
Capital structure reports and received confirmation from 6.
Currency risk the finance heads of the business units 7.
Tax risk that financial control frameworks have 10 8 8.
C ost and availability of operated satisfactorily.
E nergy security and related 14 input costs 2 9 6 7 10.
Technical integrity of our operating assets 11.
E nvironmental impact of 5 our operations 12.
E mployee and contractor safety Likelihood 13.
Information technology risk Strategic risks Risk tolerance The industry and geographic locations in which we operate expose us to specific longHigh term risks which are accepted by the Boards as a consequence of the Groups chosen strategy and operating footprint.
Key person responsible While there have been no significant changes in our strategic risk exposure during the David Hathorn Chief executive officer year, we continue to monitor recent capacity announcements and the developments in the process as the UK seeks to exit the European Union.
The executive committee and Boards monitor our exposure to these risks and evaluate investment decisions against our overall exposures so that our strategic capital investments and acquisitions take advantage of the opportunities arising from our deliberate exposure to such risks.
1 Industry productive capacity Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Plant utilisation levels are the main driver of profitability in paper mills.
New capacity We monitor industry developments in terms of changes in capacity and utilisation additions are usually in large increments which, through their impact on the supply levels, as well as trends and developments in our own product markets.
demand balance, influence market prices.
Unless market growth exceeds capacity Our strategic focus on low-cost production and innovation activities to produce additions, excess capacity may lead to lower selling prices.
In our converting higher value-added products, combined with our focus on growing markets operations newer technology may lower operating costs and provide increased and consistent investment in our operating capacity, ensures that we can product functionality impacting margins.
2 Product substitution Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Changing global socio-economic and demographic trends and consumption Our ability to meet changes in consumer demand depends on our capacity patterns and increased public awareness of sustainability challenges affect the to anticipate change correctly and develop new products on a sustainable, demand for Mondis products.
Customers needs and purchasing power are changing in emerging markets.
Opportunities also exist for us to take market share from substitutes produced by Substitution may be to different products not produced by Mondi or to different our competitors.
Our focus is on products enjoying positive substitution dynamics solutions meeting the same customer requirement.
and growing regional markets as we work with our customers to develop new markets and new products.
Factors that impact the demand for our products include reduced weight of packaging materials, increased use of recycled materials, electronic substitution of Our broad range of converting products provides some protection from the effects paper products, increased demand for high-quality printed material, certified and of substitution between paper and plastic-based packaging products.
responsibly produced goods, and specific material qualities.
Impact Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 35 3 Fluctuations and variability in selling prices or gross margins Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Our selling prices are determined by changes in capacity and demand for our Our strategic focus is on higher growth markets and products where we enjoy a products, which are, in turn, influenced by macroeconomic conditions, consumer competitive advantage through innovation, proximity or production cost.
spending preferences, and inventory levels maintained by our customers.
We continue to invest in our high-quality, low-cost production assets to ensure we Changes in prices differ between products and geographic regions and the timing maintain our competitive cost position.
and magnitude of such changes have varied significantly over time.
We are committed to meeting service levels and product quality requirements.
Our high levels of vertical integration reduce our exposure to price volatility of our key input costs.
Our financial policies and structures take the inherent price volatility of the markets in which we operate into consideration.
4 Country risk Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities We have production operations across more than 30 countries: some in We actively monitor all countries and environments in which we operate.
jurisdictions where the political, economic, and legal systems are less predictable Regular formal and informal interaction with government officials, local than in countries with more developed institutional structures.
Political or economic communities, and business partners assist us to remain abreast of changes upheaval, inflation, changes in laws, nationalisation, or expropriation of assets may andnew developments.
have a material effect on our operations in those countries.
The Boards have approved specific country risk premiums to be added to Despite improvements in certain segments of the global economy, uncertainties the required returns on investment projects in those countries where risks are remain over slowing growth, political and economic structural weakness in the deemed to be higher and new investments are subject to rigorous strategic and eurozones single currency framework, and uncertainty over the outcomes of the commercial evaluation.
UKs decision to exit from the European Union.
Where we have large operations in higher risk locations, we maintain a permanent Areas of weaker governance also present the challenge of addressing potential internal audit presence and operate asset protection units.
human rights issues in our operations and supply chain.
The introduction of the We are in the process of reviewing how we assess, monitor, and manage risks UK Modern Slavery Act has further highlighted the need to identify and address in our supply chain, including the use of country-based risk assessment tools potential risks of child labour, forced or bonded labour and human trafficking in and databases.
We actively engage with our employees, communities and other stakeholders for a From a human capital perspective, we face different demographic and social better understanding of local socio-economic conditions and development needs.
conditions in each country which affects the availability of skills and talent for the Group.
Our geographic diversity and decentralised management structure, utilising local resources in countries in which we operate, reduces our exposure to any specific jurisdiction.
Financial risks Risk tolerance Our approach to financial risk management is set out in more detail in the Group Medium to Low strategy and financial reviews.
We aim to maintain an appropriate capital structure and to conservatively manage our financial risk exposures in compliance with all laws Key person responsible and regulations.
Andrew King Chief financial officer Despite ongoing short-term currency volatility and increased scrutiny of the tax affairs of multinational companies, our overall residual risk exposure remains similar to previous years, reflecting our conservative approach to financial risk management.
5 Capital structure Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities A strong and stable financial position increases our flexibility and provides us with We operate a central treasury function under a board-approved treasury policy.
the ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
We provide regular reporting to the Boards on our treasury management policies.
Our ability to raise debt and or equity financing is significantly influenced by general We aim to maintain an investment grade credit rating and we have access to a economic conditions, developments in credit markets, equity market volatility, and variety of sources of funding with varying maturities.
We only enter into contracts relating to financial instruments with counterparties Failure to obtain financing at reasonable rates could prevent us from realising our that have investment grade credit ratings.
strategy and have a negative impact on our competitive position.
36 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Our principal risks Financial risks 6 Currency risk Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities We operate in more than 30 countries and are thus exposed to the effect of We fund our entities in their local currencies to minimise translation risk.
changes in foreign currency rates.
The impact of currency fluctuations affects us This exposes us to interest rate risk from these currencies which we aim to because of mismatches between the currencies in which our operating costs are managethrough interest rate swaps and fixed rate borrowings.
incurred and those in which revenues are received.
Balance sheet exposure and material forecast future capital expenditure Key operating cost currencies that are not fully offset by local currency transactions are hedged.
We do not permit speculative currency positions.
denominated revenues include the South African rand, Polish zloty, Swedish krona, We do not hedge our exposure to projected future sales or purchases and and Czech koruna: while the revenues generated in US dollar, Russian rouble and our businesses respond to currency fluctuations through changes in selling UK pound sterling are greater than operating costs incurred in those currencies.
prices or increasing the level of exports where competitiveness improves as In addition, appreciation of the euro compared with the currencies of the other key currencies weaken.
paper producing regions or paper pricing currencies, notably the US dollar, would Our strategic focus on low-cost production assets and operational reduce the competitiveness of the products Mondi produces in Europe compared efficiency provides inherent cost advantages, protecting us from adverse to imports from such key paper-producing regions which could potentially lead to currency fluctuations.
7 Tax risks Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities We operate in a number of countries, all with different tax systems.
We make The Boards have approved the Groups Tax Policy.
We aim to manage our affairs significant intragroup charges, the basis for which is subject to review during conservatively and our operations are structured tax efficiently to take advantage of tax audits.
In addition, the international tax environment is becoming more onerous, requiring We have dedicated tax resources throughout the Group supported by a centralised increasing transparency and reporting and in-depth scrutiny of the tax affairs of Group tax team.
We obtain external advisory opinions for all major tax projects, such as acquisitions and restructuring activities, and make use of external benchmarks where possible.
Arms length principles are applied in the pricing of all intragroup transactions in accordance with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines.
Operational risks Risk tolerance A low residual risk tolerance is demonstrated through our focus on operational Low excellence, investment in our people and commitment to the responsible use of resources.
Key persons responsible Our investments to improve our energy efficiency, engineer out our most significant Peter Oswald Chief executive officer: risks, improve operating efficiencies, and renew our equipment continue to reduce the Europe & International Division, likelihood of operational risk events.
However, the potential impact of any such event Ron Traill Chief executive officer: remains unchanged.
South Africa Division, John Lindahl Group technical director 8 Cost and availability of raw materials Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Access to sustainable sources of raw materials is essential to our operations.
We are committed to acquiring our raw materials from sustainable, responsible sources and avoiding the use of any controversial or illegal supply.
We are involved We have access to our own sources of wood in Russia and South Africa and we in multi-stakeholder processes to address challenges in meeting the global purchase wood, paper for recycling, pulp, and polymers for film production to meet demand for sustainable, responsible fibre and we encourage legislation supporting our needs in the balance of our operations.
the local collection of recycled materials.
Wood prices and availability may be adversely affected by reduced quantities of The sustainable management of our forestry operations is key in managing our available wood supply that meet our standards for Chain-of-Custody certified overall environmental impact, helping to protect ecosystems, and developing or controlled wood and initiatives to promote the use of wood as a renewable resilient landscapes.
We have built strong forestry management resources in energy source.
Russia and South Africa to actively monitor and manage our wood resources in those countries.
We have multiple suppliers for each of our operations and our centralised procurement teams work closely with our operations in actively pursuing longer-term agreements with strategic suppliers.
We have developed an internal monitoring and risk assessment system to understand and manage the performance of our suppliers and their adherence to our Suppliers Code of Conduct.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 37 9 Energy security and related input costs Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Mondi is a significant consumer of electricity which is generated internally and We monitor our electricity usage, carbon emission levels and use of renewable purchased from external suppliers.
Most of our larger operations have high levels of electricity self-sufficiency.
Where we do not generate electricity from biomass and by-products of our We focus on improving the energy efficiency of our operations by investing in production processes, we are dependent on external suppliers for raw materials improvements to our energy profile and increased electricity self-sufficiency, while such as gas, oil and coal.
reducing ongoing operating costs and carbon emission levels.
Increasing energy costs contribute significantly to increasing chemical, fuel, and Where we generate electricity surplus to our own requirements, we may sell such transportation costs which are often difficult to pass on to customers.
We also generate revenue from the sale of green energy credits in certain of our operations at prices determined in the open market.
As an energy-intensive business, we face potential physical and regulatory risks related to climate change.
10 Technical integrity of our operating assets Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities We have five major mills which account for approximately 74% of our total pulp and Our capital investment programme supports the replacement of older equipment paper production capacity, and a significant consumer packaging manufacturing to improve both reliability and integrity, and our proactive repair and maintenance facility in Germany.
strategy is designed to improve production reliability and minimise breakdown risks.
If operations at any of these key facilities are interrupted for any significant We conduct detailed risk assessments of our high-priority equipment and have length of time, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position specific processes and procedures in place for the ongoing management and or performance.
Accidents or incidents such as fires, explosions, or large machinery breakdowns We actively monitor all incidents and have a formal process which allows us to could result in property damage, loss of production, reputational damage, and or share lessons learnt across our operations, identify emerging issues, conduct safety incidents.
benchmarking, and evaluate the effectiveness of our risk reduction activities.
11 Environmental impact of our operations Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities We operate in a high-impact sector and need to manage the associated risks We ensure that we are complying with all applicable environmental, health and responsibilities.
and safety requirements where we operate.
Our own policies and procedures, at or above local policy requirements, are embedded in all our operations Our operations are water, carbon and energy intensive: consume materials such and are supported through the use of externally accredited environmental as fibre, polymers, metals and chemicals: and generate emissions to air, water and management systems.
We are the custodian of more than two million hectares of forested land.
We focus on a clean production philosophy to address the impact from emissions, We are subject to a wide range of international, national and local environmental discharge, and waste.
We focus on increasing the energy efficiency of our laws and regulations, as well as the requirements of our customers and operations and using biomass-based fuels in order to reduce our use of fossilexpectations of our broader stakeholders.
We have undertaken detailed compliance assessments regarding Industry Emissions and Energy Efficiency Directives to determine future Costs of continuing compliance, potential restoration and clean-up activities, and increasing costs from the effects of emissions have an adverse impact on investment requirements.
We emphasise the responsible management of forests and associated ecosystems and protect high conservation value areas.
12 Employee and contractor safety Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities We operate large facilities, often in remote locations.
Accidents incidents cause We have a goal of zero harm.
We continually monitor incidents and close calls and injury to our employees or contractors, property damage, lost production time, actively transfer learnings across our operations.
and or harm to our reputation.
We apply an externally accredited safety management system and conduct regular Risks include: fatalities, serious injuries, illness, disease, and substance abuse.
audits of our operations to ensure our facilities remain fit-for-purpose.
We have implemented a programme to engineer out the most significant risks in our operations supported by robust controls and procedures for operating those assets.
We provide extensive training to ensure that performance standards and practice notes are communicated and understood and our incentives are impacted by the non-achievement of safety milestones.
38 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 Our principal risks Compliance risks Risk tolerance We have a zero tolerance approach to compliance risks.
Our strong culture and values, Low emphasised in every part of our business, with a focus on integrity, honesty, and transparency, underpin our approach.
Key person responsible Andrew King Chief financial officer 13 Reputational risk Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Non-compliance with the legal and governance requirements and globally We operate a comprehensive training and compliance programme, supported by established responsible business conduct in any of the jurisdictions in which self-certification and reporting, with personal sanction for failure to comply with we operate and within our supply chain could expose us to significant risk if not Group policies.
Our legal and governance compliance is supported by a centralised legal These requirements include laws relating to the environment, exports, price compliance team and is subject to regular internal audit review.
controls, taxation, human rights, and labour.
We operate a confidential reporting hotline, Speakout, enabling employees, Fines imposed by authorities for non-compliance are severe and, in some cases, customers, suppliers, managers and other stakeholders to raise concerns about legislation can result in criminal sanction for entities and individuals found guilty.
conduct that may be contrary to our values.
We increasingly work with our suppliers to promote responsible business conduct in the value chain.
14 Information technology risk Potential impact Monitoring and mitigation activities Many of our operations are dependent on the availability of IT services and an We have a comprehensive IT Security Policy approved by our Boards.
extended interruption of such services may result in plant shutdown and an inability We conduct regular threat assessments and utilise external providers to evaluate to meet customer requirements.
and review our security policies and procedures.
Cyber crime continues to increase and attempts are increasingly sophisticated, Where possible, we have redundancies in place, our system landscape is based on with the consequences of successful attacks including compromised data, well-proven products, and we have cyber crime insurance.
financial fraud, and system shutdowns.
We operate an extensive training and awareness programme for all our users.
Recovery boiler safety Keeping our people safe is Mondis top priority.
Technical integrity and process safety are key components of our approach.
Our safety journey includes understanding our process risks and ensuring adequate controls to manage them.
Over the past three years we have implemented a process safety management system in our recovery boiler operations to ensure they stay online without incident or product release.
We have systematically identified, assessed and mitigated high-hazard areas and developed procedures governing the way residual process risks are managed.
We conduct an annual global recovery boiler leadership meeting, internal technical audits, and numerous targeted workshops to ensure all levels of management understand their role in proactively preventing a process-related event at our operations.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2016 39 Viability statement The Group meets its funding requirements from a variety of sources as more fully As part of the approval of this integrated described in the financial statements.
report, the Boards have assessed the The Boards are satisfied that the Group will Groups prospects and viability.
The Boards have sufficient liquidity to meet its needs believe that the three years to December over the planning horizon.
In the scenarios 2019 is an appropriate period over which evaluated, the Group remains within its key a reasonable expectation of the Groups financial covenant ratio in terms of which its longer-term viability can be evaluated.
net debt to trailing 12-month EBITDA ratio In coming to this view, the Boards have must not exceed 3.5 times.
considered the inherent volatility in Taking into account the Groups long-term commodity prices and exchange rates, the strategy, the principal risks described time taken for new investments in pulp and above, and the results of the downside paper production capacity to be introduced scenario assessments, the directors into the market, typical new product have a reasonable expectation that the development cycles, and the Groups Group remains viable over the period of capital structure.
Given the strategic risks the assessment.
described above, the Boards believe that the ability to assess the Groups longerGoing concern term viability beyond this period becomes The directors have reviewed the Groups increasingly difficult.
budget, considered the assumptions Mondis geographical spread, product contained in the budget, and reviewed diversity, and large customer base mitigate the critical risks which may impact the potential risks of customer or supplier Groups performance in the near term.
Ongoing initiatives by These include an evaluation of the management in implementing profit current macroeconomic environment improvement programmes, which include and reasonably possible changes in the ongoing investment in its operations, plant Groupstrading performance.
optimisation, cost-cutting, and restructuring and rationalisation activities, have The Groups financial position, cash flows, consolidated the Groups leading positions liquidity position, and borrowing facilities in its chosen markets.
are described in the annual financial statements.
At 31 December 2016, Mondi The Boards have considered the Groups had 812 million of undrawn, committed current financial position, strategy and debt facilities.
The Groups debt facilities plans for the next three years, marking have maturity dates of between 1 and 9 the end of the Groups formal planning years, with a weighted average maturity of horizon.
The Groups budget and plan 3.9 years.
has been tested for severe, but plausible, Based on their evaluation, the Boards are downside scenarios.
These include lower satisfied that the Group remains solvent packaging and uncoated fine paper prices and has adequate liquidity to meet its and weaker demand.
The potential impact obligations and continue in operational of a weaker US dollar euro exchange rate existence for the foreseeable future.
and stronger emerging market currencies has also been evaluated.
Based on the Accordingly, the Group continues to adopt results of these scenarios, the Boards the going concern basis in preparing are satisfied that the Group will be able to the Integrated report and financial respond to such circumstances through statements 2016. various means which may include a reduction of capital expenditure and further rationalisation and or restructuring, to ensure that the Group can continue to meet its ongoing obligations.
