18 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT The Group has an established risk management the Audit Committee carried out focused risk to eliminate risks to product quality and health methodology which seeks to identify, prioritise reviews of each Division.
These reviews and safety, which are essential to the success of and mitigate risks, underpinned by a three lines included an analysis of principal risks, together our products and the safety of our people and of defence model comprising of an internal with the controls, monitoring and assurance contractors.
The appetite for risk in the areas of control framework, monitoring and independent processes established to mitigate those risks to legal and regulatory compliance is extremely low assurance processes.
The Board considers acceptable levels.
As a result of these reviews, and the Group expects its businesses to comply that risk management and internal control are a number of actions were identified to continue with all laws and regulations in the countries fundamental to achieving the Group aim of to improve internal controls and the where they operate.
The Group has a low creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
In 2016, the Executive appetite for financial risk, although it recognises Committee initiated a review of the Groups that certain risks, such as pension funding, will Risks are identified both top down by the policies that set the framework for effective likely require a longer time period to resolve.
Board and Executive Committee, and site up management of risk, and a number of these through the Groups businesses, and are have been updated and rolled out across the An indication of the Boards assessment of the quantified by assessing their inherent impact Group.
This work will continue in 2017.
Also trend of each risk whether the potential and mitigated probability to ensure that in 2016, the Groups risk management impact has increased, decreased or is broadly residual risk exposures are understood and methodology and related processes were unchanged over the past year is also included prioritised for control throughout the Group.
updated and aligned with the new Divisional for the first time.
Senior executives are responsible for the business structure.
strategic management of the Groups principal The following are the Groups principal risks risks, including related policy, guidelines and The Board has also, for the first time, included and uncertainties, representing those risks that process, subject to Board oversight.
high-level guidance on its appetite for different the Board feels could have the most significant risks.
The Group is willing to take considered effect on achieving the Groups strategy of Throughout 2016, the Board reviewed the risks to develop new technologies, applications, building a sustainable business for the long status of all principal risks with a notable partnerships and markets for its products, and term and delivering strong returns to the potential impact at Group level.
Additionally, to meet customer needs.
The Group strives Groups shareholders.
RISK DESCRIPTION, ASSESSMENT AND TREND FROM 2015 MITIGATION Strategic and external risks Technical leadership The Groups strategic success depends on maintaining and The Group has a Chief Technology Officer and a dedicated technology developing its technical leadership in materials science over team which monitors technology and business developments globally its competitors.
using technology roadmaps linked to 20 major technology families to ensure it remains at the leading edge of technology development.
Unforeseen unmitigated technology obsolescence, the emergence Two global Centres of Excellence are now established, to focus of competing technologies, the loss of control of proprietary technology expertise and resources in core technologies, underpinned by a or the loss of intellectual property know-how would impact the Technical Advisory Board comprising some of the worlds leading Groups business and its ability to deliver on its strategic goals.
academics, who provided valuable insight, advice and challenge The advanced technological nature of the Group requires people in respect of the Groups technology plans during the year.
Any inability to recruit, retain and The technology team proactively manages the Groups technology develop the right people would impact the Groups ability to achieve pipeline and research and development R&D investment in its strategic goals.
improving technologies as well as providing active management of the technology lifecycle.
The technology pipeline and key R&D projects Trend are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Unchanged Where Group products are designed for a specific customer, they are developed in tandem with the customer to maintain leading-edge differentiated solutions.
The Group seeks to secure intellectual property protection, where appropriate, for its existing and emerging portfolio of products: external advisers manage this protection globally.
The Group continued its global leadership programme in conjunction with Cranfield University, adding an advanced programme to reach more high-potential commercial, functional and technical leaders.
The Graduate Leadership Programme continued to run in 2016.
Further detail on our people is set out on pages 49 to 51.
Further detail on R&D is set out on pages 15 to 17.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 19 RISK DESCRIPTION, ASSESSMENT AND TREND FROM 2015 MITIGATION Strategic and external risks continued Macro-economic and political environment The Group operates in a range of markets and geographies around The Groups broad market and geographic spread helps to mitigate the world and can be affected by political, economic, social or the effects of political and economic crises.
regulatory developments or instability, for example an economic Budgets and forecasts for Morgans different businesses are used slowdown or issues stemming from oil and natural resources to monitor delivery against expectations and anticipate potential price shocks.
external risks to our performance.
These are subject to regular The UKs exit from the EU may have an impact on the Group, review by the Executive Committee and Board.
in the event that tariff changes affect the profitability of the Groups The impact of the UKs exit from the EU could be mitigated by products.
The current value of Group UK exports to the EU is moving production to alternative sites where tariffs are not applied approximately 30 million, and imports into the UK from the EU to products.
Trend Increased Operational risks Environment, health and safety EHS risks The Group operates a number of manufacturing facilities around Managing its operations safely is the Groups number one priority.
A failure in the Groups EHS procedures could lead The Group has a comprehensive EHS programme managed by to environmental damage or to injury or death of employees or the EHS Director, with clear EHS standards and a programme third parties, with a consequential impact on operations and the of independent audits to assess compliance.
increased risk of regulatory or legal action being taken against the The EHS Director sets annual priorities for EHS alongside the Group.
Any such action could result in both financial damages Executive Committee and these form the basis for individual sites and damage to reputation.
own EHS priorities and plans.
These complement the Groups existing thinkSAFE behavioural safety programme.
Trend EHS performance is monitored by the Executive Committee Unchanged and the Board.
As at 31 December 2016 the Group was managing projects to remediate legacy contamination at three former sites and one operational site in conjunction with external specialists and relevant authorities.
The anticipated costs of these projects are provided for in the financial statements.
Further detail of the EHS programme in place to manage these risks is available on pages 41 to 46.
Product quality, safety and liability Products used in applications for which they were not intended Many of the Groups products are designed to customer specifications.
or inadequate quality control over-commitment on customer The businesses quality management systems and training help ensure specifications could result in products not meeting customer that Morgans products meet or exceed customer requirements and requirements, which could in turn lead to significant liabilities national international standards.
The Group Legal Policy requires that contracts relating to products used Some of our products are used in potentially higher risk applications in potential high-risk applications are subject to legal review to ensure such as in the aerospace, military, medical and power industries.
that appropriate protections are in place for product quality risks.
The Group insurance programme includes product liability insurance: Trend this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by the Board.
Unchanged ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 20 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued RISK DESCRIPTION, ASSESSMENT AND TREND FROM 2015 MITIGATION Operational risks continued IT risks and cyber risks Information security cyber risks are dynamic and ever-present in the The Group has an Information Technology IT Policy and guidelines external environment.
If the Group lost critical data or information, in place as well as Group and business IT teams to manage the including proprietary technology information, through inadequate Groups infrastructure, IT systems roadmap and information security data management or compromised information security, the business risks.
The IT Policy will be updated and relaunched in 2017 as the would be impacted and suffer reputational damage.
Group continues to move towards greater centralisation of IT.
The effective management of the Groups IT infrastructure is During the course of 2016 there was continued focus on testing and important in enabling our businesses to reliably deliver customer reviewing information security with the aim of reducing the Groups requirements.
If a key business system were to fail or core systems information risk.
Good progress was made in securing our Centres implementation were ineffective, the ability of the business to deliver of Excellence with the development and implementation of new on its strategic goals might be impacted.
security countermeasures and information protection practices.
An enhanced, globally consistent, security training and awareness Trend programme has been developed for implementation in 2017.
Unchanged Supply chain business continuity The Group has a number of potential single-point exposure risks, The Group has a diversified manufacturing, customer and geographic which include: base which provides a level of resilience against single-point exposures.
Were any site to be unavailable, production in most cases could be Single-point supplier a significant interruption of a key internal switched to other sites.
or external supply could impact business continuity.
Single-point customer the unmitigated loss of a major customer Management of these risks also involves monitoring and reviewing could have an impact on Group profit.
The Groups largest supply chains internal and external, dual multiple sourcing of customer represents circa 2% of Group revenue.
materials or strategic stock, site security and safety mechanisms, business continuity plans, and maintaining product quality and strong Single-point profit a key site exposed to a strike, a natural customer relationships.
catastrophe or serious incident, such as fire, could impact business continuity.
One Group site, Hayward, is situated The Group insurance programme includes business interruption in the California earthquake zone.
cover and specific cover in relation to the impact of an earthquake in California: this Group-level insurance is reviewed annually by Trend the Board.
Unchanged Contract risk management As a global advanced materials business supplying components into The Group has an in-house legal function supplemented by specialist critical applications, the Group may be exposed to liabilities arising external lawyers.
from the use of its products.
Ineffective contract risk management The Group Legal Policy requires in-house legal review of high-value could result in significant liabilities for the Group and damage or high-risk contracts to ensure they contain appropriate protections customer relationships.
The Policy requires CEO approval before a business can enter into an unlimited liability contract or one where the liability Trend cap exceeds 5 million.
Unchanged Contract risk management training is provided by the in-house legal function.
Additionally, a Group-wide project has been developed to ensure that appropriate contractual terms and conditions are in place across the business.
To the extent that risk cannot be mitigated through contractual arrangements, the Group has insurance cover in place, including product liability insurance.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT 21 RISK DESCRIPTION, ASSESSMENT AND TREND FROM 2015 MITIGATION Financial risks Treasury risks The Groups global nature means that it is exposed to uncertainties The Groups treasury function operates on a risk-averse basis and in the financial markets, the fiscal jurisdictions where it operates, the required controls over selection of banks, cash management and and the banking sector which heighten the Groups funding, foreign other treasury practices and payments globally are documented in exchange, tax, interest rate, credit and liquidity risks as well as the the Treasury Policy and related procedures.
The Group treasury risk that a bank failure could impact the Groups cash.
team manages the Groups funding, liquidity, cash management, interest rate, foreign exchange, counterparty credit and other Trend treasury-related risks.
Treasury matters are regularly reviewed Decreased by the Board Audit Committee.
In 2016 the Group completed a US private debt placement, raising $112 million and 60 million, which will be used to refinance existing financial indebtedness.
Further detail on the Treasury Policy is set out in the Group Financial Review on page 32.
Tax risks The Group operates in many jurisdictions around the world and can The Groups tax function, working in conjunction with external specialists be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations within the complex as required, closely monitors fiscal developments and changes such international tax environment.
as BEPS, to ensure that the Groups tax arrangements and practices continue to comply with the requirements of all relevant jurisdictions The OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS programme whilst also enabling efficient management of the Groups tax liability.
provides additional obligations and filing requirements for the Group as countries implement the actions in the framework.
These could have a potential impact on the tax paid by the Group.
Trend Unchanged Pension funding risk The Group sponsors several defined benefit pension arrangements Proactive management of the pension scheme assets and whose liabilities are subject to fluctuating interest rates, investment liabilities through an integrated pension strategy focusing on funding, values and inflation.
This coupled with the increased longevity of investment and benefit risk is the primary means of mitigation.
members will result in increased funding burdens on the Group This involves management both internally within the Group and in the future.
also externally through the scheme Trustees, corporate actuaries and professional advisers.
The deficit in Morgans global defined benefit pension schemes calculated on the basis required for IAS19 accounting disclosures In the USA, in June 2016 one Defined Benefit Pension Plan increased from 204 million as at 31 December 2015 to 271 million completed a full legal termination, and for a second, a formal offer at 31 December 2016. of a , lump-sum cash payment was made to members.
Trend In the UK, the Morgan Senior Executive Pension and Life Assurance Increased Scheme closed to future accrual in April 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT 2016 MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS 22 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT continued RISK DESCRIPTION, ASSESSMENT AND TREND FROM 2015 MITIGATION Compliance risk Changes to or non-compliance with laws and regulation The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate and The Groups global operations must comply with a range of national individual behaviour and this commitment is set out in the Groups and international laws and regulations including those related to Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, underpinned by ongoing bribery and corruption, human rights, trade export compliance investment in the Responsible Business Programme RBP.
includes policies, standards and guidance: training materials: the provision of an employee ethics hotline: and systems to support A failure to comply with any applicable laws regulations could result in effective screening and due diligence of third parties.
civil or criminal liabilities and or individual or corporate fines and could also result in debarment from government-related contracts or rejection The Group has an Export Compliance Director in the USA whose by financial market counterparties as well as reputational damage.
role is dedicated to ensuring compliance with export controls.
In addition to Group compliance specialists, all businesses are Trend required to establish compliance officer roles, responsible for Unchanged supporting local training and monitoring with trade and export compliance specialists in higher risk businesses and jurisdictions.
Further details on the RBP can be found on page 39.
MORGAN ADVANCED MATERIALS ANNUAL REPORT 2016
