Strategic Report Risk and risk management Committed to managing risk effectively The Group is exposed to a variety of risks that can adversely affect business and financial performance, or potentially damage ourreputation.
The Board recognises however that creating shareholder returns is the reward for accepting a level of risk.
Theeffective management of risk is therefore critical in supporting the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Risk management framework The Group has a well-established governance structure with appropriate internal control and risk management systems.
Ourapproach is centred on the accepted three lines of defence model, with ultimate oversight from the Board: Defence Responsibility Actions Oversight Board Sets strategic objectives Determines overall risk culture and appetite Establishes organisational structure with defined lines ofresponsibility, delegated authorities and clear operatingprocesses Ultimate oversight of internal control and risk management systems Third line Group Audit Provides reasonable assurance that systems of riskmanagement, internal control and governance areeffective Second line Group Executive Committee Support Divisions with first line responsibilities Group functions including Risk Coordinate and report on Group-level risks Build risk capability and understanding First line Divisional Executive Committees Identify, assess and report key risks Divisional management Regularly review and update divisional risk registers Assign risk owners Implement risk mitigation plans Many risk controls are embedded and evidenced in the Groups day-to-day management activities, including: detailed KPI tracking in monthly divisional Executive reports well-established bid evaluation controls robust due diligence on acquisitions Prioritising and reporting risks Each division regularly reviews and updates a detailed risk register, in which risks are identified and assessed in terms of both theprobability of the risk occurring, and its potential impact.
Risk is assessed on a gross and net basis, taking into account knownand proposed mitigating actions.
Group-level risks are assessed as: macro risks which affect the majority of, or all, divisions: or individual divisional risks where the materiality of the risk is considered of Group significance In 2016, a risk radar was developed to supplement the Group risk register, and the radar and register are reported to the Group Executive, AuditCommittee and Board, twice per annum.
The radar categorises risks as strategic, financial, operational or hazard.
The risk radar now also specifically includes consideration of emerging and developing risks.
In 2016, examples of such risksincluded the potential impact of Brexit, the ongoing development of cyber risk understanding, and evolving customer expectations ina digital environment.
34 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Summary risk radar Risks are shown on a net basis after mitigations.
The closer to the centre of the radar the greater the perceived risk.
Unchanged risk Increased risk High Medium Low Decreased risk New risk Financial risks Strategic risks Fuel cost Pension scheme Customer expectations digital Foreign exchange Competition Political regulatory Credit risk Economic environment inc. Brexit Terrorism IT cyber risk Safety litigation Loss of key site natural claims catastrophe weather HR labour relations Hazard risks Operational risks Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 35
