Strategic Report Principal risks and uncertainties Looking forward, the Group will focus on the following key areas of risk: Potential impact Management mitigation Economic conditions, including Brexit implications Declining economic conditions potentially impact demand for Geographical diversification: marketing strategy services, fleet, CRM: theGroups services in some divisions: improving economic innovation including digital : close monitoring of revenue trends and conditions may impact the Groups ability to recruit drivers implementation of revenue management systems: robust bid modelling: andother staff, or cause inflationary pressure on costs.
lobbying of Governments and local authorities on the importance of public transport.
The Group continues to monitor the position regarding Brexit.
The terms on which Brexit is negotiated specifically in relation tothe means by which any limitation on free movement immigration is traded off against access to the single market may affect the Groups ability to bid competitively within the EU.
Political geo-political regulatory landscape The political and regulatory landscape within which the Group Constant monitoring of political landscape: effective stakeholder operates is constantly changing.
Changes to government policy, management: lobbying and communication: geographical diversification: funding regimes or the legal and regulatory framework may strategic partnerships and alliances: operational excellence and cost resultin structural market changes or impact the Groups efficiencies: lobbying of Governments and local authorities on the operations in terms of reduced profitability, increased costs importance of public transport.
and or a reduction in operational flexibility or efficiency.
Increasing Competition The Groups divisions are facing increasing competition in Focus on excellence of service delivery, marketing and customer various ways: price competition, inter-modal eg coach vs proposition: shared best practice across divisions: continue to drive rail, and more recently emerging threats such as Uber or costefficiencies.
Terrorism The Group can be either directly impacted by a terrorist Close liaison with government agencies and industry partners: major event, or indirectly, through softening demand from the incident emergency plans: business continuity plans: insurance coverage.
Safety, litigation and claims A major safety-related incident eg bus or rail accident could Strong safety culture driven from the Group Chief Executive and divisional impact the Group both financially and reputationally.
The leadership: continuedsuccess and evolution of Driving Out Harm programme: Group self-insures a proportion of certain risks such as investmentin technology such as Lytx DriveCam: World Class Driver workers compensation and auto liability, and higher than programme: Group Safety Committee: divisional safety management planned claims or cash settlements could adversely affect systems: insurance coverage: experienced claims management and profit and cash outflow.
The Groups operations are also legalteams across the Group supported by external legal advice subject to potential litigation from other sources such as whereappropriate.
environmental legislation or wage and hour matters in the US.
HR and labour relations Ineffective succession planning could lead to leadership voids Employee engagement and retention programmes surveys, communication at divisional or Group level.
and education programmes, training for managers and supervisors, reward and recognition programmes: management of stakeholder and union Lack of available talent leadership skills can inhibit growth.
relationships: advice of specialist outside counsel.
Shortages in drivers and other key staff can disrupt operations.
Increased unionisation and or poor labour relations presents increased risk of strike or operational disruption: inflation of wage and benefit costs: and possible reputational damage.
36 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Potential impact Management mitigation Changing customer expectations in a digital environment Customers increasingly expect to be able to buy tickets and Appointment of Chief Digital Officer: comprehensive digital strategies being manage their travel plans through a variety of digital platforms, developed in divisions: divisional digital scorecards reviewed by monthly including the internet, tablets and smartphones.
Failure to Executive meetings to monitor the effectiveness of various digital channels.
develop applications and digital channels that are reliable, meet these increasing customer expectations and improve business operational processes could affect profitability, customer satisfaction and the business ability to capitalise onvaluable customer data to enable commercial initiatives.
Failure to develop adequate digital sales channels could lead to others intermediaries driving the agenda, eroding margins and preventing the capture of valuable customer data.
IT and cyber risks A major IT failure could disrupt operations and lead to loss Comprehensive back-up procedures and disaster recovery plans: dedicated ofrevenues, especially in the Coach businesses.
The Group Cyber Risk Security Committee: external expert testing carriedout for cyber recognises a wide range of cyber threats, including loss of risk and recommendations implemented.
data, social engineering, hacking and extortion.
Credit risk As contractual operations, the North American and Spanish Receivables in each business are closely monitored, based on robust and urban businesses are exposed to the risk that customers thorough documentation: provisions are then made where appropriate on areeither late or unable to pay sums owed to the Group.
aprudent basis for a certain level of non-collection.
Additional contractual terms for interest accrual and repayment of outstanding balances have been agreed with overdue debtors where necessary.
Hazard risk to key site eg fire : natural catastrophe: extreme weather Asset loss damage: revenue profit loss due to business Geographical diversification: emergency plans: continuity and asset interruption: loss of competitive position in the market.
Foreign Exchange The Groups exposure to overseas earnings through its The Group uses currency debt and currency swaps to reduce the impact Spanish and North American operations creates a risk that andmitigate the risk.
In addition, management has flexibility to adjust Group movement in exchange rates may adversely impact translation capital allocation.
of profit and cash flows together with Group gearing.
In 2016, this resulted in a benefit to the Group as opposed to a risk.
Fuel cost Fuel represents a significant cost to the Group and unplanned Hedging strategy 100% of fuel is hedged for 2017. increases in fuel price potentially impact profitability.
Pension costs Market conditions and or deficit may lead to increase in Defined benefit schemes closed to new entrants: potential transfer ofUKBus service costs and or increased deficit recovery payments.
Dundee scheme to Council: specialist external advice.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 National Express Group PLC 37
