AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Significant Issues In relation to the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2016, the following significant issue was considered by the Audit and Risk Committee: Significant issue How the Issue was Addressed 1.
The valuation of the Companys investments The Audit and Risk Committee analysed the Investment portfolio of the Company in terms of investment mix, fair value hierarchy and valuation.
As explained in Note 5 the majority of the investment portfolio is at Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy which requires market corroborated inputs for the calculation of fair value.
The Audit and Risk Committee discussed in depth with the Investment Manager the appropriateness and robustness of the multi-sourced pricing information used.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee had meetings with PwC, where the audit findings were reported.
PwC did not notify the Audit and Risk Committee of any reportable differences between the valuations used by the Company or custodian confirmation of holdings and the work performed during the testing process.
Based on the above review and analysis the Audit and Risk Committee confirmed that they were satisfied with the valuation of the investments.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Audit and Risk Committee has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords with the UK Code.
The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible overall for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives reports from the Investment Manager on the Companys risk evaluation process and reviews changes to significant risks identified.
The Board has undertaken a full review of the Companys business risks, which have been analysed and recorded in a risk report, which is reviewed and updated regularly.
The Board receives each quarter from the Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager and which reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The Investment Manager has established an internal control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department on an ongoing basis.
The Boards assessment of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties is set out on pages 14 to 16.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 35
