FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 ANNUAL REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board also monitors the investment limits and restrictions set out in the Companys investment objective and policy.
The principal risks and uncertainties that have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these areas are as follows: RISK MITIGATION Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic conditions change significantly and to the The Board receives regular reports from the Investment detriment of the portfolio or the Company causing a Credit or Manager on the health of the Portfolio and the approach to Liquidity risk to crystallise.
managing credit risk and liquidity risk is set out further below.
Credit Risk The key risk for the Company remains Credit risk i. e. that the The Investment Manager carries out extensive, independent Investment Manager buys a loan or bond of a particular Issuer due diligence on each borrower, and has a particular focus on and it does not perform as expected and either defaults on a stable, performing credits that evidence strong track records payment or experiences a significant drop in the secondary through previous economic cycles.
Additionally, the size of an market value.
issuer is also considered and the Investment Manager continues to favour the larger issuers in the market, defined by having debt issuance greater than $500m or equivalent in sterling or euros.
These issuers tend to have broader syndicates, which can aid liquidity in the secondary market.
As well as screening out the smaller issuers, the Investment Manager also excludes highly cyclical industries and companies with limited earning visibility from its Investment Process.
Once a particular investment has been made, the Investment Manager is very focused on the monitoring of it.
A range of relevant data is reviewed on an ongoing basis for each investment, including, but not limited to, key financial drivers, commodity prices, stock prices, regulatory developments, financial results, press releases and management commentary to identify any indicators of credit deterioration.
To manage this risk further, the Board ensures a diversification of investments with the Investment Manager operating in accordance with the investment limits and restrictions policy determined by the Board.
The Directors monitor the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager at each quarterly Board meeting and monitor risk factors in respect of the Portfolio.
14 NEUBERGER BERMAN STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Principal Risks and Risk Management continued Liquidity Risk The risk that the Company will not be able to meet its Liquidity risk is managed by the Investment Manager to ensure obligations as and when these fall due.
that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash form so as to be able to meet the Companys ongoing requirements as these are budgeted for.
In addition the Investment Manager maintains a diversified portfolio of investments and assesses potential investments to screen smaller, potentially less liquid, issuers.
Fund Performance The Companys Investment performance could fall below its The Investment Manager has robust processes in place and stated objective or peer group for a variety of reasons including monitors the underlying investments on a daily basis.
Board receives regular, detailed updates from the Investment Manager.
Level of Discount or Premium A discount or premium to NAV can occur for a variety of While the Directors may seek to mitigate any discount to NAV reasons, including market conditions or to the extent investors per Share through the discount management mechanisms set undervalue the management activities of the Investment out in the Prospectus, there can be no guarantee that they will Manager or discount their valuation methodology and do so or that such mechanisms will be successful.
Operational Risk Disruption to, or the failure of either the Investment Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by the Managers, Administrators or SubAdministrators accounting, Investment Manager, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator, dealings or payment systems, or the Custodians records could and the key elements designed to provide effective internal prevent the accurate reporting or monitoring of the Companys control are explained further in the internal controls section of financial position and the receipt or transmission of payments.
the Corporate Governance Report which is set out on pages 29 and 30.
The Investment Manager, the Company Secretary, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator are contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals and the Board receives regular internal control reports from the Administrator and Sub-Administrator that confirm compliance.
Furthermore, the Company must comply with the provisions of the Law and, since its shares are admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the LSE, the Company is subject to the FCAs Listing, FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the legislation could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
A breach of the Listing Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares.
The Board relies on its Company Secretary and advisers to ensure adherence to the Guernsey legislation and the FCAs rules.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2016 15
