Strategic Report As noted in the Directors Report on page 43, during the year Risks & Uncertainties to January 2016 the Directors became aware that certain dividends paid in 2014 and 2015 totalling 311.2m had been Risk management and internal control made otherwise than in accordance with the Companies framework Act 2006 because interim accounts had not been filed at The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review Companies House prior to payment.
The Company has put of principal business risks, and oversees risk management.
in place new procedures relating to all distributions which will This includes identifying key risks, determining control ensure that relevant legal requirements are complied with at strategies and considering how those risks may affect the all times.
These procedures have been subject to external achievement of business objectives, taking into account risk legal review and will be regularly reassessed to ensure they appetite.
Executive directors and operational management are assessment of principal risks and delegated the task of implementing processes to ensure uncertainties that risks are managed appropriately.
On a day-to-day basis, the risk management process is managed and co-ordinated The directors confirm that they have carried out a robust by the corporate compliance team.
Each business area is assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing responsible for preparing and maintaining operational risk the Group, including those that would threaten its business registers which involves identifying, evaluating, managing, model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Those measuring and monitoring the risks in their respective areas.
principal risks are described below along with explanations of Risk registers are prepared using consistent risk factors and how they are managed or mitigated.
The principal risks areas incorporate business impact and likelihood ratings, both remain the same as reported last year.
The Board remains before and after the effect of any mitigating factors or committed to ensuring that the key risks are managed on controls.
Progress and issues are reported to the corporate an on-going basis and operate within an acceptable level.
compliance team on a regular basis, and more formal Whilst these risks all have the potential to affect future annual reviews are also carried out to ensure robustness and performance, we aim to mitigate and manage these risks consistency across the business.
In addition, Internal Audit such that they should not threaten the overall viability of the plans are established with regard to the risks and controls business over the three year assessment period refer to the identified under this framework.
During the year the Board carried out a detailed evaluation of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls systems for all parts of the business, which covered all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls, and is satisfied that they are operating effectively for the financial year to January 2016 and up to and including the date of this report.
This review incorporated review of reports, discussion, challenge and assessment of the principal business risks with relevant senior management.
During the year, the directors received presentations from management on specific higher risk areas, for example cyber risk, and agreed key action plans including further enhancement of mitigating controls.
The work and findings of the corporate compliance team are also reviewed, discussed and agreed by the Audit Committee on a regular basis: any significant matters are communicated to the Board.
No significant failings of internal control were identified during these reviews.
Limited, though not significant, weaknesses were identified and recorded on the operational risk registers and clear action plans are in place to address these.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Business strategy development & implementation If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does The Board reviews business strategy on a regular basis to not implement its strategies effectively, the business may determine how sales and profit budgets can be achieved suffer.
The Board therefore needs to understand and or bettered, and business operations made more efficient.
properly manage strategic risk, taking into account specific Seasonal and annual budgets together with longer term retail sector risk, in order to deliver long term growth for the financial objectives and cash flow forecasts are produced.
The Board and senior management consider strategic risk factors, wider economic and industry specific trends that affect the Groups businesses, the competitive position of its product offer and the financial structure of the Group.
The Audit Committee monitors strategic and operational risk regularly and any significant matters are reported to the Board.
management team The success of NEXT relies on the continued service of its The Remuneration and Nomination Committees identify senior management and technical personnel, and on its senior personnel, review remuneration at least annually and ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly formulate packages to retain and motivate these employees, qualified employees.
The retail sector is very competitive including long term incentive schemes.
and NEXTs staff may be targeted by other companies.
The Board considers the development of senior managers to ensure adequate career development opportunities for key personnel, with orderly succession and promotion to important management positions.
product design & selection NEXTs success depends on designing and selecting Executive directors and senior management continually products that customers want to buy, at appropriate review the design, selection and performance of NEXTs price points and in the right quantities.
In the short term, product ranges.
To some extent, product risk is also mitigated a failure to properly manage this area may mean that by the diversity of NEXTs ranges.
NEXT is faced with surplus stocks that cannot be sold at full price and may have to be disposed of at a loss.
In the longer term, the reputation of the NEXT Brand may suffer.
Product design and selection is therefore at the heart of the business.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Key suppliers & supply chain management NEXT relies on its supplier base to deliver products on time NEXT continually seeks ways to develop its supplier base so and to the quality standards it specifies.
Failure to do so as to reduce over-reliance on individual suppliers of products may result in an inability to service customer demand or and services, and maintain the quality and competitiveness adversely affect NEXTs reputation.
The Groups risk assessment procedures for key suppliers identify alternatives and develop contingency plans in the event of key supplier failure.
Changes in global manufacturing capacity and costs may Existing and new sources of supply are developed in impact on profit margins.
conjunction with NEXT Sourcing, external agents and or direct suppliers.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the NEXT Code of NEXT carries out regular inspections of its suppliers Practice may increase reputational risk.
operations to ensure compliance with the standards set out in this code: covering production methods, employee working conditions, quality control and inspection processes.
Further details can be found on page 33.
NEXT monitors and reviews the financial, political and geographical aspects of its supplier base to identify any factors that may affect the continuity or quality of supply of its products.
NEXT also monitors and reviews stock availability on an ongoing basis to ensure that issues are identified and appropriate action is taken where any issues are impacting service delivery to customers.
Warehousing & distribution NEXT regularly reviews the warehousing and distribution Planning processes are in place to ensure there is sufficient operations that support the business.
Risks include business warehouse handling capacity for expected future business interruption due to physical damage, access restrictions, volumes over the short and longer terms.
breakdowns, capacity shortages, IT systems failure see next Service levels, warehouse handling, inbound logistics and page, inefficient processes and third party failures.
delivery costs are monitored continuously to ensure goods are delivered to our warehouses, Retail stores and Directory customers in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
Business continuity plans and insurance are in place to mitigate the impact of business interruption.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Customer experience NEXTs performance depends on the recruitment and The Group continuously monitors website and call centre retention of customers, and on its ability to drive and service operations that support the business to ensure that there is customer demand.
This includes having an attractive, sufficient capacity to handle volumes.
functional and reliable website and effective call centres, Call centre employees receive comprehensive and relevant operating successful marketing strategies, and providing training on an ongoing basis, targeting our service to be at both Retail and Directory customers with service levels that its highest possible levels.
meet or exceed their expectations.
Market research is used to assess customer opinions and satisfaction levels, and regular customer experience visits to our stores help to ensure that staff remain focussed on delivering excellent customer service.
Retail store network NEXT Retails performance depends on profitably developing The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed the trading space of the store network.
The successful by senior management, with openings, refits and closures development of new stores depends on a number of factors based on store profitability and cash payback criteria.
including the identification of suitable properties, obtaining Regular reviews of lease expiry and break clauses are planning permissions and the negotiation of acceptable lease undertaken to identify opportunities for exit or renegotiation terms.
Prime retail sites will generally remain in demand, and of commitments.
Profiling of the Groups lease commitments increased competition for these can result in higher future is also regularly reviewed by the Board.
NEXT will continue to invest in new space where its financial criteria are met, and will renew and refurbish its existing portfolio when appropriate.
information security, business continuity & cyber risk NEXT is dependent upon the continued availability and Systems vulnerability and penetration testing are carried out integrity of its IT systems, which must record and process regularly to ensure that data is protected from corruption or substantial volumes of data and conduct inventory unauthorised access or use.
The Groups systems Critical systems are reviewed and tested periodically to require continuous enhancement and investment to prevent ensure they have back up facilities and business continuity obsolescence and maintain responsiveness.
The threat plans in place: these are updated on an on-going basis to of unauthorised or malicious attack is an on-going risk, reflect business risk.
the nature of which is constantly evolving and becoming IT risks are also managed through the application of internal increasingly sophisticated.
policies and change management procedures, contractual service level agreements with third party suppliers, and IT capacity management.
The Audit Committee received updates and agreed appropriate actions relating to cyber risk and business continuity during the year see page 51.
As the nature of cyber-attack risk is constantly changing and becoming ever more sophisticated, NEXT continually works towards improving mitigating controls in this critical area.
co. uk 24471.04 8 April 2016 11:49 AM Proof 2 Strategic Report Description of principal risk or uncertainty How the risk or uncertainty is managed or mitigated Financial, treasury, liquidity & credit risks The main financial risks are the availability of funds to NEXT operates a centralised treasury function which is meet business needs, default by counterparties to financial responsible for managing its liquidity, interest and foreign transactions, and the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency risks.
The Groups treasury function operates under exchange rates and interest rates, and compliance with a Board-approved policy.
party and other limits which are designed to mitigate NEXTs exposure to financial risk.
Further details of the Groups treasury operations are given in Note 27 to the financial statements.
Compliance teams are responsible for regulatory compliance in specific areas.
NEXT continually strives to maintain and develop the systems and processes that underpin these areas see page 26.
The Audit Committee received regular briefings on regulatory compliance during the year, for example in relation to requirements for the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards PCI DSS, and the FCA regulated credit business.
NEXT has a longstanding policy of returning surplus cash to NEXT has adequate medium and long term financing in shareholders through share buybacks and special dividends, place to support its business operations, and the Groups whilst maintaining an appropriate level of debt.
Adequate cash position and forecasts are regularly monitored and financing facilities are therefore required to support the reported to the Board.
operational needs of the business.
Rigorous procedures are in place with regard to the Groups NEXT is also exposed to credit risk, particularly in respect of its Directory customer receivables, which at 932m Directory account customers, including the use of external represents the largest item on the Group balance sheet.
credit reference agencies and applying set risk criteria before acceptance.
These procedures are regularly reviewed and updated.
The Audit Committee received a formal update regarding the customer credit business during the year.
