50 50 || Risk management The Group continuously develops its risk management Therefore, the Board, supported by the Audit Committee system in order to ensure it remains in line with best practice and senior management, has the ultimate responsibility for in achieving the primary purpose of managing, monitoring risk management and internal control, including responsibility and reporting on the risks that may impact achievement of for the determination of the nature and extent of the principal the Groups strategic objectives, whilst maintaining risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives and compliance with respective regulatory requirements.
for ensuring that an appropriate risk-awareness culture has been embedded throughout the Group.
Risk management framework Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board is The Group is in the process of formalising risk management responsible for determining the nature and extent of the roles and duties according to The Three Lines of Defence significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic model as further described in the diagram below, whereby objectives.
The Board should maintain a sound system of risk the Board and senior management are the primary management and internal control systems.
stakeholders served by the three lines of defence as follows: 1 heads of business functions: 2 risk control and compliance oversight functions: and 3 the internal audit function.
Risk management framework Strategic goals KPIs Reports Risk universe Roles and responsibilities The Three Lines of Defence The Board oversees the design and implementation of systems Principal risks Board supported of risk management and internal and uncertainties by Audit Committee control and manages and reports on principal risks.
Senior Management Team support the Board in its oversight Directors and monitoring role and perform Senior Management Team risks management and reporting onthe level of directors risks.
Heads of business functions, 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence being the 1st line of defence, own and manage operational Heads of Risk management Business function risks related to their respective business compliance, QHSE, Internal audit risks area of activity.
sub-functions security, controlling 2nd line of defence has a general oversight function to ensure that Risk management process the risk management practices followed are effective.
Risk assessment monitoring Internal audit, acting as the 3rdline of defence, provides 3.
Risk response tolerate, treat, transfer, terminate independent assurance over 7.
Reviewing risk theeffectiveness of the systems 4.
Resourcing controls management of risk management and internal framework 5.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 51 The risk management process goes through a set of Environmental, social and governance ESG matters coordinated activities starting with risk identification and ESG matters form an integral part of the areas covered by the ending with a review of the risk management framework Groups systems of risk management and internal controls, asshown in the diagram opposite.
and the Board recognises their significance and importance which are assessed consistently in accordance with regulatory The principal risks and uncertainties, which are managed and requirements and established rules.
Identified ESG risks and monitored at Board level, are supported by the directors related responses can be seen within operational and other risks, which are identified, managed and reported by risks in the Principal risks and uncertainties disclosure.
Risks are inherent in the various business functions within the Group and have therefore The Board received appropriate information for managing beencategorised as business function risks.
The members such risks and ensures that systems of risk management and ofthe Senior Management Team have overall responsibility internal controls are in place to effectively manage and for managing the business function risk s relevant to their monitor them.
More elaborate disclosure on the established functional responsibility but delegate such responsibilities policies and procedures in these areas can be found in the tovarious heads of business sub-functions.
The identified corporate social responsibility section on pages 36-49. risks are then aggregated and categorised into the following risk categories: strategic, operational, financial, compliance and other.
Based on these risk registers, related analysis and discussions senior management and the Board periodically review previously identified significant risks, update their likelihood of occurrence and potential impact and identify potential new significant risks emerging as a result of the changing environment.
These significant risks are discussed in more detail below in the section Principal risks and uncertainties.
In 2016, the processes related to risk management and internal control systems were consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code and FRC Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting issued in September 2014.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 52 | Risk management continued Changes from prior year risk assessment In 2016, the principal risks and uncertainties managed and monitored by the Board and senior management remained the same as in 2015 and the related risk assessments did not change significantly.
However, certain principal risks and uncertainties were reclassified and renamed to allow for better presentation and disclosure.
A summary of these changes is shown in the diagram below: Changes in principal risks and uncertainties from prior year 2015 2016 Explanations for changes This principal risk area was renamed to cover, in addition to commodity price volatility, the broader range of risks and external factors related Commodity Business and tothe business environment in which the Group operates.
price risk market environment Due to their close nature Development projects and Single revenue Development Strategic development source risks were combined into one principal risk area related to Strategic initiatives.
See more details in the respective principal risk projects initiatives description.
As mentioned above, this principal risk area was merged with Single revenue source Development projects and renamed Strategic development initiatives.
and business interruption This principal risk area was renamed taking into account that it covers Estimation of oil and Oil and gas reserves not only estimation risks but also risks related to oil and gas exploration, development and production.
gasreserves andoperations This principal risk area was renamed to cover a broader area of risks Environmental Health, safety including those related to health and safety.
In addition, itwas reclassified to an operational area, considering the fact that these compliance andenvironment risksare inherent to the Groups operations.
The description of the risk was updated to reflect a wider range of Subsoil use Subsoil use risksrelated to subsoil use agreements and their impact.
agreements agreements This principal risk area was renamed to cover not only anti-bribery risksbut also various other legal and compliance risks related to the Non-compliance with Compliance with laws legislative frameworks in which the Group operates.
anti-bribery legislation and regulations This principal risk area was renamed to cover a wider range ofrisks Tax law Tax risks related to tax positions including risks related to tax calculations, reporting, timely payments, etc.
uncertainty anduncertainties Since the assumption of the Groups going concern and liquidity are Going concern Liquidity subject to assessment and are respectively affected byvarious risks and uncertainties, this principal risk area was renamed to give more andliquidity risk and financing risks specific definition of the risks in this area.
This principal risk area was added to cover the directors risks Other notspecifically allocated to any of the above principal risks and significant risks uncertainties.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Financial Compliance Operational Strategic Other Financial Compliance Operational Strategic
