Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 53 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic risks Description of risk Risk management The Group is exposed to various risks In order to mitigate the oil price risk, the Group Business related to the market and external has a hedge of 15,000 boepd with a strike price andmarket business environment which are out of of US$49.16 per barrel which has 24 month tenor, the Groups control.
Such risks include maturing in December 2017 and with cash environment the volatility of commodity prices on settlement on a quarterly basis.
The primary the markets, the geopolitical situation purpose of the hedge is to secure funding for affecting the Groups areas of theconstruction of GTU3.
In addition, in 2015 the operations as well as risks related to Group started exporting the majority of its dry foreign currency exchange rates.
gas under a new contract and therefore benefits from export prices which are usually substantially Given that the Groups sales prices higher than domestic prices.
ofcrude oil and condensate are based onmarket prices, the Groups future To mitigate the geopolitical and customer risks, earnings are exposed to adverse the Group has been strengthening customer impact by changes in the market price relationships through establishing longterm of crude oil.
Crude oil prices are offtake agreements while also looking at influenced by factors such as OPEC possibilities to geographically diversify its actions, political events and supply customer portfolio.
The Also, senior management constantly monitors Groupcould also be compelled by the Groups exposure to foreign currency governmental authorities, purportedly exchange rate changes and plans for necessary acting based on Kazakh legislation, measures.
tosell its gas domestically at prices determined by the Kazakh government, which could be significantly lower than prices which the Group could otherwise achieve.
The Groups strategy and business model are not directly influenced by any significant risk resulting from Brexit.
However, related future changes in the business environment, regulations and political situation will be closely monitored to assess any potential impact on the Groups operations.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 54 54 || Principal risks and uncertainties continued Strategic risks Description of risk Risk management The Groups activities in the The Group has a team of dedicated specialists Strategic Chinarevskoye oil and gas condensate who assess possible acquisitions of oil and gas development field are currently the Groups sole fields and assets.
In 2013, the Group acquired source of revenue, which puts the subsoil use rights for three oil and gas fields near initiatives Group at a significant risk of not the Chinarevskoye field.
In addition, Nostrums meeting shareholder expectations in approach made during 2015 to the board of the event of natural disaster, facilities Tethys Petroleum Ltd regarding a possible offer damage from accidents, crisis and to acquire the company represents an example other political influences.
of the Groups further efforts towards Diversification of its activity areas is diversification of the Groups portfolio of considered by the Group as a way of assets.
This offer was subsequently withdrawn minimising this risk while also providing byNostrum.
the Group with an opportunity to gain For the purpose of GTU3 construction, the from expanding the use of available Group has formed a dedicated, experienced capacities, technological resources project management team and engaged JSC and human capital.
OGCC KazStroyService for construction The Groups strategic initiatives services and expects to benefit from their towards diversification of its activity technical expertise and significant experience areas including M&A activities and gained during the construction of GTU1 and further development projects such GTU2.
The project management team asthe GTU3 construction project and periodically reports to senior management the well drilling programme are subject andthe Board on the progress of engineering, to customary risks related to delay, procurement and construction.
The Group non-completion and cost overruns hasconcluded the majority of the procurement which could impact future production process in relation to GTU3 and monitors and the Groups performance.
logistics, engineering, expedition of materials and equipment on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Groups strategic initiatives, as well as certain other Senior management and the Board continuously ordinary activities, are subject to the monitor the timing, scope and performance of risk that terms of the transactions the drilling programme and tailor it taking into withrelated parties may deviate from account the status of the GTU3 project and market terms, as well as associated current oil prices.
A detailed drilling programme risks related to the disclosure of such is approved by senior management for each well transactions.
which forms the basis against which the progress of works andcosts are reported.
The Company has entered into certain relationship agreements to ensure that its transactions and relationships with certain shareholders are on arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Inaddition, the Group has established policies and procedures for the timely identification of related parties to ensure that all required preapprovals are obtained before any contracts areentered into with arelated party.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 55 Operational risks Description of risk Risk management Oil and gas reserves estimation, The Group has a department of highly skilled Oil and gas exploration, development and geologists who perform periodic assessments reserves and production are accompanied by typical ofthe oil and gas reserves in accordance with risks inherent to activities in this international standards on reserve estimations operations industry, which may adversely affect and prepare production forecasting using the Groups financial performance and advanced exploration risk and resource achievement of strategic objectives.
The results of the assessments are reviewed by the Groups Estimation of oil and gas reserves independent reserve consultant, Ryder Scott.
requires exercise of judgement due to the inherent uncertainty in any oil and For well drilling and workover activities the gas field.
There are also uncertainties Group engages highly skilled personnel, leading and risks related to a fields geological service suppliers in the local market as well structure and choice of development asoperations and cost monitoring systems, methods to maximise the reservoir based on which the management oversees performance.
Hence, there are a thework progress.
number of risks which may lead to a Maintenance of the wells and surface facilities deviation of production volumes from isscheduled in advance in accordance with estimated and projected volumes.
technical requirements and all necessary Well drilling and workover activities preparations are performed in a timely manner aswell as construction, operation and and within budget ensuring high quality.
maintenance of surface facilities are Inaddition, the Group has emergency response also subject to various risks including and disaster recovery plans in place and the availability of adequate services, periodically conducts necessary training and technologies, expertise, etc.
may adversely affect the fulfilment of the Groups strategic objectives.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 56 | Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks Description of risk Risk management Linking corporate social responsibility The Group has a QHSE department of highly Health, CSR to growth is one of the strategic skilled and competent specialists.
The Groups safetyand priorities of the Group.
Relevant health, QHSE policies are periodically revised to ensure safety and environmental risks are also compliance with changes and new requirements environment considered to be one of the key areas in this area.
Periodic training on the requirements of focus in terms of risk management.
of policies and regulations are held for The Group faces typical health, safety employees.
In addition, at the supplier selection and environmental risks in the oil and and contracting stage the Group places a high gas industry, including risks related to degree of importance on a suppliers resources gas flaring, waste management, and ability to comply with the Groups QHSE environmental pollution, fires and requirements and, subsequently, the Groups explosions at facilities, and dedicated team in this area conducts supplier transportation accidents.
Key indicators such as GHG emissions, lost time injuries, waste management, water and These risks may have a broad range soil pollution rates, etc.
as well as progress of ofresults including, but not limited to, work are reported to senior management on injury of employees or local residents, amonthly basis.
pollution of the local environment and respective regulatory actions, legal The Group is working towards full compliance liabilities, business interruption and with ISO 14001 Environmental Management anyconsequential impact on financial Systems and ISO 50001 Energy Management performance.
It should also be noted Systems.
The Group also regularly engages an that the legal framework for independent auditor to conduct HSE audits to environmental protection and monitor its compliance and best practice in this operational safety is not yet fully area, and takes all necessary measures on the developed in Kazakhstan and, given basis of the audit recommendations.
the changing nature of environmental regulations, there is a risk that the Group will not be in full compliance with all such regulations at all times.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 57 Compliance risks Description of risk Risk management As the Group performs exploration, The Group has procedures and processes in Subsoil use development and production activities place for the timely application for extension agreements in accordance with related licences for oflicence periods when it is considered the oil and gas fields, there are related appropriate, however, uncertainty remains in risks that the Group might not be able relation to timing and results of decisions of to obtain extensions when necessary, authorities.
The exploration period for the risks of non-compliance with the Rostoshinskoye field expires in early 2017, licence requirements due to whilefor the Darjinskoye and Yuzhno ambiguities, risks of alteration of the Gremyachinskoye fields it expires at the end of licence terms by the authorities and 2017.
At present, these periods are considered others.
These risks may result in the acceptable, taking into account that active Groups inability to fulfil scheduled exploration works have been performed in the activities: fines, penalties, suspension Rostoshinskoye field.
However, applications or termination of licences by authorities: forfurther extension are in process.
The Group and, respectively, significant and believes that it is in full compliance with the adverse impact on the Groups termsof its PSA for the Chinarevskoye field business, financial performance andmaintains an open dialogue with Kazakh andprospects.
governmental authorities regarding all of its subsoil use agreements.
In the event of non compliance with a provision of any such agreement the Group endeavours to have suchterms modified and pays any penalties andfines that may apply.
The Group carries out its activities in For the purpose of compliance with laws, Compliance anumber of jurisdictions and therefore regulations and rules the Group has adopted a with laws and must comply with a range of laws number of policies including a code of conduct, andregulations, which exposes the inside information and disclosure policy, related regulations Groupto the respective risks of party transactions policy, code for dealing in non-compliance.
In addition, the securities, anti-corruption and bribery policy Group must comply with the Listing andawhistle-blowing policy, performs periodic Rules, the Disclosure Guidance and updates based on the changes in regulatory Transparency Rules, FRC guidance and requirements, and carries out related requirements, as well as KASE and communications and training for employees.
bond indenture requirements, in light Necessary communication lines are established of its publicly traded shares and notes.
with authorities to ensure timely and adequate Hence, there are non-compliance inbound and outbound flow of information.
risksto which the Group is exposed.
Management and the Board monitor significant The impact of these risks may vary matters related to legal and compliance matters inmagnitude and include regulatory in order to act promptly in response to any actions, fines and penalties by actions.
authorities, diversion of management The Group continuously monitors its compliance time, and may have an overall adverse with its policies on the level of authorisations effect on the Groups performance fortransactions.
In addition, the management andactivities towards achieving its maintains an open dialogue with its sponsors in strategic objectives.
relation to any matter related to non-compliance with Listing Rules and other regulatory requirements.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 58 | Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risks Description of risk Risk management The uncertainty of application, The Group has policies and procedures related Tax risks and including retroactive application, of to various tax assessments and positions, as well uncertainties taxlaws and the evolution of tax laws as other control activities to ensure the timely inKazakhstan create risks related assessment and filing of tax returns, payment toadditional tax liabilities from oftax obligations and recovery of tax assets.
assessments or risks related to The Group regularly challenges, either with the recoverability of tax assets.
Tax risks Kazakh tax authorities or through the Kazakh and uncertainties may adversely affect courts, tax assessments that it believes are the Groups profitability, liquidity and inapplicable to it, either pursuant to the terms planned growth.
ofits subsoil use agreements or applicable law.
Forecasting and maintaining an Management and the Board constantly monitor Liquidity and adequate liquidity position is subject the Groups liquidity position, forecasts and key financing risks tothe risk that inaccurate information financial ratios to ensure that sufficient funds are or assumptions are used for the available to meet any commitments as they arise.
forecasts, risks of counterparty delay In addition, the treasury policy provides that the orfailure to meet their contractual Group should maintain a minimum level of cash obligations due to severe market of US$50 million.
The Group performs financial reviews, establishes The Groups ability to access and credit limits and engages with reliable financial source debt or equity capital is also counterparties.
In addition, the Group has exposed to volatility and uncertainties processes in place to monitor overdue in global financial markets, which may receivables and take timely measures when adversely impact the Groups ability necessary.
tomeet its commitments associated The Groups corporate finance function with its financial liabilities, increase the continuously monitors debt and equity markets cost of financing and affect the plans and maintains an open dialogue with investors to towards realisation of its strategic be able to react quickly to any need for financing.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures | 59 Other risks Description of risk Risk management Other risks are those which are not The Group has an anti-bribery and corruption Other specifically identified within any of the policy and provisions relating to the same are significant risks principal risks and uncertainties, but included in the Groups Code of Conduct.
may be related to several such areas Related training and updates are periodically orbe organisation-wide.
These include provided for employees in relation to their risks related to fraudulent activities, obligations in this area.
cyber security, the Groups supply In 2016, the Group participated in the Cyber chains, accounting and reporting, Governance Health Check carried out by the management systems and the UKauthorities.
The findings of this exercise as availability of human resources, and well as other recommendations from external may also significantly impact the consultants are constantly monitored to ensure Groups financial performance, the Group continually improves its response reputation and achievement of its torisks related to cyber security.
The Group has a wide range of internal controls over its supply chains and accounting and reporting processes, including policies, procedures, segregation of duties for authorisation of matters, periodic training for employees, etc.
Senior management and the Board stay alert toemerging challenges related to various management systems and related governance matters and when necessary initiate change initiatives to ensure enhancement and integration of certain management systems.
The Board and senior management ensure that risks associated with human resources are adequately addressed through a combination ofpolicies, training, communication and other means of internal controls as described in the corporate social responsibility section on pages36-49.
The risks listed above do not comprise all those associated with the Groups business and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the Groups business.
The risks listed above are continuously monitored by the management team and assessed when making business decisions.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2016
