com stock code: NTG Managing risk Our internal and external risk environments require a dynamic, proactive approach to risk.
The Groups risk appetite is approved by the Board and this culture is disseminated throughout the organisation.
The Group takes a conservative view on risk overall.
There is an ongoing process of risk identification, analysis and mitigation by the Board and throughout the Group with reporting back upwards.
Risk governance There is a formal governance structure underpinning our approach to risk management.
Key roles and BOARD responsibilities within the structure are as follows: Board The Board has overall responsibility for AUDIT AND RISK risk management and internal control COMMITTEE and instilling the culture towards risk management throughout the Group.
The Board manages this through the EXECUTIVE GROUP Audit and Risk Committee, who report COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT to the Board.
Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee review the Groups risk appetite statement on REGIONAL EXECUTIVE TEAMS a quarterly basis.
The Committee set the objectives, monitor and review the activities of Group Internal Audit and oversee the Groups whistleblowing Group Internal Audit Regional Executive Teams arrangements.
The Committee monitor Group Internal Audit are responsible Regional Executive Teams are the Groups risk management processes for the monitoring of the Groups risk responsible for implementing risk focusing on the effectiveness of internal management approach and provide management within the Groups controls and business continuity a link between regional management operations.
Regional management procedures, including cyber risk.
and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The identify, analyse, manage and report on Group Head of Internal Audit reports the risks that the businesses face as part Executive Committee formally to and attends the meetings of a continuous dialogue with Group The Executive Committee is chaired by of the Audit and Risk Committee and Internal Audit.
More details on the has direct access to the Chairman of the Executive Committee can be seen in the Board and to all members of the Audit Introduction to governance on page 55. and Risk Committee.
The Executive Committee receive risk reporting from regional management In addition to risk based standardised which feeds into the strategic site audits, Group Internal Audit conversations held in this forum.
facilitate the risk management process by meeting with risk owners to monitor risk, discuss new risks arising and to ensure that risks monitored and reported on are consistent across the Group.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 TOP DOWN BOTTOM UP y M f i a t n n a e g d e I STRATEGIC REPORT 38 39 The Board can therefore confirm Risk appetite that there is an ongoing process for Risk is always high on the Boards identifying, evaluating and managing agenda and the focus on effective the significant risks faced by the Group, risk management cascades all the way that it has been in place for the year through the organisation.
The culture under review and up to the date of of the organisation ensures that all Risk approval of this annual report and activities from day-to-day operations management accords with the Turnbull guidance and to high level strategic decisions are process therefore the Board has performed a performed in line with this approach.
robust assessment of the principal risks Managements assessment of our facing the Group.
principal risks is based on impact, Review of risk management likelihood, change from the prior year and internal control systems and appetite.
In addition to the ongoing monitoring The governance of risk is undertaken and review of the Groups risk Identification of risks in the context of the Groups overall management and internal control The Board and the Groups risk appetite.
The Group considers risk systems during the year the Board management have a clearly defined appetite to ensure adequate resources engaged a third party to perform a responsibility for identifying the major are allocated to the correct risks.
During review of the Groups processes and business risks facing the Group and the year the Audit and Risk Committee procedures to supplement and bring for developing systems to mitigate and reviewed and approved a formal risk an alternative perspective from that of manage those risks.
The control of key appetite statement, which subdivided the Board.
The findings of this review risks is reviewed by the Board and the the Groups six principal risks into complemented the assessment made by Groups management at their monthly fourteen specific risks.
Of these, the the Board and identified no significant meetings.
Audit and Risk Committee had very failings and weaknesses in the Groups low appetite for three risks, a low level risk management system but contained of appetite for eight of the risks and a a number of recommendations which medium level of appetite for three risks.
the Group has already begun work on.
This demonstrates that the Group takes a conservative view towards risk and attempts to minimise its exposure to undue risk.
com stock code: NTG Managing risk CONTINUED Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Impact before mitigation Mitigation Evaluation The high level of operational gearing in our business model Should there be a significant economic downturn the flexible nature of the Groups business model allows Economic environment 1 means that changes in demand can lead to higher levels of any vehicles returned to be placed with different customers.
Alternatively, utilisation can be maintained The demand for our products and services could be affected by variability in profits.
through purchasing fewer vehicles, increasing disposals or a combination of the two.
Although this may a downturn in economic activity in the countries in which the affect short term profitability it generates cash and reduces debt.
An adverse change in macroeconomic conditions could also Group operates.
increase the risk of customer failure and therefore incidences of No individual customer contributes more than 5% of total revenue generated, and ongoing credit analysis is The recent referendum decision for the UK to leave the EU could bad debts.
performed on new and existing customers to assess credit risk.
potentially cause a downturn in the economies in which we In the short term, foreign exchange volatility, credit risk and With regards to the EU referendum the Groups current hedging arrangements protect it from material operate.
availability of capital may be affected by the decision to leave foreign exchange risks and the Group has in place sufficient borrowing facilities to fund its activities with the EU.
In the longer term, demand for our products and the maturities up to seven years.
Any impact on demand or the cost of supplies is not yet known.
cost of our supplies may be impacted.
As our business is highly operationally geared any decrease in All hire rates offered to customers must exceed certain hurdle rates to ensure that appropriate levels of Competition and hire rates 2 hire rates will impact profit and shareholder returns to a greater return on capital are achieved.
The markets in which the Group operates are fragmented and extent.
Our current pricing strategy is focused on ensuring that we charge an appropriate price for the product and competitive, with competitors often pursuing aggressive pricing ancillary services provided, which reflects the benefits provided to our customers.
Although flexible rental is strategies to increase their market share.
This leads to a risk of not necessarily the cheapest option, it will attract customers for whom it is the best option and protect the the Group being forced to reduce hire rates to retain current Group from solely price led competition.
business or attract new customers.
The Board is currently reviewing the Groups route to market, which will include a review of our marketing There is a risk that a lack of understanding of the Groups strategy and reinforcing the benefits of our product offering through training of commercial teams.
product offering and low brand awareness could lead to the Group not taking full advantage of the opportunities open to it.
An increase in holding costs, if not recovered through hire Pricing is negotiated with manufacturers on an annual basis in advance of purchases being made.
Variable Vehicle holding costs 3 rate increases, would adversely affect profitability, shareholder supply terms allow us flexibility to make purchases as required throughout the year.
The profitability of the Group is dependent upon minimising returns and cash generation.
vehicle holding costs, which are affected by the pricing levels of Whilst the Group is exposed to fluctuations in the used vehicle market, we have sought to increase the level new vehicles purchased and the disposal value of vehicles sold.
of sales made through our more profitable retail channel.
Should the market experience a short term decline in residual values, we can age our existing fleet until such time as the market improves.
Failure to invest in our workforce and high levels of staff turnover Personal development plans and tailored training are conducted for all employees.
Salaries are benchmarked Employees and the working environment 4 will impact upon customer service and delivery of the Groups against the market and a range of incentives are provided to attract and retain staff.
Succession plans are in Failure to attract, develop and retain individuals with the strategic objectives.
appropriate skills will inhibit the successful delivery of our Failures in health and safety would put the reputation of the Regular communication and engagement with everyone across the business is vital to our success.
business at risk, both in terms of attracting and retaining talent The Group Health and Safety and Group Internal Audit functions are responsible for delivering health and Inadequate maintenance of our vehicles and a working and maintaining customer relationships.
safety best practice and reporting any non-compliance to the Board.
environment where individuals do not receive appropriate Our recruitment processes seek to attract individuals who will training and support could place employees and customers Our scheduling and compliance department is overseen by Group Internal Audit and ensures that vehicles exemplify our core values of professionalism, teamwork and employees at risk from failures in health and safety.
are maintained to the required standards.
Each new joiner receives an introduction to the Groups culture as well as our processes.
Should IT systems fail, whether the cause is accidental or The Group has an appropriate business continuity plan in the event of disruption arising from an IT systems IT systems 5 malicious, this could have an adverse impact on both the failure.
The Groups business involves a high number of operational and ongoing operations of the Group and the recording and Before any material system changes are implemented a project plan is approved by the Board.
A member of financial transactions across numerous sites which rely on the processing of financial information.
the executive team will then lead the project and an ongoing implementation review will be performed by continuous operation of our IT systems.
either Group Internal Audit or external consultants where appropriate.
The objective is always to minimise the risk of business disruption that could result from changes.
Failure to maintain or extend access to credit facilities could The Groups main facilities mature in 2020 and 2022 and the Group believes that these facilities provide Access to capital 6 impact on the Groups abilities to continue as a going concern.
adequate resources for present requirements.
The Group requires capital to replace vehicles at the end of their rental The Group reviews its compliance with covenants on a monthly basis in conjunction with cash flow forecasts to life and for any growth in the fleet.
The Group therefore requires continued access to adequate credit The impact of access to capital on the wider risk of going concern is considered on page 30 and within the facilities to remain in compliance with its financial covenants.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 REPORT 40 41 Evaluation is defined as Managements assessment of whether the risk factor has: Increased Decreased Stayed the same since the prior year.
Risk Impact before mitigation Mitigation Evaluation The high level of operational gearing in our business model Should there be a significant economic downturn the flexible nature of the Groups business model allows Economic environment 1 means that changes in demand can lead to higher levels of any vehicles returned to be placed with different customers.
com stock code: NTG Managing risk CONTINUED As explained in the Strategic Report, Viability statement our business model provides customers The Directors have assessed the viability with vehicles on a non-contract basis of the Group over a three year period which allows them to flex their vehicle to 30 April 2019, taking into account requirements as their business needs the Groups current position and the change.
This is core to the proposition potential impact of the principal risks we offer, however, it does mean that documented in the Strategic Report.
there is less certainty over the future Based upon this assessment the revenue streams of the Group over a Directors have a reasonable expectation longer period of time.
The Directors that the Company will be able to have therefore made assumptions on continue in operation and meet its future revenue generation in the context liabilities as they fall due over the period of current market conditions and to 30 April 2019. prospects of the Group.
The three year period was selected In making this statement, the Directors as this represents the normal holding have considered the resilience of the period of our core vehicle assets and Group, taking into account its current therefore represents the Companys position and the principal risks facing normal investment cycle.
The Plan was stress tested is aligned to how our business model for severe but reasonable scenarios runs through its cycle, how capital is and the effectiveness of any mitigating employed in the business and therefore actions that would reasonably be taken.
how returns on investment are The Plan was specifically stress tested reviewed.
for downturns in vehicles on hire, hire The strategy and associated principal rates, vehicle acquisition costs and risks underpin the Groups three year residual values of vehicles.
The outcome strategic planning process the Plan, of this testing satisfied the Directors which is updated annually.
This process with respect to the ongoing liquidity and takes into account the current and solvency of the Group over the period prospective macroeconomic conditions under review.
In particular, should there in the countries in which we operate be a significant downturn in demand for and the competitive tension that exists the Groups business, vehicle utilisation within the markets that we trade in.
can be maintained through purchasing fewer vehicles, increasing disposals or a The Plan also encompasses the projected combination of the two, which would cash flows, dividend cover, and generate cash and reduce debt.
headroom against financial covenants under the Groups existing facilities.
The Plan makes certain assumptions about the normal level of capital recycling likely to occur and therefore considers whether additional financing will be required.
Headroom against the Groups existing facilities at 30 April 2016 was 219m as detailed on page 28.
The facilities have maturity dates between November 2016 and August 2022, which exceeds the period under review and provides sufficient headroom to fund the capital expenditure and working capital requirements during the planned period.
24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2016 REPORT 42 43 24608.04 7 July 2016 10:36 AM Proof 6
