Institutional Asset Management Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 45 OMAMs risk strategy is intended to of our business activities including the Managing provide a strong link between our business development of our business plans, our strategy and our day-to-day operations.
execution against those plans and how our risk Our risk strategy defines how we think we manage our relationships with our about our risk profile, our risk tolerances Affiliates.
In summary, our risk strategy and our risk management practices.
seeks to manage risk in a way that adds We reflect our risk strategy across all value to the organisation.
Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 1.
Affiliate relationship risk Our relationships with our Affiliates are critical to We seek to mitigate this risk by operating each Affiliate relationship our success.
under established ownership, governance and economic arrangements that are negotiated either at inception or over the course of our relationship.
Investment performance and market risk The ability of our Affiliates to attract and retain FUM We seek to mitigate this risk through careful monitoring of economic and generate earnings is dependent on our Affiliates conditions and market trends as well as the performance of specific maintaining competitive investment performance, Affiliate investment strategies.
as well as market and other factors.
Revenue concentration risk We derive our revenue from a definitive number of We seek to mitigate this risk through product development and Affiliates and investment strategies.
diversification initiatives within individual Affiliates as well as through the execution of our growth strategy whereby we seek to invest in new Affiliate partnerships that can provide further diversification of our revenue streams in some way such as by Affiliate, investment strategy, client geography, asset class, etc.
People risk We and our Affiliates rely on certain key personnel, We seek to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel by maintaining a and our results are dependent upon our ability to strong and healthy culture as well as market-competitive compensation retain and attract key personnel.
arrangements that include, where appropriate, retentive elements that are designed to align OMAM Affiliate and employee interests over time.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 46 Business Institutional Asset review Management www.
com rb our-stories Partnering with the Posse Foundation Founded in 1989, Posse identifies public high school students with extraordinary academic and leadership potential who may be overlooked by traditional college selection processes.
Posse extends to these students the opportunity to pursue personal and academic excellence by placing them in supportive, multicultural teams Posses of 10 students.
Posses partner colleges and universities award scholars four-year, full-tuition leadership scholarships.
Posses national program has awarded $1.
1 billion in leadership scholarships to these young people and has seen their success in their graduation rates and as leaders on campus.
Posses partners are investing time, energy and resources in the promotion of equity in education and social justice.
They believe in the intelligence, talent and dreams of young people and are giving them a chance to excel.
Posse is helping to create a new kind of network of leaders who will sit at the tables where decisions are made and better represent the voices of all Americans.
With support OMAM supports the from the program, Posses scholars are excelling Posse Foundation academically, founding and leading campus in its efforts to give organisations, taking on competitive internships and earning prestigious awards.
Posses equally young people a successful alumni secure competitive jobs and chance to excel admission to top graduate programs.
Since 2009, OMAM has supported Posse financially, through direct employee engagement, and by hiring Posses scholars as interns every summer in various areas of the OMAM business.
Institutional Asset Management Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 47
