Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 28 Business Nedbank review The success of a bank lies in its ability to Framework, which sets out the Groups Managing manage risk effectively, while creating risk universe and major risk classifications, value for its stakeholders.
Nedbank and assigns Board and executive our risk has embedded a mature culture of responsibility thereto.
The organisation risk management that understands, has placed a strong reliance on this risk proactively identifies and measures risk, governance framework.
resulting in effective pricing for risk.
Through our sound risk management Our approach to manage and govern risk culture and robust Enterprise-wide Risk has been, and continues to be, the Groups Management Framework, we are well Enterprise-wide Risk Management placed to make risk management a competitive differentiator.
Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 1.
Market risk Heightened volatility currently exists in financial markets with The business and risk plans have adopted a heightened focus and events such as Brexit, the US presidential elections and South strengthening in trading markets environment and continue to assess African political instability.
As a result, market liquidity risk the impact of the Fundamental Review of the Trading Book on the is heightened with demand outweighing supply and market banks trading business.
structure participant uncertainty and or possible disruption.
We continue to actively manage our trading portfolio against the backdrop of a volatile local and international trading environment within the risk appetite of the bank.
Strategic and execution risk Fundamental shifts in both the financial services landscape and A comprehensive 20172020 Nedbank Group business plan technology mean that banks are now, more than ever, expected inclusive of a risk plan ensures that our strategy takes full account of to be innovative, agile and mobile.
There is a high execution both upside and downside risk.
Execution is tracked monthly through risk in an attempt to shift complex operations fundamentally internal reporting.
to ensure that we remain relevant and continuously adapt to the operational environment.
There is also a risk in respect of our capacity to execute the cultural change required and the timelines within which to achieve our desired strategy.
Regulatory and compliance risk Regulatory and compliance requirements applicable to banks Our response to the increasing regulatory and compliance are increasing with tight timelines for compliance.
requirements are a formal R3 billion regulatory change programme that seeks to leverage the implementation of regulatory and compliance requirements as a competitive differentiator by ensuring that the business case and client experience is incorporated efficiently in the fulfilment of regulatory requirements.
4. Credit risk Credit risk is heightened as a natural reaction to the challenging We have displayed excellent credit risk management through the macroeconomic and high inflation and interest rate as well global financial crisis and continue to do so with strategic portfolio tilt as political environments given the historically low credit loss as a key strategic principle, and this is designed to continue.
We have ratios, particularly in our retail secured lending portfolios.
historically low credit loss ratios, particularly in our retail secured This risk is heightened due to a potential sovereign ratings lending and commercial property finance portfolios.
We have strategically positioned our portfolios to maximise profitability while still operating within acceptable credit limit thresholds.
Nedbank Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 29 Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 5.
Financial crime risk Financial crime has increased due to the challenging macro and Significant investment in cyber security prevention and protection political environments.
Heightened cyber-risks and information continues as we employ world-class systems while communicating security risks are exacerbated by the digital revolution.
In increased awareness of risks to staff along with learning programmes.
addition, the pending Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment Act will ensure that AML, CFT and sanctions will shift from pure compliance to a risk-based approach.
We recognise that Video ATM, access to banking Johannesburg is a key enabler Innovating for inclusion to prosperous societies.
To support this we continue to As part of our digital and self-service strategy, a grow our banking total of 219 video banking stations and 342 internet stations have been rolled out across the country.
footprint both Video banking stations enable customers to interact through branches with our customer service consultants through and innovative video-calls at A TMs: internet stations are physical opportunities centres within branches that allow customers to manage their online banking transactions.
These stations offer services in five official languages and also provide financial planning tools.
