Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 69 Local currency Capital Capital 31 December 1 January Resources Requirements Surplus 2016 2016 1 OMLAC SA Rbn 45.9 14.3 31.6 3.2x 3.2x 2 Mutual & Federal Rbn 3.0 2.0 1.0 1.5x 1.4x 3 Nedbank Rbn 73.5 55.4 18.1 1.3x 1.3x 4 OMW bn 1.8 1.0 0.8 1.9x 1.9x 5 OMBRE $bn 0.2 0.1 0.1 1.8x 1.3x 1 South Africa Statutory Valuation Methods SVM in accordance with the FSB requirements 2 Capital Adequacy Requirement CAR in accordance with the FSB requirements 3 In accordance with Basel III and excluding unappropriated profits the cover ratio including unappropriated profits is 1.4x 1 January 2016: 1.4x 4 Solvency II basis 1 January 2016 comparative restated to reflect Solvency II basis.
The Capital Resources figure presented includes intra-group capital funding of the loan provided to fund the acquisition of Quilter Cheviot 5 110% of Internal Economic Capital requirement as set by the Bermuda Monetary Authority.
The 1 January 2016 position has been restated on this basis.
The Financial Stability Board FSB has Uncertain global economic conditions, During 2016 uncertain global economic impacting assetbased fees and business indicated that the Solvency Assessment and conditions and political risk dominated flows as well as adding to the complexity Management SAM framework in South the external risk landscape.
This has of the managed separation process Africa is not expected to be implemented manifested in volatile global equity Political risk, particularly in South Africa, any earlier than 1 July 2017.
This follows the markets and record low bond yields being the UK, the US and Zimbabwe tabling of the Insurance Bill in 2016 which is observed.
Brexit and President Trumps US Strategic execution risk including the level currently under consideration by the election victory created both economic and of regulatory change across the Group Standing Committee of Finance in the South political uncertainty globally, that is likely to Credit risk African Parliament.
Draft Insurance continue well into 2017 given our substantial Currency translation risk, location of capital Prudential Standards setting out further earnings in that country.
A South African and sources of remittances details of the SAM requirements have been sovereign downgrade remains a significant Governance structures are operating in line further developed and consulted on by the risk within 2017.
Apart from the macro with the decision-making framework, which FSB.
OMEM remains well capitalised, perspective, there is risk from managed has been adapted in light of the managed ready for implementation of the SAM separation implementation, the major separation strategy.
IT and change programmes underway placed on the structures and processes by in OMW and OMEM, and heightened OMEM had capital coverage of 2.4x on an the businesses management and Boards.
regulatory risk particularly in the context internal economic capital basis at 31 There is senior Old Mutual plc management of regulatory reforms in the UK and December 2015.
A South African sovereign representation on each of the subsidiary South Africa.
downgrade is expected to reduce the Boards and the plc Board has joint capital coverage by between 0.2x and 0.4x Managed separation involves significant meetings with the subsidiary Boards.
depending on the severity of the scenario corporate and operational change for the In addition, strategic systemic and execution outcome on financial markets.
Internal businesses and plc Head Office, as well as risks are considered by plc management Economic Capital data for 2015 ECAR execution risk in relation to the transactions and overseen by the plc Board.
These should not be interpreted as an indication to give effect to the actual separation.
structures and processes, together with or predictor of future capital ratios or In addition, the plc is currently managing businesses that are appropriately, though sensitivities under possible future a number of residual risks relating to past not excessively, capitalised, provide a solid regulatory regimes.
merger, acquisition and disposal activity.
base to support our business as we pursue These are not sufficiently material to class our managed separation strategy.
Principal risks as a principal risk at a plc level, but in the The principal risks facing the plc are How our principal risks have context of managed separation, these covered in detail in the Risk report and changed over the year to date legacy risks may crystallise over the next few reflect the underlying markets and business For as long as we remain a Group the years.
The scale of organisational change models of each of the four businesses as principal risks we face remain broadly that is occurring means we are particularly well as those at the plc Head Office centre.
consistent with those described in the cognisant of culture and people risk in the Whilst these vary in terms of detail, there 2015 Annual Report, albeit with different businesses and the plc.
We will continue to are common themes and the principal emphasis on some risks and new risks manage our people and culture carefully plc-wide risks are: for the plc.
as we all work towards the common goals
