Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 18 Business Old Mutual review Emerging Markets Our risk strategy is integrally linked with our for a primary listing on the Johannesburg Managing business strategy.
Our capital allocation Stock Exchange, improved focus on decisions consider both the return on strategic and forward-looking risks, and our risk risk-based capital and the resultant a more effective control function using projected risk profile versus risk appetite, an integrated assurance approach.
under both normal and stressed business Management recognises the value and conditions, to ensure that business plans importance of a good risk management are robust and within the agreed risk culture to complement risk management appetite limits.
processes that accurately identify, We have embarked on a programme measure and manage risk exposures.
to further enhance our enterprise risk Our key risks, summarised in the table management capability.
Some of the below, are closely monitored by key outcomes include better risk-based management and regularly reported decision making and capital allocation, a to the Board.
governance framework that is appropriate Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 1.
Macroeconomic conditions Emerging markets continue to face a subdued economic We regularly monitor external economic factors and incorporate environment particularly in South Africa, where a number of them into group-wide stress and scenario testing to understand our factors could influence economic recovery positively or negatively.
resilience to severe macroeconomic events.
In 2016 we undertook A sovereign credit downgrade to sub-investment grade remains scenario testing on the possible economic impacts of a South possible given weakness in fundamental growth measures.
Other factors that could have a negative impact include Market and liquidity risks arising from guaranteed products, and emerging markets falling out of favour and or a further decline the hedges in place to manage them, are actively managed by the in commodity prices.
Although our balance sheet is very resilient to financial market We focus on quality of business in the lowand middle-income shocks, our customers are likely to face increased pressure from market, which is most impacted by the economic environment, higher inflation and interest rates, and likely tax increases in 2017 and are intensifying post-sale persistency actions.
Asset-based fee risk is managed by offering customers a Our Zimbabwe business faces considerable macroeconomic comprehensive range of internally managed investment solutions challenges, putting pressure on our customers and our ability and by diversifying our product offering.
to invest in assets that will generate required returns.
Our Zimbabwe management team has proved resilient and able to guide the business through a weak and uncertain environment.
Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 19 Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 2.
Socio-political risk South Africa shows growing signs of social discontent partly Old Mutual will continue to engage and work with relevant attributable to a significant income divide and high unemployment stakeholders to be alert to adverse political developments, rates.
There is a significant amount of political uncertainty which including leading the engagement with government and will also weigh on a possible ratings downgrade.
South Africas big businesses on South Africas investment case.
The Board continues to monitor and assess the impact of Indigenisation remains on the agenda in Namibia and political risks.
Zimbabwe, and management continues to engage with regulatory authorities in this regard.
We have implemented strict protocols for media releases and contentious issues to avoid reputational risk and to support healthy stakeholder relationships.
Strategic execution risk We take on execution risk in pursuing new initiatives that support Independent third-party reviews, strong programme governance our business plan ambitions, including large scale IT programmes and fide-risking of deliverables have contributed to a reduction in to replace legacy IT as well as development of digital solutions risk exposure associated with the large and complex South African to meet the expectations of our target markets and improve the transformation programme.
Our processes are designed to ensure customer experience.
that we understand the risks in newly-acquired businesses and can manage post-acquisition integration.
Execution risk also arises from integrating businesses that we have acquired particularly in East Africa, where we aim to become We have our own managed separation project in place to ensure an African financial services champion.
that we strengthen and enhance governance structures and activities previously undertaken or supplemented by Old Mutual plc.
The managed separation initiative also carries execution risk and is receiving significant management attention.
4. Credit and liquidity risk Strong growth in our retail lending businesses in South Africa, We have commissioned independent reviews to ensure that Zimbabwe and Kenya as well as in our wholesale investment individual businesses credit risk management and governance credit business has led to an increase in our credit risk exposure.
frameworks are elevated to best market practice levels, and to secure an appropriate balance of risk and return.
We have defined Investment credit risk arises in Old Mutual Specialised Finance exposure limits and early warning thresholds for wholesale and and the South African life business, predominantly through the retail credit risk exposure that remained within their target range management of credit assets backing annuity products but also throughout 2016.
We follow a prudent credit origination process through direct wholesale credit exposure on shareholder funds.
and continuously monitor credit analytics to allow proactive Retail credit risk originates from our retail lending franchises.
Liquidity risk arises predominantly in the retail lending businesses, Liquidity risk is managed by our Balance Sheet Management team our wholesale investment credit business and from certain at enterprise level, with oversight from the central risk team.
Management in our banking subsidiary Central African Building Society CABS in Zimbabwe has navigated the systemically stressed liquidity environment and the knock-on impacts on counterparty credit risk.
This is expected to remain a challenge due to the publics lack of confidence in bond notes.
We regularly perform stress tests on credit and liquidity risk to ensure exposure remains within risk appetite under stress events.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 20 Business Old Mutual review Emerging Markets Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 5.
Regulatory and market conduct risk Significant regulatory change in South Africa and other emerging Various projects are underway to ensure compliance with current markets drives changes in operating models, processes and and forthcoming regulatory changes.
Market conduct risk is increasingly focused on customer regularly with the regulator to ensure positive outcomes for outcomes, and we will continue to engage with regulators to customers and other stakeholders.
promote financial inclusion and positive outcomes for customers.
In line with both local and international trends, we have focused The Retail Distribution Review will increase the responsibility of on improving the efficacy of our control environment with respect the Financial Advisers role and, due to Old Mutuals large tied to anti-money laundering and counter-financing of terrorism, as sales forces, this will increase market conduct risk.
The process of well as increasing awareness of how these risks could manifest embedding a Treating Customers Fairly culture in the organisation themselves across our integrated financial services business.
This work will continue as part of a multi-year programme.
Cybercrime This risk could manifest in a number of different ways, including We have made substantial investments in our ability to mitigate breaches of client confidentiality or unauthorised payments cybercrime, focused on prevention, detection and response, if treasury systems are attacked.
As the use of digital channels and governance and awareness.
Moreover, we recognise that increase, the level and nature of cybercrime will keep changing.
ongoing investment is needed to keep pace with changing risks.
Disruptive new digital technologies There is a threat that new digital technologies could lower barriers Our business strategy is increasingly designed around a customerto entry and result in financial products being commoditised, centric model.
Our processes and systems are aligned to support thereby changing the nature of competition.
New competitors this strategy, including digital distribution and data analytics to could also develop a digital delivery channel that is more better understand the needs of customers.
We believe we have the appealing to customers, causing us to lose market share.
resources and flexibility to adapt quickly and copy new models that show signs of success.
Old Mutual Emerging Markets Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 21 Blue Marble Farmers, Zimbabwe.
Smallholder farmers in Zimbabwe insured against drought In Zimbabwe, there is a significant shortfall in local maize production.
Smallholder farmers struggle to get loans because rainfall is uncertain and affects Old Mutual is proud to be their ability to repay.
In response to this challenge, a founding partner of Blue in 20 16 we launched Ruzhowa, a drought insurance protection product for smallholder maize farmers.
Marble Microinsurance, Ruzhowa, in the local language, Shona, refers to offering protection to a fence around the homestead that protects the vulnerable societies household assets such as cows.
In the same way, Old Mutuals Ruzhowa protects farmers by paying them if there is a drought.
Under this new crop insurance initiative we use satellite data to automatically determine when farmers experience a drought.
We then make an appropriate payment depending on when the drought occurred in the planting season.
This microinsurance venture was developed by Blue Marble Microinsurance, a group of eight companies collaborating to extend protection to underserved markets.
