Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 36 Business Old Mutual review Wealth Our priorities going Managed forward outlook We anticipate continued equity market and separation and currency uncertainty, with the geo-political governance landscape increasing in complexity and as the impact of the UKs exit from the EU is progressed in 2017 and 2018.
Similarly, In 2016 we started our programme retail investor sentiment is influenced by of activity to operate as a standalone general market conditions and their listed business once the managed confidence in the future outlook of separation from Old Mutual plc has been economies, which has a bearing on the achieved.
To ensure our organisation is fit flows of assets that are available to be for purpose as a listed standalone entity, attracted to our wealth solution offering.
we have reshaped and strengthened both Our business is evolving as we prepare our executive management team and to operate on a standalone basis and Board and enhanced our governance continue our development for the future.
during the course of 2016 and will continue Our investment in distribution and building this in 2017.
Glyn Jones joined the Board as asset management capabilities will an independent Chairman in November continue.
This investment will primarily be 2016 and Moira Kilcoyne, George Reid, organic but minor in-fill acquisitions may Tim Tookey and Cathy Turner have joined also be considered if these: fit into the core the Board since the end of 2016 as business: are readily integrated: enable independent non-executive directors.
good customer outcomes: and are As announced, Rosie Harris will join the We are demonstrably incremental to shareholder Board as an independent non-executive value.
Allowing for known changes in our preparing the director in April 2017. business perimeter, we expect to deliver business to be above-market growth in FUM and robust standalone revenue growth in the face of margin and Managing regulatory pressure and the current and building for our risk market environment.
the future We target NCCF to continue to grow above OMW is exposed to a number of risks as 5% of opening FUM excluding Heritage a result of our business model.
We have a business and anticipate continued sales diverse set of businesses, offering active growth of our UK Platform products and asset and discretionary management, the Cirilium fund range from our own advice and product solutions.
The diverse advisers in 2017, as we expand our nature of our businesses and our integrated distribution network.
Within OMGI, we will model expose us to certain strategic, continue to evolve our multi-asset offering business, operational, financial and and appraise opportunities to broaden our regulatory risks.
While the nature of our asset management capabilities as they arise.
business risks are largely consistent with those we have faced over recent years, we are increasing our exposure to advice risk through the expansion of our distribution capabilities and we are investing further in diversifying our asset management capabilities, exposing us to increased market risk.
These investments also increase both our key person dependency and reliance on fund performance to deliver desired client outcomes.
The UK Platform transformation is a large scale and complex programme with the majority implemented Old Mutual Wealth Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 37 through third-party suppliers and outsource We expect regulatory risk to continue to be reassessed regularly in light of current providers, and which carries a high degree high, with increasing regulatory focus in the volatile and uncertain conditions to ensure of execution risk.
We also face risks from the preparation for the managed separation and they remain relevant in implementing our managed separation from Old Mutual plc.
the FCA investigation and thematic review.
Stress and scenario testing We continue to be transparent and responsive is performed regularly to test the resilience We are affected by macroeconomic with the regulators to help manage and build of our business.
We maintain a strong conditions and geo-political risks that these relationships.
The diverse nature of our regulatory capital buffer.
We have mature arise given the impact that these conditions businesses and our business model means we risk governance processes, which are being have on financial markets and customer are exposed to a wide range of regulatory developed further in preparation for the behaviours.
Our fund-based management policy initiatives and thematic reviews.
fees, which comprise the majority of our revenues, are directly linked to We manage these risks by establishing a risk Our key risks, summarised in the table investment markets.
framework, including a consistent set of risk below, are closely monitored by definitions and policies, and a risk strategy.
management and regularly reported to As we develop and implement our business We set a risk appetite and manage risk the Board, together with actions taken strategy, we see increasing competitor within that appetite which is integrally linked and proved by management to manage pressure in the markets in which we operate.
Our risk appetite is those risks.
Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 1.
Global macroeconomic conditions OMW has a material and increasing exposure to We carry out regular stress and scenario testing, which include scenarios macroeconomic and political conditions in the UK and and stresses based on severe economic conditions and political events.
Our fund-based management fees, which These allow us to understand the impact of potential events on our earnings, comprise the majority of our revenues, are directly linked to liquidity and capital resilience.
We aim to ensure our cost base can flex to investment markets.
Political change can impact us directly mitigate volatility in our revenues.
Potential management actions to mitigate through changes in law and policy.
Our balance sheet these impacts are subject to approval by the OMW Board.
remains resilient to financial market shocks.
We seek to manage these risks to our customers through a comprehensive Our customers are impacted by the current volatile conditions range of internally-managed investment solutions, designed to address a and they may face pressure from higher inflation going forward.
Competitor and margin risk We are exposed to pressure on our margins due to the rise We are committed to active asset management and personal advice as we of solutions such as passive and low cost investment models consider that this provides superior solutions to customers.
These offer a different and Our end-to-end business model provides synergies across our businesses.
lower-cost solution to those offered by OMW.
We are also exposed to competitors copying our end-to-end business model and increasingly targeting our acquisition targets.
Customer and conduct risk Risks to our customers are inherent within our business We define good customer outcomes and put processes in place to model and can occur at any point in the customer journey achieve those for our customers.
New product development starts from or product lifecycle.
an understanding of customer needs and preferences and we engage with customers in areas such as the ongoing development of customer A number of our businesses could adversely impact the communications.
Our Customer Outcomes Forum reviews any areas where integrity of financial markets.
customer outcomes may be affected significantly and ensures appropriate action is taken where that risk arises.
Our Regulatory and Conduct Risk Customer and conduct risk is an area of increasing focus teams provide strong oversight, challenge and advice to our businesses.
by regulators across our businesses.
Our Code of Conduct, reinforced by mandatory training for all our people, The FCA is currently performing an investigation on the sets out our expectations of our people.
OMW closed book of UK life insurance and pensions business.
This follows their thematic review on the fair treatment of long-standing life insurance customers.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 38 Business Old Mutual review Wealth Current impact Risk mitigation and and risk outlook management actions 4.
Delivery of strategic change initiatives We face execution risk from the implementation of our We continually improve our supplier risk management processes to business strategy.
This includes the delivery of new platform ensure we have strong outsourced supplier controls and governance in infrastructure in our UK Platform and IT enhancements to the support of our major change programmes.
We are fully engaged with our existing platform infrastructure to manage reliance while the regulators on our most significant change programmes to ensure that we new platform infrastructure is being developed and ensuring meet their requirements, to demonstrate that we are putting the customer our organisation is fit for purpose as a listed standalone entity.
at the forefront of our business and to evidence that we maintain strong financial resilience.
Where we identify that risk is, or may become, outside In delivering our strategic change initiatives, we actively our risk appetite, we take prompt and appropriate action and ensure we seek to identify, manage and control risk.
The delivery of our continue to maintain effective controls to deliver appropriate business and strategic objectives necessitates exposure to operational customer outcomes.
risk, and we have appropriate governance and control processes managed through our three lines of defence model.
Change initiatives are delivered by first-line management with second-line oversight and challenge and third-line assurance.
We also use external business support, subject matter experts and assurance partners for significant change initiatives.
People risk We are exposed to the risk of failure to deliver core parts We have reviewed our operating models for our key functions identifying of our strategy or failure to complete business-as-usual where we need to build the skills and talent required under our managed activities to the required standards due to pressures on our separation strategy.
We continue to develop and enhance our talent people or an inability to recruit, develop and retain highmanagement processes, including succession planning and leadership quality people.
This risk is heightened currently as a result development programmes and we monitor this regularly at executive level.
of the transition of the London Head Office activities from We continue to be focused on the diversity of our employees, which requires Old Mutual plc to OMW, resulting in the need for increased improvement, as typical across financial services.
A number of initiatives skills and capacity.
focused on recruitment, transparency and gender pay have been set up.
Regulatory risk As an end-to-end investment and wealth management business, We review forthcoming regulatory change and ensure we are well placed to we are exposed to a high degree of regulatory change, make any changes required to ensure we comply fully when such changes including international regulation.
While such change can are implemented.
present opportunities, it can increase costs and impact our The review of operating models as described under People risk above products and services.
In 201 7 we expect significant impact includes focus on regulatory expectations of OMW following separation.
from regulatory change through, for example, the Markets in We focus on being transparent, responsive and proactive in our dealings Financial Investments Directive II, packaged retail and insurance with regulators to help to manage and build these relationships.
based investment products, EU general data protection reform and the FCAs asset management market study.
We are exposed to the risk of not building and maintaining strong relationships and trust with regulators.
This is critical to our business, particularly given increased regulatory focus in the lead-up to separation from Old Mutual plc.
Information security risk There is a risk that our IT infrastructure and architecture, or Our information security risk framework is regularly reviewed to ensure those of third parties on whom we rely and with whom we that we have robust controls.
Monitoring of market experience, awareness share sensitive data, are vulnerable to malicious software campaigns and penetration testing exercises are performed to identify attacks and subsequent ransom demands resulting in impact vulnerabilities and ensure we have appropriate plans to mitigate any on customer experience, business downtime, additional costs weaknesses that we identify.
of getting systems operational and reputational damage.
Old Mutual Wealth Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 39 David Morrell, Chester Enabling positive futures for our clients OMWs purpose is to create prosperity for the generations of today and tomorrow.
We deliver on this by creating wealth for our clients, enabling them to achieve their life goals.
An important part of this is supporting our customers to take control of their investments and, thereby, their financial future.
Recently, one customer, unhappy with their recent fund performance at one of our peers, sought advice from David Morrell, an OMW Operating as a Private Client Adviser.
He moved the clients responsible business assets that were in a previously underperforming means ensuring fund and decided to house them on the OMW our customers have Platform.
This gave our client the opportunity to access to appropriate access our award-winning model portfolios in WealthSelect, and it also reduced his charges by products and services around 2,000 per year.
In addition, our customer which best serve their now has the ongoing support of an adviser who financial needs now, will help him develop a comprehensive financial and in the future.
plan to reach his lifetime financial goals.
The client was thrilled: he was getting his assets managed professionally in line with his risk profile while reducing his costs, and he felt that he had control of his future.
