Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 72 RISKS The managed separation strategy represents an inflection point in the Groups history.
Its objective is to unlock value for Old Mutual shareholders by placing four strong and well-capitalised businesses into the hands of shareholders most suited to owning it and who are able to support their individual growth agenda.
The plcs responsibility is to execute this strategy and to wind itself down in an orderly fashion.
The plc intends to carry this out with limited market dependencies, while maintaining strong management controls over the underlying operations and mitigating risks as they crystallise.
Since the managed separation announcement in March 2016, the governance model has been revamped: the Groups strategic controller model has Sue Kean evolved to an active portfolio manager Group Chief Risk Officer model where the plc evaluates each of the Groups businesses as an asset, with a view to realising maximum value through the managed separation.
The primary principle is that the businesses will be assessed individually: we will no longer seek diversification benefits or synergies.
The active portfolio manager model means For as long as we remain a Group a significant amount of responsibility for the principal risks we face remain meeting local capital and liquidity requirements has been delegated to the broadly consistent with those respective business Boards as part of their described in the 2015 Annual move towards separation.
However, as long as we remain a Group, the plc Board Report, albeit with different retains overall responsibility as well as emphasis on some risks and specific responsibility for plc-level risks new risks for the plc and liability management.
For as long as we remain a group the principal risks we face remain broadly consistent with those described in the 2015 Annual Report, albeit with different emphasis on some risks and new risks for the plc.
In our UK and American businesses, the risks to capital are small but the risks to earnings are very much dependent upon market conditions, given their reliance on asset-based fees.
This contrasts with our African businesses, where macro conditions, particularly in South Africa, create risks to earnings, liquidity and local capital within the lending and insurance operations.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report 73 Global macroeconomic risk in all our debt and plc Head Office costs and markets continues to be a key focus for fungibility restrictions the inability to the Group and for financial services recognise significant rand surplus in the firms in general.
The downside risk to the Groups regulatory Solvency II resources.
market buoyancy following the shift in risk Plc Head Office is responsible for the sentiment after the US presidential election execution of the managed separation: is that global equity markets may be this has substantially changed its focus to overpriced and may correct in the near evaluating the different separation routes future.
This exposes markets to the risk and potential corporate finance activities of overestimating the extent of stimulus balancing value, cost, time and risk.
measures expected from the Trump The businesses are strengthening administration.
Developing markets will their standalone governance and risk continue to be sensitive to the US interest management capabilities.
The plc will rate cycle and the possibility of a US need to manage legacy risks over a protectionist agenda towards China, shorter timeframe than would otherwise which may result in a souring of sentiment have been the case and ensure the plc and a sell-off of emerging market assets.
is wound down in an orderly manner Global Intertwined with this is the growing focus on projects are in place to address both areas.
political risk and the impact of political risk macroeconomic We perceive regulatory risk to be higher, on markets.
In South Africa, a sovereign risk in all our given the level of thematic review activity credit downgrade to below investment in the UK and the delays in implementing markets continues grade status was averted in 2016 but key regulations such as the Twin Peaks remains a significant risk.
In the UK to be a key regime in South Africa.
markets are likely to remain volatile, focus for the as the long-term economic impacts Growth objectives in OMEM imply of Brexit come to light: uncertainty and Group and for increasing credit risk, in particular within lower growth prospects could impact retail lending credit risk.
Significant financial services investor confidence.
initiatives in 2016 have improved credit firms generally.
Both macroeconomic and political risks Intertwined with These improvements give us comfort that are regularly assessed in group-wide stress appropriate oversight capability is in place this is the growing and scenario testing.
Given the guaranteed and will continue to develop as we move products and annuity business within focus on political towards separation.
OMEM, as well as the accompanying risk and the impact hedging programmes that could result in The operating businesses still require collateral calls and liquidity requirements, of political risk ongoing investment to achieve the desired this will continue to be a focus over 2017. maturity of capabilities and positioning on markets We have significantly reduced market risk within their chosen markets.
in Old Mutual Bermuda OMB through Finally, the scale of organisational new hedging programmes, although change we are undergoing means we some residual risk remains, until the are particularly cognisant of culture and policies mature in 2018. people risk in the businesses and the plc.
While the clear aims of managed We will continue to manage our people separation have reduced strategic vision and culture carefully as we all work risk, strategic execution risk has increased.
towards the common goals set out for The strategy will address the prevailing risks managed separation.
presented by the our structure namely currency translation risk translation of Sue Kean predominantly rand earnings to sterling, Group Chief Risk Officer hard currency requirements availability of sterling flows to service sterling-denominated
