42 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, as set outinthe table below.
STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS RISK Definition The risk to the Banks earnings and profitability arising from its strategic decisions, change in the business conditions, improper implementation of decisions or lack of responsiveness to industry changes.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Groups strategic and business risk Performance against strategic and Regular monitoring by the Board and UNCHANGED appetite states that the Group does business targets does not meet the Executive Committee of The Groups strategic and business not intend to undertake any long to stakeholder expectations.
This has the monitoring of strategic and business operating environments are subject to medium-term strategic actions that potential to damage the Groups performance against market ongoing changes primarily driven by would put at risk its vision of being a franchise value and reputation.
commitments, the balanced business market competition, economic leading specialist lender, backed by scorecard and risk appetite.
Use of outlook and regulation.
However, the astrong and dependable savings stress testing to flex core business business model has proven to be franchise.
The Group adopts a planning assumptions to assess resilient and responsive to the long-term sustainable business model potential performance under stressed dynamic environment in which it which, while focused on niche operating conditions.
sub-sectors, is capable of adapting to growth objectives and external developments.
REPUTATIONAL RISK Definition The potential risk of adverse effects that can arise from the Banks reputation being sullied due to factors such as unethical practices, adverse regulatory actions, customer dissatisfaction and complaints or negative adverse publicity.
Reputational risk can arise from a variety of sources and is a second order risk the crystallisation of a credit risk or operational risk can lead to a reputational risk impact.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Group does not knowingly Potential loss of trust and confidence Culture and commitment to treating UNCHANGED conduct business or organise its that our stakeholders and customers customers fairly and being open and The Group has increased the size and operations to put its reputation and place in us as a responsible and fair transparent in communication with capabilities of its Risk and Compliance franchise value at risk.
Established function to ensure appropriate processes to proactively identify and oversight of the growing balance manage potential sources of sheet.
CREDIT RISK Definition Potential for loss due to the failure of a counterparty to meet its contractual obligations to repay a debt in accordance with the agreed terms.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Group seeks to maintain a high INDIVIDUAL BORROWER DEFAULTS All loans are extended only after DECREASED quality lending portfolio that Borrowers may encounter thorough bespoke and expert Greater than three months in arrears generates adequate returns in benign idiosyncratic problems in repaying underwriting to ensure ability and balances fell to a historically low rate and stressed periods.
The portfolio is their loans, for example, loss of a job propensity of borrowers to repay and of 1.4% from 2.3% not including actively managed to operate within or execution problems with a sufficient security in case of default.
legacy problem loans during 2016, set criteria and limits based on profit development project.
While most of driven by the strong credit volatility, focusing on key sectors, the Banks lending is secured, some Should there be problems with a loan, performance of post 2011 lending recoverable values, and affordability borrowers fail to maintain the value of the collections and recoveries team underwritten using enhanced lending and exposure levels.
The Group aims the security.
works with customers unable to meet policy.
Pre 2011 lending including to continue to generate sufficient their loan service obligations to reach legacy problem loans continues to run income and control credit losses to a a satisfactory conclusion while down.
During December 2016, the level such that it remains profitable adhering to the principle of treating Group sold 10.9m of non-performing even when subjected to a credit customers fairly.
personal loans which contributed to portfolio stress of a 1 in 20 intensity the marked reduction in arrears stress scenario.
Our strategic focus on lending to balances.
Group weighted average professional landlords means that loan to value ratios of the mortgage properties are likely to be well book remained low at 63% at the end managed, with income from a of 2016, with an average LTV of 69% diversified portfolio mitigating the for new originations within the year.
impact of rental voids or maintenance costs.
Lending to owner-occupiers is subject to a detailed affordability assessment, including the borrowers ability to continue payments if interest rates increase.
Lending on commercial property is more based on security, and is scrutinised by the Groups independent Real Estate team as well as by external valuers.
Development lending is extended only after a deep investigation of the borrowers track record and the specific project and requires approval by a dedicated Development Finance Transactional Credit Committee.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 43 CREDIT RISK CONTINUED RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION MACROECONOMIC DOWNTURN The Group works within portfolio limits INCREASED A broad deterioration in the economy on LTV, affordability, name, sector and Although the UK economy has would adversely impact both the geographic concentration that are remained stable during 2016, the ability of borrowers to repay loans and approved by the Risk Committee and economic outlook is uncertain the value of the Groups security.
These are reviewed at least following the result of the EU Credit losses would impact across the annually.
In addition, stress testing is referendum and the US presidential lending portfolio, so even if individual performed as part of the ICAAP to election.
impacts were to be small, the ensure the Group maintains sufficient aggregate impact on the Group could capital to absorb losses in an be significant.
economic downturn and will continue to meet its regulatory requirements.
WHOLESALE CREDIT RISK The Group transacts only with UNCHANGED The Bank has wholesale exposures high-quality wholesale counterparties.
The Group continues to utilise a both through call accounts used for Derivative exposures include collateral reserve account with the Bank of transactional and liquidity purposes agreements to mitigate credit England, enabling it to eliminate credit and through derivative exposures exposures.
risk on most of its liquidity portfolio.
MARKET RISK Definition Potential loss due to changes in market prices or values.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Group actively manages market INTEREST RATE RISK The Groups Treasury department UNCHANGED risk arising from structural interest An adverse movement in the overall actively hedges to match the timing of The Group has developed a better rate positions.
The Group does not level of interest rates could lead to a cash flows from assets and liabilities.
understanding of the potential impact seek to take a significant interest rate loss in value due to mismatches in the of more complex movements in rates position or a directional view on rates duration of assets and liabilities.
and it limits its mismatched and basis risk exposures.
BASIS RISK The Group strategically focuses on UNCHANGED A divergence in market rates could products linked to administered rates Product design and hedging has lead to a loss in value, as assets and to keep control of yield.
Where there is enabled the Group to maintain the liabilities are linked to different rates.
a mismatch of market rates in the overall level of basis risk through the portfolio e. g. base rate vs. LIBOR, the year.
Treasury department hedges the exposure.
LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING RISK Definition The risk that the Group will be unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Group actively manages stable RETAIL FUNDING STRESS The Groups funding strategy is DECREASED and efficient access to funding and As the Group is primarily funded by focused on a highly stable retail The Group has made continual liquidity to support its ongoing retail deposits, a retail run could put it deposit franchise.
The large number of improvements in both its regular operations.
It also maintains an in a position where it could not meet depositors provide diversification, with liquidity forecasting and stress testing appropriate level and quality of liquid its financial obligations.
a high proportion of balances covered framework.
In addition, it has gained asset buffer so as to withstand market by the FSCS and so at no material risk access to the Bank of England liquidity and idiosyncratic liquidity-related of a retail run.
In addition, the Group performs in-depth liquidity stress testing and maintains a liquid asset portfolio sufficient to meet obligations under stress.
Finally, the Group has prepositioned mortgage collateral with the Bank of England, so that its liquidity insurance facilities can be accessed in the unlikely event that should become necessary.
44 OneSavings Bank plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED SOLVENCY RISK Definition The potential inability of the Bank to ensure that it maintains sufficient capital levels for its business strategy and risk profile under both the base and stress case financial forecasts.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Group seeks to ensure that it is Key risks to solvency arise from Currently the Bank operates from a DECREASED able to meet its Board level capital balance sheet growth and unexpected strong capital position and a The Group has improved both its CET1 buffer requirements under a 1 in 20 losses which can result in the Banks consistent record of strong capital and total capital position stress severity scenario.
The Groups capital requirements increasing or profitability.
increasing its resilience against solvency risk appetite is constrained capital resources being depleted such unexpected losses.
within the leverage ratio related that it no longer meets the solvency The Bank actively monitors its capital requirements.
We manage our capital ratios as mandated by the PRA and requirements and resources against resources in a manner which avoids the Board risk appetite.
financial forecasts and plans and excessive leverage and allows us undertakes stress testing analysis to flexibility in raising capital.
The regulatory capital regime is subject its solvency ratios to extreme subject to change and could lead to but plausible scenarios.
increases in the level and quality of capital that the Group needs to hold to The Bank also holds prudent levels of meet regulatory requirements.
capital buffers based on CRD IV requirements and expected balance sheet growth.
The Group engages actively with regulators, industry bodies, and advisers to keep abreast of potential changes and provide feedback through the consultation process, and actively manages its capital strategy and plan.
OPERATIONAL RISK Definition The risk of loss or negative impact to the Group resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external events.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Groups operational processes, NETWORK SYSTEM INTRUSION A series of tools designed to identify UNCHANGED systems and controls are designed to If hackers were to penetrate the and prevent network system Whilst the Bank has made a series of minimise disruption to customers, Groups IT system, consequences intrusions are deployed across the enhancements to its defences in damage to the Banks reputation and could range from the diversion of Group.
respect to IT security threats during any detrimental impact on financial funds to the theft of customer data.
2016 it recognises that the threats to performance.
The Bank actively The effectiveness of the controls is the industry continue to grow both in promotes the continual evolution of overseen by a dedicated IT Security respect to the volume and the level of its operating environment through the Governance Committee, with sophistication.
identification, evaluation and specialist IT Security staff employed mitigation of risks, whilst recognising by the Bank.
that the complete elimination of operational risk is not possible.
DATA RISK The Bank continues to invest in and INCREASED The use of inaccurate, incomplete or enhance its data management The increase in data risk has been outdated data may result in a range of architecture, systems, governance primarily driven by the increased scale risks impacting risk management and and controls.
of operations and the multiple sources reporting services.
from which data is derived.
PEOPLE RISK The Bank has a series of initiatives that UNCHANGED The risk that the Bank will be unable to are intended to respond to this risk.
As the business continues to grow, the meet its future resource requirements This includes the introduction of a need for additional resources through a combination of higher than range of development programmes increases the pressure on hiring.
In a expected staff attrition and or the intended to improve retention and number of specialist areas, the issue is inability to identify and hire increase the population of in-house exacerbated by the wider industry candidates with the necessary skills.
demands for individuals with the relevant skills.
However, the Bank is adopting a proactive approach to ensure future resource requirements can be met.
OPERATIONAL RESILIENCE The Bank carries out scenario based INCREASED Banks should have business resiliency, Business Continuity Planning BCP, The increasing scale and globalisation continuity monitoring and plans in has crisis management procedures of operations together with place to ensure an ability to operate and recovery and contingency plans.
dependencies on a number of third on an ongoing basis and limit losses in The BCP is periodically tested to ensure party service and network providers.
the event of severe business operability.
The sophistication of cyber crime disruption.
Strategic report Financial statements Governance 45 CONDUCT RISK Definition The risk that the Groups behaviours or actions result in customer detriment or negative impact on the integrity of the markets in which it operates.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Bank considers its culture and PRODUCT SUITABILITY The Group has a strategic DECREASED behaviours in ensuring the fair Whilst the Group originates relatively commitment to provide simple, Whilst this risk has reduced in 2016 as treatment of customers and in simple products, there remains a risk customer-focused products.
In a result of increased awareness and maintaining the integrity of the that primarily legacy products may addition, a Product Governance dedicated oversight, the Bank remains markets in which it operates a be deemed to be unfit for their original framework is established to oversee aware of the changes to the fundamental part of its strategy and a purpose in line with the current both the origination of new products regulatory environment and their key driver to sustainable profitability regulatory definitions.
and to revisit the ongoing suitability of possible impact on product suitability.
OSB does not tolerate any the existing product suite.
systemic failure to deliver fair customer outcomes.
On an isolated The combination of a dedicated basis, incidents can result in detriment Product Governance team and an owing to human and or operational independent Conduct Risk team failures.
Where such incidents occur serves to effectively manage this risk they are thoroughly investigated, and the appropriate remedial actions are During the year, the Group established taken to address any customer an effective product transfer detriment and to prevent recurrence.
DATA PROTECTION In addition to a series of network UNCHANGED The risk that customer data is system controls documented within Despite a number of additional accessed inappropriately, either as a as part of the operational risks, the controls being introduced in 2016, the consequence of network system Bank performs extensive root cause network system threats continue to intrusion or through operational errors analysis of any data leaks in order to evolve in both volume and in the management of the data.
ensure that the appropriate mitigating sophistication.
COMPLIANCE AND REGULATORY RISK Definition The risk that a change in legislation or regulation or an interpretation that differs from the Groups will adversely impact the Group.
RISK APPETITE STATEMENT RISK MITIGATION AND CONTROLS DIRECTION The Group will not tolerate systemic Key compliance based regulatory The Bank has adopted the EMCD and INCREASED failures to comply with the relevant changes that the Bank is subject to SMCR in an effective and timely The Bank has historically responded laws, regulations and codes of include EMCD, SMCR and potential manner.
effectively to regulatory changes and conduct applicable to its business macro prudential controls of the does not believe that future changes activities.
The Groups compliance Buy-to-Let sector.
The adoption of SS13 16 and the represent a heightened level of culture and supporting procedures lending policy requirements around compliance risk.
ensure adherence to all relevant Further proposals currently under affordability mean that the Bank regulation and it actively monitors discussion, including the Basel should be well placed to respond to Recent changes implemented as part and assesses changing and emerging Committee consultation on any macro prudential regulation of the of CRD IV have resulted in regulatory standards.
The Group standardised risk weights, which could Buy-to-Let sector.
requirements for more and higher applies its own intellectual capital and lead to significant increases in the quality capital, though elements of seeks external advice where Groups capital requirements.
The Basel proposals will be subject to these requirements are being phased appropriate to ensure that it is extensive consultation and the in.
Further proposals currently under compliant with the intent and spirit of eventual outcome could be materially discussion, including the Basel regulation without causing unforeseen different to those initially proposed.
Committee standardised risk weight detriment to its customers.
The adoption of the eventual changes consultation, could lead to significant may take a number of years to increases in the Groups capital implement.
The Group intends to requirements.
Another consultation of note relates to the recently published CP3 17 issued by the PRA, which details proposed refinements to the PRAs Pillar 2A capital framework.
The Group is currently assessing the potential impact this consultation may have on the Groups capital strategy and plan going forward.
CONDUCT REGULATION The Group has a programme of INCREASED Regulatory changes focused on the regulatory horizon scanning linking The regulatory environment has conduct of business could force into a formal regulatory change tightened and this is likely to continue, changes in the way the Group carries management programme.
In addition, exposing the Group to increased risk.
out business and impose substantial the focus on simple products and compliance costs.
For example, the customer oriented culture means that Financial Policy Committees increased current practice may not have to focus on Buy-to-Let lending or tax change significantly to meet new changes such as the Bank Corporation conduct regulations.
Tax Surcharge must be considered.
