B6.5 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group is exposed to a number of principal risks and uncertainties that arise from the operation of its business model and strategy.
A summary of those risks and uncertainties which could prevent the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives, how the Group seeks to mitigate those risks and the change in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year are described below.
This analysis represents the Groups gross risk position as presented to, and discussed by the Risk and Compliance Committee as part of their ongoing monitoring of the Groups risk profile.
This summary should not be regarded as a complete statement of all potential risks and uncertainties faced by the Group but rather those which the Group believes have the potential to have a significant impact on its financial performance and future prospects.
To identify and control the risks to which it is exposed, the Group employs a risk management framework, described in section B6.4.
As part of this framework, principal risks are identified and assessed within the key categories of Business Risk, Credit Risk, Conduct Risk, Operational Risk, Liquidity and Capital Risk, Market Risk, and Pension Obligation Risk.
The change in the perceived level of each risk in the last financial year is indicated using the symbols shown below: Risk Increasing Risk Decreasing Risk Stable PAGE 150 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business Risk Economic risk Description Mitigation The Group could be materially The Group operates as a specialist lender in chosen markets where its employees affected by a severe downturn in have significant levels of expertise.
the UK economy given its income Robust underwriting and monitoring processes are employed which reflect is wholly derived from activities prudent credit policies designed to be maintained through economic cycles.
Adverse economic conditions could reduce demand To support the validation of asset values for its core buy-to-let lending products, for the Groups loan products, the Group maintains an in-house team of Chartered Surveyors with considerable increase the number of customers experience and understanding of the sector.
that default on their loans and cause security asset values to fall.
The Group closely monitors economic developments in the UK and overseas, with support from leading independent macro-economic advisors.
This ensures it is able to consider various economic scenarios within its formal business planning cycle.
In addition, the Group maintains a robust stress testing framework to assess its expected performance under a range of operating conditions.
This provides the Board with an informed understanding and appreciation of the Groups capacity to withstand shocks of varying severities.
Change Whilst UK economic performance has remained generally stable in the last financial year, the outlook has become considerably more uncertain given various recent global and domestic developments.
These include the referendum decision to leave the European Union.
Given this heightened level of economic and political uncertainty, the overall risk assessment is considered to have increased.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 151 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business Risk Concentration risk Description Mitigation The Group is heavily reliant on The Group has a very deep understanding of the private rented sector built up over lending to customers investing in many years of successful operations in the buy-to-let market.
the UK private rented sector.
This includes a long history of performance data through the economic cycle It is therefore exposed to together with regular independently conducted research commissioned over any systemic deterioration in a period of more than ten years.
It seeks to use this expertise constructively by performance of the sector, which playing an active role in shaping the development of policy for the private rented will be influenced by underlying sector both directly and through membership of the CML, IMLA and the National factors such as house prices, Landlords Association.
supply of rental property, and Given its deep specialist knowledge of the sector and its historically prudent demographic changes.
approach to underwriting, the Group is very well placed to cope with recent and The buy-to-let sector has been emerging regulations relating to buy-to-let, and to continue to provide appropriate subject to a high level of fiscal products to customers in the new environment.
and regulatory intervention in The Group also continues to exploit prudent opportunities to diversify the range of recent years, including changes its activities and income streams.
This is illustrated by the development of its Idem affecting the tax position of Capital debt acquisition business and the organic development and acquisitions landlords and the regulation within Paragon Bank.
Where such changes make buyto-let less attractive to potential customers or affect the viability of existing customers businesses, the Group is exposed to adverse consequences.
Change Whilst the Group has continued to diversify its areas of operation in the last financial year, it continues to have significant exposure to buy-to-let lending.
Changes to the UK taxation regime for private landlords and greater regulatory intervention in the sector could reduce demand and availability of buy-to-let lending products.
PAGE 152 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business Risk Transition risk Description Mitigation The Group has acquired two asset The Groups core strategy is only to consider acquisitions in areas that it finance businesses, PBAF and understands and which are complementary to its existing business activities.
Premier, in the year, extending its Extensive pre acquisition due diligence is always undertaken with support from operations to a new sector.
In addition, the Group remains Formal governance arrangements are applied to any proposed acquisition and to alert to potential opportunities subsequent integration projects, with regular progress reporting to the executive to complement organic growth team and the Board.
through further good quality acquisitions.
Where necessary, enhancements have been made to the risk and control frameworks of acquired businesses to ensure these are aligned to those within the Any failure to integrate acquired wider Group.
businesses safely and effectively could impact adversely on the Similarly, where necessary experienced additional resource has been recruited to Groups financial performance and ensure that operational and risk management capabilities are suitably robust.
its reputation Change The increase in the Groups acquisition activity in the last year has inevitably led to a potential for greater risk in this area and this risk has been added in the year.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 153 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Credit Risk Customer risk Description Mitigation As a lender, a failure to target The Group has comprehensive policies in place that set out detailed criteria and underwrite lending effectively which must be met before loans are approved.
Credit policies incorporate limits could expose the Group to the for concentration risk arising from factors such as large exposures to particular risk of unexpected material losses counterparties, geographical areas or types of lending.
Exceptions to these policies in the event of customers being require approval by the Groups Credit Risk function, operating under a mandate unable to repay their debts.
Recoverable amounts on loans The Credit Risk function provides regular reports to the Credit Committee and Risk may also be affected by adverse and Compliance Committee on the performance of each of the Groups movements in security values such lending portfolios.
Originated loan assets are subject to individual underwriting approval with robust control and support provided by well-established decision tools, while purchased assets are subject to extensive pre-contract due diligence and rigorous ongoing analysis and monitoring.
The majority of the Groups loans by value are secured against residential property in England and Wales at conservative loan-to-value levels.
Rigorous and timely collections and arrears management processes are also in place.
These processes benefit from specialist staff, especially for buy-to-let mortgages, where the Groups receiver of rent experience and use of in-house property specialists enhance recoveries.
As indicated previously, the Group maintains a robust stress testing framework to assess its expected performance under a range of operating conditions, including falls in asset values and increases in interest rates.
This framework provides the Board with an informed understanding and appreciation of the Groups capacity to withstand shocks of varying severities.
Change The Groups impairment rate has remained very low, reflecting the maintenance of robust, proven credit disciplines, generally favourable economic conditions and the credit quality of its borrowers.
The potential for any credit deterioration following the referendum decision to leave the European Union is being monitored closely across all Group portfolios.
Currently no deterioration has been seen in actual performance, nor underlying customer profile.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are described in note 7 to the accounts.
PAGE 154 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Credit Risk Counterparty risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the The Group has a strictly controlled number of approved treasury counterparties.
failure of counterparties with In order to be approved, counterparties must meet specific credit rating criteria.
Exposure to these counterparties is monitored daily by senior management within the Groups Treasury function with all trading performed within approved limits.
In addition, it is exposed to the risk of loss in the event of the The credit quality of all treasury counterparties and the Groups exposure to them failure of a counterparty with is reported monthly to ALCO.
which it has negotiated hedging Treasury counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits agreements to mitigate interest and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, they must rate and foreign exchange risk.
comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Where a counterparty to the Groups cross currency basis swaps, which form its principal derivative exposures, fails to meet the required credit criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to set aside a cash collateral deposit.
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives are held solely for hedging purposes.
Change The credit quality of the treasury counterparties, with whom the Group transacts has been maintained, taking into account collateral arrangements.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 155 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Conduct Risk Customer fair outcomes Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk The Group has policies and oversight procedures addressing the fair treatment of that its financial performance and customers across all its portfolios.
These include: reputation could suffer significantly Conduct risk if it fails to deliver fair outcomes for customers.
Complaint handling Responsible lending Forbearance: and Vulnerable customer treatment Within its Consumer Lending area, a dedicated Quality and Control team monitors the activities of customer facing employees to validate the delivery of fair treatment for customers.
This area also has a dedicated Customer Support team that manages any customers deemed to be vulnerable until such time as a suitable, sustainable exit strategy has been agreed.
Controls in place include: All inbound and outbound calls are recorded with a sample of calls and correspondence reviewed each month Forbearance agreements are reviewed in order to ensure these are not extended to the detriment of the customers circumstances Embedded system controls restrict which areas of the business can action the accounts of customers identified as vulnerable The volume of customers disclosing sensitive information and the nature of their vulnerability is closely monitored via management information Accounts are monitored where customers have been requested to provide evidence to support their health issues to ensure such requests are appropriate Customers in financial difficulty are actively encouraged to obtain appropriate free independent advice from reputable, approved organisations such as StepChange Debt Charity and Payplan All employees are required to undertake conduct risk related training with those in consumer facing roles also receiving monthly focused training which is subject to performance testing.
The Group maintains a centralised complaint handling function for consumer loans to ensure complaints are dealt with in a consistent and efficient manner.
The ORCC has a remit which extends to overseeing the fair treatment of customers.
The Committee receives reports each month from selected business areas relating to customer treatment and complaint handling.
PAGE 156 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Groups Compliance function has a formal monitoring plan which is heavily focused on conduct risk and the fair treatment of customers, particularly those in financial difficulty.
The plan is reviewed by the Risk and Compliance Committee.
Management actions to address any adverse reports are overseen at both the ORCC and the Risk and Compliance Committee.
During the last year, various Group subsidiaries have made a number of successful applications for regulatory permissions in relation to Consumer and Mortgage lending.
These applications have included reviews of key customer-related policies and procedures.
Alongside the business-wide training noted above, this has served to enhance business areas focus on customer outcomes.
This has also been supported by strengthened second line review and reporting during the period.
Change The increasingly regulated nature of the Groups operations and the continuing changes to the regulatory conduct landscape heighten the potential risk of financial losses or censure.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 157 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operational Risk People risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk The Group manages and controls its key person dependency risk through effective that it is unable to recruit and succession planning, recruitment, development and retention strategies.
retain skilled senior management These include: and key personnel at all levels.
Undertaking formal succession planning reviews covering all key roles Failure to maintain the necessary skill base within its workforce Monitoring external remuneration and reward structures to ensure it remains could have a material impact competitive and is able to recruit and retain key personnel on the Groups ability to deliver its business plan and strategic Offering a range of employee benefits in addition to base salaries including objectives.
a defined contribution pension scheme, Sharesave Plan and an annual profit related performance scheme for most employees This is a particular risk in respect of key specialist and executive Having an effective performance appraisal system to identify and provide positions, where the institutional appropriate training and development opportunities for employees: and knowledge of the incumbents Providing regular internal training for all employees and financial support to would be hard to replicate in the employees undertaking relevant external professional qualifications short term.
The Group has been accredited under the Investors in People scheme since 1997 and achieved Champion status in May 2014.
This is awarded to a very small proportion of accredited organisations who are seen as pioneers in people management practices and role models in strategic leadership.
Change During the last year, a generally improving employment market and buoyant demand for skilled financial services employees has undoubtedly resulted in increasing competition to recruit and retain employees.
However, the Group remains confident in its ability to manage this risk successfully as evidenced by the results of an employee survey during the year which indicated an 86% engagement level.
This level is above the average for the financial services sector.
The development of formal succession planning for senior roles has also helped to mitigate the Groups key person exposure in respect of certain executive personnel.
PAGE 158 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operational Risk Systems risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the During the course of the year, the Group has strengthened its capabilities in risk that its IT infrastructure and relation to its information technology infrastructure management, including the systems are unable to support its appointment of an experienced external IT Director.
operational needs and fail to offer The Group has a formally agreed IT Strategy which ensures that priority is given adequate protection against the to those areas which are most critical to the delivery of the Groups strategy and threat of cyber-crime.
These include the provision of management information to enable Failure in these systems, either business heads to exercise effective control of key operational risks.
The Group in terms of capacity or security, also employs a robust vendor management process to select and monitor third could result in detriment to party IT suppliers.
customers, regulatory censure The Group maintains an ongoing programme of investment in IT infrastructure and and reputational damage, all of systems.
This includes investment in security solutions to counteract cyber security which could materially impact threats.
There is also continued focus on the information security management income and profitability.
system to ensure that controls, testing and user awareness is maintained and This also includes the risk that improved.
The Group is currently certified to ISO 27001 Information Security the Groups key outsourcing Management.
As part of this, a significant investment was made to enhance the arrangements with third parties Groups controls regarding data loss during the last year.
could expose it to material loss or Change programmes are closely managed with robust control and testing reputational damage.
processes to ensure that system developments meet operational requirements and are effectively implemented.
In order to ensure it can deal effectively with unexpected operational disruptions, the Group has a well-established Business Continuity plan which is updated and tested regularly.
The Group is currently certified to ISO 22301 Business Continuity.
The Group has added resource in the Risk and Internal Audit areas to ensure its second and third line review processes have the capability to properly address these issues.
Before the Group outsources any key activities to a third party, it undertakes robust due diligence on them and ongoing performance and customer outcome monitoring thereafter.
The Group only outsources activities under formal contractual arrangements which clearly set out the rights and obligations of both parties.
Change Whilst the Group continues to maintain a robust and secure IT infrastructure that supports its operational needs, the level and sophistication of cyber-crime continues to increase, heightening the risk of an impact on its business model and strategic objectives.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 159 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operational Risk Regulatory risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk The Group has Risk and Compliance and Legal teams who review key regulatory that its financial performance and legal developments to assess the impact on the Groups operations.
These and reputation could suffer teams then work with business areas to provide advice on the implementation of significantly if it fails to identify, appropriate measures to meet identified requirements.
Expert third party advice is interpret and comply with relevant also sought where necessary.
Major regulatory or legal change initiatives are subject to formal change governance The customers and market with progress reporting to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
sectors to which the Group The Compliance function has developed a formal monitoring plan which is reviewed supplies products, and the capital by the ORCC and the Risk and Compliance Committee to ensure that regulatory markets from which it obtains requirements have been satisfactorily embedded.
much of its funding, have been subject to increasing legislative Similarly, the Groups Financial Crime function provides independent oversight of and regulatory intervention over business areas adherence to anti-money laundering and financial recent years.
Many of the Groups own business All employees are required to undertake regulatory training and testing to ensure activities are now also subject appropriate levels of competence are maintained.
to direct and increasing levels of regulation.
This is increasingly During the last year a number of group companies submitted successful applications significant given the greater levels for permissions under the FCAs Consumer Credit and Mortgage regimes.
of business being undertaken through Paragon Bank.
Change The increasingly regulated nature of the Groups operations heightens the potential risk of financial losses or censure as a result of a failure to comply with current regulations or to respond effectively to new and emerging regulations.
PAGE 160 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Liquidity and Capital Risk Funding risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the Comprehensive treasury policies are in place for both the Group and the Bank to risk that increases in the cost ensure sufficient liquid assets are maintained and that all financial obligations can be or reductions in the availability met as they fall due.
of funding could adversely The Group has a dedicated Treasury function which is responsible for the day-to-day impact its business model and management of its overall liquidity and wholesale funding arrangements.
The Group relies on its access to various The Board, through the delegated authority provided to the ALCO, sets strict limits as sources of funding to finance to the level, composition and maturity of liquidity arrangements.
the origination of new business, portfolio acquisitions and working Compliance with the approved limits is monitored daily.
If access to funding information is reported monthly to ALCO in order to ensure that the Group can became restricted, either through maintain adequate liquidity even under stressed conditions.
market movements or regulatory The Group maintains a diversified range of both retail and wholesale medium and changes, this might result in the long-term funding sources to cover future business requirements and liquidity to scaling back or cessation of some cover shorter term funding needs.
The Group uses securitisation to mitigate its exposure to liquidity risk on its Paragon Bank relies on retail borrowings, ensuring, as far as possible, that the maturities of assets and liabilities deposits and therefore changes are matched.
in market liquidity could impact the ability of the business to The Company has a BBBinvestment grade credit rating from Fitch to support maintain the level of liquidity maintenance of its access to funding markets.
required to sustain normal business activity.
In addition, Paragon Bank is authorised to accept deposits.
As such it is subject to regulation by there is a risk that the Group the PRA, which aims to ensure that sufficient liquid assets are held to mitigate the could face sudden, unexpected liquidity risk inherent in deposit taking.
and large cash outflows from customer withdrawals.
Change Whilst wholesale funding markets have tightened somewhat during the financial year, the Group remains well funded with sufficient liquidity to meet all its financial obligations as they fall due.
It is also well placed to access further funding if required.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 161 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Liquidity and Capital Risk Capital risk Description Mitigation The major part of the Groups In order to further enhance its existing robust credit management capabilities and lending portfolio is secured on to mitigate the risks of the proposed BCBS changes, the Group has taken a strategic residential property.
Proposals decision to seek the necessary regulatory approval to implement an IRB approach made by the BCBS regarding for credit risk.
potential changes from 2021 In support of this, the Group has recently appointed an experienced Director of IRB to the minimum capital to lead this initiative and plans are now progressing to map out the approval and requirements for lending secured implementation route.
on such assets could have a material impact on the Group.
The programme of work will cover all relevant areas including data integrity, the development of compliant models, training and development, governance and use If the BCBS proposals are tests.
It is anticipated that work already completed in relation to IFRS 9 changes will implemented as currently allow for accelerated development of initial IRB models.
outlined, the Group would be particularly affected by changes to risk weights for residential real estate exposures where repayment is materially dependant on cash flows generated by property, such as buy-to-let lending.
In anticipation of these potential developments, the Group is already actively engaged in progressing mitigating actions.
Change The Groups exposure to this risk has remained broadly consistent during the financial year with feedback on the BCBS proposals not expected until 2017.
Further information on the Groups management of capital risk is given in note 6 to the accounts.
PAGE 162 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Market Risk Interest rate risk Description Mitigation The Group is exposed to the risk Comprehensive treasury policies are in place to ensure that the risk posed by that changes in interest rates may changes and mismatches in interest rates is effectively managed.
adversely affect its net income The Group manages this risk outside the Bank by maintaining floating rate and profitability.
In particular, the liabilities and matching these with floating rate assets, by hedging fixed rate assets Groups profitability is determined and liabilities using interest rate swap or cap agreements and by maintaining a by the difference between the proportion of fixed rate liabilities.
interest rates at which it lends and those at which it borrows.
The Group has a dedicated Treasury function which is responsible for the day-toChanges in market interest rates day management and control of its exposure to interest rate risk.
could therefore materially impact the Groups profits as a result of ALCO monitors the interest rate risk exposure on the Groups loan assets and significant mismatches between asset backed loan notes on a monthly basis.
This ensures compliance with the its assets and liabilities.
requirements of the trustees in respect of the Groups securitisations and the terms of other borrowings, as well as adherence to internal policies.
Paragon Bank has its own Treasury Policy and ALCO which focuses on the risks within the Bank, including the retail deposit position.
Notwithstanding this, the Group ALCO maintains oversight of market risk across the whole Group.
Paragon Banks retail deposits either bear variable interest rates or are fixed rate liabilities which are hedged in accordance with the Groups interest risk management strategy.
The Group has no direct exposure to market interest rate risk.
Change The Groups interest risk exposure profile, relative to its balance sheet and its approach to managing the risks inherent in it have remained broadly similar through the period and therefore associated risk levels remain generally stable compared to previous periods.
Further information regarding the Groups management of interest rate risk is given in note 7 to the accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 163 2016 Annual Report and Accounts Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Pension Obligation Risk Pension obligation risk Description Mitigation The Group operates both a The defined benefit scheme was closed to new members with effect from February defined benefit and defined 2002.
Since that time, new employees have been invited to join the Groups defined contribution pension scheme in contribution pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk for the UK.
There is a risk that the the Group.
Groups pension liabilities may The defined benefit scheme is formally valued independently by the Plan actuary be adversely affected by a range every three years, most recently as at 31 March 2013.
At that time the deficit, of factors including bond yields, agreed by the Trustee was 15.0 million and a recovery plan was agreed between inflation rates, interest rates, the Trustee and the Group, whereby the Group undertook to fund the deficit to changes to pension regulations meet the statutory funding objective by 31 August 2019. and demographic factors.
A new valuation process, as at 31 March 2016 has commenced, but has not yet been completed.
The valuation of the deficit on an IAS 19 accounting basis by the Groups actuarial advisers at that date showed a deficit of 24.0 million.
Once the valuation has been completed discussions will take place between the Trustee and the Group to agree a new deficit reduction plan.
Change During the last year, changes in bond yields, equity prices, interest rates, mortality assumptions and inflation rates have all impacted on the Groups exposure in relation to its pension obligations.
PAGE 164 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
