Operational Risk and Compliance Committee ORCC The Operational Risk and Compliance Committee comprises heads of relevant functions and is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups operational risk management and compliance systems, ensuring that the business is operating within its risk appetite.
It considers key operational risk information such as loss events, control failures and emerging risks.
With respect to compliance, the Committee is responsible for overseeing the maintenance of effective systems and controls to meet regulatory and conduct obligations and for countering the risk that the Group might be used to further financial crime.
It is also responsible for reviewing the quality, adequacy, resources, scope and nature of the work of the Group Compliance function, including the annual Compliance Monitoring Plan.
The Committee also considers business risks and their potential to impact the delivery of the Groups objectives.
B6.3 Risk Management Culture The Board is committed to maintaining an effective risk management framework that is consistent and commensurate with the nature, complexity and risk profile of the business and is responsive to both internal and external events.
The Group is an inherently risk-averse organisation which is expressed through the culture promoted by the Board and senior management.
This has resulted in historically low levels of credit and operational losses and the absence of any material conduct issues affecting customers.
The Group aims to help its customers by offering financial options which meet individual needs and achieve fair customer outcomes in a well-controlled environment.
The following risk principles are designed to support and protect the Groups strategic goals: Risk management is used to protect the Groups customers, shareholders, creditors and its reputation The fair treatment of customers and the delivery of fair outcomes, particularly for those customers considered to be vulnerable, is central to the Groups risk management approach The Group encourages a risk culture that has robust risk management at the heart of all decision-making within an open and transparent environment The Group only carries out business where the potential risk to itself and its customers has been considered together with the potential reward and where the residual risk exposure is within its defined risk appetite The Group utilises appropriate risk management processes to ensure that risks are identified, assessed, prioritised and managed in a consistent way Appropriate, timely and accurate risk management information is maintained and developed to support business decisions and to ensure the Group operates within its agreed risk appetite An independent Risk and Compliance function provides an effective second line oversight capability together with a source of specialist support and advice for business areas in relation to the management of risk.
PAGE 144 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Corporate Governance 2016 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
