Risks and uncertainties PayPoints business, financial condition or operations could be materially and adversely affected by the risks summarised below.
Although management takes steps to mitigate risks where possible or where the cost of doing so is reasonable in relation to the probability and seriousness of the risk, it may not be possible to avoid the crystallisation of some or all of such risks.
The groups risk management policies and procedures are also discussed in the governance statement on page 34.
Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Loss or inappropriate The groups business requires the appropriate The group has established rigorous cyber usage of data and secure use of consumer and other security, anti-fraud and whistleblowing sensitive information.
Mobile telephone and standards, procedures, and recruitment and internet-based electronic commerce requires training schemes, which are embedded the secure transmission of confidential throughout its business operations.
The group information over public networks, and several also screens new employees carefully.
of our products are accessed through the Continued investments are made in cyber internet.
Fraudulent activity, cyber-crime or security infrastructure, including the security breaches in connection with significant use of data and communications maintaining data and the delivery of our encryption technology, improvements in e-mail products and services could harm our and web filtering and the introduction of reputation, business and operating results.
enhanced data leakage prevention tools.
We have also developed plans as to how we would respond to a breach of security.
Dependence upon third The groups business model is dependent upon The group selects and negotiates agreements parties to provide data third parties to provide operational services, with strategic suppliers and agents based on and certain operational the loss of which could significantly impact the criteria such as delivery assurance and services quality of our services.
Similarly, if one of our reliability.
Single points of failure are avoided, outsource providers, including third parties where practicable and economically feasible.
with whom we have strategic relationships, Controls are regularly reviewed and improved were to experience financial or operational to minimise risk of retailer churn caused by difficulties, their services to us would suffer or financial loss to retailers through fraudulent they may no longer be able to provide services third party activity.
to us at all, significantly impacting delivery of our products or services.
Exposure to legislation or The group is largely unregulated by financial The groups legal department works closely regulatory reforms and risk services regulators although in the UK we have with senior management to adopt strategies of non-compliance Payment Institution status, through PayPoint to educate legislature, regulators, consumer Payment Services Limited for prefunded cash and privacy advocates and other stakeholders payments to consumers.
The groups agents to support the public policy debate, where which offer money transfer on behalf of third appropriate, to ensure regulation does not party clients are licensed as Money Service have unintended consequences over the Businesses by HMRC.
Our Mobile business is groups services.
The group has in place subject to Payment Card Industry Data a business ethics policy which requires Security Standards regulated by the card compliance with local legislation in all schemes.
Regulatory reform could increase the the territories in which the group operates.
cost of the groups operations or deny access A central compliance department to certain territories in the provision of certain co-ordinates all compliance monitoring and services.
Non-compliance with law, regulation, reporting.
Subsidiary managing and finance privacy or information security laws could have directors are required to sign annual serious implications in cost and reputational compliance statements.
16 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Interruptions in business The groups ability to provide reliable services Comprehensive business continuity plans and incident management programmes are processes or systems largely depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer maintained to minimise business and operational disruptions, including fraudulent network systems, financial settlement systems, data and call centres, as well as activity, system failure or pandemic incidents.
System or Support arrangements have been established network interruptions, recovery from fraud or with third party vendors and there are strict security incidents or the unavailability of key standards, procedures and training schemes staff or management resulting from a for business continuity.
pandemic outbreak could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue.
The ability of the group to meet the demands of Effective recruitment programmes are on-going Dependence on recruitment and the market and compete effectively is, to a large across all business areas, as well as personal and extent, dependent on the skills, experience and career development initiatives.
The executive retention of highly skilled personnel performance of its personnel.
Demand is high management reviews talent potential twice a for individuals with appropriate knowledge and year and retention plans are put in place for experience in payments, IT and support individuals identified at risk of leaving.
The inability to attract, motivate or Compensation and benefits programmes are retain key talent could have a serious competitive and also reviewed regularly.
consequence on the groups ability to service client commitments and grow our business.
Technology change may There are rapid changes in technology in the IT development resource is directed at a group payments industry including the development level and developments are in hand to ensure render products obsolete of new payment methods, particularly on the group has relevant products in place to smart phones and tablets, but also as a meet the demands brought about by changing consequence of technology changes in other technology.
For smart meters, a multi-channel areas e. g. smart meters, which will replace the product has been developed and launched.
use of the energy keys and gas cards currently used to pay for prepaid energy.
Such changes may render current and new products, such as the PayPoint One new terminal currently being rolled out, and services obsolete.
Exposure to materially The group contracts with a number of large The group seeks to limit exposure in its contracts.
Mitigating actions are taken where adverse litigation service organisations for which it provides services essential to their customers.
Failure to contractual exposures are above the norm, including insurance coverage, where perform in accordance with contractual terms could give rise to litigation.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 17 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Exposure to country and The groups geographic footprint subjects its The groups portfolio is diversified by regional risk political, businesses to economic, political and other geography, by product, by sector and by client financial, economic, social risks associated with international sales and in order to protect itself against many of these in North America, United operations.
A variety of factors, including fluctuations, especially those that are Kingdom, Romania, France changes in a specific countrys or regions restricted to individual territories and market and Ireland political, economic or regulatory requirements, sectors, although the bulk of its operations as well as the potential for geopolitical turmoil, and revenues are UK based.
including terrorism and war, could result in loss of services, prevent our ability to respond to agreed service levels or fulfil other obligations.
These risks are generally outside the control of the group.
Exposure to consolidation Consolidation of retailers and clients could No single client accounts for more than 6.0% of among clients and markets result in reductions in the groups revenue and the groups net revenue, and no single retailer profits through price compression from accounts for more than 4.7% of the groups net combined service agreements or through a revenue, which reduces the probability of this reduced number of clients.
potential risk having a significant impact on the groups business.
In addition, the group continues to expand its developing businesses, and in CashOut reversing the flow of money through its retail networks.
Acquisitions may not meet The groups acquisitions, strategic alliances and The group assesses all acquisitions rigorously, expectations joint ventures may result in financial outcomes using both in-house experts and professional that are different than expected.
In addition, the group conducts proceeds from the proposed sale of the mobile regular reviews to monitor performance.
payments business may not exceed its carrying value.
As a consequence of a proposal by Yodel, our joint venture partner in Collect, to increase its charges to the joint venture we are in discussions over the future of the joint venture.
Exposure to the As the group operates on an international The groups financial risk management seeks to unpredictability of financial basis, it is exposed to the risk of currency minimise potentially adverse effects on the markets foreign exchange, fluctuations and the unpredictability of groups financial performance.
interest rate and other financial markets in which it operates.
financial risks 18 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk area Potential impact Mitigation strategies Exposure to increasing The group operates in a number of geographic, The group is committed to continued research competition product and service markets that are highly and investment in new data sources, people, competitive and subject to technological technology and products to support its developments for example the introduction of strategic plan.
smart meters and new payment solutions.
Competitors may develop products and services that are superior to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services, which could result in the loss of clients, merchants and retailers or a reduction in revenue.
Loss or infringement of The groups success depends, in part, upon The group, where appropriate and feasible, relies intellectual property proprietary technology and related intellectual upon a combination of patent, copyright, rights property rights.
Some protection can be trademark and trade secret laws, as well as achieved but in many cases, little protection various contractual restrictions, to protect our can be secured.
Third parties may claim that proprietary technology and continues to the group is infringing their intellectual monitor this situation.
The group also vigorously property rights or our intellectual property defends all third party infringement claims.
rights could be infringed by third parties.
If we do not enforce or defend the groups intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results.
Data centre security The group is highly dependent on information The groups data centres are protected against breaches technology networks and systems to physical break-ins.
The group has strict process, transmit and store electronic standards and procedures for security and information.
Fraudulent or unauthorised fraud prevention.
access, including security breaches of our data centres, could create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorised disclosure of confidential information.
