General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officers introduction to Risk management Putting risk management at the heart of our culture 2016 was a year of significant progress for Paysafe.
Enhancing our risk framework We completed the integration of Skrill ahead of schedule.
Weacquired MeritCard in February and Income Access in August.
We also commenced substantial investment in the development of a new and scalable platform technology and product suite.
Faced with so many major developments, asoutlined in last years Annual Report, the Board commissioned a comprehensive review of the Groups governance structure and an enhancement of the Enterprise Risk Management ERM processes.
The implementation of this review and these enhancements continued throughout 2016 and included the introduction offunctional Executive Committees aligned to the new Group structure, and further investment in risk management tools and internal resources, including hiring a number of senior risk management experts alongside additions to our risk and compliance teams based in Sofia.
The review cumulated in a comprehensive analysis of the Groups risk universe and key risks.
The output of this review was communicated to all areas of the business through meetings and workshops Elliott Wiseman facilitated by senior members of the Enterprise Risk function.
General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer Throughout 2016, weve also been focused on embedding astrong culture of risk-awareness throughout the business.
Putting risk management at the heart of our culture, supported by our company values, allows us to take aniche-oriented approach to market opportunities, select themost strategic, bold M&A and build the most relevant expertise in our people.
In short, rather than looking at risk negatively we aim to use it pro-actively to drive and inform the right decisions across the business.
By taking steps to identify the risks that might affect our business, we put ourselves in the strongest position to deal with them if they emerge.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 48 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION This process also helps us understand the key areas in which the EU might impact those passporting rights.
We have we need to invest to prepare for the future and ultimately however already evaluated a number of European supports our strategic pillar of sustainable, organic growth.
jurisdictions in which to obtain additional e-money licences and plan to have appropriate additional licensing in place As the business has grown, we have worked hard to build an well in advance of any potential change to those approach to risk that supports and encourages that growth.
Weve successfully laid the groundwork as well as planning for the improvements well continue to make in 2017.
One of The General Data Protection Regulation GDPR is expected to those improvements is the introduction of a Board-level Risk come into force in the UK in May 2018 and it will increase data Oversight Committee alongside our Audit, Remuneration and privacy compliance requirements for all EU businesses and Nomination Committees.
This Committee will ensure, on increase the penalties for non-compliance.
As with the other behalf of the Paysafe Board, that business risks are identified, regulatory changes we face, we are making sure we are well assessed, managed and monitored across the Groups prepared.
We are working through a programme of readiness businesses and functional areas.
assessments in relation to GDPR requirements which will include making any necessary changes to our policies and Managing regulatory change procedures.
We operate in a highly regulated environment where there For 2017, our goal is to carefully manage our risks and the iscontinual change and uncertainty in the legislative changing regulatory environment, but also ensure that we framework.
We believe we are well positioned to respond have the right tools and processes so that all staff can share tothese types of ongoing changes given the significant ownership of the risk management process.
As such, we will geographic diversity of our merchants, consumers and keep developing our approach to risk and regulatory operations together with the support of our strong internal management, at an enterprise level, in a way which is compliance and monitoring teams and ongoing periodic appropriate to the scale of Paysafe today, and which will help advice and reviews by external legal counsel.
facilitate and sustain Paysafes growth in the future.
As an example of such change, new EU-wide anti-money laundering legislation is expected to come into force Elliott Wiseman thisyearwhich is likely to increase requirements for General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer know-your-customer checks in our wallet and prepaid businesses.
Paysafe already performs customer due diligence checks onmore Digital Wallets customers than required pursuant tocurrent regulatory thresholds, and weve been investing inrisk, compliance, technology and product to Our goal is to carefully manage our risks and the ensure we are well prepared in advance of these changes.
changing regulatory environment, but also Another example is the uncertainty that has followed the ensure that we have the right tools and processes result of the UK referendum on membership of the European so that all staff can share ownership of the risk Union.
For parts of our business, we rely on the ability to passport our FCA licences through Europe and the UK leaving management process.
