Risk management Effective risk management is critical to achieving our objectives.
It involves identifying and managing risk with the consumer and merchant in mind, and providing opportunities for them to trade safely across an increasing number of geographies.
It therefore also allows the Group to continue to grow in Risk ownership asustainable manner.
To realise this vision, the Board must The Board firmly believes that risk management is the beable to understand and properly manage our inherent responsibility of every Paysafe employee.
This message risks and its this fundamental principle which underwrites hasbeen communicated throughout the Group in policy the design of our Enterprise Risk Management Framework disclosures and internal staff communications channels ERMF.
Specifically, the business unit and Shared Services Executives represent the first line of defence Enterprise Risk Management Framework and are required to take an active part in managing the risks We view the ERMF as a continuous cycle of risk management relating to their area.
activities, as depicted in the diagram on the following page.
Risk appetite The purpose of the ERMF is not only to identify risk but, Paysafes risk appetite is defined by the Board.
The Board more importantly, to facilitate better business decisions.
takes a balanced approach to determining acceptable levels Bydiscussing risk at governance and business team of risk, and, broadly speaking, the Group will only tolerate meetings, by involving the business people in the writing of risks which permit it to: policy documents and by asking management to factor it into - Achieve its stated strategic business objectives all decisions, consideration of risk is built into the - Provide a return that meets or exceeds expectations decision-making process.
- Conduct its business in a safe and sound manner.
We describe below the components of the ERMF in more detail.
Every year, the Board reviews the Groups aggregate risk Risk universe appetite.
It does so for all principal risks, considering the Defining our risk universe and categorising our risks is clearly Groups performance objectives in various external a critical step to understanding our exposure.
is ever-changing, so the categorisation is regularly reviewed.
Paysafe Groups risk appetite: A robust re-assessment of the Groups risk universe was 1. articulates the level of risk we are willing to take and completed in H2 2016.
Those risks were incorporated into the explains why, to enable specific risk-taking activities: revised ERMF and assessed and prioritised with responsibility 2. articulates those risks we seek to avoid and explains why, assigned to an executive for monitoring and risk mitigation.
to constrain specific risk-taking activities: 3. considers all principal key risks both individually and, Risk identification where appropriate, in aggregate: Business units each have a risk owner who sits within the 4. consistently communicates the acceptable level of risk for business unit and has appropriate authority at a business each risk category which may be expressed in financial or unit level, and an executive risk owner who is aligned to the non-financial terms, but must enable measurement and business unit and who has accountability and authority for effective monitoring: ensuring that the risk is appropriately managed.
5. describes agreed parameters for Group performance under Risks are described by risk owners and they are responsible varying levels of financial stress with respect to profitability, for identifying the concerns and the consequences.
This loss and return metrics: allows the Group to assess the interaction of risks and 6. is embedded in key decision-making processes including potential triggering events and aggregated impacts before business planning, mergers and acquisitions, new product developing appropriate mitigation strategies to target causes approvals and business change initiatives.
and consequences within agreed timelines.
Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 50 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Risk universe Continuous Risk risk identification assessment Risk Risk reporting ownership Risk Risk policies appetite Risk reporting continues to monitor the risk, the controls and the risk Irrespective of whether risk reporting is focused at the landscape.
This ensures that the risk score stays in line with strategic or business level, the Group uses the same risk managements tolerance.
Where management assesses that impact and likelihood matrix to quantify and categorise risk.
the current risk score is too high, then a plan will be drawn This ensures consistency in the aggregation of risk across the upwith the objective of introducing stronger controls Group and in the reporting of key risks, and allows an competent to reduce the impact and or likelihood of the risk.
integrated as opposed to business level view of risk The risk owner will normally be the individual tasked with ensuring that this action plan is implemented within reporting across the Group: standardisation of reporting anagreed timetable.
templates e. g. heatmaps and risk language: and linkage toour strategic pillars.
Continuous risk assessment by the risk owners and Enterprise Risk team, combined with close cooperation around risk Continuous risk assessment management actions for the businesses, will ensure that the Risks are first assessed from an inherent risk perspective.
ERMF functions effectively and will reduce or eliminate the Theinherent risk is the worst-case scenario: the product most significant identified weaknesses.
This ensures a ofthe possible impact and the likelihood of the risk consistency of approach in assessing risk scores, clearer materialising assuming no controls against it.
The main identification of controls currently in place as well as any benefit of assessing the inherent risk is that it highlights the action plans to introduce further controls and will ensure that potential risk exposure if controls were to fail completely risk identification is considered for each of the risk categories.
The business then assesses the controls currently in place.
Risk management Consideration of existing controls enables the current or The Board has overall responsibility for managing all the residual risk score to be assessed and how the current major risks affecting the Group.
In each area, the Board is residual risk score is expected to impact the business, given supported by members of the executive management team, existing controls.
The benefit of assessing the current residual respective Executive Committees and other managers with risk score is that it provides an understanding of the actual key functional responsibilities.
Risk owners within business current level of risk facing the Group today and it reveals the units are accountable for the monitoring, adherence to and scale of the reliance on existing controls.
progress of mitigating actions, timelines and plans.
The Audit Committee takes principal responsibility for the When management is comfortable with the current residual oversight of risk management at Paysafe on behalf of the risk score, the risk is accepted and no further action is Board.
The new Risk Oversight Committee will inherit required.
The controls are kept in place, and management responsibility for that from the Audit Committee in 2017. www.
com 51 Risk management continued General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, the Chief Risk Governance of risks Officer and Head of Internal Audit.
This committee is tasked with evaluating ongoing issues posing risks to the Group Paysafe Board andensuring that mitigating action is being taken Direct & assure whereappropriate.
- Overall responsibility for risk management The Data Security and Governance Committee comprises - Determine strategic approach to risk senior executives including the Chief Information Officer, the - Approve risk policy including risk appetite and set tone at the top Chief Technology Officer and the Group Data Privacy Officer.
- Agree how principal risks are managed, mitigated and monitored This committee is tasked with evaluating the risks and - Review the effectiveness of the risk management system overseeing the actions relating to the prevention of cybercrime and protection of data and is particularly focused on the impact on Paysafe of the implementation of the Audit Committee General Data Protection Regulation in May 2018. Review & communicate The Credit Risk Management Committee comprises senior - Formulate risk strategy - Providing challenge on the executives including the Chief Financial Officer, Chief and policy risks identified Operating Officer and heads of financial risk within the - Delegated authority from - Assessing the effectiveness business units.
The committee is tasked with overseeing the Board of the control framework merchant credit risk activities, industry and scheme - Articulating Paysafe Groups - Ensure effective monitoring merchant compliance issues, setting the Groups credit risk risk appetite - Embed risk within business appetite, and monitoring key risk indicators.
- Summarising & reviewing planning the overall risk profile of Three lines of defence Paysafe Group Although the Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for risk management, we expect every employee of Paysafe Executive Committees Group to take the management of risk seriously.
We expect Review, challenge & approve allour staff to display integrity and honesty and to exhibit technical and professional expertise.
These values are - Enterprise Risk Management - Data security and reinforced by regular training in risk and compliance issues.
governance - Inside information disclosure Within the risk management governance structure, the Group - Regulatory committee - Policy management operates the following three lines of defence model which - Credit risk management clearly identifies accountabilities and responsibilities for risk.
Under this model, line management has primary responsibility for the management of risk and represents the Group risk team First Line of Defence.
Support & report The Second Line of Defence is provided by Risk, Legal, Compliance, Group Tax and certain designated teams in Finance Financial Reporting.
These functions assist Business units & functions management in providing assistance and independent Identify & assess challenge to the business units which is under the guidance - Understand key risks - Manage and monitor risks of the Audit Committee and the Executive ERM Committee.
- Review key risks and - Report on risk status The Risk Oversight Committee will take over this role from the mitigation Audit Committee in 2017.
A robust and independent Internal Audit function provides Business risk champion community the Third Line of Defence and independent assurance to the Audit Committee through regular reviews of the effectiveness and efficiency of the risk management process and the risk The principal Executive Committees tasked with managing management framework.
Internal Audit will also provide risk are the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, the assurance to the new Risk Oversight Committee in 2017. Credit Risk Management Committee and the Data Security and Governance Committee.
The Board exercises its obligations in managing risk through the Audit Committee.
This will change to the Risk Oversight The Enterprise Risk Management Committee comprises Committee in 2017. senior executives including the Chief Operating Officer, the Paysafe Group plc | Annual Report 2016 52 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION Paysafe Board Audit Committee Governing Bodies Senior management Executive ERM Committee 1st line of defence 3rd line of defence 2nd line of defence - Identify and report current and - Review framework application - Design governance, risk and control new risks objectively framework - Manage and monitor risk within - Internal Audit reviews - Operational loss reporting reviews agreed risk appetite - Risk function reviews - Action plan monitoring - Documentation of control - Ensure effectiveness - Review of policies procedures improvements ofmonitoring assurance thematic exercises - Risk status reporting - Risk and control assurance - Provide timely, balanced - Operational risk loss reporting information Control of risks Confirmation of controls Strategic overview of controls Operating functions Internal Audit Control functions Frontline business units daily Risk, Compliance, Legal, Group Tax and operational activities certain designated teams in Finance Financial Reporting Key risks Inherent risks Cyber security Regulatory 2 2 Strategic 1 1 8 8 4 Operational 5 3 10 11 11 4 Active risks 3 10 7 Rank Risk 6 5 Data security 7 1.
10. Credit risk Low Probability High Competitive environment and product innovation 11.
Current risk position 2015 risk position Current risk position This shows the current level of risk after taking This shows the 2015 level of risk after taking into account the controls that are in place and into account the controls that were in place 2015 risk position which are operating as intended.
and which were operating as intended.
com 53 Low Impact High Functional alignment Outcomes Key activities
