44 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk management Our ERM framework has been developed Foundations Pearson has a structured enterprise to be aligned with international standards risk management ERM framework to Risk foundations cover all the elements COSO and ISO 31000 and it aids our support the identi cation and e ective which underpin successful ERM and risk compliance with the Financial Reporting management more broadly, across Pearson.
management of risks across Pearson.
Councils FRC UK Corporate Governance It covers risk governance and oversight, Code guidance on risk management.
The goal of our risk management approach policy, the risk framework itself and the continues to be to support Pearson in risk management process, roles and Our journey meeting its strategic and operational responsibilities, risk appetite and our objectives, as set out in the chief executives At the end of 2014, we completed a review approach to working with third parties.
overview on p69, by ensuring that key of our risk management maturity in the Governance, roles and responsibilities business risks are identi ed, assessed and following key areas of our framework mitigated.
against the revised 2014 UK Corporate The board, assisted by the assurance the Governance Code: foundations, managing audit committee provides, oversees the A discussion of the principal risks facing risk, culture and working with third parties.
ERM framework, validates the target risk Pearson and mitigating factors can be found We set maturity targets and made appetite for each key risk, monitors risk on p4755 below.
Our aim is to manage improvements towards meeting those in status and mitigation plans and veri es the risks, understanding that many risks are 2015.
Our approach in 2016 remained viability statement process.
Day-to-day external in nature and cannot therefore be consistent with the prior year in that we enterprise risk management is undertaken fully controlled.
continued to further develop and embed by a dedicated ERM team, accountable to the risk management framework, the board and audit committee.
Our risk management framework supported by the board and the For a list of the responsibilities of each, The diagram below, How we manage risk, audit committee.
see p76 in the governance section.
shows our approach to risk management We reassessed our risk management across Pearson and is being used not only to maturity against the targets we set identify, assess and mitigate risk, but also ourselves and also set further targets for to support our e orts to embed risk 2017, with plans in place to achieve these.
management best practice approaches across all levels of the business.
How we manage risk Our risk management framework is used to assess and drive consistent improvements in risk management across Pearson.
Foundations Managing Culture Risk Risk context Governance and oversight Communication Policy, framework, Training, education processes and tools Risk and awareness Risk Roles and assessment monitoring Reporting Embedding in responsibilities identify, analyse, and review decision-making evaluate Appetite and Continuous tolerance improvement Working with third-parties Risk treatment Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 45 Policy and process much action as we are able to try to avoid global supply chains as well as customer, and eliminate risk are those where we are consumer and investor expectations.
An ERM policy, along with the risk complying with applicable laws such as The same core risk process applies: identify framework and supporting guidance, anti-bribery and corruption or the safety and prioritise, assess, mitigate and monitor.
remained in place throughout 2016. and security of learners.
For strategic risks, In 2016, we set up a cross-Pearson Group The policy outlines our commitments such as business transformation and to better coordinate our approach to to managing risk in accordance with change, these are opportunities as well managing the risks associated with third international standards such as ISO as risks and we recognise the need to take parties, ensure improved consistency and 31000:2009, the COSO Framework and FRCs well-informed and well-managed risks in raise awareness.
UK Corporate Governance Code guidance order to achieve our strategic goals.
To meet our Managing risk commitments, all employees are required Pearsons leadership team sets the risk to be responsible and accountable for Risk context appetite and target for each key companymanaging risk as reasonably practical within wide risk, as well as for risks in their The risk context sets the criteria against their area of responsibility.
Early in the year, which the risks are assessed.
It fide fines the are considered a minimum requirement and these targets were reassessed against external and internal parameters to be individual Pearson entities can tailor these, the current risk rating by the executive risk taken into account when identifying and provided they do not con ict with the policy.
owner, then validated by the audit assessing risk, as well as the scope of the committee and the Pearson board.
risk management process described earlier The e ectiveness of the risk management in this section.
process is assessed yearly in the annual Risk appetite targets form the baseline e ectiveness review, covered in more detail against which risk assessments are The risk management policy, framework on p76 in the governance section.
performed and risk monitoring takes place, and supporting guidance includes a guide as well as support decision-making to risk assessment, how to determine risk Risk appetite regarding risk treatment outlined in more probability and assess impact as well as Risk appetite is fide ned as the degree of risk detail under Managing risk.
instructions on how to translate these into the board is prepared to accept in order for an overall risk rating.
Adaptations of these Pearson to achieve its strategy and goals Third parties matrices, tailored for a speci c business and helps determine the level of mitigation Managing the risks associated with third area, are in use and align with those in and or contingency plans put in place to parties is a key element of the ERM Pearsons ERM policy.
Examples of risks where we framework.
Drivers include outsourcing, have a very low risk appetite and take as franchising, legal and regulatory focus, Risk in action case study Pearson Test of English PTE How risk management adds value to strategic and day-to-day business decision making Risk treatment A high-level summary of the risks and mitigation Following recent rapid growth of plans formed part of a strategic paper for the PTE, one of our successful global Identi ed risks were rated in terms of their Pearson executive to make better informed impact on the business in order to support products, further work was needed decisions on the future strategic direction of their prioritisation and recommended courses and related investment in PTE.
to prevent any risks associated with of action were divided into two categories: future delivery, in order to ensure Risk monitoring Compliance risks potential areas that needed that quality was maintained and to be tackled in order to ensure ongoing secure Tracking the full set of recommendations delivery.
These are risks for which we typically to avoid reputational risk.
will be part of business-as-usual in 2017, have a low risk appetite and were the highest monitored by a cross-functional governance Risk governance priority to resolve.
board who will also continue to identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
Opportunity risks these recommendations A cross-company programme was set up sometimes requiring further investment were in 2016, with workstreams based around identi ed as areas we needed to tackle to identi ed risks and recommending actions accelerate future growth of the product.
in time for strategy decision-making in We typically have a higher risk appetite for September.
Each workstream owner was opportunity risks.
tasked with setting up their own working group to identify risks relating to their area, presenting these back for debate by the wider group, along with proposed recommendations for resolving them.
46 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Risk management Risk assessment controls are taken into account against management and how employees can the target risk appetite.
Those with the better manage risk day-to-day.
The ERM The identi cation and mitigation of largest gap require the greatest focus team presented at leadership and team signi cant business risks are the in terms of mitigation planning and meetings regularly throughout the year, responsibility of senior management and ongoing monitoring.
increased the ERM stakeholder group for leadership teams for each business area, the second consecutive year, as well as supported by the ERM team.
Throughout Risk monitoring carried out speci c scenario-based the year twice as a minimum, key risks In 2016, all identi ed Pearson-wide top risks risk training.
are identi ed using a bottom up and top were reassessed at least semi-annually down approach through discussions with Our Code of Conduct remained in place against target risk appetite by Pearson each business area, identifying new risks throughout 2016 to drive ethical and risk leadership and senior management as well as reassessing those already being aware behaviours across the organisation.
Risk discussions focus on monitored, including any known emerging Online training on ethics and compliance where there is either a the greatest change risks.
Horizon scanning takes place has been developed, with a focus in 2016 on in risk ratings or b the biggest gaps between throughout the year to aid the identi cation awareness raising.
the current risk rating and the target risk of new risks.
appetite, with the emphasis for the latter Embedding risk Risks are categorised into four main areas: on the strength of mitigation plans in place.
One of the key areas of focus for the ERM strategy and change, operational, financial, Risk updates are submitted to the board and team in 2016 was improving the embedding and legal and compliance.
audit committee twice per year and include of risk management across the wider Strategic relating to the high-level plans an assessment of the probability and impact organisation, driving best practices down and goals that are aligned with and support of risks materialising, as well as risk below the Group risk level, to support our strategy.
This category is the most mitigation initiatives and their e ectiveness.
likely to contain risks that are also The risks where there are the greatest gaps All Pearsons business functions had their opportunities and therefore likely to between target appetite and current rating, own risk map in place by the end of 2016, have a higher risk appetite or the greatest change, are highlighted.
This with risk information such as ownership gives the board the opportunity to review, Operational involving people, systems and mitigation plans captured for each.
challenge and validate the e ectiveness of and processes Some teams already have detailed risk Pearsons approach to risk management.
registers and processes for the next levels Financial involving financial planning, Information on the top risks for the next down.
Just as for the company-wide risks, investments, budgeting, potential losses level down i. e. for each business area, the risk process follows the framework of and exposures to Pearsons assets was also included in the ERM risk reporting.
for identifying, assessing, treating and You can read more about how the business monitoring risk and each risk is also Legal and compliance relating to the manages risk in the Embedding risk section assigned a risk appetite.
Business areas adherence to applicable laws and under Culture below.
monitor their own risks at least twice regulations.
Risks in this category typically a year in line with ERM reporting as these have a very low risk appetite.
In addition, a series of risk deep dives took assessments help underpin the assessment place at audit committees and board The probability of a risk materialising on of company-wide risks.
meetings throughout the year which a scale from rare to almost certain and focused on speci c risks.
You can read Risk assessments were also undertaken the potential impact from insigni cant to more about risk deep dives in the chairman throughout the year on a number of severe of each risk is rated using existing of the audit committees letter on p71-72, strategic initiatives.
The case study Risk criteria.
Then the adequacy of action plans covering the following risks: business in action p45 describes one of these to address any remaining control gaps is transformation, data privacy and in greater detail, showing how risk assessed.
A risk appetite is also agreed upon information security, anti-bribery governance and assessment supported for each risk aligning with the appetite for and corruption, and tax.
business decision-making and led to key company-wide risks where appropriate.
Risk treatment Culture Continuous improvement Once assessed, the most appropriate The ERM risk framework is also used to The risk framework sets the ERM teams course of action for each risk is decided.
drive the integration of risk management strategy and is used, in conjunction with the This can include risk avoidance such as not approaches into the culture of the maturity self-assessment, to set the team starting a particular activity: implementing organisation, supported by the board, goals for each year.
It is continually reviewed mitigation or contingency plans to change audit committee and leadership across the for its relevance and to identify any further the probability or reduce the impact of business.
We continued to focus on and areas for improvement.
Many of the a risk: taking on increasing risk in order to strengthen our risk culture throughout improvements made in 2016 have been pursue an opportunity, or sharing the risk the year.
highlighted in this section, such as the with another party or parties.
The risk case study Risk in action p45 and treatment is arrived at by comparing the Communication and awareness the progress made embedding risk residual risk rating i. e. the combination The ERM team is committed to raising management across the business.
of probability vs. impact once existing awareness of the importance of risk
