Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 47 Principal risks and uncertainties The board of directors con rms that is has undertaken a robust assessment Principal risks: levels and 2016 change throughout 2016 of the principal risks Key facing the company, in accordance 0 with provision C. 2.1 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Net risk Probability 14 and impact are 12 Our principal risks based on residual risk, i. e. after taking as of 31 December 2016 7 3 into account 11 Listed in the table below and shown on the controls already in 5 1 place and assumed adjacent risk map are the most signi cant 2 15 9 6 4 to be operating risks that may a ect Pearsons future.
A longer list of company-wide key risks, 10 plus emerging risks, was monitored and Indicates reviewed throughout the year.
The most change in 2016 material risks are those which have a higher probability and signi cant impact on For more strategy, reputation or operations, or a information financial impact greater than 50m, and are see principal risks identi ed as principal risks.
The following principal risks also relate to the material issues considered in the 2015 sustainability report: products and services, Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain testing failure, political and regulatory risk, Probability data privacy, information security, customer digital experience, and safety and corporate security.
You can read more about Strategy & change Executive responsibility sustainability, including a comparison table of sustainability material issues and 1 Business transformation and change Chief executive o cer principal, company-wide and other 2 Products and services President, global product business risks on p22.
3 Talent Chief human resources o cer The risk acquisitions, divestments and joint Chief corporate a airs and 4 Political and regulatory risk ventures is no longer a principal risk: just as global marketing o cer in 2016, acquisitions are a lower priority in 2017 and not likely to be material.
There Operational Executive responsibility may be some separation or execution risk 5 Testing failure President, assessments with certain divestments, but we do not 6 Safety and corporate security Chief human resources o cer expect such risk to be material.
In 2016, we completed the separation of the FT and we 7 Safeguarding and protection President, assessments undertook corporate transactions to fide-risk President, global product 8 Customer digital experience the business, which in some cases resulted Chief technology and operations o cer in exiting countries with greater compliance 9 Business continuity Chief financial o cer risk.
We expect a similar approach in 2017, looking at ways to reduce our exposure to Financial Executive responsibility non-core businesses.
We have announced 10 Tax Chief financial o cer our intention to issue an exit notice to Bertelsmann regarding the 47% associate 11 Treasury Chief financial o cer interest in PRH with a view to selling the stake or recapitalising the business and Legal & compliance Executive responsibility extracting a dividend.
Chief technology and operations o cer 12 Data privacy and information security General counsel 13 Intellectual property General counsel 14 Anti-bribery and corruption Chief financial o cer 15 Competition law General counsel Impact Minor Moderate Major Severe 48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategy & change 2016 activities 2017 plans Business 1 As highlighted in the chairmans introduction on p4, In 2017, business transformation and change transformation 2016 continued to be a year of transformation and initiatives will be supporting our strategic goal 1 change for Pearson, supported by the board.
The to accelerate our digital transition in higher and change restructure and associated cost savings programme education, to manage the print decline, and to The pace and scope of our announced at the start of the year was delivered in reshape our portfolio.
business transformation initiatives full in 2016.
The first implementation of The Enabling A key pillar in our strategy, as emphasised in increase our execution risk that Programme a programme of work to deliver a the CEOs strategic overview on p7, is underpinning bene ts may not be fully realised, single Pearson-wide solution to integrate our data, our content and assessment with our technology costs may increase, or that our systems and processes across HR, finance, and services.
We are speeding up work to simplify business-as-usual activities may procurement and supply chain went live in the UK.
our global learning platform and enhancing our be impacted and do not perform Key to the success of our change programmes is the courseware service capabilities.
quality of data reported as a separate principal risk We will also continue with the next phase of The in 2015.
The unavailability of timely, complete and Link to strategic goals Enabling Programme to further progress the S accurate data limits informed decision-making Develop digital & services simpli cation of our business the importance of and increases the risk of noncompliance with legal, Build market presence which our chairman highlights on p4, reduce costs regulatory and reporting requirements.
Deliver measurable and improve our data capabilities.
The focus will outcomes Controls be on customer and product master data as core to all systems and businesses.
Project and change management best practices 1 Incorporates Data quality and integrity.
See CEOs strategic overview on p6-9.
Enhanced governance and reporting, including monthly updates on the most signi cant change initiatives to the Pearson executive, board and audit committee Monthly assurance reporting on the programmes.
2016 activities Product and portfolio councils launched Products and 2 Product portfolio management approach This risk remains one of our highest as it is central 2 services and bene ts articulated.
The end of 2016 saw unprecedented declines in our US higher education Failure to accelerate our shift 2017 plans courseware business as described in full in the to digital by developing and Turning this risk into an opportunity successfully Performance section on p38 which we failed to delivering to time and quality accelerating our shift to digital as well as investing in adequately anticipate and build into our forecasts.
market leading global products and delivering the right products and services is and services that will have the Signi cant activity took place in 2016 to mitigate this key to successful business performance in 2017. biggest impact on learners and risk and support the growth of Pearson.
We have In the CEOs strategic overview on pages 6-9, drive growth: ensuring Pearson combined our lines of business for courseware into we have laid out our strategy in more detail.
o ers products to market at the a single product organisation, as well as rationalised Key elements that relate to the products and right price and with a deal and integrated our product development services risk are: structure that remains capabilities to focus on learning and user experience competitive as well as design, and more adaptive, personalised learning in Accelerating work to simplify our product learning supports our strategy.
next generation courseware and online services.
platform and enhancing our courseware service In 2016, we completed initial portfolio reviews on capabilities with 50m of additional investment, Link to strategic goals S global school, US higher education courseware which will remove barriers to faster product Develop digital & services and higher education managed services, capturing innovation, accelerate our product roadmap by two Build market presence opportunities for shifts in focus and better years and drive faster adoption of institution-wide Deliver measurable di erentiation.
digital direct access for Pearson courseware.
outcomes The Global Product Lifecycle continues to be Increasing our participation in the courseware rental 2 Referred to as Digital and embedded across Pearson to enable visibility and market, by: services evolution and transparency into our product investment decisions market forces in the a.
Reducing eBook rental prices by up to 50% across 2015 annual report.
using the Global Product Lifecycle stages and gates, 2,000 titles making digital rental the best option for data-driven decision-making and incremental price-conscious students, funding principles.
Launching our own print rental programme, Controls piloting with an initial group of 50 titles made Separate school, higher education and English available through Pearsons approved rental product teams brought together into one global partners, and ensuring Pearson is paid more often product organisation for the usage of our courseware.
If successful, we will scale this programme rapidly.
Product Development Lifecycle See Develop digital & services on p14.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 49 Strategy & change 2016 activities 2017 plans Talent 3 The restructure and associated cost savings Over 60% of our sta completed the engagement Failure to attract, retain and programme announced at the start of the year survey.
The results of the survey have been shared develop sta, including adapting was delivered in full in 2016. with all line managers and action planning will take to new skill sets required to run place at the start of 2017.
Each member of the We have successfully recruited in-demand skill sets the business.
Pearson executive will work in partnership with in support of our strategic goals to accelerate the human resources and corporate a airs to build Link to strategic goals shift to digital, including the appointment of global S business-level action plans.
Develop digital & services leaders to lead both the business and the See p23 in Sustainability for more on the Build market presence transformation e orts in North America.
Deliver measurable Throughout the year, we have continued to promote outcomes Oversight of succession plans and development our internal talent lling 45% of our open roles with planning has been improved with rigorous quarterly internal sta.
Controls Further learning programmes will be launched Globally consistent performance, talent and within our Pearson U learning platform with a strong succession management approaches established emphasis on leadership and technology.
Annual global employee engagement survey conducted with follow-up action plans in place Retention data is monitored on a monthly basis Exit interviews are conducted and monitored globally to identify any trends and concerns Learning programmes now o ered on a single platform with access to new content for all sta.
2016 activities 2017 plans 4 Political and Work was undertaken in 2016 to ensure that we can Following the inauguration of a new President of the regulatory risk more proactively identify and mitigate political US, in 2017 Pearson will continue to implement its regulatory risk that had the potential to impact state strategy which will ensure engagement with Changes in policy and or Pearson globally: bringing greater co-ordination, new o ce holders.
We will build on the groundwork regulations have the potential clarity and consistency to our work: building political already done in Washington, DC and state capitals to impact business models and or and institutional relations, and increasing our ability throughout the US to position Pearson as a leader decisions across all markets.
to receive and respond to external intelligence.
in the education space and to establish the company Link to strategic goals S as a key partner for Governors and state legislators In June 2016, a UK referendum voted in favour of Build market presence as they pursue their economic agendas.
A risk assessment of impacts arising will focus on Congress, the Administration, and in from this was carried out and continues on an priority state capitals.
There has been no signi cant downside for Pearson identi ed so far following In the UK, 2017 is a year of major quali cation and the result of the referendum.
The main risk arising accountability changes.
Our focus is on working with at this stage for Pearson is the resulting overall government, regulator and other stakeholders to uncertainty.
demonstrate the professionalism and solidity of the system.
We have increased engagement with Department for Education o cials ahead of major periods of change key moments include summer Key Stage 2, GCSE and A Level 2017 results.
We will continue to assess the potential impacts of the UKs decision to leave the EU as the model that will replace our membership becomes clearer.
50 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Operational 2016 activities and skills development of our people, including Testing failure 5 software security controls, system monitoring, Pearson is an education content, assessment and pre-deployment testing, change controls and the Failure to deliver tests and related services company and, as such, managing use of root cause analysis procedures to learn assessments and other related this risk remains a priority.
In the UK, the summer from incidents and prevent recurrence.
contractual requirements exam series was delivered more smoothly than because of operational or the previous year as a result of mitigating actions 2017 plans technology issues, resulting taken.
Action plans were put in place for US schools Investigation is under way to mitigate risks around in negative publicity impacting assessment, for example to mitigate against compatibility and responsiveness of our assessment our brand and reputation.
tools by using cloud and web services.
Link to strategic goals Controls S The migration and retirement of legacy systems in Build market presence We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in use will continue.
Deliver measurable our student marking systems with the use of: Plans are being developed to upgrade Pearsons outcomes Robust quality assurance procedures and controls bespoke online marking system ePEN in the UK in 2017 and to continue with mitigating actions put in Oversight of contract performance place in the 2016 summer series in the meantime.
Investment in technology, project management 2016 activities Controls Safety and 6 Up-to-date global health and safety policy in place Good progress was made in 2016 towards achieving corporate security our three-year health and safety strategy.
The Management review processes are established implementation of health and safety standards with key leadership groups Risk to safety and security due to continued, plus health and safety reviews have increasing local and global threats.
Incident data collected globally every six months.
now been formally included in management review 2017 plans processes in our businesses.
During 2016, the travel security programme was The ongoing focus of health and safety will be the reviewed and a revised process implemented to implementation of the three-year strategy which in include improved traveller communications.
2017 will include enhancing our incident reporting The Travel ASSIST app was also updated to allow procedures and processes globally.
access for the circa 44,000 associates, including Travel security improvements will continue towards assessors, examiners and validators, who will be automation, smoother communications and able to see their itinerary, country information feedback from travellers.
Security risk assessments and alerts.
The importance of continuing to develop will take place to review physical security measures and extend this was evidenced during the Hoboken at key facilities, and a corporate security policy, train incident in September 2016, when 37 travellers strategy and guidelines will be delivered.
in the area were successfully contacted via the travel management tool.
2016 activities Controls Safeguarding and 7 Safeguarding committee established We continue to take safeguarding as a fundamental protection obligation to our young learners and a high priority.
Metrics regarding safeguarding reports Safeguarding training was reviewed in 2016 and and training collected Failure to adequately protect indicated good take-up and positive feedback children and learners, particularly Safeguarding policy and training.
Safer Schools materials have in our direct delivery businesses.
2017 plans been developed in partnership with University College London UCL, which will be rolled out to the We will continue to develop and question our relevant businesses, and development of a sexual practices around safeguarding in 2017, including harassment policy for our further education developing external validation for our safeguarding businesses commenced.
The Safer Schools materials will be implemented in relevant businesses, as will the new sexual harassment policy.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 51 Operational 2016 activities 2017 plans Customer digital 8 Managing this risk is critical to achieving our Further investment is being made in 2017 in our 3 experience strategic goal of accelerating our shift to digital global learning platform with products being products and services, and crucially, becoming developed on it for testing.
Read more on this in Challenges with reliability and a trusted partner.
We will only succeed if robust our strategy in action section on p14-15.
availability of customer facing platforms and responsive customer support service systems could result in incidents Mitigations are being put in place to prevent a underpin our content, assessment and services.
of poor customer digital reoccurrence of the 2016 back-to-school issues The risk increased in 2016 due to the fact that, experience and impact our for customers, which are described further in the despite a comparably good customer back-to-school customer service responsiveness.
Develop digital and services section on p15.
in 2016, there were issues in the area of our Continued focus on customer service quality and Increase in impact subscription management system SMS which responsiveness with specialised service for speci c negatively impacted our North American customers customer groups.
We continue to invest in training Link to strategic goals ability to easily access our systems.
The initial S agents to ensure that they are ready to handle the Develop digital & services issues have been addressed.
broad range of issues faced by learners and Build market presence Controls educators.
We have also improved escalation Deliver measurable Real-time monitoring of systems for service processes so that we can be more responsive to outcomes disruptions and reporting of operational complex issues that require engagement from 3 Referred to as Customer facing performance used to identify issues product engineering teams.
systems in the 2015 annual report, reworded to re ect that Project management disciplines in place to this risk includes customer ensure enhancements and new products meet support as well as the actual system as part of the overall required standards.
2016 activities Controls 9 Business continuity Business resilience governance group has been A revised business resilience policy and supporting Failure to have plans in place or established, meeting quarterly, with senior leaders guidance was developed in 2016, identifying our plans are not properly executed.
from across the business exposure and risk as they relate to key products, Crisis management and sites, services and supply chain.
A common crisis Key enterprise systems developed during technology disaster recovery DR management framework was implemented, with 2016 the Enabling Programme, oneCRM, and plans may not be comprehensive training and scenario sessions running during 2016.
Identity and Access Management have all been across the whole enterprise.
delivered with high availability requirements Pearson won an external award for Business to provide resilience Link to strategic goals Continuity Resilience Team of the Year, in S Develop digital & services recognition of the ongoing e orts and shifting Product Lifecycle includes an explicit checkpoint focus from traditional business continuity towards to ensure appropriate resilience is built into resilience management.
Technology incidents are dealt with reactively and 2017 plans proactive closure of known DR gaps is prioritised Key Pearson locations identi ed that will be based upon the importance of products and the priority for 2017 to ensure business resilience systems.
Data centres are being consolidated, plans are in place and tested.
including greater use of cloud solutions.
A schedule is in place for testing the DR of data centres.
Crisis management training will continue across 2017.
Work continues to address any gaps in the DR arrangements for legacy systems where appropriate.
Further data centre consolidation and migration to cloud services.
52 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Financial 2016 activities Media and public scrutiny on tax issues continues Tax 10 to be actively monitored by group tax and This risk has slightly increased during 2016 due to corporate a airs.
Legislative change caused by pending legislative changes, and the fide nition of the the OECD Base Erosion and risk was reworded to take into account the external 2017 plans Pro t Shifting initiative, the UK focus on transparency, linked to greater scrutiny Continued close monitoring with advisers on exit from the EU, US tax reform and the potential for reputational damage.
Plans are proposed and potential legislation changes and or domestic government being put in place to manage the implementation of possible impacts.
initiatives, potentially in response these legislative changes.
to the ongoing EU anti tax abuse Potential impact of the UKs decision to leave the EU, Controls activities, results in a higher and the inauguration of a new President in the US e ective tax rate, double Our tax strategy re ects our business strategy are being closely monitored.
There could be taxation and or negative and the locations and nancing needs of our signi cant changes to the US and UK tax regimes reputational impact.
In common with many companies, including VAT and withholding tax.
It is too early we seek to manage our tax a airs to protect value to know what these changes will be, or any impact Increase in impact for our shareholders, in line with our broader they may have.
We are committed to complying Media and public scrutiny on tax issues will with all statutory obligations, to undertake full continue to be actively monitored by group tax disclosure to tax authorities and to follow agreed and corporate a airs.
policies and procedures with regard to tax planning and strategy Oversight of tax strategy is within the remit of the audit committee, which receives a report on this topic at least once a year.
All of the audit committee members are independent non-executive directors.
The chief financial o cer is responsible for tax strategy: the conduct of our tax a airs and the management of tax risk are delegated to a global team of tax professionals.
See p133 for details of tax accounting policy 2016 activities 2017 plans 11 Treasury Treasury slightly increased in 2016 and remains a During January 2017, the Groups credit ratings with Failure to manage treasury major risk as Pearson has net debt of 1.1bn which Moodys and Standard and Poors were modi ed financial risk e. g. FX, interest periodically needs re nancing, and faces the from Baa2 BBB stable to Baa2 BBB negative rate, counterparty and possibility of the loss of cash balances in the event outlook.
This is not expected to restrict short-term operational risk.
Pearson also faces the possibility capital market access if this was required.
of losses due to changes in FX or interest rates Slight increase in probability In 2017, we will continue to operate in line with our adversely a ecting the organisation.
More on this can be found in note However, the probability of a major issue is relatively 19, starting on p160.
low due to the spread of debt maturities, the cautious approach to counterparty credit risk and the strong liquidity position.
Pearson nished the year with over 1bn of cash and su cient access to funds to be able to repay its $850 million in maturities in 2018 with the additional possibility of funds from the PRH disposal or recapitalisation.
The potential impacts of the UKs exit from the EU, such as market and FX volatility, were closely monitored throughout 2016 which will continue in 2017.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 53 Legal & compliance 2016 activities Controls Data privacy and 12 Established information security o ce Risk concerning cyber security and data privacy information remains high due to complex external factors, Up-to-date security policies and awareness training including increasingly sophisticated attack in place security strategies, as well as Pearsons ongoing transition Ongoing monitoring for potential malicious attacks Risk of a data privacy incident to digital products, services and cloud adoption.
on our infrastructure and systems or other failure to comply with There are also upcoming increased regulatory Ongoing rewall management activities data privacy regulations and obligations under the new EU data privacy law, the standards: and or a weakness Automated security exception management General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, which in information security, including will apply from May 2018 and introduce more Vendor contract reviewed and approved for a failure to prevent or detect onerous privacy obligations and more stringent appropriate security controls.
a malicious attack on our systems, penalties for non-compliance.
The data privacy 2017 plans could result in a major data and information security o ces worked together privacy breach causing in 2016 on the bulletproo ng and critical product The data privacy and information security reputational damage and programme to ensure that appropriate security and improvement programmes that commenced in 2015 financial loss.
privacy controls are built in.
will continue throughout 2017 and will implement critical processes to drive best practices.
Data privacy Link to strategic goals S Develop digital & services The joint activity on bulletproo ng and critical Actively worked to mitigate the risk through products programme will continue, for example continued e orts on our privacy programme, in ensuring that the new global learning platform is particular the roll-out of global policies and training, secure by design.
deploying new vendor and programme privacy impact assessment processes, and developing The data privacy programme will progress changes specialist privacy toolkits to help employees better required to comply with the GDPR ready for it to take manage privacy risks.
As Pearson operates across several EU Member States, Pearson will still need Controls to comply with GDPR even when the UK leaves the Established data privacy o ce European Union.
The data privacy o ce will Data privacy policy and annual training continue to monitor plans for the UKs departure from the EU and, if necessary, will adapt its privacy Monitoring by the Data Privacy Council programme to take into account any new UK-speci c Privacy impact assessments in place.
Information security The information security programme continued in 2016 to close gaps where risk has been identi ed, such as undertaking security impact assessments and putting in place remediation plans.
Work continued towards global PCI compliance to avoid potential for severe fines and potential loss of contract revenue.
54 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Legal & compliance 2016 activities 2017 plans Intellectual 13 In 2016, we rolled out the new Pearson brand with We will continue to streamline our portfolios: property, including its protection greatly improved by expanding word procure and register expanded rights in our mark protection to 80 new countries and ling for high-value IP globally, including aggressively rights, permissions logo in 150 countries.
A global brand database was expanding our patent portfolio: monitor activities and royalties also fully implemented to support this.
The patent and regulations: and proactively enforce our rights, governance programme was revamped in 2016 and taking necessary legal action.
Failure or lack of practical ability a stronger framework to protect intellectual In 2017, we will start to implement the newly to adequately manage, procure, property IP was established.
developed royalty and business practices.
A new register, monitor, protect and or Work began in 2016 to evaluate new royalty and rights management system is being developed properly license our intellectual business practices.
We also began to implement for roll-out in the UK, US and Canada during 2017 property rights including patents, a global three-tier strategy guiding third-party and 2018. trademarks and general copyright assets e. g. images, text, rich media rights in our brands, content and acquisition as well as a more stringent rights review technology may prevent us and reclearance process.
from enforcing our rights against competitors to protect our Controls market share.
Policies in place to manage and protect our Failure to obtain permissions, intellectual property or to comply with the terms of Cooperation with trade associations permissions, for copyrighted or Monitoring of technology and legal advances otherwise protected materials such as photos resulting in Patent programme in place.
potential litigation: risk of authors alleging improper calculations or payments of royalties.
Link to strategic goals S Develop digital & services 2016 activities Controls Anti-bribery and 14 Policy and guidance updated, although no change Internal procedures and controls, including training, corruption ABC to Pearsons zero tolerance principle continue to improve, which should mitigate the impact as part of an adequate procedures defence, Code of Conduct certi cation and training in place, Failure to e ectively manage risks in the event that an undetected ABC matter arises.
which includes a clear statement of ABC policy associated with compliance to The audit committee reviewed the results of global and local ABC legislation.
Business Partner Code of Conduct, emphasising a self-assessment of the ABC programme, ABC compliance Link to strategic goals supplemented by internal audit and external S Local Compliance O cer programme in place Build market presence independent review see p72.
Overall, this and proving successful.
indicated an e ective framework to be in place.
2017 plans Pearsons ABC infrastructure includes a network of local compliance o cers based in country, being Continue risk assessments in 2017 to ensure that mainly members of the legal team.
These o cers the ABC programme continues to re ect local have assumed responsibility for ABC compliance market and business model risks.
in their respective businesses, and function as the Further develop and deploy risk-based third-party eyes and ears of the organisation with the oversight due diligence and monitoring.
of the central compliance and legal teams.
Leverage The Enabling Programmes systems and In addition to ongoing face-to-face training for processes to automate and embed improved higher risk groups, a compliance awareness preventive and detective controls relevant to ABC.
campaign took place in December 2016 which included ABC, to coincide with UN International Anti-Corruption Day.
ABC certi cation was rolled out across all higher risk markets in 2016.
Overview Our strategy in action Our performance Governance Financial statements Section 3 Our performance 55 Legal & compliance 2016 activities 2017 plans Competition law 15 A policy, general training plus supporting guidance Employee training will continue throughout Failure to comply with anti-trust were developed in 2016, containing all the measures, 2017 and risk assessments are ongoing to and competition legislation indicators and actions required to ensure anti-trust monitor compliance with anti-trust and could result in costly legal and competition compliance.
proceedings and or adversely Controls impact our reputation.
Policy and guidance published Link to strategic goals S Lawyer network launched across Pearson Build market presence Ongoing training and awareness initiatives.
Risk assessment of prospects and viability The key assumptions which underpin our case strategic plan for the Group, focusing three-year strategic plan to December 2019 on the impact of the following assumptions This section should be read together with are as follows: and key risks: the full viability statement on p107.
There are further declines in enrolments Further declines in enrolments and Pearsons principal risks and our ability to and other downwards pressures in the further channel disruption in US higher manage them as outlined in this section are US higher education courseware market.
education courseware linked to our viability as a company.
These risks have therefore been taken into account 2.
The 2016 inventory correction with key Failure to accelerate our shift to digital when preparing the viability statement.
while continuing to invest in global products and services The board assessed the prospects of the 3.
There is increased investment in the company over a three-year period, longer product technology platform to accelerate Increased competition from new entrants than the minimum 12 months of the annual the shift to digital and enhance in School and higher education courseware going concern review.
The three-year period courseware service capabilities.
and higher education online services corresponds with Pearsons strategic 4.
Increased participation in the courseware Pricing pressures due to rental impacting planning process and represents the time rental market is seen.
higher education courseware over which the company can reasonably predict market dynamics and the likely 5.
US state testing revenues continue to Revenue shortfalls in growth markets impact of additions to the product portfolio.
decline through 2017, as current contracts driven by weaker local economic conditions unwind, before stabilising by the end and rationalisation.
The board discusses the companys strategic of the year.
plan on an annual basis taking account of a The board also stress-tested the impact on range of factors including market conditions, 6.
The remaining Pearson businesses our liquidity of all the principal risks listed the principal risks to the Group, product perform broadly in line with trends seen above occurring together.
Although this is and capital investment levels, as well as in 2016 for the next year before returning not regarded as a plausible scenario, the test available funding.
Pearsons strategy and to modest growth.
showed that the company would still have business model are discussed in more detail liquid resources subject to a limited number In assessing the companys viability for the on p10-27.
three years to December 2019, the board analysed a variety of downside scenarios The boards con rmation of Pearsons including a scenario where the company is viability for the three years to 2019, based impacted by all principal risks from 2016. on this assessment, is included alongside The primary modelling overlaid a severe but the going concern statement on p107.
plausible downside scenario onto the base
