OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RISK REPORT The Group faces a number of risks which, if they arise, could affect its ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board is responsible for identifying principal risks and ensuring appropriate risk mitigation is in place to manage them effectively.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK Successful management of existing and emerging risks is essential to the long term success of the Group and the achievement of its strategic objectives.
Pennon has established a fully embedded Group risk management framework, to identify significant risks and determine whether they are being appropriately managed and mitigated.
With Pennons strategic decision to move towards a more homogeneous Group risk profile, the risk management framework has evolved to ensure risks are being managed in line with the Groups agreed risk appetite.
To support this transition, a Group Risk Forum has been established to provide a top down assessment of Group risks, to supplement the bottom up risk assessments by each subsidiary.
The key stages of the risk process are: Identification of significant risks by core business functions, utilising agreed risk criteria based on a combination of likelihood over a five-year period, and impact based on financial, reputational, management effort and impact on stakeholders and customers: Principal and other business risks are captured in risk registers, which are examined and challenged as part of a robust assessment of the risks and key mitigations, controls and assurance activities that have been defined by risk owners.
The assessment considers gross risk, net risk after mitigation, and risk appetite, as well as the direction of travel of the risk level: Quarterly risk and assurance forums are held to review principal risks, with management justifying their bottom-up risk assessments through formal reports and presentations: and Principal risks faced by each subsidiary are reviewed and confirmed on a quarterly basis by the subsidiary executive management boards, following which the Group Risk Forum completes a comprehensive top-down evaluation of risks that could impact on the delivery of Group strategic objectives.
The Forum consists of senior executives and its role is to debate, challenge, agree and prioritise the principal risks faced by the Group, based on the risk appetite set by the Board.
The risk assessment is then subjected to a thorough appraisal by the Audit Committee before formal presentation to the Board for approval.
RISK APPETITE Risk appetite is defined as the level of risk it is considered appropriate to accept in achieving Group strategic objectives.
The appropriateness of the mitigation applied to each principal risk is considered by the Board in the context of the effectiveness of the overall control environment in ensuring compliance with risk appetite.
ROBUST RISK ASSESSMENT The Directors confirm that they have carried out a robust assessment of risks facing the Group.
The following table describes the principal risks and how they are being managed or mitigated in line with the Boards risk appetite.
These principal risks have been considered in preparing the viability statement on page 55. www.
co. uk 2016 51 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE RISK REPORT CONTINUED Key Risk Level Low Medium High The low, medium and high risk level is our estimate of the net risk to the Group after mitigation.
It is important to note that risk is difficult to estimate with accuracy and therefore may be more or less than indicated.
Increasing Unchanged Decreasing Current assessment of direction of travel of risk level.
LAW, REGULATION AND FINANCE Principal Risks Mitigation Net Risk Direction Risk Appetite Compliance with Robust regulatory framework ensures High standards of compliance with Ofwat, Environment compliance are sought with law, regulation or decisions by Agency and other requirements.
Full no appetite for legal and engagement in consultations on reform of regulatory breaches.
Government and regulators, including policy and legislation, helps influence change As regulatory reform is through effective stakeholder relationships.
water industry reform progressing, we aim to Good progress has been made in preparing minimise the impact by for regulatory reform.
We are fully engaged targeting changes which in the Water 2020 programme including are NPV neutral over the upstream regulatory reform.
External longer term, to protect reviews support the assurance letters shareholder value and required by the Market Operator.
Clear treasury and funding policies and an Ensure funding Maintaining sufficient finance effective Group Treasury team.
requirements are fully met by maintaining and funding to meet Funding in place at effective average ongoing commitments prudent headroom.
interest rates below many in its sector, with prefunding and headroom, including revolving credit facilities, to meet future funding requirements.
Non-compliance Rigorous health and safety compliance High standards of or occurrence of systems, policies and procedures are in compliance are sought with avoidable health and place across the Group, supported by a no appetite for compliance safety incident programme of capital investment to further breaches within the Group reduce risk.
Uncertainty arising Professionally qualified and experienced Full compliance with HMRC from open tax in-house tax team, supported by external requirements.
A dedicated team is working risk is higher on some liabilities remain to with HMRC to expediate the agreement of historic arrangements.
be agreed outstanding tax items.
52 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARKET AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Principal Risks Mitigation Net Risk Direction Risk Appetite Water business debt collection strategies Minimise non-recoverable Non-recovery of customer debt kept under review with new initiatives debt.
We recognise regularly implemented: customer affordability challenges and that given targeting previous occupier debt after the inability to disconnect customer moves: domestic customers, specific case management and use of court some risk of uncollectable claims: and debt remains.
Affordability tariffs e. g. Restart, WaterCare, Fresh Start help to reduce bad debt exposure for customers struggling to pay.
Viridors debt collection risk is lower due to the high proportion of public sector accounts.
Macro-economic Viridor is well positioned across the Taking well-judged risks waste hierarchy, with long-term contracts and having response risks arising from the global and UK supporting the ERF segment.
The plans in place to mitigate ITOO Input, Throughput and Output external macro-economic economic downturn impacting commodity Optimisation programme helps focus on risk factors down to an recycling performance in mitigating the acceptable level.
and power prices impact of global economic conditions on commodity prices.
Energy risk management at a Group level acts as a natural hedge between SWW and Viridor, offsetting the drop in power prices.
Existing investments that qualified for Renewable Obligation Certificates are protected by the grandfathering procedure.
co. uk 2016 53 | STRATEGIC REPORT GROUP PERFORMANCE RISK REPORT CONTINUED OPERATING PERFORMANCE Principal Risks Mitigation Net Risk Direction Risk Appetite Contingency plans, emergency resources Reduce both the likelihood Poor operating performance due to and investment through a planned capital and impact through long programme mitigates the risks of extreme term planning and ensuring extreme weather or climate change weather incidents.
sufficient measures are in place to mitigate risk.
We prepare a Water Resources Management Plan every five years and review it annually for a range of climate change and demand scenarios, with various schemes promoted to maintain water resources e. g. pumped storage for reservoirs, conservation and customer water efficiency measures.
Viridor has in place a regional adverse weather management strategy, aimed at reducing disruption to site operations and transport logistics Poor customer service Targeted improvements made to improve Good customer service is customer service and SWWs relative at the heart of everything increased competition leading to loss of industry standing during the K6 period.
Continually seek to increase customer base Viridors strategy to diversify into energy customer satisfaction.
recovery has offset the decline in landfill and current challenges in recycling.
Minimise the impact of Viridor is exploring alternative uses for its market reform by defending landfill assets.
the existing customer base whilst developing further markets.
Business interruption Detailed contingency plans and incident Effective business continuity or significant management procedures.
and contingency plans operational failures in place to mitigate the Equipment failure is managed through incidents risk and accelerate the sophisticated planned preventative recovery from an incident, maintenance regimes.
Any disruption with residual risk covered is alleviated by good liaison by insurance.
Difficulty in Succession plans are in place.
The recent Appropriate skills and Group restructure, Viridor transformation experience in place, with recruitment, retention and development of and integration of Bournemouth Water has good succession plans strengthened the executive team, but in turn to mitigate impact on appropriate skills, which are required have the potential to impact morale.
to deliver the Groups strategy 54 PENNON GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 OVERVIEW GROUP PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS SYSTEMS AND CAPITAL INVESTMENT Principal Risks Mitigation Net Risk Direction Risk Appetite Skilled project management resource and Pennons investment Failure or increased cost of capital oversight boards provide rigour to the activities are based on delivery of major projects.
Due diligence taking well-judged risks for projects exposure to contract failures on suppliers, technologies and acquisitions.
Back-to-back agreements and supplier guarantees provide protection.
Regular reporting of performance on major contracts and post project appraisals.
Failure of information Major systems implementation is Robust systems in place technology systems, supported by a formal programme to support business management and governance framework, supplemented by activity, with strong cyber protection including specialist consultants.
protection to minimise a cyber risks growing risk.
Cyber risks are mitigated by a strong information security framework, cyber security awareness campaigns, plus internal and external testing and formal ISO accreditation.
potentially can be subject to non-market influences, such VIABILITY STATEMENT assessment is subject to uncertainty, the level of which depends The Board has assessed the Groups financial viability and on the proximity of the time horizon, and accordingly the future confirms that it has a reasonable expectation that the Group will outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a five-year period.
The assessment has been made As set out in the Audit Committees report on page 68, the with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, its Directors reviewed and discussed the process undertaken longer-term strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups by management, and also reviewed the results of the stress principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed on testing performed.
pages 51 to 54 of the risk report.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The Groups strategic business plan and associated principal This strategic report, consisting of pages 4 to 51, contains risks are a foundation of the scenario testing.
This assessment forward-looking statements regarding the financial position: has considered the potential impact of these risks arising on the results of operations: cash flows: dividends: financing plans: business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity over business strategies: operating efficiencies: capital and other the period in question.
In making their assessment, the Directors expenditures: competitive positions: growth opportunities: reviewed the principal risks and considered which risks might plans and objectives of management: and other matters.
It was determined that none of the individual forward-looking statements including, without limitation, those risks would in isolation compromise the Groups viability, so a relating to the future business prospects, revenues, working number of plausible risk combinations were considered to stress capital, liquidity, capital needs, interest costs and income test the plan, primarily by reducing revenues, increasing costs and in relation to Pennon Group and its subsidiaries, wherever impacting cash flows.
The Board considered the monetary impact they occur in this strategic report, are necessarily based on of these scenarios over a five-year period, to ensure that they did assumptions reflecting the views of Pennon Group and its not adversely impact the Groups viability.
In making the assessment, the Directors have taken account of They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause the Groups robust capital solvency position, its ability to raise actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the new finance and a key potential mitigating action of restricting any forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements non-contractual payments.
should, therefore, be considered in the light of relevant In assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors note factors, including those set out in this section on principal risks that, as the Group operates in a regulatory industry which and uncertainties.
The strategic report consisting of pages 4 to 55 was approved by the Board on 24 May 2016.
By Order of the Board Helen Barrett-Hague Group Company Secretary 24 May 2016 www.
