Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS Identifying what may affect our performance The principal risks which may affect our business and the future performance of the Group are set out below.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change in 2016 Following the referendum vote on 23 June 2016 and We continue to closely monitor the impact of this increased uncertainty on UKs exit the decision to leave the European Union, uncertainty the UK economy and the housing market through the review of external from the EU surrounding the outlook for the UK economy has increased.
information and changes in the behaviour of our customer base.
Close Such uncertainty may reduce consumer confidence such management of work in progress levels matching supply to demand will that demand and pricing for new homes may be impacted continue and land investment decisions will continue to be assessed, including affecting revenues, profits and cash flows and may result in measures to ensure exposure to market disruption is mitigated.
The overall the impairment of asset values.
In addition, the devaluation shortage of supply of housing in the UK may provide a degree of support to of the UK currency and a possible tightening of the the housing market should these circumstances arise.
Action taken by the availability of construction skills due to potential changes to Government to adjust policy to support UK economic performance may legislation governing free movement of labour may impact provide further mitigation as might any response with respect to interest costs and build activity.
ratesby the Bank of England.
We will continue to employ robust tendering processes to maintain strong costcontrol over Group sourcing.
In addition, we will remain focused on our training initiatives to improve the supply of the necessary construction skills theGroup requires.
The housebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in We control the level of build onsite by closely managing our work in progress National unemployment, interest rates and consumer confidence.
We carry out extensive due diligence prior to our land investment and Any deterioration in economic conditions may significantly decisions to capture best returns.
We monitor our geographical spread to regional decrease demand and pricing for new homes, which could mitigate the effects of local microeconomic fluctuations.
We monitor lead economic have a material effect on our business revenues, margins indicators on the future direction of the UK housing market so as to manage conditions and profits and result in the impairment of asset values.
our exposure to any future market disruption.
Any restrictions in the availability of mortgages for our We monitor Bank of England commentary on credit conditions.
We ensure Mortgage customers could reduce demand for our homes and that our investment in land and work in progress is appropriate for our level of availability affect revenues, profits and cash flows.
Early withdrawal sales and our expectations for market conditions.
We monitor the Council of of the Government sponsored Help to Buy scheme could Mortgage Lenders monthly reports and lenders announcements for trends in reduce demand from first time buyers and other customers lending.
The Governments Help to Buy scheme, which currently is anticipated impacting revenues, profits, and cash flows.
to remain available until 2021, supports customers to gain access to the housing market across the UK with very competitive mortgage rates.
The health and safety of our employees, subcontractors, We ensure that the Boards health and safety strategy is implemented by our Health and home owners and visitors to our construction sites is of comprehensive management systems and controls, overseen by our Group safety paramount importance to us.
Accidents on our sites could Health and Safety Department to minimise accidents on our sites.
lead to reputational damage and financial penalties.
Our business is subject to extensive and complex laws and We operate comprehensive management systems to ensure regulatory Regulatory regulations relating to planning and the environment.
We hold a landbank sufficient to provide security of supply for compliance obligations to comply with legislation can result in delays short to medium term requirements and engage extensively with planning causing us to incur substantial costs and prohibit or restrict stakeholders.
Non compliance could also result in damage to the Groups reputation.
Expansion in UK housebuilding has driven an increase in We closely monitor our build programmes and our supply chain enabling us Materials demand for materials and may cause availability constraints to manage and react to any supply chain issues.
We build good relationships and or costs to increase ahead of our expectations.
with suppliers to maintain consistency of supply and management of costs.
To strengthen our control over brick supply and cost, we have recently constructed our own brick plant, which will be commissioned in Q1 2017.
Thiscomplements our existing offsite manufacturing capability at Space4, theGroups business producing timber frames and highly insulated wall panelsand roof cassettes which provides a modern method of constructing new homes.
Having an appropriately skilled workforce is a key We closely monitor our build programmes to enable us to manage our labour Labour requirement for housebuilding.
We operate in-house apprentice and training programmes to housebuilding has increased demand for skilled labour supply the Group with skilled labour.
which may create site resourcing shortfalls and or increase We are committed to playing a full and active role in external initiatives to labour costs ahead of our expectations.
address the skills shortage such as the Home Building Skills Partnership, a joint initiative of the Construction Industry Training Board and the Home Builders Federation.
Where appropriate we use the Groups Space4 modern method of construction which reduces the site based skilled labour required in theconstruction of our homes.
The Board has adopted its strategy as it believes it is the The Groups strategy is agreed by the Board at an annual strategy meeting Strategy one most likely to add the greatest sustainable value for and thereafter regularly reviewed at Board meetings and by the Executive shareholders and stakeholders.
It is possible that, with Directors.
The Board engages with management and employees to ensure time, factors become known that indicate that the strategy the strategy is communicated and understood and that all employees have a currently being pursued is not the most effective or efficient clear understanding of the potential benefits and risks of the strategy.
Further and that alternative strategies may be more appropriate.
information is included in the Strategic Update from page 24.
Key: Increased risk No change Decreased risk Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2016
