Risks and uncertainties Key risk Brand and Description and impact Mitigation The Group places pet welfare as its As a retailer of small pets across a large number of stores, the highest possible welfare reputation highest priority and its number one standards must be maintained at all times and we have rigorous processes in place to value, Pets Before Profit, reflects this.
This also extends into the supply chain with our pet suppliers.
We operate It also recognises the need to protect a comprehensive pet welfare audit process, utilising internal and external resources, its brand and reputation.
Failure to where all stores receive unannounced visits on a regular basis.
This helps ensure our do so could result in a loss of trust high standards are maintained across the chain.
With our suppliers, we expect the and confidence by both customers same high standards of welfare and all suppliers are visited regularly by vets, third party and colleagues.
assessors, our field pet team and an animal welfare organisation and are assessed against a comprehensive set of welfare and standards criteria.
As an example of our prioritising of pet welfare, during Easter 2016 we temporarily halted the sale of rabbits in response to concerns over the welfare of rabbits bought at Easter.
The Group also deals with customers pets on a daily basis through its veterinary practices, grooming salons and Support Adoption centres, with a consequent risk of the death or injury of pets whilst in our care.
We have a clear set of operational protocols, with the veterinary practices subject to the professional standards mandated by the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons.
We also have highly visible field operations teams in respect of in-store pets, grooming and veterinary surgeries.
Each area has specific colleagues focused on ensuring the highest pet welfare standards are maintained.
We operate a confidential Pet Promise Line where colleagues are able to raise concerns about pet care directly with our Head of Pets.
Any calls to this line result in appropriate action to address the concerns raised.
Pet welfare across the Group is overseen by the Pets Before Profit Board committee.
This meets regularly to review pet welfare and check that appropriate processes are in place to ensure we maintain our high welfare standards.
Outlook Strategic priorities As we continue to increase our size and scale, we must work to ensure that pet Grow like-for-like welfare standards continue to be maintained at a high level across the Group.
Grow space and optimise footprint We will continue to monitor welfare standards closely and take appropriate steps Grow margins where required to maintain them.
Change: Competition Description and impact Mitigation The Group competes with a wide variety We continue to evolve our proposition through the ongoing addition of vets and of retailers and vet practices, including groomers into our existing store estate whilst continuing to innovate with the regular other pet specialists, supermarkets and introduction of new and exclusive products into our food and accessory ranges.
Online competition is also continue to open new stores, vet practices and grooming salons and other trial formats.
a risk, as large, well-known internet As a specialist retailer, the delivery of friendly expertise through our highly engaged businesses expand into pet products trained store colleagues is a key element of our proposition and we continue to invest and the established pet product sites to ensure our service standards, as measured by our customers through Fish4opinion, improve and expand their offer.
Further enhancements are being made to the Pets at Home website to ensure that it is an optimal experience for customers.
Failure to keep abreast of, and respond to, developments by our competition in The VIP club was launched in November 2012 and has been very successful the areas of price, range, quality and attracting 4.5m members at financial year-end.
This customer and pet database service could have an adverse impact enables more targeted marketing, which helps drive up basket values and enables on the Groups financial performance us to build a stronger sense of engagement with our customers and their pets.
and impact opportunities for growth.
In February 2016, we launched Brand Match where customers are able to check the prices of their branded purchases from Pets at Home against Tesco.
If the customers shopping would have been cheaper at Tesco.
com, a money back voucher is issued.
This helps to give customers the confidence that, as well as choosing the best store to shop for their Very Important Pets they can now be assured that they do not need to look around to make sure they are paying the best prices.
Beyond Brand Match, we track and respond to competitor pricing movements where appropriate.
Continuous market research is carried out to review the pet market both at home and abroad and understand what our competitors are doing worldwide.
This helps identify further changes initiatives that need to be implemented to help keep Pets at Home ahead of the competition here in the UK and remain a leader in the market.
Outlook Strategic priorities Vacancy levels for existing store space have decreased leading to more competition Grow like-for-like for physical store space.
There has been some increase in the number of pure play Grow space and optimise footprint online competitors but this is not expected to have a significant impact on our Grow margins business.
Competitor pricing strategies could become more competitive.
Change: Pets at Home Group Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Key risk Stores Description and impact Mitigation A key part of the Groups growth strategy To open a new store successfully, we have to, in the first instance, identify an and services is to increase the number of stores and to appropriate location with a store size appropriate to the local market and with expansion grow its in-store and standalone veterinary lease terms that are acceptable.
We have the ability, with smaller footprint practices and grooming salons.
stores, to utilise mezzanine space to deploy Vet and Groom Room offerings, maximising the opportunity to open the majority of stores with a full service If we are unable to deliver the number of proposition.
Any proposed new store investment has to deliver an appropriate sites necessary to fulfil the stores and financial return after taking into account any financial impact on the existing services expansion laid out in our strategy store portfolio.
These processes are equally applicable when the Group looks and maintain our existing numbers of to open a Barkers for Dogs store or a standalone veterinary practice.
However, sites, our expected financial performance in common with our in-store veterinary practice-opening programme, we also could be adversely impacted.
need to recruit a joint venture veterinary partner with the ability to fund their investment into the joint venture and with the ability to provide the personal guarantee to the bank providing the third party financing to the joint venture veterinary practice.
The business maintains new store and new joint venture partner pipelines, which identify potential locations and potential partners at each stage of our process.
This enables the Board to monitor progress in delivering the expected number of new stores, veterinary practices and groom rooms.
Certain geographical areas for example, within the M25 represent a particular risk as suitable space for new stores, Groom Rooms, vet practices and Barkers for Dogs is limited and existing sites may be redeveloped.
Where existing sites are at risk of redevelopment or where leases may not be renewed, specific measures are taken to maximise the opportunity for the Group including considering purchasing the freehold if appropriate.
Outlook Strategic priorities An increased proportion of our new stores will be located on newly developed Grow like-for-like retail parks and park extensions.
Whilst this can create greater timing uncertainties, Grow space and optimise footprint we do not expect any challenges in the short term.
However, new developments Grow margins are very much dependent on tenant demand and the overall economy.
Change: Our people Description and impact Mitigation As a specialist retailer, retaining highly We continue to invest in training to broaden the skill base of colleagues trained and engaged colleagues is across the business.
We also closely monitor colleague retention rates and fundamental to our continued success engagement, the latter through our annual Were All Ears engagement survey and the delivery of our future growth.
which is followed up by Were All Action to ensure the business responds appropriately to opportunities for improvement raised by colleagues.
We also A significant number of colleagues in have a rolling programme of listening groups across the business to ensure certain areas of our business are EU we are addressing issues on an ongoing basis and we are participating in the nationals.
If the referendum in June 2016 Great Place to Work programme.
results in a vote to leave the EU, then retention and further recruitment of EU Our Remuneration Policy, as set out on pages 97 to 107, is designed to ensure nationals may be at risk.
executives of the necessary calibre are attracted and retained and that through our Long term Incentive Plans and Company Share Option Plan, colleagues If we do not retain and train our colleagues, across the business can share in our success.
Similarly, we continually review it is unlikely that we will be able to deliver the remuneration and benefits packages available to all colleagues to ensure outstanding customer service, which is a our colleagues are appropriately rewarded for the substantial contribution they key element of our proposition.
make to our growth and success.
Succession plans are in place for key roles Our growth plans and future success are and the Board and senior management regularly review these.
at risk if we do not recruit and retain high calibre, talented senior management.
Outlook Strategic priorities The outcome of the EU referendum in June may have an impact on our Grow like-for-like employment of EU nationals.
We need to ensure that the Group continues to be Grow space and optimise footprint an attractive place to work, particularly if employment levels continue to increase Change: nationally and there is more competition in the job market.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Business systems Description and impact Mitigation We are aware of the need to keep In recent years, we have made significant upgrades to our business critical and information core business systems up to date, systems including the implementation of SAP Financials and HR along with SAP security with the capability to support the Groups HANA and BPC.
Our warehouse management system has been replaced with JDA and core If our investments in both systems and enterprise applications have been upgraded as well as the main retail website.
infrastructure do not keep pace with We continue to monitor the level of activity within the Business Systems function the growth of the business there may and will respond appropriately should IT project or service delivery be at risk.
be a consequent limitation to our ability Disaster recovery is a key part of our systems strategy, enabling us to continue to to trade and expand.
In addition, the trade in the event of a system outage.
Disaster recovery plans have been reviewed scale of system and infrastructure and updated and a schedule for regular testing is now in place.
The business also change is currently significant and undertakes regular system penetration testing.
this may affect our ability to deliver An information security project is ongoing to ensure that we have a good IT services to the business.
understanding of information security threats and that we have appropriate We hold a significant amount of measures in place to mitigate the associated risks.
Our customer loyalty scheme customer data and recognise the need data is held by a specialist third party who has industry standard information to keep this secure.
Any information security accreditations and is regularly audited.
Encryption is used to protect security breach could adversely affect the transmission of customer data.
our reputation and the take up of our customer loyalty scheme.
Outlook Strategic priorities Our systems stability and reliability will continue to improve as upgrades and Grow like-for-like enhancements are implemented and new systems are adopted.
Change: Information security risks are likely to continue to increase.
We monitor this risk and will strengthen our controls as required.
Supply chain Description and impact Mitigation During the financial year, approximately Having Pets at Home colleagues on the ground working collaboratively with suppliers sourcing 18% of the Groups merchandise cost enables us to monitor closely compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics and of goods was globally sourced, and Business Conduct policy, as well as compliance with our Supplier Quality Manual.
therefore we are exposed to the risks In addition, an independent third party undertakes unannounced visits to further associated with international trade, monitor compliance with Group policies.
During the year we have undertaken a Group such as inflation, changing regulatory wide risk assessment to highlight any areas where we may be vulnerable to the risk frameworks and currency exposure.
of modern slavery and will strengthen our processes in the areas highlighted.
We are also exposed to the risks Exposure to foreign currency movements is partially mitigated through our hedging associated with the quality and safety strategy.
More detail on this can be found on page 146. of products produced globally on behalf Business continuity plans are in place for the Distribution Centres and plans are of the Group, many of which are own in place to mitigate the impact of any disaster by servicing all stores from a single branded or exclusive private labels.
A failure to manage this risk adequately could lead to reputational damage, reflected in a lack of confidence by customers and colleagues in the Group brands.
We have two national Distribution Centres covering the north and south of the UK respectively.
A disaster at one of the DCs may result in a significant interruption to the supply of stock for a large number of stores and in the fulfilment of internet orders.
Outlook Strategic priorities We continue to develop our quality assurance processes and to ensure the Grow like-for-like effectiveness of our Far East sourcing office in mitigating our sourcing risks Grow margins in the region.
Change: Pets at Home Group Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Key risk Liquidity and Description and impact Mitigation The business requires adequate cash The Groups finances are continually monitored in the context of its growth plans and a credit risk resources to enable it to fund its growth re-financing arrangement was made during the year.
As a result, the Group is confident plans through its capital projects and that it has adequate revolving facilities in place, with a broad syndicate of ten banks.
or an expansion of the Groups working The Groups growth plans in respect of joint venture veterinary practices is predicated capital requirement.
on the availability of finance for new joint venture veterinary partners to fund both the Without adequate cash resources, the capital cost and working capital requirement for each new practice opening.
The Group Group may be unable to deliver its has two revolving and two non-revolving facilities in place with major high street lenders growth plans, with a consequent impact that give us confidence that our medium-term joint venture partner growth plans are on future financial performance.
The Group ensures that all cash surpluses are invested with banks that have credit ratings and investment criteria that meet the requirements set out in the Group Treasury policy, which has been approved by the Board.
The Groups key suppliers are exposed to credit risk and, as part of the Groups overall risk management programme, the business has identified alternative suppliers where appropriate and developed contingency plans, particularly in respect of own label and private label food products.
Outlook Strategic priorities We will continue to monitor our finances and build relationships with our finance Grow space and optimise footprint providers.
We do not anticipate any significant macroeconomic changes in the short Change: to medium term that may affect this risk area although the outcome of the EU referendum may have some bearing.
Treasury and Description and impact Mitigation The Group has an exposure to exchange This exposure to FX fluctuation is managed via forward foreign currency contracts financial risk rate risk in respect of the US dollar which that are designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group has borrowings with floating is the principal purchase currency for interest rates linked to LIBOR, thereby exposing the Group to fluctuations in LIBOR goods sourced from the Far East.
The EU and the consequent impact on interest cost.
To manage this risk the Group has referendum in June has increased currency interest rate swaps in place that fix the interest rate on a significant proportion pressures and, dependent upon the of the Group borrowings.
Further details can be found on page 147. outcome of the referendum, we may see All hedging activity is undertaken by the Group Treasury function in accordance this continue for some time.
The Group with the Group Treasury policy which sets out the criteria for counterparties with also faces risks from changes to interest whom the Group can transact and clearly states that all hedging activities are rates and compliance with taxation undertaken in the context of known and forecast cashflows, with speculative legislation.
If we do not adequately transactions specifically prohibited.
Dedicated tax resource is in place and manage this exposure there could be specialist tax advisors are retained to assist in this area.
an impact on the Groups financial performance with a consequential impact on operational and growth plans.
Outlook Strategic priorities Ongoing currency movements between the US dollar and GBP may result in further Grow margin exchange risk, particularly in light of the forthcoming referendum.
We will continue Change: to monitor this and adjust our approach to hedging where necessary.
Regulatory and Description and impact Mitigation Many of the Groups activities are We actively monitor compliance with our existing obligations and we have internal Compliance regulated by legislation and standards policies and standards to ensure compliance where appropriate.
We also provide including, but not limited to, trading, training for colleagues where required and operate a confidential hotline for advertising, product quality, health and colleagues to raise concerns in confidence.
safety, pet shop licensing, carbon emission Our suppliers commit to adhering to relevant regulations and standards as outlined reporting, bribery act and data protection.
We carry out a rolling programme of supplier audits to check Failure to comply with these may result for compliance with our requirements.
in financial or reputational damage.
Outlook Strategic priorities We welcome the Governments recent animal establishments licensing consultation Grow like-for-like and the proposed improvements to the pet shop licensing regime.
We continue to Change: monitor this and other regulatory developments such as the new European Data Protection regulations and to plan accordingly.
Extreme Weather Description and impact Mitigation Prolonged extreme or unseasonal We actively monitor and forecast demand and, should this risk occur, we would weather conditions may reduce footfall review planned and tactical promotional activity to determine whether strengthening in our stores, resulting in weak sales, this would drive sales.
leading to adverse impacts on profit and inventory.
Outlook Strategic priorities Further improvements to our omni-channel offering will continue to improve our Grow like-for-like resilience to reduced store footfall during periods of extreme weather.
Change: Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43
