Risk management An effective risk management process has been adopted to help the Group achieve its strategic objectives and enjoy long term success.
Like all businesses, we face Our risk management process risks and uncertainties that could impact the achievement of our strategy.
These risks are 1 Key risks by accepted as part of doing area and any changes since business.
The Board recognises the last review that the nature and scope of these risks can change and so regularly reviews them as well 5 2 This process is then Risk ratings as the systems and processes reviewed monitored and by evaluating The Board and the Executive reported to the Board and each risk and Management Team are collectively to mitigate them.
Audit & Risk Committee assigning a score responsible for managing risk twice a year across the Group.
On a department by department basis, risks are reviewed regularly and risk registers are updated at least three times a year.
The teams meet to discuss and agree: 4 3 Progress in executing Identifying the agreed process required actions improvement and against each risk implementing agreed risk mitigation Principal risk rating matrix Top principal risks 1.
Our people 5. Business systems and information security 6.
Extreme weather 8 7 6 9 LOW IMPACT HIGH Pets at Home Group Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 RARE PROBABILITY ALMOST CERTAIN Strategic report Overview Strategy Performance Risk management responsibilities are allocated as follows: Holds meetings quarterly with stakeholders from across the Group.
Reviews the Groups risk register, health Health and Safety and safety policy and compliance with Committee applicable regulations.
Assists the Board in Recommends to the managing the risk of health, Board and Group safety and security appropriate policies and procedures.
Updates the Board on accidents across the Group.
Audit & Risk Committee Internal Audit Oversees the risk Co-ordinates the risk management process management process on behalf of the Board Receives and reviews Holds meetings with detailed risk reports all Risk Owners prepared on a department across the business three times a year.
by department basis Operating Board twice a year.
Updates the individual Has line responsibility risk registers, Chairman, together for managing risks within including actions with the committee, their areas and progress made, completes a detailed assesses risk ratings review of the risk reports.
and determines if these should change Conducts regular deep up or down and dives into key risk areas documents the with relevant Executive controls in place Board members to that help mitigate understand the nature each risk.
of the risks and adequacy of the mitigations and Reviews risk Takes action, Identi es new controls that are in place.
registers periodically as agreed and risks for inclusion three times a year.
documented in in the registers.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39
