44 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risks and uncertainties Minimising our risk The risks outlined below are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all the risks associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
How these risks are identified is described in the Corporate Change in risk key Governance section on pages 63 and 64.
Achieving Playtechs strategic Gaming Financials Up No Down NEW New objectives while minimising the key division division change risk risks the business faces will deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
Risks relating to both the Gaming and Financials divisions Likelihood impact and Risk change from prior year Mitigation Category Regulation licensing requirements The Group holds a number of licences for its activities from Playtech has a fully resourced compliance Likelihood: Low Regulatory regulators.
Loss of all or any of these licences may adversely team, which constantly monitors Group impact on the revenues and or reputation of the Group.
activities and ensures they are compliant Impact: High with regulatory and licensing requirements.
Regulation local requirements New licensing regimes may impose conditions.
For example, Playtech works closely with regulators to Likelihood: Low Regulatory introduction of a requirement to locate significant technical ensure regulators understand the impact infrastructure within the relevant territory or to establish of technical changes and specific local Impact: Medium and maintain real-time data interfaces with the regulator.
Such conditions present operational challenges and may prohibit the ability of licensees to offer the full range of the Groups products.
Taxation Given the environment in which the Group operates, the Management remains fully informed of Likelihood: Low Regulatory business is exposed to continuously evolving rules and developments in domestic and international practices governing the taxation of e-commerce activity tax laws within jurisdictions where the Group Impact: Medium in various jurisdictions.
Adverse changes to tax rules and has a local presence, whether the presence is changes may increase the Groups underlying effective tax driven by assets and or people.
In conjunction rate and reduce profits available for distribution.
with consultation with the Groups professional advisers, management seeks to ensure that evolving tax rules and practices are carefully considered in advance of actual enactment and implementation of changing laws and practices which, together with ensuring that appropriate discipline is strictly adhered to, minimises the risk that potentially adverse consequences will significantly impact the Groups underlying effective tax rate.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Economic environment A downturn in consumer discretionary spend or macroPlaytechs customers and licensees are Likelihood: Low Economic economic factors outside of Playtechs control could result geographically diverse, which should environment in reduced spend by consumers on gambling and financial mitigate reliance on any particular region.
Impact: Medium trading and the Groups revenues would fall.
Management closely monitors business performance and, if a downturn were to occur, remedial action commensurate with the nature and scale of the slowdown could be taken.
Cash management acquisitions Playtech have significant cash balances, which may be The Company has made a number of very Likelihood: Low Business used to acquire other businesses.
Such acquisitions may successful, value creating acquisitions and operations not deliver the expected synergies and or benefits and may has an established process in place and Impact: Medium destroy shareholder value.
experienced staff to conduct thorough due diligence before completing any transaction.
Cash management cash balances Foreign exchange volatility could impact the Groups The Group holds currency in various Likelihood: High Economic financial position.
denominations and our operations are environment geographically diverse.
The Group finance Impact: Medium team continually review cash balances to ensure that this risk is mitigated effectively.
Key employees The Groups future success depends in large part on the The Group provides a stimulating Likelihood: Medium Business continued service of a broad leadership team including professional environment and has a operations Executive Directors, senior managers and key personnel.
comprehensive performance evaluation Impact: Medium The development and retention of these employees along system to identify key talent and to ensure with the attraction and integration of new talent cannot that key personnel are appropriately be guaranteed.
rewarded and incentivised through a mixture of salary, v annual bonus and longterm incentives linked to the attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
IT security The risk of impairment to our operations for example The Group adopts industry standard Likelihood: Medium Business through cyber and distributed denial of service DDoS protections to detect any intrusion or operations attacks, technology failure or terrorist attack continues other security breaches, together with Impact: High to be one that the Group considers to be significant.
preventative measures safeguarding against System failure could significantly affect the services sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
The Group works continuously to improve the robustness and security of the Groups information technology systems.
46 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risks and uncertainties continued Likelihood impact and Risk change from prior year Mitigation Category Market exposure The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities Market exposure is monitored 24 hours Likelihood: Medium Economic couldadversely fluctuate due to movements in market a day on a real-time basis, using our environment prices of foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, proprietary automated reporting systems Impact: Medium equityand index prices.
to measure client exposure on all open positions.
Where exposure levels and client behaviour reaches certain levels, whether in total or on specific instruments, our risk management policy requires that mitigating actions, such as reducing exposure through hedging or liquidity arrangements, are considered.
Regulatory capital adequacy The requirement to maintain adequate regulatory capital Our proprietary automated reporting system Likelihood: Low Regulatory may affect the Groups ability to conduct its business and is used to monitor capital adequacy 24 hours may reduce profitability.
This is considered Impact: Medium within pre-determined limits, set by the risk management committee, which include an approved level of buffer to ensure that levels determined by our regulators are not breached.
Where the capital adequacy levels approach the pre-determined limits, necessary steps are taken to ensure that exposures are managed so as to not fall foulof regulatory requirements.
Trading volume Low volatility within foreign exchange rates, commodity Trading volumes are monitored in real-time Likelihood: Low Economic prices, equity and index prices may reduce profitability.
and the number of instruments available environment for clients to trade continues to increase Impact: Medium in order to ensure that potential for market volatility is captured within our offering.
Where markets become volatile within specific instruments, our technology allows for specific and tailored material to be released which highlights such instances toattract trading volume.
Regulatory data protection The requirements of the new EU General Data Protection In 2016, the Group appointed a new Data Likelihood: High Regulatory Regulations GDPR will come into force in May 2018.
Protection Officer DPO who works closely This places onerous responsibilities on data controllers with the Chief Security Office CSO and Risk Impact: Medium and processors who have users in the EU regardless of Committee to continuously strengthen our wherethe data is held or processed.
defences against cybercrime and comply NEW with future regulatory changes, including the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
We continue to invest in the security of our systems and processes to meet the needs of our business customers.
A continual assessment of information security risks has resulted in the implementation of multiple layers of assurance and audit activities leading to an enhancement of our security controls and our ability to reduce the likelihood of unauthorised access and to reduce the impact of any successful attack.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Regulatory preventing financial crime New regulations requiring companies to take action in The Board and Risk Committee have Likelihood: High Regulatory preventing financial crime are being developed.
These oversight of AML and ABC risk.
The include a new Anti-Money Laundering AML directive compliance and regulatory affairs team have Impact: Low coming into force on 26 June 2017 and calls for improved day to day oversight of AML and ABC policy Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABC regulations.
Training is provided to NEW all levels of employee throughout the year.
The Group regularly reviews and refreshes its strategic and operational policies and procedures to take into account changes in regulatory and policy landscape, best practices, business changes and changes in risk appetite.
The Group also participates in an industry wide initiative to combat money laundering, Gambling Anti-Money Laundering Group.
The Group takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
Policies and operational procedures will be refreshed in 2017 to ensure alignment with evolving regulatory frameworks.
Regulatory responsible gambling Responsible gambling is a material concern to society as The Group provide a wide range of tools Likelihood: Medium Regulatory well as a regulatory priority.
Licensing requirements are to help its licensees protect players and regularly updated to ensure that companies in the sector enable responsible gambling control.
The Impact: Medium provide a safe environment for consumers.
Recent trends effectiveness of these tools are monitored have seen an additional regulatory focus on treating and use of data analytics to enhance player NEW customers fairly and conducting marketing and advertising protection in both B2C and B2B markets is in a responsible manner.
New policies and guidance in B2C operations for responsible advertising and marketing have been developed and supported by training delivered by legal and compliance teams.
Promotions and advertisements are also reviewed by our legal and compliance teams to ensure they adhere to regulatory requirements.
Intellectual property rights The Groups primary commercial activity is as a licensor The Group puts into place contractual Likelihood: Low Business of gambling software.
The Group predominantly owns clauses with its licensees and suppliers to and legal the intellectual property IP rights in that gambling protect its intellectual property.
Impact: Medium software, including the IMS which is key to maintaining our competitive advantage.
Any claim that the Group doesnt NEW own its IP by a licensee or a third party, or any copying of the Groups IP by a third party, could have a significant effect on revenues.
In addition, the Group licenses intellectual property from third parties, including creation of very successful branded games.
Any loss of such IP rights could lead to a decline in casino revenues.
Business continuity planning Loss of revenue, reputational damage or breach of A dedicated business continuity specialist Likelihood: Medium Business regulatory requirements may occur as a result of a was hired in October 2016 to increase the operations business or location disruptive event.
focus on ensuring all business continuity Impact: Medium plans are up to date and complete.
Completed plans will also be tested to ensure effectiveness and training will be provided to key staff members.
