Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES FRAMEWORK FOR MANAGING RISK The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group maintains an effective risk management system.
It determines the Groups approach to risk, its policies and the procedures that are implemented to mitigate exposure to risk.
PROCESS The Board continually assesses and monitors the key risks in the business and Polypipe has developed a risk management framework to identify, report, and manage its principal risks and uncertainties.
This includes the recording of all principal risks and uncertainties on a Group Risk Register and a Group Risk Profile which are both updated at least every six months.
Risks are fully analysed, allocated owners, scored for both impact and probability to determine the exposure to the business, which should be prioritised, and what mitigation is required.
External risks include economic conditions, the weather, Government action, policies and regulations, raw material prices and information systems disruption.
Internal risks include reliance on key customers, and recruitment and retention of key personnel.
The Board seeks to mitigate the businesses exposure to strategic, financial and operational risk, both external and internal.
The effectiveness of key mitigating controls is continually monitored and subjected to periodic testing by the Group Financial Controller.
The table below highlights the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Groups performance and prospects and the mitigating activities which are aimed at reducing the impact or likelihood of a major risk materialising.
These risks have all been considered by the Board when developing the Groups Viability Statement.
The Board does recognise however that it will not always be possible to eliminate these risks entirely.
In addition, the principal risks listed below do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face and they are not listed in order of priority, probability or magnitude of potential impact.
Change in potential Risk Potential Impact Mitigations impact and or probability Raw material prices The Group is exposed to volatile Any increase in the market The Group seeks to pass on raw material price Increased raw material prices, particularly price of crude oil or other increases to its customers wherever possible.
There polymers, due to fluctuations petroleum feedstocks, is usually at least a three-month time lag from in the market price of crude foreign currency exchange notification of the raw material price increase oil and other petroleum rate movements, or changes before selling prices can be adjusted in the feedstocks, foreign currency to suppliers manufacturing market.
exchange rate movements, capacity could have a direct Competitors of the Group are likely to experience and changes to suppliers impact on the prices the Group the same pressures of any sustained raw material manufacturing capacity.
pays for raw materials which price increases.
could adversely affect its financial results.
Business disruption The Groups manufacturing and Such incidents could result The Group has developed business continuity, crisis No change distribution operations could in the temporary cessation in response, and disaster recovery plans.
be subjected to disruption activity, or disruption, at one The Group performs regular maintenance to due to incidents including, of the Groups production minimise the risk of equipment failure.
but not limited to, fire, facilities impeding the ability Finished goods holdings across the operations failure of equipment, power to deliver its products to its acts as a limited buffer in the event of operational outages, workforce strikes, customers, thereby adversely failure.
or unexpected or prolonged affecting the Groups financial The Group has the ability to transfer some of periods of severe weather.
its production to alternative sites and could also In addition, prolonged periods subcontract out some of its tooling to reduce any of severe weather could potential loss in production capacity.
result in a slowdown in site The Group maintains a significant amount of construction activity reducing insurance to cover business interruption and the demand for the Groups damage to property from such incidents.
products thereby adversely Independent insurer inspections take place across affecting its financial results.
all sites to identify and assess potential hazards and business interruption risks.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential Risk Potential Impact Mitigations impact and or probability Reliance on key customers Some of the Groups businesses Failure to manage relationships The Groups strategic objective is to broaden its No change are dependent on key with key customers, whilst customer base wherever possible.
customers in highly competitive continuing to provide high The Group focuses on delivering exceptional markets.
quality products delivered on customer service and maintains strong time in full, and developing relationships with major customers through direct new innovative products, engagement at all levels.
could lead to a loss of business The Group maintains customer service matrices thereby adversely affecting the which are continually tracked and monitored with Groups financial results.
The Group closely manages its pricing, rebates, and commercial terms with its customers to ensure that they remain competitive.
The Group continually seeks to innovate and develop its product lines to ensure its products are to the standard our customers expect.
Recruitment and retention of key personnel The Group is dependent on Loss of any key personnel The Group has a formal succession plan in place Reduced the continued employment without adequate and timely facilitating staff retention and progression through and performance of our senior replacement could disrupt the Group.
management team and other business operations and the The Group aims to provide competitive key skilled personnel.
Groups ability to implement remuneration packages and incentive schemes to and deliver its growth strategy.
retain and motivate key personnel.
Economic conditions The Group is dependent on Lower levels of activity within The Group closely monitors trends in the industry, No change the level of activity in the the construction industry could invests in market research and is an active member construction industry and is reduce sales and production of the Construction Products Association.
The therefore susceptible to any volumes thereby adversely Group uses Construction Products Association and changes in its cyclical economic affecting the Groups financial Euroconstruct forecasts in its budgeting process.
The Group closely manages its demand forecasts and costs through weekly operational review meetings.
Government action and policies The Group is in part dependent Significant downward trends The Groups strategy is to have its operations No change on Government action and in Government spending on structured so that it has a balanced exposure to policies relating to public and public and private investment the residential, commercial and infrastructure private investment and is arising from economic construction sectors so as to reduce the impact of therefore susceptible to changes uncertainty and ongoing any adverse Government action or policy on any in Government spending austerity policies could have one of the construction sectors.
an adverse impact on the The Group closely monitors trends in the industry, construction industry which invests in market research and is an active member could impact on sales and of the Construction Products Association.
production volumes thereby The Group closely manages its demand forecasts adversely affecting the Groups and costs through weekly operational review financial results.
31 25092.04 13 April 2017 2:58 PM Proof 5 Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES Change in potential Risk Potential Impact Mitigations impact and or probability Government regulations and standards relating to the manufacture and use of building materials The Group is subject to the Failure of the Group to comply The Group has a formal Health, Safety and No change requirements of UK and with changes to environmental Environmental policy, and procedures are in place European environmental and regulations and other obligations to monitor compliance with the policy.
occupational safety and health relating to environmental The Group performs internal environmental audits laws and regulations, including matters could result in the Group and is subjected to external environmental audits obligations to investigate being liable for fines, require on a periodic basis.
and clean up environmental modification to operations, The Group performs weekly and monthly contamination on or from increase manufacturing and reporting on key Health, Safety and Environmental properties.
delivery costs, and could result matters which require the attention of the Board.
in the suspension or termination of necessary operational permits, thereby adversely affecting the Groups financial results.
Product liability The Group manufactures A product failure or recall The Group operates comprehensive quality No change products that are potentially could result in a liability claim assurance systems and procedures at each site.
vital to the safe operation of for personal injury or other Wherever required, the Group obtains its customers products or damage leading to substantial certifications over its products to the relevant processes.
These products are financial settlements, national and European standards including often incorporated into the damage to the Groups Kitemarks, BBAs, WRCs and WRACs.
fabric of a building or dwelling, brand reputation, costs and or buried in the ground as part expenses and diversion of key The Group maintains product liability insurance of an infrastructure system managements attention from to cover third party claims arising from potential and in each case, it would be the operation of the Group, product failures or recalls.
difficult to access, repair, recall which could all adversely affect or replace such products.
Information systems The Group is dependent on the Disruption or failure of the The Group contracts with several third party No change continued efficient operation of information systems could providers to supply off-site, business continuity its information systems and is affect the Groups ability to arrangements for wholesale or partial recovery of therefore vulnerable to potential conduct its ongoing operations the key servers and applications which are used failures due to power losses, which could adversely affect within the various business units of the Group.
telecommunication failures, or the Groups financial results.
These continuity arrangements are subject to from an external security breach periodic validation and testing.
Some business due to the increasing levels of units of the Group also take advantage of their sophisticated cyber-crime now multi-site operations to provision server and threatening businesses.
applications recovery between those sites.
There are a range of local, business unit specific, back up processes which are performed on a daily, weekly and monthly basis.
Firewalls are in place to protect the perimeter of the Groups networks and any off-site access to the Groups servers and applications is through secure Virtual Private Network connections.
In addition, email and internet traffic filtering is in place to protect against potential viruses or malware entering the Groups networks.
User and server computing devices have anti-virus software installed to protect from potential infection.
The Group continually invests in the maintenance and upgrade of IT infrastructure and information systems.
All upgrades are carefully planned and actively managed by senior personnel to minimise potential business disruption.
com Stock Code: PLP STRATEGIC REPORT Change in potential Risk Potential Impact Mitigations impact and or probability Acquisitions The management of Ineffective management of Full due diligence is performed before any Reduced acquisitions activity and their acquisitions could lead to acquisition is made.
integration play a part in management distraction, a The Group seeks contractual assurances from the delivering the Groups growth drain on financial resources, sellers to mitigate against any identified issues or risks.
strategy and there is a risk and impact on the Formal Board level approvals are required in that any acquisitions may not Groups ability to successfully accordance with the Groups delegation of perform as expected.
implement and deliver its authority structure for any acquisition activity.
The progress of any integration is closely monitored at Board and senior management team level.
Financial risk management The Groups operations expose The Group has in place financial risk management it to a variety of financial risks procedures that seek to limit the potential adverse that include the effects of: effects of the financial risks as follows: Foreign currency exchange Foreign currency exchange Foreign currency exchange risk The Group No change risk The risk that the fair risk Foreign currency enters into forward foreign currency exchange value of a financial instrument exchange rate fluctuations rate contracts for the purchase and sale of foreign or future cash flows will could adversely affect the currencies in order to manage its exposure to fluctuate because of changes Groups financial results.
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in foreign currency exchange primarily in respect of US Dollars and Euros relative rates.
The Groups risk relates to Pounds Sterling.
It is not possible for the primarily to its operating Group to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate activities where the revenue movements which impact the translation of its or expense is denominated overseas subsidiaries results and net assets as all in a currency other than the of the Groups long-term borrowings are Pounds functional currency of the entity Sterling denominated.
Credit risk The risk that a Credit risk The failure of Credit risk Customer credit risk is managed No change counterparty of the Group a counterparty to meet their by each business unit subject to the Groups will not be able to meet its financial obligations could established policy, procedures and controls relating obligations under a financial lead to a financial loss for the to customer credit risk management.
Credit quality instrument or customer Group.
of the customer is assessed based on an extensive contract.
The Group is exposed credit rating scorecard and individual credit limits to credit risk from its trading are defined in accordance with this assessment.
activities primarily from trade Outstanding customer receivables are regularly receivables and from its monitored and any shipments to major export financing activities, including customers are generally covered by letters of credit deposits with banks.
Where the Group perceives there to be a significant credit exposure it will take out credit insurance or obtain an irrevocable letter of credit prior to any transaction.
Credit risk arising from cash deposits with banks is managed in accordance with the Groups established treasury policy, procedures and controls.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with banks that have as a minimum a single A credit rating.
Liquidity risk The risk that Liquidity risk Insufficient Liquidity risk The Groups approach to Reduced the Group will not be able to funds could result in the Group managing liquidity is to ensure that it will always meets its financial obligations as not being able to fund its have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due.
due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
Interest rate cash flow risk Interest rate cash flow Interest rate cash flow risk To reduce the Reduced The risk that interest rates could risk Increases to interest Groups exposure to future increases in interest rise impacting on the Groups rates could result in significant rates, the Group has entered into interest rate borrowings.
additional interest rate cash swaps from variable to fixed interest rates.
payments being required on any borrowings.
