Risk management and internal control The Board is responsible for ensuring that Risk management Second line of defence risk an appropriate and effective system of A key component of the Manual is the control and oversight internal control and risk management is in Group Risk Framework, which requires all Assists the Board to formulate and then place across the Group.
The framework of business units to establish processes for implement the approved risk appetite risk management and internal controls identifying, evaluating and managing the and limit framework, risk management centres on clear delegated authorities to risks facing the business.
plans, risk policies, risk reporting and ensure Board oversight and control of risk identification processes: and The Board determines the nature and important decisions.
The framework is extent of the principal risks it is willing to Reviews and assesses the risk-taking underpinned by the Group Code of take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It activities of the first line of defence and Business Conduct, which sets out the has delegated authority to the Risk where appropriate, challenges the ethical standards the Board requires of Committee to review and approve changes actions being taken to manage and itself, employees, agents and others to the Group Risk Framework and risk control risks and approves any working in the Group.
The framework is policies and approve changes to risk limits significant changes to the controls in designed to manage rather than eliminate within the overall Board approved risk place.
the risk of failure to achieve business appetite.
The Risk Committee reviews objectives, and can only provide Third line of defence compliance with the Group Risk reasonable and not absolute assurance independent assurance Framework and risk policies through its against material misstatement or loss.
regular activities detailed in the report on Provides independent assurance on pages 103 to 105.
Internal control the design, effectiveness and implementation of the overall system The Group Governance Manual the The Groups risk governance of internal control, including risk Manual sets out the delegated authorities arrangements, which support the Board, management and compliance.
and establishes the requirements for the Risk Committee and the Audit subsidiaries to seek approvals from or Committee, are based on the principles of report to Group Head Office.
Group-wide the three lines of defence model: risk standards are established through policies taking and management, risk control and and other governance arrangements, oversight, and independent assurance.
which are also included in the Manual.
First line of defence risk taking Internal controls and processes, based on and management the provisions established in the Manual, Takes and manages risk exposures in are in place across the Group.
These accordance with the risk appetite, include controls for the preparation of mandate and limits set by the Board: financial reporting.
The operation of these controls and processes facilitates the Identifies and reports the risks that the preparation of reliable financial reporting Group is exposed to, and those that are and the preparation of local and emerging: consolidated financial statements in Promptly escalates any limit breaches or accordance with the applicable accounting any violations of risk management standards and requirements of the policies, mandates or instructions: Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
These controls include certifications by the Chief Identifies and promptly escalates Executive and Chief Financial Officer of significant emerging risk issues: and each business unit regarding the accuracy Manages the business to ensure full of information provided for use in compliance with the Group risk preparation of the Groups consolidated management framework as set out in financial reporting and the assurance work the Manual, which includes the Group carried out in respect of US reporting Risk Framework and risk policies as well requirements.
as approvals requirements, among The Board has delegated authority to the other requirements.
Audit Committee to review the framework and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
The Audit Committee is supported in this responsibility by the assurance work carried out by Group-wide Internal Audit and the work of the business unit audit committees, which oversee the effectiveness of controls in each respective business unit.
Details of how the Audit Committee oversees the framework of controls and their effectiveness on an ongoing basis, is set out more fully in the report on pages 95 to 102.
90 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 03 Governance The three lines of defence model is adopted at the Group level as follows: Board Board Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Executives Group CEO CEC GERC GEC Group CFO Group Regulatory Group CRO Director BSCMC Management TAC GCRC ERAC GSC GISC STOC Group Finance Group Compliance Group Security Group Risk Group-wide Internal Audit Key Board-level committees CEC Chief Executives Committee GCRC G roup Credit Risk Committee Executive personnel GEC Group Executive Committee ERAC Emerging Risk Assessment Committee Exec Management committees BSCMC Balance Sheet & Capital Management Committee GSC Group Security Committee GHO functions GERC G roup Executive Risk Committee GISC G roup Information Security Committee Direct reporting line TAC Technical Actuarial Committee STOC Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee Regular communication and escalation Formal review of controls by Group-wide Internal Audit, which Effectiveness of controls carries out risk-based audit plans across A formal evaluation of the systems of In accordance with provision C. 2.3 of the the Group.
Issues arising from any internal control and risk management is UK Corporate Governance Code and external regulatory engagement are carried out at least annually.
The report is provision C. 2.1 of the HK Corporate also taken into account.
considered by the Audit Committee and Governance Code, the Board reviewed the Risk Committee prior to the Board reaching effectiveness and performance of the For the purposes of the effectiveness a conclusion on the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal review, the Group has followed the FRC systems in place.
This evaluation takes control during 2016.
This review covered Guidance on Risk Management, Internal place prior to the publication of the all material controls, including financial, Control and Related Financial and Business Annual Report.
operational and compliance controls, risk Reporting.
In line with this guidance, the management systems and the adequacy of certification provided above does not As part of the evaluation, the Chief the resources, qualifications and apply to certain material joint ventures Executive and Chief Financial Officer of experience of staff of the Groups where the Group does not exercise full each business unit, including Group Head accounting, internal audit and financial management control.
In these cases, the Office, certify compliance with the Groups reporting functions.
The review identified Group satisfies itself that suitable governance policies and the risk a number of areas for improvement and governance and risk management management and internal control the necessary actions have been or are arrangements are in place to protect the requirements.
The Group Risk function being taken.
However, the relevant facilitates a review of the matters identified Group company which is party to the joint by this certification process.
This includes The Board confirms that there is an ongoing venture must, in respect of any services it the assessment of any risk and control process for identifying, evaluating and provides in support of the joint venture, issues reported during the year, risk and managing the significant risks faced by the comply with the requirements of the control matters identified and reported by Group, which has been in place throughout Groups internal governance framework.
the other Group oversight functions and the period and up to the date of this the findings from the reviews undertaken report, and confirms that the system remains effective.
