Risk factors A number of risk factors affect Prudentials Estimates of the value of financial outcome of the negotiations on UK operating results and financial condition instruments being difficult because withdrawal and any subsequent and, accordingly, the trading price of its in certain illiquid or closed markets, negotiations on trade and access to the shares.
The risk factors mentioned below determining the value at which financial countrys major trading markets, including should not be regarded as a complete and instruments can be realised is highly the single EU market is currently unknown.
comprehensive statement of all potential subjective.
Processes to ascertain such The ongoing uncertainty of when the UK risks and uncertainties.
The information values require substantial elements of will leave the EU, whether any form of given is as of the date of this document, judgement, assumptions and estimates transitional arrangements will be agreed and any forwardlooking statements are which may change over time : and between the UK and the EU, and the made subject to the reservations specified possibility of a lengthy period before Increased illiquidity also adds to below under Forwardlooking statements.
negotiations are concluded may increase uncertainty over the accessibility of volatility in the markets where the Group Prudentials approaches to managing risks financial resources and may reduce operates and create the potential for a are explained in the Group Chief Risk capital resources as valuations decline.
general downturn in economic activity Officers report on the risks facing our For example, this could occur where and for further or prolonged interest rate business and how these are managed external capital is unavailable at reductions in some jurisdictions due to section of this document.
sustainable cost, increased liquid assets monetary easing and investor sentiment.
are required to be held as collateral Risks relating to under derivative transactions or More generally, upheavals in the financial Prudentials business redemption restrictions are placed on markets may affect general levels of Prudentials investments in illiquid economic activity, employment and Prudentials businesses are funds.
In addition, significant customer behaviour.
As a result, insurers inherently subject to market redemption requests could also be may experience an elevated incidence fluctuations and general made on Prudentials issued funds and of claims, lapses, or surrenders of policies, economic conditions while this may not have a direct impact and some policyholders may choose to Uncertainty or negative trends in on the Groups liquidity, it could result in defer or stop paying insurance premiums.
international economic and investment reputational damage to Prudential.
The demand for insurance products may climates could adversely affect Prudentials also be adversely affected.
In addition, business and profitability.
Prudential Global financial markets are subject to there may be a higher incidence of uncertainty and volatility created by a operates against a challenging background counterparty failures.
If sustained, this of periods of significant volatility in global variety of factors, including concerns over: environment is likely to have a negative the change in accommodative monetary capital and equity markets and interest impact on the insurance sector over time rates which in some jurisdictions have policies in the US, the UK and other and may consequently have a negative jurisdictions with the risk of a disorderly become negative, together with impact on Prudentials business and its widespread economic uncertainty.
repricing of inflation expectations and balance sheet and profitability.
For global bond yields, sovereign debt, a For example, government interest rates example, this could occur if the recoverable remain at or near historic lows in the US, general slowing in world growth, the value of intangible assets for bancassurance increased level of geopolitical risk and the UK and some Asian countries in which agreements and deferred acquisition costs Prudential operates.
These factors could policyrelated uncertainty and potentially are reduced.
New challenges related to negative sociopolitical events.
have a material adverse effect on market fluctuations and general economic Prudentials business and profitability.
On 23 June 2016, the UK held a conditions may continue to emerge.
referendum in which a majority of the In the future, the adverse effects of such For some nonunitlinked investment voting population voted in favour of the UK factors would be felt principally through products, in particular those written in leaving the European Union EU.
The UK the following items: some of the Groups Asian operations, it is expected to submit a formal notification may not be possible to hold assets which Investment impairments and or reduced of its intention to withdraw from the EU investment returns, which could reduce will provide cash flows to match those by the end of March 2017.
Once this relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is Prudentials capital and impair its ability notification has been submitted, the UK to write significant volumes of new particularly true in those countries where will have a period of a maximum two years bond markets are not developed and in business, increase the potential adverse to negotiate the terms of its withdrawal impact of product guarantees, or have a certain markets where regulated premium from the EU.
If no formal withdrawal and claim values are set with reference to negative impact on its assets under agreement is reached between the UK and management and profit: the interest rate environment prevailing the EU, then it is expected the UKs at the time of policy issue.
This results membership of the EU will automatically Higher credit defaults and wider credit in a mismatch due to the duration and terminate two years after the submission and liquidity spreads resulting in uncertainty of the liability cash flows and of the notification of the UKs intention to realised and unrealised credit losses: the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable withdraw from the EU.
The vote in favour duration.
While this residual asset liability Failure of counterparties who have of the UK leaving the EU will have political, transactions with Prudential eg banks mismatch risk can be managed, it cannot legal and economic ramifications for both be eliminated.
Where interest rates in and reinsurers to meet commitments the UK and the EU, although these are these markets remain lower than those that could give rise to a negative impact expected to be more pronounced for the used to calculate premium and claim values on Prudentials financial position and UK.
The Group has several UK domiciled over a sustained period, this could have on the accessibility or recoverability operations, including Prudential UK and a material adverse effect on Prudentials of amounts due or, for derivative M&G, and these may be impacted by a reported profit.
transactions, adequate collateral not UK withdrawal from the EU.
The potential being in place: 392 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 07 Additional information In the US, fluctuations in prevailing interest lower in a sustained low interest rate portfolio.
There is also risk that public rates can affect results from Jackson which environment.
perceptions about the stability and has a significant spreadbased business, creditworthiness of financial institutions Prudential is subject to the risk with the majority of its assets invested in and the financial sector generally might of potential sovereign debt fixed income securities.
In particular, fixed be affected, as might counterparty credit deterioration owing to the annuities and stable value products written relationships between financial institutions.
amounts of sovereign debt by Jackson expose Prudential to the risk If a sovereign were to default on its that changes in interest rates, which are not obligations held in its obligations, or adopt policies that devalue fully reflected in the interest rates credited investment portfolio or otherwise alter the currencies in which its to customers, will reduce spread.
The obligations are denominated this could have Investing in sovereign debt creates spread is the difference between the rate a material adverse effect on Prudentials exposure to the direct or indirect of return Jackson is able to earn on the financial condition and results of operations.
consequences of political, social or assets backing the policyholders liabilities economic changes including changes in Prudential is subject to the risk and the amounts that are credited to governments, heads of states or monarchs of exchange rate fluctuations policyholders in the form of benefit in the countries in which the issuers are owing to the geographical increases, subject to minimum crediting located and the creditworthiness of the diversity of its businesses rates.
Declines in spread from these sovereign.
Investment in sovereign debt products or other spread businesses that Due to the geographical diversity of obligations involves risks not present in Jackson conducts, and increases in Prudentials businesses, Prudential is debt obligations of corporate issuers.
surrender levels arising from interest rate subject to the risk of exchange rate In addition, the issuer of the debt or the rises, could have a material impact on its fluctuations.
Prudentials operations in the governmental authorities that control the businesses or results of operations.
US and Asia, which represent a significant repayment of the debt may be unable or proportion of operating profit based on unwilling to repay principal or pay interest Jackson also writes a significant amount longerterm investment returns and when due in accordance with the terms of of variable annuities that offer capital or shareholders funds, generally write such debt, and Prudential may have limited income protection guarantees.
The value policies and invest in assets denominated recourse to compel payment in the event of of these guarantees is affected by market in local currencies.
A sovereign debtors willingness factors such as interest rates, equity limits the effect of exchange rate or ability to repay principal and to pay values, bond spreads and realised volatility fluctuations on local operating results, interest in a timely manner may be affected and policyholder behaviour.
There could it can lead to significant fluctuations by, among other factors, its cash flow be market circumstances where the in Prudentials consolidated financial situation, its relations with its central bank, derivatives that Jackson enters into to statements upon the translation of results the extent of its foreign currency reserves, hedge its market risks may not fully cover its into pounds sterling.
This exposure is not the availability of sufficient foreign exposures under the guarantees.
The cost currently separately managed.
The exchange on the date a payment is due, of the guarantees that remain unhedged currency exposure relating to the the relative size of the debt service burden will also affect Prudentials results.
translation of reported earnings could to the economy as a whole, the sovereign Jackson hedges the guarantees on its impact on financial reporting ratios such debtors policy toward local and variable annuity book on an economic basis as dividend cover, which is calculated as international lenders, and the political with consideration of the local regulatory operating profit after tax on an IFRS basis, constraints to which the sovereign debtor position and, thus, accepts variability in divided by the dividends relating to the may be subject.
its accounting results in the short term in reporting year.
The impact of gains or Moreover, governments may use a variety order to achieve the appropriate result on losses on currency translations is recorded of techniques, such as intervention by these bases.
In particular, for Prudentials as a component of shareholders funds their central banks or imposition of Group IFRS reporting, the measurement within other comprehensive income.
regulatory controls or taxes, to devalue of the Jackson variable annuity guarantees Consequently, this could impact on their currencies exchange rates, or may is typically less sensitive to market Prudentials gearing ratios defined as adopt monetary and other policies movements than for the corresponding debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
including to manage their debt burdens hedging derivatives, which are held at The Groups surplus capital position for that have a similar effect, all of which market value.
However, depending on regulatory reporting purposes may also be could adversely impact the value of an the level of hedging conducted regarding affected by fluctuations in exchange rates investment in sovereign debt even in the a particular risk type, certain market with possible consequences for the degree absence of a technical default.
Periods of movements can drive volatility in the of flexibility the Prudential has in managing economic uncertainty may affect the economic or local regulatory results its business.
volatility of market prices of sovereign that may be less significant under debt to a greater extent than the volatility Prudential conducts its IFRS reporting.
inherent in debt obligations of other types businesses subject to regulation A significant part of the profit from of issuers.
and associated regulatory risks, Prudentials UK insurance operations including the effects of changes In addition, if a sovereign default or other is related to bonuses for policyholders in the laws, regulations, policies such events described above were to declared on withprofits products, which and interpretations and any occur, other financial institutions may also are broadly based on historical and current suffer losses or experience solvency or accounting standards in the rates of return on equity, real estate and other concerns, and Prudential might face markets in which it operates fixed income securities, as well as additional risks relating to any debt of such Changes in government policy and Prudentials expectations of future financial institutions held in its investment legislation including in relation to tax and investment returns.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 393 Risk factors Continued capital controls, regulation or regulatory Groups US insurance entities to the The IAIS has various initiatives which are interpretation applying to companies in the Groups solvency is calculated, which in detailed in this section.
On 18 July 2013, financial services and insurance industries effect recognises surplus in US insurance it published a methodology for identifying in any of the markets in which Prudential entities in excess of 250 per cent of local US GSIIs, and a set of policy measures that will operates, and decisions taken by regulators Risk Based Capital requirements.
There is a apply to them, which the FSB endorsed.
in connection with their supervision of risk that in the future changes are required An updated methodology for identifying members of the Group, which in some to be made to the approved internal model GSIIs was published by the IAIS on circumstances may be applied and these related applications which could 16 June 2016.
Groups designated as retrospectively, may adversely affect have a material impact on the Group a GSII are subject to additional regulatory Prudentials product range, distribution Solvency II capital position.
Where internal requirements, including enhanced channels, competitiveness, profitability, model changes are subject to regulatory groupwide supervision, effective capital requirements and, consequently, approval, there is a risk that the approval is resolution planning, development reported results and financing delayed or not given.
In such of a Systemic Risk Management Plan, requirements.
Also, regulators in circumstances, changes in our risk profile a Recovery Plan and a Liquidity Risk jurisdictions in which Prudential operates would not be able to be appropriately Management Plan.
Prudentials designation may impose requirements affecting the reflected in our internal model, which as a GSII was reaffirmed on 21 November allocation of capital and liquidity between could have a material impact on the 2016.
Prudential is monitoring the different business units in the Group, Groups Solvency II capital position.
The development and potential impact of the whether on a geographic, legal entity, UKs vote to leave the EU could result in policy measures and is continuing to product line or other basis.
Regulators may significant changes to the regulatory engage with the PRA on the implications change the level of capital required to be regime under which the Group operates.
of the policy measures and Prudentials held by individual businesses or could designation as a GSII.
Currently there are also a number of other introduce possible changes in the global regulatory developments which The GSII regime also introduces two types regulatory framework for pension could impact the way in which Prudential of capital requirements.
The first, a Basic arrangements and policies, the regulation is supervised in its many jurisdictions.
Capital Requirement BCR, is designed of selling practices and solvency These include the DoddFrank Wall Street to act as a minimum group capital requirements.
In addition, there could be Reform and Consumer Protection Act requirement and the second, a Higher Loss changes to the maximum level of non DoddFrank Act in the US, the work of Absorption HLA requirement reflects domestic ownership by foreign companies the Financial Stability Board FSB on the drivers of the assessment of GSII in certain jurisdictions.
Furthermore, as a Global Systemically Important Insurers designation.
The IAIS intends for these result of interventions by governments in GSIIs and the Common Framework for requirements to take effect from January response to recent financial and global the Supervision of Internationally Active 2019, but GSIIs will be expected to economic conditions, it is widely expected Insurance Groups ComFrame being privately report to their groupwide that there will continue to be a substantial developed by the International Association supervisors in the interim.
increase in government regulation and of Insurance Supervisors IAIS.
In addition, supervision of the financial services The IAIS is also developing ComFrame regulators in a number of jurisdictions in industry, including the possibility of higher which is focused on the supervision of which the Group operates are further capital requirements, restrictions on Internationally Active Insurance Groups developing local capital regimes: this certain types of transactions and enhanced IAIGs.
ComFrame will establish a set of includes potential future developments in supervisory powers.
common principles and standards Solvency II in the UK as referred to above, designed to assist regulators in addressing The European Unions Solvency II Directive National Association of Insurance risks that arise from insurance groups with came into effect on 1 January 2016.
This Commissioners reforms in the US, and operations in multiple jurisdictions.
As part measure of regulatory capital is more amendments to certain local statutory of this, work is underway to develop a volatile than under the previous Solvency I regimes in some territories in Asia.
These global Insurance Capital Standard ICS regime and regulatory policy may evolve changes and their potential impact on the that is intended to apply to IAIGs.
Once the under the new regime.
The European Group remain uncertain.
development of the ICS has been Commission has in late 2016 begun a The DoddFrank Act represents a concluded, it is intended to replace the BCR review of some aspects of the Solvency II comprehensive overhaul of the financial as the minimum group capital requirement legislation, which is expected to continue services industry within the US that, among for GSIIs.
A consultation on the ICS was until 2021 and covers, among other things, other reforms to financial services entities, concluded in 2016 and the IAIS intends a review of the Long Term Guarantee products and markets, may subject financial to publish an interim version of the ICS in measures.
Prudential applied for, and has institutions designated as systemically 2017.
Further field testing, consultations been granted approval by the UK important to heightened prudential and and private reporting to groupwide Prudential Regulation Authority to use the other requirements intended to prevent supervisors on the interim version are following measures when calculating its or mitigate the impact of future disruptions expected over the coming years, and the Solvency II capital requirements: the use of in the US financial system.
The full impact ICS is expected to be adopted as part of an internal model, the matching of the DoddFrank Act on Prudentials ComFrame by the IAIS in late 2019. adjustment for UK annuities, the volatility businesses remains unclear, as many of adjustment for selected US Dollar Various jurisdictions in which Prudential its provisions are primarily focused on denominated business, and UK transitional operates have created investor the banking industry, have a delayed measures.
Prudential also has permission compensation schemes that require effectiveness and or require rulemaking to use deduction and aggregation as the mandatory contributions from market or other actions by various US regulators method by which the contribution of the participants in some instances in the event over the coming years.
394 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 07 Additional information of a failure of a market participant.
As a Regulators interest may also include the taken by Prudential, and may be class major participant in the majority of its approach that product providers use to actions.
Although Prudential believes that chosen markets, circumstances could select thirdparty distributors and to it has adequately provided in all material arise where Prudential, along with other monitor the appropriateness of sales made aspects for the costs of litigation and companies, may be required to make by them.
In some cases, product providers regulatory matters, no assurance can be such contributions.
can be held responsible for the deficiencies provided that such provisions are sufficient.
Given the large or indeterminate amounts The Groups accounts are prepared in of damages sometimes sought, other accordance with current International In the US, there has been significant sanctions that might be applicable and the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS attention on the different regulatory inherent unpredictability of litigation and applicable to the insurance industry.
standards applied to investment advice disputes, it is possible that an adverse The International Accounting Standards delivered to retail customers by different outcome could, from time to time, have an Board IASB introduced a framework that sectors of the industry.
As a result of adverse effect on Prudentials reputation, it described as Phase I, which permitted reports relating to perceptions of industry results of operations or cash flows.
insurers to continue to use the statutory abuses, there have been numerous basis of accounting for insurance assets regulatory inquiries and proposals for Prudentials businesses are and liabilities that existed in their legislative and regulatory reforms.
This conducted in highly competitive jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
In July includes focus on the suitability of sales of environments with developing 2010, the IASB published its first Exposure certain products, alternative investments demographic trends and Draft for its Phase II on insurance and the widening of the circumstances continued profitability depends accounting, which would introduce under which a person or entity providing upon managements ability significant changes to the statutory investment advice with respect to certain to respond to these pressures reporting of insurance entities that prepare employee benefit and pension plans would and trends accounts according to IFRS.
A revised be considered a fiduciary subjecting the The markets for financial services in the Exposure Draft was issued in June 2013. person or entity to certain regulatory UK, US and Asia are highly competitive, The IASB is currently redeliberating the requirements, such as those adopted by with several factors affecting Prudentials Exposure Draft proposals in light of the US Department of Labor issued in ability to sell its products and continued comments by the insurance industry and April 2016 which is likely to cause market profitability, including price and yields other respondents and is expecting to issue disruption in the shorter term.
There is a offered, financial strength and ratings, the final standard IFRS 17, Insurance risk that new regulations introduced may range of product lines and product quality, Contracts in the first half of 2017.
The have a material adverse effect on the sales brand strength and name recognition, standard is expected to apply from 2021. of the products by Prudential and increase investment management performance, Prudentials exposure to legal risks.
Any changes or modification of IFRS historical bonus levels, developing accounting policies may require a change In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing demographic trends and customer appetite in the future results or a retrospective at different speeds, driven by a for certain savings products.
In some of its adjustment of reported results.
combination of global factors and local markets, Prudential faces competitors that considerations.
New requirements could are larger, have greater financial resources The resolution of several issues be introduced in these and other regulatory or a greater market share, offer a broader affecting the financial services regimes that challenge legal structures, range of products or have higher bonus industry could have a negative current sales practices, or could rates.
Further, heightened competition for impact on Prudentials reported retrospectively be applied to sales made talented and skilled employees and agents results or on its relations with prior to their introduction, which could with local experience, particularly in Asia, current and potential customers have a negative impact on Prudentials may limit Prudentials potential to grow its business or reported results.
Prudential is, and in the future may be, business as quickly as planned.
subject to legal and regulatory actions in Litigation, disputes and In Asia, the Groups principal competitors the ordinary course of its business, both in regulatory investigations may in the region are international financial the UK and internationally.
These actions companies, including global life insurers adversely affect Prudentials could involve a review of types of business such as Allianz, AXA, AIA and Manulife, profitability and financial sold in the past under acceptable market and multinational asset managers such condition practices at the time, such as the as J. P. Morgan Asset Management, Prudential is, and may be in the future, requirement in the UK to provide redress Schroders, HSBC Global Asset to certain past purchasers of pensions and subject to legal actions, disputes and Management, and Franklin Templeton.
regulatory investigations in various mortgage endowment policies, changes In a number of markets, local companies to the tax regime affecting products, and contexts, including in the ordinary course have a very significant market presence.
of its insurance, investment management regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, including, in the latter and other business operations.
These legal Within the UK, Prudentials principal actions, disputes and investigations may case, lines of business it has closed.
competitors include many of the major Current regulatory actions include the UK relate to aspects of Prudentials businesses retail financial services companies and and operations that are specific to businesss undertaking to the Financial fund management companies including, Conduct Authority to review annuities sold Prudential, or that are common to in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, Lloyds companies that operate in Prudentials without advice after 1 July 2008 to its Banking Group, Standard Life, Schroders, contractbased defined contribution markets.
Legal actions and disputes may Invesco Perpetual, and Fidelity.
arise under contracts, regulations pension customers and potentially provide Jacksons competitors in the US include redress to certain such customers.
including tax or from a course of conduct major stock and mutual insurance www.
co. uk Annual Report 2016Prudentialplc 395 Risk factors Continued companies, mutual fund organisations, In addition, changes in methodologies and regulatory sanctions and damage its banks and other financial services criteria used by rating agencies could result reputation and relationships with its companies such as AIG, AXA Financial Inc. in downgrades that do not reflect changes customers and business partners.
Similarly, Allianz, Prudential Financial, Lincoln in the general economic conditions or any weakness in administration systems National, MetLife, and Aegon.
such as those relating to policyholder records or meeting regulatory Prudential believes competition will Adverse experience in the requirements or actuarial reserving intensify across all regions in response operational risks inherent in processes could have a material adverse to consumer demand, technological Prudentials business could effect on its results of operations during advances, the impact of consolidation, disrupt its business functions the effective period.
regulatory actions and other factors.
and have a negative impact Prudentials ability to generate an Attempts by third parties to on its results of operations appropriate return depends significantly disrupt Prudentials IT systems Operational risks are present in all of upon its capacity to anticipate and could result in loss of trust Prudentials businesses, including the risk respond appropriately to these from Prudentials customers, from both Prudential and its outsourcing competitive pressures.
reputational damage and partners of direct or indirect loss resulting financial loss from inadequate or failed internal and Downgrades in Prudentials external processes, systems and human Being part of the financial services sector, financial strength and credit error or from external events.
Prudentials Prudential and its business partners are ratings could significantly business is dependent on processing a increasingly exposed to the risk that third impact its competitive position large number of transactions across parties may attempt to disrupt the and damage its relationships numerous and diverse products, and is availability, confidentiality and integrity with creditors or trading subject to a number of different legal and of its IT systems, which could result in counterparties regulatory regimes.
In addition, Prudential disruption to the key operations, make it Prudentials financial strength and credit also employs a large number of models and difficult to recover critical services, damage ratings, which are used by the market to userdeveloped applications in its assets and compromise data both measure its ability to meet policyholder processes.
Further, because of the corporate or customer.
This could result in obligations, are an important factor longterm nature of much of the Groups loss of trust from Prudentials customers, affecting public confidence in Prudentials business, accurate records have to be reputational damage and direct or indirect products, and as a result its maintained for significant periods.
Downgrades in continues to evolve globally in These factors, among others, result in Prudentials ratings, as a result of, for sophistication and potential significance.
example, decreased profitability, increased significant reliance on and require As a result of Prudentials increasing market significant investment in information costs, increased indebtedness or other profile, the growing interest by customers concerns, could have an adverse effect on technology IT, compliance and other to interact with their insurance provider operational systems, personnel and its ability to market products: retain current and asset manager through the internet policyholders: and on the Groups financial processes.
In addition, Prudential and social media, improved brand outsources several operations, including flexibility.
In addition, the interest rates awareness and the classification of Prudential pays on its borrowings are a significant part of its UK back office and Prudential as a GSII, there is an increased customerfacing functions as well as a affected by its credit ratings, which are likelihood of Prudential being considered in place to measure the Groups ability number of IT functions, resulting in reliance a target by cyber criminals.
To date, upon the operational processing to meet its contractual obligations.
Prudential has not identified a failure or performance of its outsourcing partners.
Prudential plcs longterm senior debt is breach which has had a material impact in Although Prudentials IT, compliance and relation to its legacy and other IT systems rated as A2 by Moodys, A by Standard & Poors, and A by Fitch.
These ratings are all other operational systems, models and and processes.
However, it has been, and likely will continue to be, subject to on a stable outlook.
processes incorporate controls designed to manage and mitigate the operational and potential damage from computer viruses, Prudential plcs shortterm debt is rated as model risks associated with its activities, attempts at unauthorised access and P1 by Moodys, A1 by Standard & Poors, there can be no assurance that such cybersecurity attacks such as denial of and F1 by Fitch.
controls will always be effective.
Due to service attacks which, for example, can The Prudential Assurance Company human error among other reasons, cause temporary disruption to websites Limiteds financial strength is rated Aa3 operational and model risk incidents do and IT networks, phishing and disruptive negative outlook by Moodys, AA happen periodically and no system or software campaigns.
stable outlook by Standard & Poors, process can entirely prevent them although Prudential is continually enhancing its IT and AA stable outlook by Fitch.
there have not been any material events environment to remain secure against to date.
Prudentials legacy and other IT Jacksons financial strength is rated AA emerging threats, together with increasing systems and processes, as with operational its ability to detect system compromise and by Standard & Poors and Fitch, A1 by systems and processes generally, may be Moodys, and A by AM Best.
These recover should such an incident occur.
susceptible to failure or breaches.
However, there can be no assurance that ratings have a stable outlook.
Such events could, among other things, such events will not take place which may Prudential Assurance Co. Singapore Pte harm Prudentials ability to perform have material adverse consequential Ltds financial strength is rated AA by necessary business functions, result in effects on Prudentials business and Standard & Poors.
This rating is on a the loss of confidential or proprietary data financial position.
exposing it to potential legal claims and 396 Prudential plc Annual Report 2016 www.
co. uk 07 Additional information could be adversely affected.
Furthermore, Prudential may face financial, reputational Adverse experience relative to and other exposure including regulatory Jacksons variable annuity products are the assumptions used in pricing sensitive to other types of policyholder censure in the event that any of its products and reporting business partners fails to meet its obligations under behaviour, such as the takeup of its results could significantly GMWB product features.
the arrangements, encounters financial affect Prudentials results difficulty, or fails to comply with local or of operations Another example is the impact of international regulation and standards In common with other life insurers, the epidemics and other effects that give rise such as those pertaining to the prevention profitability of the Groups businesses to a large number of deaths or additional of financial crime.
In addition, a significant depends on a mix of factors including sickness claims.
Significant influenza proportion of the Groups product mortality and morbidity levels and trends, epidemics have occurred a number of times distribution is carried out through policy surrenders and takeup rates on over the past century but the likelihood, arrangements with third parties not guarantee features of products, investment timing, or the severity of future epidemics controlled by Prudential and is dependent performance and impairments, unit cost cannot be predicted.
The effectiveness of upon continuation of these relationships.
of administration and new business external parties, including governmental A temporary or permanent disruption to acquisition expenses.
and nongovernmental organisations, these distribution arrangements, such as in combating the spread and severity of Prudential needs to make assumptions through significant deterioration in the any epidemics could have a material impact about a number of factors in determining reputation, financial position or other on the Groups loss experience.
the pricing of its products, for setting circumstances of the third party or material reserves, and for reporting its capital levels failure in controls such as those pertaining As a holding company, and the results of its longterm business to the prevention of financial crime could Prudential is dependent upon its operations.
For example, the assumption adversely affect the results of operations subsidiaries to cover operating that Prudential makes about future of Prudential.
expenses and dividend payments expected levels of mortality is particularly The Groups insurance and investment Prudentials Articles of relevant for its UK annuity business, where management operations are generally Association contain an exclusive payments are guaranteed for at least as conducted through direct and indirect long as the policyholder is alive.
conducts rigorous research into longevity Under Prudentials Articles of Association, risk, using industry data as well as its own certain legal proceedings may only be As a holding company, Prudentials substantial annuitant experience.
As part principal sources of funds are remittances brought in the courts of England and Wales.
of its pension annuity pricing and reserving This applies to legal proceedings by a from subsidiaries, shareholderbacked policy, Prudentials UK business assumes funds, the shareholder transfer from shareholder in its capacity as such against that current rates of mortality continuously Prudential and or its Directors and or its longterm funds and any amounts that may improve over time at levels based on be raised through the issuance of equity, professional service providers.
It also applies adjusted data and informed by models to legal proceedings between Prudential debt and commercial paper.
from the Continuous Mortality and its Directors and or Prudential and Certain of Prudentials subsidiaries are Investigation CMI as published by the Prudentials professional service providers restricted by applicable insurance, Institute and Faculty of Actuaries.
that arise in connection with legal foreign exchange and tax laws, rules and Assumptions about future expected levels proceedings between the shareholder regulations that can limit remittances.
of mortality are also of relevance to the and such professional service provider.
In some circumstances, this could limit Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit This provision could make it difficult for Prudentials ability to pay dividends to GMWB of Jacksons variable annuity US and other nonUK shareholders shareholders or to make available funds business.
If mortality improvement rates to enforce their shareholder rights.
held in certain subsidiaries to cover significantly exceed the improvement operating expenses of other members Changes in tax legislation assumed, Prudentials results of operations of the Group.
may result in adverse tax could be adversely affected.
consequences Prudential operates in a number A further factor is the assumption that Tax rules, including those relating to the Prudential makes about future expected of markets through joint insurance industry, and their interpretation levels of the rates of early termination of ventures and other arrangements may change, possibly with retrospective products by its customers known as with third parties, involving effect, in any of the jurisdictions in which persistency.
This is particularly relevant certain risks that Prudential Prudential operates.
Significant tax to its lines of business other than its UK does not face with respect to disputes with tax authorities, and any annuity business, especially Jacksons its consolidated subsidiaries change in the tax status of any member portfolio of variable annuities.
Prudentials Prudential operates, and in certain markets of the Group or in taxation legislation or persistency assumptions reflect a is required by local regulation to operate, its scope or interpretation could affect combination of recent past experience for through joint ventures and other similar Prudentials financial condition and results each relevant line of business and expert arrangements.
For such Group operations, of operations.
judgement, especially where a lack of management control is exercised in relevant and credible experience data conjunction with the other participants.
Any expected change in future The level of control exercisable by the persistency is also reflected in the Group depends on the terms of the assumption.
If actual levels of future contractual agreements, in particular, the persistency are significantly different than allocation of control among, and continued assumed, the Groups results of operations cooperation between, the participants.
