Principal risks and uncertainties Understanding and managing our risks The Board recognises that QinetiQ operates in varied business environments and that risk management must reflect both the need to take risk and to avoid harm.
The Board is accountable for effective risk management across the Group and Board level oversight is discharged through two committees, the Audit Committee, which focuses on risks where the primary impact is financial, and the Risk & CSR Committee, which focuses on risks where the primary impact is nonfinancial: both committees retain visibility of both the financial and non-financial risks.
The reports of the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR Committee can be found on pages 70 to 77.
Details of the Groups system of risk management and internal control can be found in the Corporate governance statement on pages 64 to 77.
The Board agrees and reviews its tolerance of risk through establishing a clear risk appetite and setting appropriate delegations of authority to the executive and senior leaders.
The Boards risk appetite is set to provide boundaries and guidance to support executives and senior leaders in their decision-making and allow operational flexibility.
Managing our risks Establishing the context Risk assessment Risk identification Risk analysis Risk evaluation Risk treatment 42 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Communication and consultation Monitor and review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Our areas of risk Local decision-making is supported within The Board agrees and reviews its tolerance defined delegation of authority and the Board of risk through appropriate delegations of requires all employees to abide by relevant authority to the Executive and senior leaders.
The Board recognises that some risks may be affected The management of risk is key to ensuring by factors outside the control of the company.
QinetiQ is successful in delivering its 1 objectives, whilst protecting the interests of Risks relating Risk appetite within QinetiQ focuses on those its stakeholders.
QinetiQs risk management to strategy: critical risk areas necessary to achieve our methods and processes provide a framework  Defence and security spending strategic goals.
The risk appetite is articulated which allows:  Complex market characteristics by defining three categories of appetite which and contract profile describe the balance of scrutiny and mitigation Risk identification: identification of risks  Trading in a global market activity against likely benefit or reward.
and opportunities relevant to the Groups  Business transformation objectives.
The three categories are: Risk analysis: assessment of risks in terms of likelihood and impact.
Eager: Willing to consider all delivery options and eager to be innovative and Risk evaluation: determine and prioritise to choose options offering potentially which risks need treatment.
higher business rewards, with a mature Risk treatment: appropriate management understanding of inherent risk, less strategies put in place.
investment in mitigation and control is accepted.
Monitor and review: monitoring and 2 oversight of risk management.
Balanced: Preference for delivery options Risks relating that have a low or moderate degree to people: The Group Risk Register consists of material of residual risk and where successful risks relating to effective delivery of our  Recruitment and retention delivery also provides an acceptable strategy.
These risks may emerge as standalone  Breaches of security and IT systems failure level of reward and value for money.
risks or be present through the aggregation or  Significant breach of relevant interlinking of risks.
Our reputation is a highly Cautious: Avoidance of risk and laws and regulations valuable asset and reputational impact is uncertainty is the key objective, a greater considered as a factor in assessing overall risk level of control and mitigation may be impact.
The Group Risk Register is reviewed required.
Significantly greater returns by the Executive and the Board.
In addition, the expected for commercial opportunities risk owners present to them an update of to offset risk.
current status and mitigating actions by These three categories are then used within rotation throughout the year.
The Board the context of the business strategy to define recognises that however good the risk the Boards commercial appetite as: management processes are they cannot provide absolute assurance and unknown risks may manifest without warning: the company Eager for opportunities relating to 3 has processes in place to deploy appropriate increased market share where we have Risks relating to financial management to such risks.
proven delivery, existing and potential management and markets: new customers.
 Defined benefit pension obligations Balanced for opportunities that translate  Changes in tax legislation proven delivery into new markets or new  Defined benefit pension obligations capability delivery into existing customers.
Cautious for opportunities that involve new capability or delivery into new markets and any opportunity into a new country outside the US and UK.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Description, link to strategy and impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk Likelihood KPIs appetite impact Defence Any reduction in government defence and security spending in either the UK or the US could have an adverse impact on the Groups Our focus on a range of markets in aerospace, defence and security as well as adjacent Customer Group Director Eager Medium spending financial performance.
70% of the Groups revenue comes directly from contracts held with the UK Government and 7% directly from sectors provides a degree of portfolio diversification.
The Group will continue to monitor satisfaction Business High contracts with the US Government.
expenditure changes in its traditional markets and will adjust business activities where Development Underlying appropriate.
The financial burden on both UK and US Government budgets from economic downturn may lead to reduced spending in the markets operating in which the Group operates.
The MOD has made considerable progress in balancing its budget.
In defence research, profit where QinetiQ is the private sector market leader, spending appears to have stabilised However, the 2015 Strategic Defence and Security Review confirmed that defence spending which may include some spending from Underlying at 1.2% of the UK defence budget.
Departments other than the MOD would remain at least 2% of GDP, and that the MOD Budget would rise slightly in real terms over the operating next ten years.
The MOD has ambitious plans to plug capability gaps which require significant budget cuts elsewhere, including a reduction QinetiQ monitors and responds to potential opportunities arising from the MODs actions cash flow in civilian posts of up to 30% and a reduction in MOD estate of 30%.
These cuts could impact QinetiQs core support contracts.
The Groups to deliver improved value for money by making proactive proposals that deliver the main contracts are exposed to spend on test and evaluation, and research and technology.
QinetiQ North America approximately 60m annual revenue has been largely funded through overseas contingency budgets which have Further investment in the pursuit of international opportunities assists in the declined in recent years.
diversification away from the dependency on UK and US Government spending.
US Products such as unmanned systems are targeted to be funded though Programs of Record ie in the US Base budget over the next two years.
Complex Market The aerospace, defence and security markets are highly competitive.
The Groups performance may be adversely affected should it not QinetiQ seeks to focus on areas within these markets in which its deep customer Underlying Group Director Balanced Medium Characteristics be able to compete in the markets in which it aims to operate.
understanding, domain knowledge, technical expertise and platform independence operating Business High provide a strong proposition and a significant advantage in competitive bidding.
profit Development The Single Source Regulations Office SSRO has confirmed the baseline profit rate for new single source defence contracts is 8.95% for FY17 FY16: 10.6% and that over the course of FY17 it will consult again and develop the methodology for calculating the baseline profit QinetiQ and defence industry partners have been fully engaged with the MOD in the Underlying rate in future years, potentially introducing multiple profit rates.
This baseline rate acts as the starting point for agreeing the profit rates of development of the new framework and its practical application.
QinetiQ and defence operating new and renewed contracts, and suppliers can both under and over-perform the contracted rate depending on, for example, risk, capital industry partners expect to be consulted by the SSRO on the Statutory Guidance.
cash flow servicing and project execution.
Further updates and clarifications are expected to be published by the SSRO on other topics affecting QinetiQ is supporting an industry review of the profit rate methodology prior to the Customer QDCs, eg allowable cost.
Our combination of capabilities is unique in the UK and, consequently, approximately 70% of total EMEA Services consultation on the changes for 2017.
The baseline profit rate is the starting point satisfaction revenue is derived from single source contracts, including the non-tasking element of the Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA.
for profitability on single source contracts other factors include capital servicing, We anticipate that the majority of our single source revenue will fall under the regulations within approximately three years.
The timing of the orders receipt could have a material impact on the Groups performance in a given reporting period as the amounts The contracts and orders pipeline is regularly reviewed by senior operational management.
payable under some government contracts can be significant.
The nature of many of the services provided under fixed-price arrangements is often Some of the Groups revenue is derived from contracts that have a fixed price.
There is a risk that the costs required for the delivery of for a defined amount of effort or resource rather than firm deliverables and, as a result, a contract could be higher than those agreed in the contract as a result of the performance of new or developed products, operational mitigates the risk of costs escalating.
The Group ensures that its fixed-price bids and over-runs or external factors.
Any significant increase in costs which cannot be passed on to a customer may reduce the profitability projects are reviewed for early detection and management of issues which may result of a contract or even result in a contract becoming loss making.
in cost over-run or excessive delivery risk.
Some of the Groups contracts have terms, not unusual in defence, that provide for unlimited liabilities for the Group, or termination rights for the customer.
Organisational Conflicts of Interest OCI may occur where the Group provides services to both a defence end-user customer as well QinetiQ takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and maintain its ability to Customer Group General Balanced Low as those within the defence supply chain.
QinetiQ operates under the generic formal compliance satisfaction Counsel & Medium regime and applies a rigorous compliance process.
Company Secretary Where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the advice and supply chain side of an opportunity we do so only after receiving approval from the MOD.
Compliance Implementation Director The Group is reliant on a limited number of major customers.
In February 2013 the Group signed the LTPA for a third five-year period with the MOD.
Underlying Group Director Balanced Medium The next scheduled re-pricing point is March 2018. operating Business Group High A material element of the Groups revenue is derived from one contract.
The LTPA is a 25-year contract to provide test, evaluation, profit and training services to the MOD.
The original contract was signed in 2003.
The LTPA operates under five-year periods with specific The Group continues to achieve strong customer performance and satisfaction levels, Group Director programmes, targets and performance measures set for each period.
The LTPA directly contributed 27% of the Groups revenue and significantly exceeded the agreed minimum performance rating of 80% in 2016.
Underlying Test & Evaluation and supported a further 16% through tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
operating The Group has achieved significant cost savings for the MOD on delivered services, cash flow and is on track to deliver 700m of additional savings originally projected over the life of the contract.
Customer satisfaction The Group is proactively engaging with the MOD regarding future plans for test and evaluation services as a result of SDSR.
44 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Key risk Description, link to strategy and impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk Likelihood KPIs appetite impact Defence Any reduction in government defence and security spending in either the UK or the US could have an adverse impact on the Groups Our focus on a range of markets in aerospace, defence and security as well as adjacent Customer Group Director Eager Medium spending financial performance.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Description, link to strategy and impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk Likelihood KPIs appetite impact Recruitment The Group operates in many specialised engineering, technical and scientific domains.
The Group conducts regular activities to identify key roles and personnel.
Some succession Employee Group Director Balanced Medium and retention planning is undertaken looking internally at candidates ready now or in need of development engagement Human Resources High The lack of graduates in the science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM domains leads to future skills shortage.
to fill particular roles and externally to identify people QinetiQ may wish to attract.
% of Key capabilities and competences may be lost through failure to recruit and retain employees due to internal factors, as well as macro QinetiQ has made improvements in employee engagement and conducts an annual apprentices factors across the sector affecting the desirability, intake and training of engineers, scientists and technologists.
and graduates The regulatory framework in some countries where the Group operates reduces the candidate pool for recruitment and deployment.
STEM outreach from primary school age through to work experience and graduate Voluntary The UK workforce has a skewed age distribution which creates risk on future skills shortage.
employee turnover QinetiQ is leading industry in The 5% Club, a campaign to increase the recruitment of graduates and apprentices.
Breaches of The Group operates in a highly regulated IT environment.
Data security is assured through a multi-layered approach that provides a hardened Underlying Executive Cautious High High security and IT environment, including robust physical security arrangements and data resilience strategies.
operating Committee The data held by QinetiQ is confidential and needs to be secure, against a background of increasing cyber threat.
systems failure profit Comprehensive internal and external testing of potential vulnerabilities is conducted A breach of data security or IT systems failure could have an adverse impact on our customers operations, resulting in significant along with 24 7 monitoring.
Profit after tax reputational damage, as well as the possibility of exclusion from some types of government contracts.
The Group engages with US and UK Government contracting audit agencies, to enable Underlying The Groups financial systems are required to be adequate to support US and UK Government contracting regulations.
them to test relevant financial systems and data, and implements any recommended EPS improvement plans.
Underlying Information systems are designed with consideration to single points of failure and the operating removal of risk of minor and major system failures.
cash flow The Group maintains business continuity plans that cover geographical assets as well as the technical capability of employees.
These plans cover a range of scenarios including loss of access to IT and are regularly tested.
Business A strategic priority is to innovate for value, focusing on markets where customers have a clear need for our skills.
Innovation will be driven through cultural change, investment in, and application of, our Customer Group Director Eager Medium transformation core competences for our customers advantage in defence and commercial markets.
satisfaction Engineering & High Failure to create a culture of innovation or invest adequately in, or create value from, our innovation investment will impact negatively Operations on the Groups market position.
The Internal R&D investment process is in place.
Employee engagement Group Director Human Resources Resources have historically been deployed within divisional teams.
This encourages an internal culture which makes it difficult to use Our way of working has been designed to support the delivery of our strategy, increase Customer Group Director Eager High High resource flexibly across the company to meet customer demands.
customer focus, improve our competitiveness and deliver collaboration across the company.
satisfaction Human Resources Employee engagement Trading in A strategic priority is to build an International business that delivers additional value to our customers.
The Groups Integrated Strategic Business Planning process is used to clearly articulate Orders CEO Cautious Medium a global market strategy, appropriate objectives and metrics.
High Failure to execute this strategy soundly would negatively impact future growth.
Organic The Group has established and is investing in a new International business.
revenue growth The Group has been reorganised to enhance customer focus and collaboration, aligning it with the strategy.
Risks include: regulation and administration changes, taxation policy, political instability, civil unrest While the Group has a growing geographical footprint, its traditional activities are confined Orders CEO Cautious Medium and differences in culture.
High Organic Negative events could disrupt some of the Groups operations and have a material impact on its future financial performance.
Relationships or contracts in new markets are assessed for their inherent risks, using revenue our International Business Risk Assessment process, before being formally agreed.
growth The UK EU referendum scheduled for 23 June may create uncertainty.
This allows opportunities to be reviewed at different levels of management according to their inherent risk.
Regular review within the Groups Integrated Strategic Business Planning process.
46 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Key risk Description, link to strategy and impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk Likelihood KPIs appetite impact Recruitment The Group operates in many specialised engineering, technical and scientific domains.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Key risk Description, link to strategy and impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk Likelihood KPIs appetite impact Significant breach The Group operates in highly regulated environments and recognises that its operations have the potential to have an impact The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place to ensure that it meets Underlying Executive Cautious Medium of relevant laws on a variety of stakeholders.
all current regulations: for example, annual business ethics training is mandatory for operating Committee High and regulations all employees across the Group and the Board: role specific safety training.
profit Failure to comply with particular regulations could result in a combination of fines, penalties, civil or criminal action.
The QinetiQ Code of Conduct defines clear expectations for the Group and its employees: Profit after tax In addition, failure may also lead to suspension or debarment from government contracts, as well as reputational damage for example, it states that the Group does not tolerate bribery and corruption and will to the QinetiQ brand.
Underlying comply with relevant international trade regulations.
EPS Key areas of focus for the Group include the following: The Group manages the effective identification, measurement and control of regulatory risk.
Underlying Safety liability of products, services and advice.
Local management continuously monitor local laws.
Professional advice is sought operating Workplace and occupational health, safety and environmental matters.
when engaging in new territories to ensure that the Group complies with local and cash flow Bribery and ethics.
Accreditation to external standards: for example, safety and environmental systems continue to be accredited to international standards: external authorisation for regulated design and maintenance services in the aviation sector.
Changes in tax QinetiQ is liable to pay tax in the countries in which it operates, principally the UK, the US, Australia and Belgium.
Changes in tax legislation External advice and consultation are sought on potential changes in tax legislation in the Profit after tax Chief Finance Cautious Medium legislation in these countries could have an adverse impact on the level of tax paid on profits generated by the Group.
The majority of the trading UK, the US and elsewhere as necessary enabling the Group to plan for and mitigate Officer High Underlying losses in the UK were utilised during the year to 31 March 2016 on transition to the RDEC scheme and are no longer available to offset potential changes.
The Group does not have a significant level of cross-border activity but where it does have In the UK, QinetiQ claims significant levels of tax relief in respect of its R&D activities.
This is claimed via the Governments R&D such transactions controls are in place to ensure pricing reflects arms length principles.
Expenditure Credits RDEC scheme, which currently provides a rebate of 11% of allowable R&D expenditure.
Hence, in addition to the The Group does not, therefore, have a significant exposure to transfer-pricing legislation.
risk of changes to the headline level of corporation tax, the Group is exposed to changes to the level of this R&D rebate percentage and The Group does not make use of off-shore entities or tax structures to focus taxable the level of R&D expenditure deemed to be allowable for tax purposes.
The SSRO has stated that any tax reliefs or credits claimed by profits in jurisdictions that legislate for low tax rates.
a contractor in respect of single-source qualifying defence contracts should be reimbursed to the MOD.
As new customer contracts are Opportunities continue to be explored to manage both effective tax rate ETR and cash entered into and as the mix of single-source, non-competed MOD contracts to other contracts changes, the value of the R&D tax benefit tax impacts in line with the Board endorsed tax strategy.
passed back to the customer will also change.
QinetiQ seeks to be open and transparent in its engagement with the UK tax authorities by sharing with HMRC the methodologies adopted in its tax returns.
The Group has 154.8m of tax losses carried forward as at 31 March 2016 2015: 291.6m.
Defined benefit The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme closed to future accrual.
Scheme performance is reviewed regularly by the Trustee in conjunction with Profit after tax Chief Finance Balanced High High pension Group management.
Officer At the year end the DB pension scheme was in deficit under an IAS19 basis.
The deficit was 37.7m Underlying obligations External actuarial and investment advice is regularly taken to ensure the best interests EPS Group Treasurer The size of the deficit may be materially affected by a number of factors, including investment returns, changes in interest rates of both the Group and the scheme members.
and inflation and improvements in life expectancy of members.
Underlying The Group works in collaboration with the Trustee to agree an investment strategy that operating Any change to the deficit may require the Group to increase the cash contributions to the scheme, which would reduce the Groups progressively fide-risks the scheme as the funding level improves.
cash flow cash available for other purposes.
The company continues to pay the deficit recovery payments outstanding from the 2011 At the last triennial valuation as at 30 June 2014 the scheme funding on a technical provisions basis was a surplus of 31.0m.
This will require 10.5m pa until 2018.
The Group and Trustee reduced future liabilities by switching from RPI to CPI for indexation and revaluation purposes as part of the 2012 Strategy Agreement.
The scheme was closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
At the year end 100% of the inflation risk CPI basis is hedged and 44% of interest rate risk hedged, measured on a gilts basis.
A contingent asset in the form of an asset backed funding structure provides the Scheme with an additional 2.5m per annum indexed by CPI for 20 years to 2032.
48 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Key risk Description, link to strategy and impact Mitigation Associated Responsibility Risk Likelihood KPIs appetite impact Significant breach The Group operates in highly regulated environments and recognises that its operations have the potential to have an impact The Group has robust policy, procedures and training in place to ensure that it meets Underlying Executive Cautious Medium of relevant laws on a variety of stakeholders.
This Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 May 2016 and signed on its behalf by: David Mellors Chief Financial Officer 26 May 2016 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49
