Strategic report Risk management Managing our risk responsibly into managements approach to procedural controls over identified How we manage risk operations.
The audit committee holds risks are effective, and action plans Rank operates a comprehensive risk the responsibility for assessing the are put into place for emergent risks.
management methodology which is effectiveness of the risk management This approach ensures that risk is closely integrated into its management systems which are in place and for identified in both a top-down and a structure to provide clear oversight undertaking an independent review of bottom-up manner from the various and governance of the risks which are the risk mitigation plans which have management levels of the organisation considered to be material to its business, been designed for material risks.
to give assurance that risk registers and to maintain continuous surveillance arecomprehensive.
Ranks risk committee further of its operating environment for information can be found on page 58 Group internal audit works in support emerging risks.
meets a minimum of eight times per of the risk committee to help manage risk The approach endeavours to ensure that year with a remit to conduct a thorough identification and conduct independent a clear risk appetite is set that balances review of the risk register and to ensure reviews of both the businesss risks and risks and opportunities to contribute that management is working effectively its progress in performing the mitigating to the achievement of the Groups to identify and manage risks as they arise action plans agreed for any relevant risks, strategic objectives.
Working the status of which are reported to the sessions of the committee are held risk committee at each meeting.
The board has responsibility for the with departmental and divisional risk framework and for establishing management to ensure that risks are the Groups risk appetite, as well as being identified in a timely manner, ensuring that risk controls are built Risk management framework Board Sets the Groups strategy Ensures appropriate risk controls and mitigation Sets risk appetite Group Audit Risk internal committee committee audit function Reviews risk management process Reviews corporate risk register Carries out a risk-based programme of internal audits Reviews action plans to manage Carries out deep dive reviews into significant risks specific departments and support Maintains corporate risk register functions risk registers Assists business and support function Provides a forum to ensure the departments in development and adequate and timely progress maintenance of their risk registers of  The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 32 Going concern The Group strategic plan is updated Our risk management process In adopting the going concern basis annually for a period of three years and for preparing the financial information, takes into account current trading trends, the directors have considered the issues the impacts from capital projects, existing impacting the Group during the period debt facilities, expected changes to the as detailed in the operating review on regulatory and competitive environment Identify pages 26-29 and have reviewed the and expectations for consumer disposable Groups projected compliance with income.
In carrying out the assessment its banking covenants.
Based on the the directors have reviewed and Groups cash flow forecasts and operating challenged key assumptions within budgets, the directors believe that the the Groups strategic plan.
A number Group will generate sufficient cash to of plausible but severe downside risks, meet its liabilities as they fall due for at including consideration of possible least 12months from the approval of mitigating actions, have been modelled this report and will comply with its with particular focus on the potential Mitigate bankingcovenants.
impact to cash flows, net debt headroom and covenant compliance throughout Viability statement the period of review.
In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the A number of assumptions were included directors make the following statement.
within the assessment, including no material adverse change to: The directors have considered the current 1.
Gaming legislation position of the Group, its prospects and 2.
The taxation of gambling beyond longer term viability over a period of Monitor smaller changes to specific rates three years to June 2019.
Although longer periods are used when making 3.
Societal attitudes to gambling significant strategic decisions, three 4.
Loss of operating licences required years has been used as it is considered to operate gambling the longest period of time over which As a result of this assessment the suitable certainty for key assumptions directors have concluded that they in the gambling sector can be made.
have a reasonable expectation that In making this statement, the directors the Group will be able to continue Review have performed a robust assessment in operation and meet its liabilities as of the principal risks facing the Group they fall due over a three-year period.
which includes consideration of both financial and non-financial risks that may threaten the business model, future performance, liquidity and solvency of Key areas of focus during the Group.
The principal risks facing The Rank Group Plc and our approach 2015 16 to risk management are set out within Anti-money laundering our Strategic Report and include Compliance function consideration of the impact of each risk, the direction of travel and actions Cyber security taken to mitigate these risks.
The risks Digital game, marketing and considered included adverse regulation, customer management adverse changes to rates of tax, adverse Gaming win volatility gaming win, loss of licences, wage rise inflation and technological risks.
Human resource management Information security management IT function Current key strategic projects www.
