Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Addressing our risks Regulatory, finance and tax risks Risk Impact Mitigation Regulation Adverse regulatory changes in legislation Rank actively participates in Stable continue to represent a significant risk.
trade bodies representations Regulatory changes could More information Changes in political and social attitudes to to Government, opposition increase the cost of Operating review 26 gambling in our key markets and negative parties and regulatory bodies, doingbusiness.
Tax fact file 43 publicity surrounding the gambling and works to enable stakeholders industry could influence regulators to understand our business and perception of gambling and could its positive contribution to the lead to increased gambling regulation.
We continue to promote the Keep it Fun brand and website to customers and regulators to fide-mystify the perception of casinos, promote a safe environment to play and illustrate the Groups position in leading the industry in this field.
Taxation Adverse changes in fiscal regulation Rank continues to be a leading Stable continue to be a significant risk, including participant in its relevant trade Any increases in the levels More information the forthcoming change which makes organisations and takes an active of taxation or duties to Tax fact file 43 free bets subject to Remote Gaming Duty.
part in all relevant consultations which we are subject, or by Government.
the implementation of any new taxes or levies to which we will be subject, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results ofoperations.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 34 Operational risk Risk Impact Mitigation Volatility of gaming win Win percentages for gambling activities Across the business gaming limits Stable can vary over a short period of time, are actively utilised to manage the Gaming win margin More information although they will stabilise over a longer risk exposure of the business at directly impacts Operating review 26 period.
The business is also vulnerable to alltimes.
the potential impact of a small number VIP customers are actively of customers who can create volatility managed through dedicated from the level of their gaming win.
Also customer relationship teams of significance to the business is a small, who work to administer both highly valuable segment of VIP customers.
relationships and reward Win percentages may also be affected by programmes to manage misfeasance or any other problems with and encourage loyalty.
the accurate running of the game.
Specialist resources are in place to provide ongoing proactive and reactive detection of operational issues or suspicious behaviour that may interfere with accurate gameresults.
Loss of licences Ranks gaming licences are fundamental Rank has a dedicated compliance Stable to its operation.
In the British venues part function that is independent The loss of licences More information of the business there is a requirement of operations and a separate could have an adverse Market review 13 to hold an operators licence from the internal audit function that is effect on our business and Operating review 26 UK Gambling Commission the body independent of both operations profitability and prevent responsible for regulating commercial and the compliance function.
us from providing gambling in Great Britain in respect of Rank maintains a strong and gambling services.
each of the licensed activities undertaken.
open relationship with the UK Additionally, it is necessary to hold Gambling Commission and the premises licences from the relevant local other relevant regulatory bodies authority in which each venue is situated, in all jurisdictions in which one for gambling activities and one for itoperates.
Our UK customer-facing transactional websites also require an operators licence from the UK Gambling Commission as well as a licence from the Alderney Gambling Control Commission, the body responsible for the regulation of eGambling in the States of Alderney where our remote gambling operations are based.
Our operations in Spain and Belgium are also subject to licensing requirements in the jurisdictions and local areas in which they operate.
com 35 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk Risk Impact Mitigation Business continuity and disaster recovery Due to the venues-based nature of much Due to the ongoing and Stable of the business, the Groups significant significant amount of corporate If business continuity reliance on technology, and the criticality and systems change the Group and disaster recovery of staff in serving customers and running business continuity plan is the plans failed to operate the business, serious disruptive events subject of ongoing regular review successfully, the business such as building fire, pandemic or to ensure that it gives coverage to would experience delays serious technology failure may cause critical departments and premises.
in recovering critical an interruption to the ability to operate revenue-generating IT continuity and disaster elements of the business if business activities or operational recovery plans are in place continuity and disaster recovery processes such as financial and likewise regularly updated, plans failed to operate successfully.
reporting, causing both including for key suppliers of financial and reputational technology services and support.
Information risk Information technology and cyber risk The Group is highly dependent on Rank has continued to make Stable significant investments in its complex technology and advanced If our prevention information systems with many technology capability, security measures for technology interfaces and a significant number and resilience in order to deliver attacks should fail, our of separatesuppliers.
a robust operating environment, customers trust may be both working on its owned lost and our reputation For commercial, regulatory and legal environment and in close may consequently be reasons Rank holds a considerable amount collaboration with key partners.
harmed and customers of information about its customers on It is recognised that the business deterred from using our these systems.
We have a duty to ensure environment demands that services, which may in that this data is treated with sensitivity, investments of such time turn have a material confidentiality and security in order and resources are ongoing so adverse effect on our not to expose our customers to risk.
appropriate structures are in financial performance.
place with specialised teams, The pace of business change and Failures in service such as an information security development means that IT changes provision could also team, playing a pivotal role such as new software coding, systems render the Group unable in technology strategy.
enhancements and new software to serve customers during application integrations are undertaken Relevant company policies and such service interruptions, continually and consequently these procedures are in place to guide all again having an adverse systems are inherently vulnerable to activities with data, such as access effect on revenue experiencing malfunctions, failures, control and encryption.
or cyber-attacks such as viruses or are supervised by the director hacker intrusion.
A breach of data security of information security and could also have additional his team, and regular proactive Comprehensive technology resilience and potential consequences security reviews are undertaken.
systems protection and detection measures depending on the nature are in place but it is difficult to detect all of the breach, such as threats and vulnerabilities in order to compensatory payments prevent all service interruptions to customers or fines.
The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 36
