46 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our framework for risk management The Board retains responsibility for oversight of principal risks across RB The following table provides and it considers the appropriateness of the risk exposure to its appetite for risk as laid out in the annual strategic planning process.
The Board a summary review of the delegates the day-to-day monitoring of risk to the Executive Committee EC and each principal risk has an EC owner: principal risks are routinely principal strategic risks and reviewed not only at EC meetings but also by the appropriate Board committee Audit Committee or CRSEC Committee or by the Board itself.
The Audit Committee holds responsibility for oversight of the uncertainties that are more principal risk assessment process, that it is appropriate to the needs of the business and that it works effectively: the Audit Committee likely to affect the Group, as performs an annual review of this process.
The principal risk assessment process is led and facilitated by the Group Head of Internal Audit & Risk identified by management Management under the direction of the Group CEO and CFO.
The principal risk assessment process consists of the following key elements.
The most senior leaders of our business dedicate time each year, in a facilitated discussion with the Group risk team, to consider the risk environment for their particular functional or geographic area RB operates a major risk assessment of responsibility and how their emerging or known risks could impact process to periodically identify, assess and on the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
mitigate those risks it considers to be most Similar sessions are held with the Groups external advisors and also with each Board member.
The key content from these sessions is synthesised significant to the successful execution of into the Groups principal risks, with the EC owner being accountable for our strategy.
executing the current control strategy and for compiling and executing a plan of mitigating actions to properly manage the Groups exposure to The following table sets out the principal strategic risks and that risk.
Progress is reviewed periodically and the summary output from uncertainties facing the Group at the date of this report.
They do not the principal risk assessment process is formally submitted annually by comprise all of the risks that the Group may face.
Additional risks and the EC to the Board for its consideration and agreement.
Through the uncertainties not presently known to management, or deemed to be course of each year, the EC, Board and Board committees agendas less material at the date of this report, may also have an effect address all of the principal risks through specific deep dives to ensure on the Group.
proper focus, resourcing and progress with mitigation.
Viability Statement The Board conducted a Viability Review covering a five-year period.
The sensitivity assigns each adverse assumption an estimated annual This period was selected as it is the period covered in the Groups monetary value and estimates the impact on interest cover ratios and long-term forecasting process.
This period covers the introduction to headroom over available borrowing facilities.
The analysis concludes market of the current new product pipeline.
that even with the occurrence of key unexpected scenarios, RB would still have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, The five-year Viability Review first looks at the Groups ability to and remain compliant with financial covenants.
continue in operation if it performs in line with the Group forecast.
This assumes that normal market conditions continue and current The Board has further considered the occurrence of a Black Swan trends remain.
The evaluation takes into account the Groups cash event: an event with sufficient potential impact to risk the future of RB flow, historical Group planning accuracy, available banking facilities as a strong and independent business operating in its chosen markets.
and interest cover ratios in connection with financial covenants.
The The occurrence of a major issue could result in significant reputational analysis concluded that if RB performs in line with forecast it would impact, a catastrophic share price fall, significant loss of consumer have sufficient funds to trade, settle its liabilities as they fall due, and confidence and inability to retain and recruit quality people.
Such an remain compliant with financial covenants.
event could have an impact on the viability of the business.
The analysis goes on to consider the viability of the business should As there are a number of mitigating controls in place across the adverse unexpected events arise.
To illustrate this, a sensitised view of business, the occurrence of a Black Swan event is considered the Group forecast was produced.
The adverse assumptions are based sufficiently unlikely that it has not been factored into the sensitivity primarily upon the realisation of key Group principal risks, which have analysis.
the most relevant potential impact on viability see risks marked on the following pages.
As a result of the Viability Review, the Board have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period covered in the Viability Review.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 47 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management framework Current Group principal risks Compared with a year ago, the individual risks have evolved as follows: 1.
Non-Compliance with Product Regulations Safety both for consumers as well as for employees has been 3.
Non-Compliance with GXP Regulations reassessed through a newly implemented Safety, Quality and 4.
South Korea Compliance SQC governance structure, implemented mid-year, 5.
Fatality or Major Employee Safety Incident and are now included as separate principal risks: 6.
Supply Business Continuity Planning Due to developments during 2016 in South Korea, this risk is now 7.
ERP IT Systems Failure demonstrably material and is actively managed separately from the 8.
Cyber Security and Data Protection Legal Non-Compliance risk: 9.
Legal Non-Compliance RB Reputation has been included for the first time as a principal 10.
Major Tax Disputes risk, reflecting RBs increased maturity as a healthcare business: 11.
Loss of Key Management The Product and GXP Regulatory Non-Compliance risks have been 12.
RB Reputation refocused, again in light of the newly implemented SQC governance BS.
Black Swan Event structure: and Routine Risks The Significant Country Underperformance risk has been removed from the list, as the materiality of the net exposure has reduced.
The Group risk profile has also shifted, with more principal risks carrying a higher likelihood than in the previous year, notably risk numbers 2, 3, 9 and 10 per the listing adjacent.
This shift represents a recalibration from the perspective of a healthcare business in the case of numbers 2 and 3: the potential impact of risk number 9 is also considered to be higher than the previous year based on the experiences of 2016: and, in the case of risk number 10, the global tax environment is seen as generally tougher than was previously the case.
Overall, it is considered that the Group risk management framework has been considerably strengthened during 2016 through the combination of greater Board leadership and oversight with the establishment of the CRSEC Committee together with the establishment of executive management committees, the establishment of the Safety, Quality and Compliance function reporting directly to the Group CEO and the channelling of additional resources to strengthen compliance assurance across the Group.
Exchange rate risk While the exchange rate is not considered to be a principal risk to the Group, the means used to mitigate this risk are considered in Note 14 on pages 131 to 132.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 48 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management framework Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2017 actions 1.
Product Safety A dedicated pharmacovigilance group Review of Product Safety Evaluation Records monitors and reports on adverse events and PSERs to ensure current availability for all manages patient safety risks.
Description Safety team has been strengthened during Systems review to ensure that all product Risk of not having a robust process for 2016 with clearer leadership of the Safety, changes are satisfactorily tracked, controlled assessment of product safety: this may Quality and Compliance organisation, and updated.
resultin: reporting directly to the Group CEO.
Consumer Safety issue Develop and deliver base training for all Gaps in the completion of our safety A Compliance Management Committee employees, and advanced training for assessment CMC has been established in 2016, relevant employees to fully understand Reputational damage with consumers, meeting monthly and chaired by the Group their role in fulfilling safety, quality and customers or regulators CEO.
This committee routinely reviews compliance standards for RB products.
Significant financial losses arising from Product Safety governance and issues arising supply disruption, product recalls, delayed and escalates to the Executive Committee launches, penalties, etc.
Possible criminal liability for RB senior management Quarterly updates of Product Safety progress from the CMC to the CRSEC Committee.
Non-Compliance with REGEX Regulatory Excellence programme Product Vulnerability Programme review of executed to review compliance of RBs ingredients, formulations, stability data, etc.
Product Regulations medicine marketing authorisations.
Regulatory investment during 2016 to create Pilot compliance programme for sexual Description a dedicated compliance and maintenance wellbeing medical devices has started and team to strengthen existing product will be accelerated as part of product Risk that non-compliance with regulations of regulatory control.
relevant product classifications e. g. medicinal.
products, medical devices, VMS, food, A Compliance Management Committee Improve artwork and label approval process.
results in: CMC has been established, meeting Consumer safety issue monthly and chaired by the Group CEO.
Continue comprehensive REACH compliance Reputational damage with consumers, This committee routinely reviews Product programme and implementation of customers or regulators Regulatory governance and issues arising.
Significant financial losses arising from supply disruption, product recalls, delayed Quarterly updates of Product Regulatory launches, penalties, etc.
progress from the CMC to the Board Possible criminal liability for RB senior Compliance Committee.
management REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals compliance programme progressing.
Best practice guidance on technical due diligence and vulnerability compliance activities post acquisition has been developed, based on learnings from recentacquisitions.
Decreased No change betterfinancials bettersociety Increased New Key Group Principal risks Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2017 actions 3.
Non-Compliance with A CMC has been established, meeting Implementation of a full Company Quality monthly and chaired by the Group CEO.
This Management System QMS to cover Health, GXP Regulations committee routinely reviews GXP Regulatory Hygiene and Home and all supporting governance and issues arising.
Description Quarterly updates of Product Regulatory The establishment of an independent Quality progress from the CMC to the Board Audit function reporting directly to the Chief Non-compliance with applicable regulations, Compliance Committee.
Safety, Quality and Compliance Officer.
guidelines, internal standards and or registrations across the supply chain and throughout the Minimum standards programme in place to Enhance the Medical Device QMS to ensure product life cycle PLC governing how we monitor and measure performance.
compliance with new ISO and Authority produce and supply product.
Health compliance regularly audited Non-compliance results in risk to: externally and clear actions in place.
Improve and enhance the Global Consumer Consumer safety and efficacy Relations function and system to facilitate Business disruption including site or Change management, already in place for appropriate signal detection and action to business closures Health, rollout to rest of the business in 2016. betaken.
Possible criminal liability for RB senior management External benchmarking and review of QMS.
South Korea RB and Oxy RB crisis management team in RB continues to work closely with place and functioning throughout the year government, lawyers and other businesses to to progress a compensation plan and progress settlement with claimants.
Description address legal and governmental action.
Significant financial and reputational risk as a Full public apology formally and repeatedly result of death and lung injury caused by made by Oxy RB to affected parties.
inhaling Oxy Sac Sac, a humidifier sanitiser product marketed by RBs Korean subsidiary Financial modelling completed to quantify Oxy RB.
risk and provide for financial exposure at the half year.
While a fully appropriate provision was made at half year to cover the one-off costs of Compensation agreements reached with a litigation, civil settlements and medical costs, significant proportion of Round 1 and Round as well as some impairment, the risk of 2 victims of lung damage.
Lessons learned exercise performed to However, there was no substantive basis to understand required process and control take further provision at year end.
betterfinancials bettersociety Decreased No change Increased New Key Group Principal risks Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 50 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management framework continued Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2017 actions 5.
Fatality or Major Policy and minimum Environment, Health EHS resourcing review to consider & Safety EHS standards established appropriateness across RB for supply, Employee Safety Incident and confirmed through self-assessment, R&D and commercial offices.
site visits and independent audits.
New independent internal EHS audit team Description A CMC has been established, meeting and programme established for regional monthly and chaired by the Group CEO.
Clear guidelines and cultural Work accidents leading to death, injury or This committee routinely reviews Employee safety programme to be developed as illness on RB premises or premises under Safety governance and issues arising.
RB supervision, in the case of outsourced operations, resulting in risks to: Quarterly updates of progress with Loss of life Safety governance and issues from the Company reputation brand and CMC to the CRSEC Committee.
Company image damage Operational efficiency factory closures, H&S training for both manufacturing significant supply disruption as issues are site leadership and commercial identified and rectified offices running through 2016.
Financial performance loss of sales, fines and cost of remediation activities Possible criminal liability for RB senior management betterfinancials bettersociety 6.
Supply Business Continued progress in driving principal single BCP documentation and testing to be sourced manufacturing sites to achieve and reviewed for each significant factory and in Continuity Planning maintain FM Global certification as Highly aggregate to ensure that business continuity Protected Risk HPR sites, or otherwise have arrangements remain sufficient.
fully tested risk mitigation plan.
Description Annual review of Business Interruption Risk that our business continuity plans BCPs, insurance policies to ensure adequate cover including mono-sourcing of materials and is in place.
finished products, do not adequately address all risks facing the Group, resulting in Tested and proven product recall process.
ERP IT Systems Failure Executive Committee strategic decision SAP rapid rollout phase consists of five committing to Group-wide ERP rollout.
deployment teams working in separate geographies to deliver a single instance SAP Description SAP commercial and factory templates now for both commercial and manufacturing sites live in two and four entities respectively, in those geographies.
Risk of IT disruption or accounting error, due to with multiple deployment teams now active legacy Enterprise Resource Planning ERP and in rapid rollout phase.
Full migration of all servers to outsourced IT systems, impacts business operations in a data centres.
number of areas, e. g. through unavailability of Disaster recovery plans for key IT systems key management information or disruption to redefined, reviewed and tested under new transactional processing.
outsource provider platform, providing improved systems integrity.
There is an associated, additional risk that SAP deployment, to replace the existing legacy ERP betterfinancials JDE, is delayed.
Decreased No change Increased New Key Group Principal risks Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 51 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2017 actions 8.
Cyber Security Cyber security awareness and data privacy Transformation of hardware environment, training for all staff, and anti-phishing Cyber Security Monitoring and Vulnerability and Data Protection training for senior management.
Data Privacy programme in place.
Global Data Privacy compliance assessment Description to identify further remediation required.
Solutions implemented for data loss prevention Risk that RB is subject to increasingly and privileged access management.
sophisticated cyber attacks aimed at causing business disruption, capture of data for Strengthening of Information Security Additional investment in Cyber Monitoring, financial gain, and reputational damage or resourcing and capabilities.
Digital Cyber Protection and IT Forensic that RBs data privacy is considered by systems.
Proactive investment in system patching against cyber threats.
Implementation of a Cyber Breach Response framework.
Transformation of internal cyber team, with additional resourcing for Security, Privacy and Compliance.
Single Sign On platform implemented.
Legal Non-Compliance Group Legal Compliance programme Appointment of new General Counsel to the strengthened.
Description Global Compliance Passport online training Develop tool for ongoing monitoring to completed by all employees.
prevent abuse of significant market Risk that we are not fully compliant with positions.
relevant laws and regulation, including Group Whistleblower Hotline operational, anti-corruption laws and global competition widely communicated and embedded.
Development of global gift register to laws, resulting in damage to RBs reputation, replace local tools.
significant potential fines and possible criminal Legal Academy launched, providing liability for RB senior management.
See Notes centralised training facilities.
17 and 19 of the Financial Statements for further details.
betterfinancials Decreased No change Increased New Key Group Principal risks Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 52 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Risk management framework continued Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2017 actions 10.
Major Tax Disputes Implementation of a Governance Review Ongoing proactive management to progress Board to monitor and drive compliance formal Advanced Pricing Agreements APAs against our operating model.
and proactive management of ongoing Description tax audits.
Ongoing monitoring of progress of European Risk of significant unprovisioned cash outflows Community State Aid investigations and as a result of tax authority challenge to filed their possible impact on RB.
Also for Base tax positions.
See Note 7 of the Financial Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS initiatives.
Loss of Key Succession plans for key management The Group structures its reward programme positions are in place.
to attract and retain the best people.
Management The formal succession planning process Retention risk analysis undertaken regularly, continues to evolve with plans being including review of turnover rates.
reviewed and updated regularly for all key Description positions and individuals.
Continuous review of competitiveness of the Risk that RB cannot implement its strategies total compensation programmes at RB.
The DARE programme is a key focus for 2017. and meet objectives as a result of key management leaving the business who cannot DARE Develop, Attract, Retain, Engage be readily replaced by equally high-calibre talented women programme launched with experienced qualified candidates.
the objective of reducing the drop-off rate of females from manager to senior management positions.
RB Reputation Recent organisational changes, most notably On executive pay, the Remuneration development of the Safety, Quality and Committee has reduced LTIP awards across Compliance function, to strengthen RBs the Board for 2017, with the most substantial Description compliance culture.
reduction being the CEO share awards.
The risk of significant reputational damage A Board CRSEC Committee and an executive Also, from 2017, variable pay awards may be within multiple external stakeholder groups, Compliance Management Committee CMC withheld from individuals if it is considered including consumers, customers, suppliers, have been introduced and now meet that their results have not been achieved investors and regulatory bodies, as a result of regularly.
in alignment with RB values and Code recent and any future publicly known issues.
A Critical Event process has been formalised with clear decision making and escalation through an independent functional line to the CEO.
betterfinancials bettersociety betterenvironment Decreased No change Increased New Key Group Principal risks Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 53 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Principal risk Mitigation status Ongoing 2017 actions BS.
Black Swan Event A full and robust risk and control framework The adequacy of the risk and control is in place and operating effectively across RB.
framework, together with Group policies, is reviewed annually by the Audit and Description This framework is overseen by the Audit CRSEC Committees.
Committee on behalf of the Board and Significant reputational impact as a result of a is routinely reviewed by an independent Incremental improvements are made each major operational or product related safety Internal Audit function, which reports year to further strengthen RBs system of issue resulting in very serious adverse impacts directly to the Audit Committee.
internal control and risk management.
to third parties or the viability of the business, possibly compounded by apparently negligent Comprehensive crisis management training management behaviour.
programme and support tools in place.
Extreme adverse press coverage and viral social media linking the RB name to consumer brands, leads to substantial share price fall, accompanied by collapse of consumer betterfinancials bettersociety betterenvironment confidence and inability to retain and recruit quality employees.
Routine Risks In order to manage the more numerous The adequacy of the risk and control and routine risks, the Group maintains a framework, together with Group policies, is complete and robust governance framework.
reviewed annually by the Audit and CRSEC Description This consists of a full set of policies, Committees.
processes and systems covering all aspects We are subject to a range of compliance of compliance, with international and local A fundamental element of the Mead Johnson and routine risks as part of everyday business.
laws as well as with the Groups stated Nutrition acquisition integration process will minimum control standards.
be to select the best combination of risk and control policies, processes and systems to Management provide primary assurance by further improve robustness for the enlarged driving risk compliance through their RB business.
respective area, regional or functional responsibility.
This is done through regular and detailed business and governance reviews.
Secondary assurance is provided independently through a combination of Internal and External Audit covering all aspects of the Groups operations.
betterfinancials bettersociety betterenvironment By order of the Board Rupert Bondy Company Secretary 20 March 2017 Decreased No change Increased New Key Group Principal risks Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
