60 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 Principal risks The Group has established risk management practices that are actions taken to mitigate the risks described below cannot provide embedded into the operations of the businesses, based on the absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013 by the Committee affect our business or financial performance.
Our risk management ofSponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
and internal control processes are described in the Corporate The principal risks facing the business, which have been assessed Governance section.
A description ofthe business and a discussion by the Audit Committees and Boards, are described below.
The of factors affecting performance is set out in the Chief Executive Directors confirm this process is robust and includes consideration Officers report and the Business Review.
Treasury risks are further of risks, including consideration of the United Kingdoms vote to discussed in the Chief Financial Officers reportand in note 19 to the leave the European Union, that could threaten the Groups business consolidated financial statements.
Ourapproach to managing models, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
It is not possible environmental and other non-financial risks is set out in the to identify every risk that could affect our businesses, and the Business Review and the separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
EXTERNAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Economy Demand for our products and services may be adversely Our businesses are focused on professional markets and market impacted by factors beyond our control, such as the economic which have generally been more resilient in periods of conditions environment in the United States, Europe and other major economic downturn.
We deliver information solutions, economies, political uncertainties, acts of terrorism and civil many on a subscription basis, which are important to our customers effectiveness and efficiency.
We have unrest as well as levels of government and private funding provided to academic and research institutions.
extended our position in long-term global growth markets through organic new launches supported bythe selective acquisition of small content and data sets.
We continue to dispose of businesses that no longer fit our strategy.
Intellectual Our products and services include and utilise intellectual We actively engage in developing and promoting property rights propertycontent.
We rely on trademark, copyright, patent and thelegal protection of intellectual property rights.
other intellectual property laws to establish and protect our Oursubscription contracts with customers contain proprietary rights in this intellectual property.
There is a risk provisions regarding the use of proprietary content.
that our proprietary rights could be challenged, limited, Weare vigilant as to the use of our content and, as invalidated or circumvented, which may impact demand for and appropriate, take legal action to challenge illegal pricing of our products and services.
Copyright laws are subject distribution sources.
to legislative initiatives and increased judicial scrutiny in several jurisdictions inwhich we operate.
This creates additional challenges for us inprotecting our proprietary rights in content delivered through theinternet and electronic platforms.
Data resources A number of our businesses rely extensively upon content We seek as far as possible to have proprietary anddatafrom external sources.
Data is obtained from public content.
Where content is supplied to us by third records, governmental authorities, customers and other parties, we aim to have contracts which provide information companies, including competitors.
We also maintain an regulations relating tointernet communications, privacy and active dialogue with regulatory authorities on privacy data protection, e-commerce, information governance and and other data related issues, and promote, with useof public records arebecoming more prevalent worldwide.
others, the responsible use ofdata.
The disruption or loss ofdata sources, either because of changes in the law or because data suppliers decide not to supply them, may impose limits on our collection and use of certain kinds of information about individuals and our ability to communicate such information effectively with our customers.
Paid Our Scientific, Technical and Medical STM primary research We engage extensively with stakeholders in the STM subscriptions content, like that of most of our competitors, is sold largely community to better understand their needs and onapaid subscription basis.
There is continued debate in delivervalue to them.
We are open to serving the government, academic and library communities, which are STMcommunity under any payment model that can theprincipal customers for our STM content, regarding to what sustainably provide researchers with the critical extent such content should be funded instead through fees information tools that they need.
We focus on the charged to authors or authors funders and or made freely integrity and quality of research through the editorial available in some form after a period following publication.
and peer review process: we invest in efficient editorial Some of these methods, ifwidely adopted, could adversely and distribution platforms and in innovation in affect our revenue from paid subscriptions.
platforms andtools to make content and data more accessible andactionable: and we ensure vigilance onplagiarism and the long-term preservation of research findings.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial review Principal risks 61 STRATEGIC RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Customer Our businesses are dependent on the continued acceptance by We are focused on the needs and economics of our acceptance ourcustomers of our products and services and the value placed customers and leverage user centred design of products onthem.
Failure to meet evolving customer needs could impact anddevelopment methods and customer analytics demand for our products and consequently adversely affect our toprovide content and innovative solutions that help revenue or the long-term returns from our investment in them achieve better outcomes and enhance electronic product and platform initiatives.
Competition Our businesses operate in highly competitive markets, and the We gain insights into our markets, evolving customers means of delivering our products and services, and the products needs, the potential application of new technologies and services themselves, continue to change in response to rapid andbusiness models, and the actions of competitors.
technological innovations, legislative and regulatory changes, These insights inform our market strategies and theentrance of new competitors and other factors.
We continuously invest anticipate and quickly adapt to these changes could impact the significant resources in our products and services, competitiveness of our products and services and consequently andthe infrastructure to support them.
Acquisitions We supplement our organic development with selected Acquisitions are made within the framework of acquisitions.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated ouroverall strategy, which emphasises organic benefits such as revenue growth and or cost savings associated development.
We have a well formulated process with these acquisitions this could adversely affect return on forreviewing and executing acquisitions and for invested capital and financial condition, or lead to an impairment managing the post-acquisition integration.
process is underpinned with clear strategic, financial and ethical criteria.
We closely monitor the integration and performance of acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Technology Our businesses are dependent on electronic platforms and We have established procedures for the protection of ourtechnology assets.
These include the development of failure networks, primarily the internet, for delivery of our products andservices.
These could be adversely affected if our electronic business continuity plans, including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery systems, to reduce business delivery platforms or networks experience a significant failure, interruption or security breach.
disruption in the event of a major technology failure.
Cyber security Our businesses maintain online databases and information, We have established data privacy and security including public records and other personal information.
As part programmes with the aim of ensuring that data is ofmaintaining this information and delivering our products and protected and that we comply with relevant legislative, services we rely on, and provide data to, third party service regulatory and contractual requirements.
These databases and information are susceptible to cyber attacks where external parties seek unauthorised access We have governance mechanisms in place to design toour, or our users, data.
and monitor common policies and standards across our businesses.
Our cyber security measures, and the measures used by our third party service providers, may not detect or prevent all attempts to We invest in appropriate administrative, technical, compromise our systems, which may jeopardise the security of andphysical controls which are applied across the thedata we maintain or may disrupt our systems.
Failures of our enterprise in a risk based security programme which cyber security measures could result in unauthorised access to operates at the infrastructure, application and user oursystems, misappropriation of our or our users data, deletion levels.
These controls include, but are not limited to, ormodification of stored information or other interruption to our infrastructure vulnerability management, application business operations.
Astechniques used to obtain unauthorised scanning and penetration testing, network access to or to sabotage systems change frequently, and may not segmentation, and logging and monitoring.
Our beknown until launched against us or our third party service administrative controls include training and providers, we may be unable to anticipate, or implement adequate communication initiatives to establish awareness of measures to protect against these attacks.
Compromises of our or risks at all levels of our businesses, and appropriate our third party service providers systems, or failure to comply with incident response plans to respond to threats and applicable legislation or regulatory or contractual requirements attacks.
We run programmes monitoring the could adversely affect ourfinancial performance, damage our application of our data privacy and security policies by reputation and expose us to risk ofloss, litigation and increased third party service providers.
internal and third party auditors to test, evaluate, and help enhance our procedures and controls.
We have established procedures for incorporating therequirements of relevant laws and regulations into our overall security programme, including into our policies and procedures.
Our compliance with these is also regularly reviewed and tested.
62 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2016 OPERATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Supply chain Our organisational and operational structures are dependent We select our vendors with care and establish dependencies onoutsourced andoffshored functions.
Poor performance or contractual service levels that we closely monitor, failure of third parties to whom we have outsourced activities including through key performance indicators and could adversely affect our business performance, reputation targeted supplier audits.
We have developed business and financial condition.
continuity plans to reduce disruption in the event of amajor failure by a vendor.
Talent The implementation and execution of our strategies and We have well established management development businessplans depend on ourability to recruit, motivate and and talent review programmes.
We monitor capability retainskilled employees and management.
We compete needs and remuneration schemes are tailored to globally andacross business sectors for talented management attract and motivate the best talent available at an and skilled individuals, particularly those with technology and appropriate level of cost.
We actively seek feedback data .
An inability to recruit, motivate or from employees, which feeds into plans to retain such people could adversely affect our business enhanceemployee engagement and motivation.
FINANCIAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Pensions We operate a number of pension schemes around the world, We have professional management of our pension including local versions of the defined benefit type in the UK and schemes and we focus on maintaining appropriate asset the United States.
The assets and obligations associated with allocation and plan designs.
We review our funding those pension schemes are sensitive to changes in the market requirements on a regular basis with the assistance of values of the schemes investments and the market-related independent actuaries and ensure that the funding plans assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
We seek to manage pension liabilities toasset values, discount rates, longevity assumptions or inflation byreviewing pension benefits provided to staff as well as could increase future pension costs and funding requirements.
the structure of scheme arrangements.
Tax Our businesses operate globally and our profits are subject We maintain an open dialogue with tax authorities, totaxation in many differing jurisdictions and at differing tax andare vigilant in ensuring that we comply with rates.
In October 2015, the Organisation for Economic current tax legislation.
We have clear and consistent Co-operation and Development OECD issued its reports onBase tax policies and tax matters are dealt with by a Erosion and Profit Shifting, which suggest a range ofnew professional tax function, supported by external approaches that national governments might adopt when taxing advisers.
As outlined inthe Chief Financial Officers the activities of multinational enterprises.
As a result of the OECD report onpage 59 weengage with tax authorities and project and other international initiatives, tax laws that currently international organisations.
Theprinciples we adopt apply to our businesses may be amended by the relevant inour approach to tax matterscan be found on our authorities or interpreted differently by them, and these changes website at www.
could adversely affect our reported results.
Treasury The RELX Group consolidated financial statements areexpressed Our approach to capital structure and funding are in sterling and are subject to movements in exchange rates on the described in the Chief Financial Officers Report on translation of the financial information of businesses whose pages 54 to 59.
The approach to the management operational currencies are other thansterling.
The United States oftreasury risks is described in note 19 to the is our mostimportant market and, accordingly, significant consolidated financial statements.
fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could significantly affect our reported results.
We also earn revenues and incur costs in a range of other currencies, including the euro and the yen and significant fluctuations in these exchange rates could also significantly impact our reported results.
Macroeconomic, political and market conditions may adversely affect the availability and terms of short and long-term funding, volatility of interest rates, the credit quality of our counterparties, currency exchange rates and inflation.
The majority of our outstanding debt instruments are, and any of our future debt instruments may be, publicly rated by independent rating agencies.
Our borrowing costs and access to capital may be adversely affected if the credit ratings assigned to our debt are downgraded.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial review Principal risks 63 REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risk Description and impact Mitigation Ethics As a world-leading provider of professional information Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is provided solutions to the STM, risk & business analytics, legal, and to every employee and is supported by training.
exhibitions markets we, our employees and major suppliers are It encompasses such topics as fair competition, expected to adhere to high standards of independence and anti-bribery and human rights and encourages open ethical conduct, including those related to anti-bribery and and principled behaviour.
We have well-established principled business conduct.
A breach of generally accepted processes for reporting and investigating instances ethical business standards or applicable statutes concerning of unethical conduct.
Our major suppliers are required bribery could adversely affect our business performance, to adopt our Supplier Code of Conduct.
Environmental Our businesses have an impact on the environment, principally We are committed to reducing these environmental through the use of energy and water, waste generation and, in impacts by limiting resource use and efficiently oursupply chain, through paper use and print and production employing sustainable materials and technologies.
Failure to manage our environmental impact We require our major suppliers and contractors couldadversely affect our reputation.
We seek to ensure thatallour businesses are compliant with relevant environmental regulation.
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 63, has been approved by the Board of RELX PLC.
By order of the Board Registered Office Henry Udow 13 Strand Company Secretary London 22 February 2017 WC2N 5JR
