Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Corporate Governance 77 Shareholder engagement RELX PLC and RELX NV participate in regular dialogue with 1st Line of Defence shareholders.
Each reports to its shareholders through the Group businesses maintain systems of internal publication of the Groups interim and full-year reports, following control which are appropriate to the nature and which presentations are made by the Chairman, Chief Executive scale of their activities and address all significant strategic, operational, financial and legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer on the Groups business, and compliance risks that they face.
In addition, quarterly trading updates are provided ahead of the Annual General Meetings of the two parent companies and towards the end of the financial year, 2nd Line of Defence and a conference call with investors was held following the Central functions that are responsible for third-quarter trading update for 2016.
1 designing policies, 2 introducing and sharing best In addition, a teach-in focused on developments in the Legal practice, 3 monitoring and evaluating compliance business was held for analysts and investors in November 2016, with RELX policies and relevant legislation and which was also made available on our website at regulation and appropriate remediation.
com The Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the 3rd Line of Defence investor relations team meet institutional shareholders on a Internal audit provides independent assurance on regular basis and the Chairman also makes himself available to the effectiveness of the 1st and 2nd lines of defence.
The interim and annual results announcements and presentations, together with the trading updates, other important announcements The Boards and Audit Committees and corporate governance documents concerning the Group, are available on our website.
RELX NV has adopted a bilateral Note: In addition to the Groups internal controls, the Group is also audited externally.
shareholder contact policy, which is also available on our website.
The report of the external auditor has been included from pages 108 to 118.
The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes and views of the companies institutional Parent companies shareholders and the results are presented to the respective Boards.
The Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV have each adopted a The Boards also receive regular updates from the Groups Head of schedule of matters which are required to be brought to them for Investor Relations on the views of shareholders through a briefing decision.
During 2016, the Boards of RELX PLC and RELX NV which is a standing agenda item for all meetings of the Boards.
exercised independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems of internal control of RELX Group plc.
The Boards of RELX Annual General Meetings PLC and RELX NV also approved the strategy and the annual The Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the Boards budgets of RELX Group plc, and received regular reports on its to communicate with individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the operations, including the treasury and risk management activities.
Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chairmen of Major transactions proposed by the Board of RELX Group plc the Board Committees, other Directors and a representative of the required the approval of the Boards of both RELX PLC and RELX NV.
external auditors are available to answer questions from The RELX PLC and RELX NV Audit Committees met on a regular shareholders.
Both RELX PLC and RELX NV offer electronic voting basis to review the systems of internal control and risk facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
management of RELX Group plc.
RELX Group plc Internal control and risk management The Board of RELX Group plc is responsible for the system of riskmanagement and internal control of the Group and has RELX Group has established internal controls and risk implemented an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, management practices that are embedded into the operations of monitoring and managing the principal risks faced by its the businesses, based on the Internal Control Integrated businesses.
This process was in place throughout the year ended Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 31 December 2016, and up to the date of the approvals of the Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2016.
The Board Details of the principal risks facing the Group and how these are monitors these systems of internal control and risk management mitigated are set out on pages 60 to 63. and annually carries out a review of their effectiveness.
Additionally, in order to provide reasonable assurance against material inaccuracies or loss, and on the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management, the Group has adopted the three lines of defence assurance model shown opposite.
RELX Group Operating and Governance Principles System of Internal Control
