Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 48 Strategic report Risk and risk management infographic on page 49.
This process The assessment of the Groups prospects Effective risk ensures that risks are not just the product considered stress testing of the strategic management is critical to of a bottom-up approach but are also plan using key methodologies including the achievement of our examined from a top-down perspective consideration of the Groups principal risks via an integrated senior management and uncertainties and a simulation model strategic objectives.
Risk approach, which is closely aligned with to quantify the impact of combinations of management controls the Groups strategy.
In order to enhance risks, including an economic downturn.
the Groups approach to risk generally in are integrated into all The results of the stress test and 2016, a new risk committee was formed simulation modelling were considered levels of our business and creating greater linkage across our review against the Groups financial position across all our operations.
The committee to determine that in these severe but will also be monitoring mitigation of risk We continually assess our plausible downside scenarios, the Group and in 2016 conducted a thorough review would have sufficient resources to exposure to risk and seek of our principal risks.
continue to operate and meet its liabilities to ensure that risks are over the three-year assessment period.
Assessment of prospects appropriately mitigated.
and viability The Groups resilient business model has proven strong and defensive in the longAnalysis for the new viability statement Overview of risk management term and has enabled consistent growth.
reporting requirement included on The Board is responsible for the page73 has been based on our strategic overall stewardship of our system of The increasing diversity of our markets plan.
The tools and information we use risk management and internal control.
and customers, broad product range, for managing our risks have facilitated It has established the level of risk investment in new product development, the quantification of potential downside that is appropriate for our business plant and equipment and facilities, wide scenarios and the analysis required to and acceptable in the pursuit of our geographic spread and service capability make this statement.
The three-year strategic objectives and has therefore and large base of installed equipment period selected for the viability statement set appropriate policies.
It has also set worldwide, enhances the viability of the is covered by the Groups strategic plan delegated authority levels to provide Group in the face of adverse conditions, and this has supported the analysis the framework for assessing risks and as does our ability to self-generate with the ability to use a consistent set of ensuring that they are escalated to the business through our skilled people underlying assumptions.
appropriate levels of management, identifying solutions to our customers including up to the Board where difficult process challenges.
These include the forecast growth and appropriate, for consideration and profitability of the Group and financial approval.
The roles and responsibilities of position reflecting current expectations as the Board, key committees and all levels well as assessments of risk probabilities of management from a risk management and risk impact over the three-year period.
perspective are summarised in the Going concern Key focus areas for 2016 for more information see page 73 Viability statement A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that for more information see pages 7374 would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
For further explanation of our approach to On-going monitoring of the group risk management and internal control systems.
risk management and internal control see page 74 Enhanced evaluation and integration of the Groups approach to risk management.
Creation of an executive risk committee comprising key senior management to facilitate on-going monitoring activities.
Creation of an executive anti-bribery monitoring working group.
Creation of an executive information and cyber security working group.
Creation of an executive data protection working group.
Group business code and other policies Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 49 Risk management framework information and feedback flow Board Audit Committee Executive Board Risk Committee Top-down review Group risk register Bottom-up review ISM Board Group Other operational operating companies management Risk likelihood and impact before mitigation The diagram to the right shows the Board's analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, before mitigation.
1 1 Current trading levels and order book 2 Research and development 6 2 3 Supply chain management 4 Regulatory legislation for healthcare products 3 5 Defined benefit pension schemes 4 6 Exchange rate fluctuations 5 Further descriptions and associated mitigations are shown on pages 5051.
Low High Likelihood of risk External auditor and internal audit Risk impact Low High
