Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2016 50 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Our performance is subject to a number of risks, of which the principal risks and changes impacting on them are set out in the table below.
The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the business.
With the exception of the potential impacts of Brexit, no new principal risks have emerged during the financial year.
As reported in the Chairmans statement on page 7 the full business implications of Brexit remain uncertain, which will be the case for some time, and any risks arising will be a key focus area for the risk committee in the next financial year.
Currency fluctuations, trading arrangements, employment issues and other risks that become apparent over time will be monitored by the committee and mitigation put in place where possible.
1 Current trading levels and order book Revenue growth is Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change unpredictable and orders Global market conditions continue The Group is expanding and diversifying its from customers generally to highlight risks to growth and product range in order to maintain a worldinvolve short lead-times demand which can lead to leading position in its sales of metrology with the outstanding order fluctuating levels of revenue.
Investment in sales and marketing book at any time being resources continues in order to support the Whilst global investment in around one months worth breadth of the product offerings.
production systems and processes of revenue value.
The Group is applying its measurement is expected to expand, future Related strategic priorities: expertise to grow its healthcare and additive growth is difficult to predict, manufacturing business activities.
especially with such a short-term 2 4 5 6 8 order book.
This limited forward The Group retains a strong balance sheet and order visibility leaves the annual has the ability to flex manufacturing resource No change.
2 Research and development Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change The development of new products and processes Being at the leading edge of new Patent and intellectual property generation is involves risk, such as technology in metrology and core to new product developments.
development timescales, healthcare, there are uncertainties R&D programmes are regularly reviewed meeting the required whether new developments will against milestones and, when necessary, technical specification and provide an economic return.
the impact of alternative Medium to long-term R&D strategies are technology developments.
monitored regularly by both the Board and Related strategic priorities: Executive Board, including reviews of the allocation of R&D resource to key projects.
2 5 7 Product development processes around the Group are reviewed and aligned where possible to provide consistency and efficiency.
New products involve beta testing at customers to ensure they will meet the needs of the market.
Market developments are closely monitored.
3 Supply chain management Customer deliveries may be Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change threatened by a failure in the Inability to meet customer deliveries Production facilities are maintained with fire supply chain.
could result in loss of revenue and flood risk in mind.
Related strategic priorities: and profit.
Critical production processes are replicated at different locations where practical.
3 The Group is highly vertically integrated providing increased control over many aspects of the supply chain.
Ability to flex manufacturing resource levels and shift patterns.
Regular vendor reviews are performed for critical part suppliers.
Stock policies are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Increased production capacity in Product quality is closely monitored.
Explanation of change in risk.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 4 Regulatory legislation for healthcare products Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change The expansion of the Groups business into the Regulatory approval can be very Specialist legal and regulatory staff are in healthcare markets involves expensive and time-consuming.
place to support the healthcare business.
a significantly increased This area is also very complex Experience of healthcare regulatory matters at requirement to obtain and there is a risk that the correct board level.
regulatory approval prior to approvals are not obtained.
Healthcare operations in UK and France the sale of these products.
have ISO13485 certification for their quality Related strategic priorities: management systems, with Ireland and other subsidiary healthcare operations falling under 2 5 6 the UK quality management system.
5 Defined benefit pension schemes Investment returns and Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change actuarial valuations of the Volatility in investment returns The investment strategy is managed by the defined benefit pension and actuarial assumptions can pension scheme trustees who operate in line fund liabilities are subject to significantly affect the defined benefit with a statement of investment principles.
economic and social factors pension scheme deficit, impacting A new recovery plan was agreed in June which are outside of the on future funding requirements.
2016 for the 2015 actuarial valuation based control of the Group.
Related strategic priorities: 1 Agreement of a recovery plan for the 2015 actuarial valuation.
6 Exchange rate fluctuations Fluctuating foreign Potential impact Mitigation Year-on-year change exchange rates may affect With 95% of revenue generated The Group enters into forward contracts in the results of the Group.
outside of the UK, there is an order to hedge varying proportions of forecast Related strategic priorities: exposure to major currency US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen revenue.
fluctuations, mainly in respect of the The Group uses currency borrowings to 6 7 US Dollar, Euro and Japanese Yen.
hedge the foreign currency denominated Such fluctuations could adversely assets held in the Groups balance sheet.
impact both the Groups income Monthly board review of currency rates and statement and balance sheet.
Recent positive movements offset by future Brexit uncertainty.
Increased Decreased No change Our business model Our strategy for more information see page 9 for more information see page 22 onwards
