34 Risks and Uncertainties Principal risks The Groups overall risk management approach, described on pages 65 and 66, is designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance at all levels of the Group that risks are properly identified and are being effectively managed.
This includes the provision of appropriate mechanisms to ensure that issues and concerns relating to risk can be escalated up through the organisation effectively and confidentially.
The principal risks most relevant to the Group are described in the tableon pages 35 to 39, together with mitigating actions.
Assurance risks, which relate to activities that the Group must undertake in order to meet legal, fiscal and governance obligations, are also shown.
Full details ofthe Companys financial risks can be found in Note C1 on pages 123 and 124.
The exact financial impact of one or more of our principal risks materialising will depend on the precise operational impact of the risk, itsinteraction with other risks and whether mitigating actions are successful in reducing the overall financial impact.
However, as a rule ofthumb, a 1% decrease in revenue, if not mitigated at all, would have animpact on operating profit in the range of 8.0m to 12.0m 3% to 5% and on operating cash flow in the range of 6.0m to 10.0m 2% to 3%.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a Review of risks period of three years.
The Directors have determined that a Risks and mitigating activities are regularly reviewed by the Board, the three-year period is appropriate as it is consistent with the period Audit Committee and the Executive Leadership Team, but it should be reviewed by the Board in the strategic planning process and is noted that remedial actions taken may not be sufficient on their own to aligned with the typical length of both customer and supplier fully mitigate the risks, should they materialise.
contract periods entered into by the business.
In making their assessment, the Directors have considered the current position of Other risks the business and have taken into account the potential impact of The Group is exposed to other risks and uncertainties related to the principal risks, described below.
environmental, political, social, economic and employment factors in the territories in which we operate.
Additional risks and uncertainties not The assessment has included stress testing the financial forecasts presently known to management or deemed to be of lower materiality for severe but plausible scenarios both individually and in may, if they manifest themselves, have an adverse impact on the Groups aggregate together with the effectiveness of mitigating actions.
growth, profitability, cash flow and or net assets.
It has also considered the level of financing headroom and the ability of the Group to raise additional finance and deploy capital.
In particular, the Directors have considered the impact of a prolonged downturn in trading performance and have assessed liquidity in the context of a credit rating downgrade.
In addition to this the Directors have also considered scenarios that could threaten the viability of the Group.
The Directors have taken account of the Groups liquidity position, with a current net debt to EBITDA ratio of 2.5x, and its ability to raise new finance if required in most market conditions.
Thegeographic and category diversification of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk of a serious business disruption.
Inaddition, the Groups ability to flex the cost base protects theviability of the business in the face of adverse economic and or political uncertainty.
The Directors have also considered the key potential mitigating actions of reducing capital expenditure or expenditure on acquisitions and ultimately restricting dividend payments.
Based on this assessment and after careful consideration, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending December 2019.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 35 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risks and Uncertainties Principal risk Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Companys three primary businesses Regular tracking of customer satisfaction PestControl, Hygiene and Workwear and the perception of both customers operatein competitive environments and, and non-customers of Rentokil Initial, in the Pest Control business especially, benchmarked against competitors.
KPI:NPS scores through Customer Voice Acquiring new customers and retaining Counts exercises.
existing customers in such competitive Targeted investment in innovation to environments remains challenging: failure to support value-added and innovative do so may have a negative impact on growth, concepts to maintain profitability and profitability and cash flow.
Markets in the Protect & Enhance quadrant Investing in new digital platforms remain competitive especially in Workwear Growing our business to provide improved channels of and Hygiene.
We anticipate this competitive communication and marketing.
profitably in an environment to continue in the short term.
Incentives for sales and service staff increasingly competitive In the Growth & Emerging quadrants aligned closely with strategic and annual where labour markets are tighter it remains targets.
environment challenging to attract and retain the most International Key Accounts team capable sales and technical personnel.
developing business with multinational customers across geographies to take advantage of the Company as the most international player in our markets.
KPI:International Key Accounts Sales %.
Acquisition of targets that have a strong cultural fit with the brand and our service model whilst supporting growth.
Employee Value Proposition developed and rolled out in 2016: new talent strategy and approach in place for 2017 to ensure focus on the key priorities of the organisation including recruiting and retaining critical talent and specialists.
Exit from unprofitable businesses with commodity characteristics, e. g. flat linen.
We operate in international markets and Financing policy in place to ensure that our local business operations are therefore the Company has sufficient financial exposed to foreign exchange risk, interest headroom to finance all but the very rate risk, liquidity risk, counterparty risk and largest acquisitions.
Target credit rating settlement risk.
If any of these risks materialise, of BBB achieved in 2014 and confirmed this may have a negative impact on profitability, in 2016. cash flow and financial statements, and may Treasury policies that limit complex have a negative impact on financial ratios, financial transactions, such as use credit ratings or the ability to raise funds for of derivatives, hedging, raising bank acquisitions.
financeand opening bank accounts, require Chief Financial Officer approval.
During 2015 and 2016 the net debt of the Monthly reporting of financial and Group has increased following the completion Financial market risks liquidityratios.
KPIs: net debt adjusted of 64 acquisitions, most notably Steritech in the EBITDA, funds from operations FFO net US.
Any additional net debt required to fund debt.
future acquisitions may affect our investment Cash pooling and debt financing grade credit rating.
arrangement to match, as closely as Further details of the impact of financial market possible, currency availability demand risks are given in Note C1 to the Financial across borders.
See also theviability statement on page 34.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 36 Risks and Uncertainties Principal risk Risk description and impact Mitigating actions Our business model depends on servicing Expansion of the Operational Excellence the needs of our customers in line with team to drive superior customer service.
internal high standards and to levels agreed in KPI: State of Service.
If our operatives are not sufficiently Targets for frontline staff and qualified, or do not have the right technical management based on delivering and and inter-personal skills, or we fail to deliver improving customer service levels.
successful innovations, this may negatively Customer Voice Counts feedback impact our ability to acquire new customers or sought from a range of customers, used retain existing customers, with the consequent to track customer service quality, with impact on growth, profitability and cash flow.
improvement in CVC scores year on year targeted at all locations.
Industrial action in one or more of our key HR development processes including operations could result in diminished service Delivering consistently leadership and development training, levels to our customers and if prolonged could performance management, reward and high levels of service to damage the Companys reputation and ability incentives.
KPI: colleague retention to secure new contracts or renew existing the satisfaction of our monitored for technicians and salesforce.
customers Oversight of key industrial relations In the medium to long term we risk the loss of matters by Group HR Director and key service personnel as labour markets tighten.
regular review by Chief Executive for countries where risk ofindustrial action isconsidered high.
The ability to continuously service customers All countries and units required to without interruption is essential in a service maintain Business Continuity plans and industry.
In our Workwear business, where for IT Disaster Recovery Plans that are clothing is often tailored to individual needs tested regularly.
and specifications e. g. cleanroom business, Procedures in place to ensure that business could be adversely affected if access potential industrial disputes are escalated to the laundries is not possible due to issues quickly to Group HR Director.
Local plans to service customers from adjacent laundries branches where Failure to service our customers may adversely supply has been interrupted.
affect our ability to retain those customers and Ongoing programme to transfer key data may badly damage the Companys reputation.
and applications from local servers to This may have a negative impact on growth, Business continuity regional data centres with higher levels profitability and cash flow.
A significant cyber attack or IT failure which Security governance framework and cannot be recovered from in a short period of standards established, including IT time could prevent normal business operations security management framework, incident across one or more countries and have an management reporting, global standards adverse impact on revenue, profitability and for network segmentation and incident cash flow.
IT self-assessment exercises carried out across the Group to assess the Companys resilience to cyber attack and remedial action to improve controls where necessary.
Penetration testing of all systems on atleast an annual basis to test external firewalls with action to address any weakness identified.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 37 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk and Uncertainties Principal risk Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Company has a strategy which includes Integration plans considered by growth by acquiring existing companies Investment Committee as part of toextend its geographic footprint or toimprove acquisition approval process.
its market share in existing geographies.
If the Dedicated project teams established for Company fails to successfully integrate these largest acquisitions and demergers, e. g. acquisitions into its existing organisation Steritech and proposed JV with Haniel, structures, the business may not achieve the with clear deliverables over three months, expected financial and operational benefits six months and one year.
which may have an adverse impact on growth, Tried and tested induction programme for profitability and cash flow.
first 100 days for all acquisitions.
Continuity of management leadership Since 2014 the Company has been successful inacquired companies, where possible.
in acquiring over 90 businesses in all regions.
Integration of Use of transaction structures In 2016 the Group announced the proposed acquisitions and includingdeferred consideration to transfer of Rentokil Initials Workwear and mitigate dealrisk.
separation of Hygiene businesses in Benelux, Sweden and Group departments, e. g. Health & Safety, CEE to a new joint venture JV with Haniel.
If disposalsfrom Legal, Insurance, and IT, involved early the transfer is not managed professionally the with new acquisitions to drive compliance continuing business continuing business may lose focus and fail to with Group standards, especially when deliver its operational plans.
Formal post-acquisition review PAR by Investment Committee of benefits delivered against original business plan within 18-24 months for the majority of acquisitions.
The PAR is undertaken by the Investment Committee ahead of releasing any deferred payments.
Internal Audit review within 18 months of businesses acquired in new geographies.
Theft of Company assets including property, Code of Conduct refreshed in 2016 and customer or employee information, or circulated to all employees.
Mandatory misstatement of financial or other records via online training by all senior employees deliberate action by employees or third parties refreshed annually for competition law, may constitute fraud and result in financial loss anti-bribery and corruption, information to the business, damage to the Companys security and privacy.
KPI: % compliance reputation or fines by regulators.
Compliance with Code of Conduct and other key policies affirmed by annual Letter of Assurance by all senior management.
26 key financial controls defined Fraud, financial crime centrallyand independently assessed atcountry level in all material business and loss or unintended units every year.
release of personal data Wherever possible credit card transactions are managed by regulated third parties who have robust controls inplace to prevent loss of data.
Specific review of adequacy of controls in Group Treasury and remedial actions implemented.
International confidential Speak Up hotline and email address, monitored byInternal Audit.
Significant frauds investigated by Internal Audit and lessons learned widely shared.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 38 Risks and Uncertainties Principal risk Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The Company operates in a number of Robust and up-to-date health and safety hazardous environments and situations, H&S policies re-issued in 2015, with forexample: increased focus given to higher risk and regulated activities, e. g. driving, working the use of poisons and fumigation materials atheight and fumigation.
inPest Control: H&S officers appointed in all jurisdictions.
driving to customers across all our Mandatory training of all relevant businesses: employees in safe working practices, working at height: and including mandatory training for drivers biohazards from laundering of medical and and those working in hazardous hospital workwear and linen.
environments, e. g. heat treatment or fumigation.
Non-compliance with internal policies or Health, safety and the H&S considered as first item on all Board industry regulations could lead to personal and senior management meetings.
environment injury, substantial fines or penalties including H&S KPIs discussed at all country and withdrawal of licences to operate and damage regional board meetings.
Formal review of accidents and lessons learned widely circulated.
Monitoring of energy-derived emissions and water usage see page 44.
The Company is a multinational business that Group Legal involvement in all operates in many jurisdictions and is increasing acquisitions, including advising on risk its business in emerging markets, including and regulatory issues.
by acquisition and new country entry.
Failure Regular compliance exercises, for to comply with local laws such as anti-bribery example on anti-corruption and and corruption laws, employment legislation anti-bribery legislation, competition or financial and tax reporting requirements law, labour law and data protection: may result in fines or withdrawal of licence to monitoring of online U training operate, which could have an adverse impact completion rates.
on growth, profitability and cash flow.
All significant tax planning opportunities pre-agreed with Group Tax Director and The Company operates across many different Chief Financial Officer with independent tax jurisdictions and is subject to periodic tax Breach of laws or tax advice taken where necessary.
audits which sometimes challenge the basis Regular review of tax exposures.
regulations including on which local tax has been calculated or Authority schedule in place and regularly withheld.
Successful challenges by local tax tax, competition and reviewed.
authorities may have an adverse impact on anti-trust laws profitability and cash flow.
Group and local policies in place and regularly reviewed.
Requirement to report breaches in controls or laws to Group General Counsel and Head of Internal Audit.
Mandatory training on Code of Conduct, competition, anti-bribery and corruption, IT security and privacy.
All major business transactions or internal reorganisations are subject to a rigorous internal and external review.
A dedicated and experienced central tax department is involved in all tax audits.
Group tax policy reviewed and approved by the Board.
Tax planning is aligned with the Companys business activities and artificial transactions to avoid tax are not undertaken.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016 39 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk and Uncertainties Principal risk Risk description and impact Mitigating actions The global economic environment is volatile, Regular review of our capital allocation with many economies in Europe experiencing model to ensure that resources are low GDP growth and the impact of Brexit directed to countries and businesses adding to economic uncertainty.
There is that have the most attractive returns high volatility in global commodity prices andfuture prospects.
and exchange rates and wide variations In 2016 the Group announced the in local market price and cost inflation proposed transfer of Rentokil Initials across the globe.
In Workwear there is also Workwear and Hygiene businesses in increasing demand from customers for more Benelux, Sweden and CEE into a new frequent product changes while maintaining JVwith Haniel, which will mitigate margin competitive pricing.
In the face of these risk in these markets through improved economic pressures, our customers may product mix and economies of scale.
Maintaining margins choose not to renew contracts, or may look Supply strategy reviewed and adapted for reductions in prices or to delay payments, to ensure more urgent delivery of during periods of weak which may have a negative impact on our innovation while maintaining or improving economic growth ability to increase margins and cash flow.
KPI: State of Service, OnTime in Full for Workwear.
In our Protect & Enhance markets, many of Regular monitoring of market pricing which have low or negative inflation, it remains trends where available and individual difficult to maintain or improve margins due to customer profitability to ensure that weak pricing power.
margin erosion is minimised: sales Further, failure to collect debts from customers incentives increasingly prioritise margin who are facing economic headwinds could and customer profitability.
have an adverse impact on cash flow.
Continuing focus on cost, with regular reviews of cost base and productivity programmes.
Group Procurement function with executive authority to deliver economies of scale in IT, fleet, energy and logistics.
Group HR approval required for any significant changes to employee benefits, pensions, etc.
Establishment of a European Supply Chain for Workwear and Hygiene.
Investment in new, more efficient plant where cost effective.
Roll-out of automated tools to monitor customer profitability.
Regular monitoring of debtor days outstanding with action taken against customers with overdue debts.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2016
