Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties in this section have been The principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in connection categorised into Financial risks Market, Financial and Strategic : with any forward-looking statements in this Annual report and the Operational risks HSEC, Resources, Operations, Projects and People : cautionary statement on the inside front cover.
and Compliance risks Stakeholder, Governance.
Financial risks Inherent risk and uncertainty Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact 2016 trend HSEC and reputation opportunities Market risks Rio Tinto operates in global markets and accepts the impact of exchange rate movements and market-driven prices for our commodities, seeking premiums where possible.
Commodity prices, driven by demand and Business model A rise in commodity prices, or favourable supply for the Groups products, vary exchange rate movement, allows the Group to Future performance outside of expectations over time.
pursue strategic capital expansions, pay down Price Solvency Exchange rate variations and geopolitical debt and or increase returns to shareholders.
uncertainty has Liquidity issues may offset or exacerbate this risk.
Group reputation Capturing above-planned returns from Prices stronger Anticipating and responding to market commercial excellence activities would deliver than forecast.
movements is inherently uncertain and additional cash flow to the Group.
Chinas development pathway could impact Business model Strong growth, positive policy decisions and demand for the Groups products outside of reforms drive demand for commodities, Future performance expectations.
resulting in rising prices which enable capital Demand stronger expansion and increased shareholder returns in than forecast.
Financial risks Rio Tinto maintains a strong balance sheet and liquidity position to preserve financial flexibility through the cycle.
External events and internal discipline may Future performance Favourable market conditions and strong impact Group liquidity.
internal discipline could increase Group Solvency Balance sheet liquidity and or balance sheet strength and Liquidity strengthened by allow it to pursue investment opportunities and Group reputation stronger than enhance returns to shareholders.
forecast cash flows driven by higher commodity prices.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Falling commodity prices, or adverse exchange rate movements, Pursue low cost production, allowing profitable supply throughout the reduce cash flow, limiting profitability and dividend payments.
These may trigger impairments and or impact rating agency Maintain a diverse portfolio of commodities across a number of geographies.
Extended subdued prices may reflect a longer-term fall in Maintain global portfolio of customers and contracts.
demand for the Groups products, and consequent reduced Maintain a strong balance sheet.
revenue streams may limit investment opportunities.
Monitor multiple leading indicators and undertake detailed industry analysis to develop more accurate assumptions in our commodity price and exchange rate Failure to deliver planned returns from commercial excellence forecasting used for capital allocation and planning process, and Commercial activities would negatively impact cash flows for the Group.
Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the An economic slowdown in China, and or a material change in policy, fundamental principles that govern the Groups financial risk results in a slowdown in demand and reduced investment management practices.
Closely coordinate market-facing commercial excellence resources in the Group.
Apply strong governance reflecting relevant regulatory frameworks and jurisdictions.
The Groups ability to raise sufficient funds for planned expenditure, Comply with the Groups Treasury policy and standard, which outlines the such as capital growth and or mergers and acquisitions, as well as the fundamental principles that govern the Groups financial risk ability to weather a major economic downturn could be compromised by management practices.
a weak balance sheet and or inadequate access to liquidity.
Maintain a net gearing ratio of 20 to 30 per cent and other financial metrics commensurate with a strong investment-grade credit rating.
Manage the liquidity and financing structure of the Group using forecasts and sensitivity analysis tools to actively monitor, determine and enable access to the appropriate level, sources and types of financing required.
Subject funds invested by the Group to credit limits and maturity profiles based on board-approved frameworks, to promote diversification and maintain appropriate liquidity.
Embed Finance teams within the business support management and develop accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Report financial performance monthly to senior management and the board.
Seek board approval of the financial strategy, long-term planning and cash flow forecasting.
Apply a dividend policy which allows shareholder returns to adjust with the cycle.
com 17 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial risks continued Inherent risk and uncertainty Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact 2016 trend HSEC and reputation opportunities Strategic risks Rio Tinto enforces disciplined capital allocation to the best returning opportunities organic and inorganic growth projects or returns to shareholders.
Rio Tintos ability to secure planned value Business model Proceeds realised from divested assets are by successfully executing divestments and greater than planned, allowing more capital to Future performance acquisitions may vary.
be redeployed into higher returning or more Solvency productive uses.
The Group is successful in Liquidity acquiring businesses that provide cash flow Group reputation and or future growth optionality, above that anticipated at the time of acquisition.
The Groups ability to develop new projects Future performance An ability to develop projects on time and successfully may vary.
within budget enhances licence to operate and HSEC investor confidence.
Group reputation Solvency Operational risks Inherent risk and uncertainty Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact 2016 trend HSEC and reputation opportunities HSEC risks Rio Tintos operations are inherently dangerous.
We lead responsibly to preserve our social licence to operate and ensure our employees and contractors go home safe and healthy.
Our operations and projects are inherently Future performance Delivering leading health, safety, environment hazardous with the potential to cause and communities performance is essential to HSEC illness or injury, damage to the our business success.
Meeting or exceeding Group reputation environment, disruption to a community or our commitments in these areas contributes to a threat to personal security.
sustainable development and underpins our continued access to resources, capital and a diverse workforce to sustain the organisation.
Good performance in legacy management of closed sites and closure can enhance our reputation and enable us to maintain access to land, resources, people and capital, so we can continue to establish new projects with the support of local communities.
Resources risks Rio Tinto invests materially to accurately identify new deposits and develop orebody knowledge, underpinning our operations and projects.
The success of the Groups exploration Business model The discovery of a new viable orebody can activity may vary.
In addition, estimates of significantly improve future growth options.
Future performance ore reserves are based on uncertain Group reputation assumptions that, if changed, could result The volume of ore is based on the available in the need to restate ore reserves and geological, commercial and technical mine plans.
information which is by its nature, incomplete.
As new information comes to light the economic viability of some ore reserves and mine plans can be restated upwards.
As a result, projects may be more successful and of longer duration than initially anticipated.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Divestment and acquisition activity incurs transaction costs that Complete detailed, independent due diligence on all material potential cannot be recouped, or may result in value destruction by realising divestments and acquisitions, including technical review, commercial review and less than planned value for divestments or paying more than fair functional sign-offs, before consideration by the Investment Committee and value for acquisitions.
This could result in unforeseen pressure on the board where appropriate.
Groups cash position or reduce the Groups ability to expand Resource Business Development team appropriately, supported by external operations.
The Group may also be liable for the past acts, omissions specialists as required.
or liabilities of assets it has acquired that were unforeseen or greater Involve business unit leaders early in process to recognise integration planning than anticipated at the time of acquisition.
The Group may also face and synergies, or separation threats and opportunities.
liabilities for divested entities if the buyer fails to honour Undertake post-investment reviews on divestments and acquisitions, to identify commitments or the Group agrees to retain certain liabilities.
key learnings to embed into future initiatives.
Consistently approach development of large-scale capital projects, through a A delay or overrun in the project schedule could negatively impact the specialised projects division.
Groups profitability, cash flows, ability to repay project-specific Follow rigorous project approval and stage-gating process, including monitoring indebtedness, asset carrying values, growth aspirations and and status evaluation, as articulated in Project evaluation standard relationships with key stakeholders.
Ensure effective stakeholder management in project development.
Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Failure to manage our health, safety, environment or community risks, Continue focus on HSEC as a core priority at all operations, and projects, overseen could result in a catastrophic event or other long-term damage which by the Sustainability Committee.
could in turn harm the Groups financial performance and licence Clearly define and ensure compliance with Group HSEC strategy, policy and to operate.
Regularly review and audit HSEC processes, training and controls to promote and Recognised hazards and threats include, among others, underground improve effectiveness, at managed and non-managed operations.
operations, aviation, pit slope instability, tailings facilities, vector-borne Monitor HSEC performance measurement metrics at the Group level monthly.
and pandemic disease, chemicals, gases, vehicles and machinery, Report, investigate and share learnings from HSEC incidents.
extreme natural environments, endangered flora or fauna, areas of cultural heritage significance, water supply stress and climate change.
Build safety targets into personal performance metrics to incentivise safe behaviour and effective risk management see Remuneration Implementation Report.
Develop mutually beneficial partnerships with local communities and establish appropriate social performance targets.
Report annually on performance on greenhouse gas emissions, water, land use and rehabilitation, among others.
Focus on fatality elimination through implementation of a programme to verify safety risk controls.
A failure to discover new viable orebodies could undermine future Comply with the Groups resources and reserves standard.
Recruit and retain skilled and experienced exploration and evaluation personnel.
Provide stable funding for exploration activities.
The risk that new information comes to light or operating conditions Prioritise the exploration portfolio continuously.
change means that the economic viability of some ore reserves and mine plans can be restated downwards.
As a result, projects may be Utilise new technologies where appropriate.
less successful and of shorter duration than initially anticipated, and or Develop and leverage and manage third-party partnerships.
the asset value may be impaired.
Coordinate orebody knowledge through active Group-wide leadership forum.
com 19 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risks continued Inherent risk and uncertainty Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact 2016 trend HSEC and reputation opportunities Operations, projects and people risks Rio Tinto seeks to achieve operational and commercial excellence, and to attract and retain the best people in the industry.
Operational excellence is derived Future performance Improved productivity and innovation from new from high operational and human systems can decrease costs and increase Liquidity productivity.
Productivity which is driven by output, delivering additional cash flow.
HSEC optimisation of the balance of people, Group reputation process and systems may vary.
Development and retention of talent enhances productivity, financial and HSEC outcomes.
Attracting and retaining talent as the Business model Leveraging the evolving company and market company and industry evolves presents a to attract a diverse and engaged workforce will Future performance constant challenge.
deliver a competitive advantage to the Group.
Group reputation Compliance risks Inherent risk and uncertainty Risk exposure Potential impact on viability, Potential upside impact 2016 trend HSEC and reputation opportunities Stakeholder risks Rio Tinto recognises positive engagement with a range of stakeholders, and seeks to develop collaborative and mutually beneficial partnerships that underpin our social licence to operate.
Strategic partnerships and third parties Business model Joint venture and third parties offer influence the Groups supply, operations opportunities to increase shareholder Future performance and reputation.
The Groups ability to returns, reduce political risk and reduce HSEC control the actions of these parties varies.
Group reputation The Groups operations are located across a Business model Proactive engagement with governments, number of jurisdictions, which exposes the communities and other stakeholders can Future performance Group to a wide range of economic, political, increase access to new resources, support Group reputation societal and regulatory environments.
stable and predictable investment frameworks and operational environments, and shape mutually beneficial policies and legal regulatory frameworks.
Governance risks Rio Tinto employees operate in compliance with The way we work our global code of business conduct, the Group delegation of authorities and all Group policies, standards and procedures.
The Groups reputation and regulatory Business model Good corporate citizens are acknowledged to licences are dependent upon appropriate operate to a high ethical standard, thus Future performance business conduct and are threatened by a attracting talent.
Group reputation public allegation or regulatory investigation.
Securing access to resources and investment opportunities.
com 2016 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Business interruption may arise from a number of Preserve geographically diverse portfolio limiting physical events circumstances, including: disruptions to a specific business, single infrastructure or logistical event.
Operational difficulties such as extended industrial dispute, Comply with slope geotechnical, tailings management, underground mining delayed development, bottlenecks or interruptions to and process safety technical and safety standards, supported by subject infrastructure for power, water and transportation, throughout matter experts and audit protocols, reducing the risk likelihood and the value chain.
Operational failure such as a process safety incident, major pit Comply with the Acceptable use of information and electronic resources slope, dump or tailings water impoundment failure, standard, supported by periodic reviews of IT infrastructure and security underground incident.
controls by dedicated in-house cyber-security team.
Cyber breach incident of commercial and operational systems.
Operate under strong human resources and employee relations framework.
Natural disasters such as earthquakes, subsidence, drought, Undertake business resilience planning and preparedness exercises for flood, fire, storm and climate change can impact mines, execution of plans, across all operations.
smelters, refineries and infrastructure installations.
For certain risks involving higher-value losses the Group purchases insurance.
Risks Any of these events could result in a significant HSEC incident, an not transferred to the external insurance market are retained within the business.
interruption to operations, or the inability to deliver products and a commercial loss.
The inability to attract or retain key talent will constrain the Groups Improve HR processes in recruitment, development and leadership training.
ability to reach its goals within planned timeframes.
Introduce employee engagement programme and metrics, to enhance engagement.
Enhance focus on inclusion and diversity, at all levels of the Group.
Refresh Group purpose and values statements.
Potential downside impact Mitigating actions include: threats Joint venture partners may hinder growth by not agreeing to support Approach investments and partnerships with a long term relationship rather investment decisions.
For non-managed operations, controlling than transactional.
partners may take action contrary to the Groups interests or Shape governance structures to ensure appropriate influence standards and policies, resulting in adverse impact to health and and engagement.
safety, performance, cyber integrity, reputation or legal liability.
Maintain strong focus on contractor management.
Actively participate within the governance structures of joint ventures to promote, where possible, compliance with the Groups policies and Adverse actions by governments and others can result in operational alignment with strategic priorities.
project delays or loss of licence to operate.
Other potential actions can Participate in strategic partnerships or financing structures to moderate include expropriation, changes in taxation, and export or foreign political risk.
investment restrictions, which may threaten the investment Maintain geographically diverse portoflio to reduce exposure to changes in proposition, title, or carrying value of assets.
Legal frameworks with these environments.
respect to policies such as energy, climate change and mineral law may also change in a way that increases costs.
Monitor jurisdictional, including sovereign, risks and take appropriate action.
Develop long-term relationships with a range of international and national stakeholders.
Comply with Group policies and standards which provide guidance concerning risk management, human rights, cyber threat, data privacy, business integrity and external communications.
Undertake rigorous third-party due diligence.
Fines may be imposed against Group companies for breaching Identify and meet our regulatory obligations and respond to antitrust rules, anti-corruption legislation, sanctions or human rights emerging requirements.
violations or for other inappropriate business conduct.
Comply with Group policies, standards and procedures which provide guidance to our businesses and drive compliance with A serious allegation or formal investigation by increasingly connected regulatory obligations.
regulatory authorities regardless of ultimate finding could result in a Dedicate legal and compliance teams to assist Group businesses in loss in share price value, and or loss of business.
Other consequences complying with regulatory obligations and internal standards could include the criminal prosecution of individuals, imprisonment and procedures.
and or personal fines, and reputational damage to the Group.
There may also be considerable cost and disruption in responding to Maintain appropriate oversight and reporting, supported by training and allegations or investigations and taking remedial action.
awareness, to drive compliance with regulatory obligations.
Continue to develop and deploy training across relevant sectors of the workforce.
