Risk management Rio Tinto is exposed to a variety of risks that This approach reflects a three lines of To support risk understanding and can have financial, operational and compliance defence model for the management of risks management at all levels, the Group Risk impacts on our business performance, and controls: function provides the necessary infrastructure reputation and licence to operate.
The board to support the management and reporting of First line of defence: ownership of risk by recognises that creating shareholder value is material risks within the Group, and escalates employees and business leaders.
the reward for taking and accepting risk.
The key issues through the management team and Second line of defence: control of risk effective management of risk is therefore ultimately to the board where appropriate.
framework by central support functions and critical to supporting the delivery of the Group Risk also supports the Risk Management the Risk Management Committee.
Committee in its review of risk.
Third line of defence: assurance of systems The process for identifying, evaluating and Risk management framework of internal control by Group Internal Audit.
managing material business risks is designed Rio Tintos risk management framework The key risk management responsibilities to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and reflects our belief that managing risk throughout the Group are outlined below.
where appropriate accept risk to generate effectively is an integral part of how the Group returns.
Certain risks, for example natural creates value, and fundamental to the Groups Approach disasters, cannot be managed using internal business success.
The responsibility for The Groups approach to risk management, controls.
Such major risks are transferred to identifying and managing risks lies with all of underpinned by the Risk policy and standards, third parties in the international insurance Rio Tintos employees and business leaders.
is aimed at embedding a risk-aware culture in markets, to the extent considered appropriate They operate within the Group-wide framework all decision-making, and a commitment to or possible.
to manage risks within approved limits.
managing risk in a proactive and effective The Group has material investments in a manner.
This includes the early identification The framework includes clearly defined number of jointly controlled entities.
Where and evaluation of risks, the management and oversight responsibilities for the board and the Rio Tinto does not have managerial control, it is mitigation of risks before they materialise, and Executive Committee, who are supported by not always able to ensure that management  the Risk Management Committee and central will comply with Rio Tinto policies do materialise.
Accountability for risk support functions including Group Risk and and standards.
management is clear throughout the Group Group Internal Audit, to enable effective risk and is a key performance area of identification, evaluation and management line managers.
Risk management framework Determine the nature and extent of risk that is acceptable in pursuit of strategic objectives Board Confirm that managements risk limits reflect the level of risk the board is willing to accept in pursuit of strategic objectives Provide oversight across the risk management process Board committees The Audit Committee monitors and reviews at least annually the maturity and effectiveness of management processes and controls designed to identify, assess, monitor and manage risk The Audit and Sustainability Committees review periodic reports from management: identifying the Groups material business risks within the committees scope: and the risk management strategies and controls applied Group Internal Audit Provide reasonable assurance that the systems of internal controls are adequate and effective Executive Committee Set risk strategy and assess risks inherent in key investments and in strategic, business or annual plans Risk Management Oversee the risk management framework to facilitate the identification of significant risks to Committee Group-level objectives and ensure effective risk management processes are in place Group Risk Provide co-ordination and support of Group-level risk management activity and reporting Embed risk management into core business processes, such as planning and capital allocation Build risk management capability and a risk culture throughout the Group Other central Provide targeted expertise and support to risk owners support functions Develop and maintain specific controls, including policies, standards and procedures, to support and management the effective management of material Group-level risk within the agreed limits committees Assure first line of defence compliance with controls Product groups and Monitor material risks and track activities to manage risk within their business activities, and central functions, escalate where appropriate executive audit Consider risk and uncertainty in strategic and business planning and capital forums allocation proposals Product groups and Identify, assess and manage risks in operations, functions and projects, utilising risk registers business units and our Group-wide risk data system: RioRisk Risk managers and Provide technical expertise and risk management for line leaders and the product group Risk Forum executive management teams The Risk Forum risk managers across the Group supports alignment, consistency and continuous improvement of risk management 14 riotinto.
com 2016 Annual report Third First line Second line Oversight line Risk appetite and tolerances: strategic objectives: accountability to manage: audit and assurance Escalation as appropriate, transparency and formal reporting STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS to in the sustainable development section of this investing in, and operating, long-life mining Principal risks and uncertainties Annual report on pages 24 to 30. assets, whose outputs we sell into commodity The principal risks and uncertainties outlined in markets over which we have limited influence.
this section reflect the inherent risks that could 2016 movements The planning process requires modelling under materially affect Rio Tinto or its ability to meet As illustrated in the summary table below, the a series of macroeconomic scenarios and its strategic objectives, either directly or by Groups exposure to a number of principal risks assumptions of both internal and external triggering a succession of events that in and uncertainties has changed through 2016. parameters.
Key assumptions include: aggregate become material to the Group.
Market uncertainties were greater than planned, projections of economic growth, and thus Effects on the Group in the following respects with greater upside movement in commodity commodity demand in major markets, primarily may be positive or negative: prices and demand than forecast.
With greater China: commodity prices and exchange rates, than planned cash flow, our balance sheet often correlated: cost and supply parameters for Business model strengthened, decreasing our liquidity risk.
major inputs such as labour and fuel: and a The basis on which the Group generates or Geopolitical uncertainty increased, as did the series of assumptions around the schedule and preserves value over the longer term, given its threat of greater rent-seeking and resource cost of implementation of organic and inorganic market positioning as a global diversified mining nationalism.
Uncertainty regarding the growth programmes.
performance and outlook of our joint venture Reflecting the speed and degree of change operations also increased.
Further detail on Future performance possible in a number of these parameters, such movements and monitoring of these exposures The Groups ability to deliver its financial plan in as Chinese demand, commodity prices, and is provided in the relevant section of the the short to medium term.
exchange rates, Rio Tinto has deemed a Strategic report, including the Market three-year period of assessment appropriate for Solvency environment, Group strategy, product group the longer-term viability statement, consistent The Groups ability to maintain an appropriate overviews, the Directors report and the Notes to with the Groups detailed planning horizon.
capital structure to meet its financial liabilities in Robust stress-testing has been undertaken, as full.
Assessment part of the business planning process, to further Liquidity test and confirm the longer-term viability of the The board confirms that, with the assistance of The Groups ability to meet its financial liabilities Group, beyond commodity price and exchange management, it has carried out a robust as they fall due.
Production and social licence assessment of the principal risks of the Group as to operate related assumptions were also Health, safety, environment and communities  stressed, individually and collectively, to levels HSEC plans of the Group for each of these principal considered severe but plausible and well beyond risks, and for a series of severe but plausible The Groups ability to send our employees and those expected in the normal course of contractors home safe and healthy every day scenarios, made up of the concurrence or close business.
sequence of a number of principal and material and to work with our communities and partners to achieve our sustainable development goals.
The viability of the Group under these scenarios remained sound with the use of a suite of Group reputation The Group will continue to monitor the potential management actions available to redress the impacts of the UKs departure from the The Groups ability to maintain investor situation, including accessing lines of credit, European Union as a result of the referendum confidence and licence to operate.
changing capital allocation levers, and, if that took place in June 2016, but no material necessary, selling down assets.
Rio Tintos business units and functions assess impacts are expected at this time.
the potential economic and non-economic Therefore, taking into account the Groups consequences of their respective risks using the Longer-term viability statement current position and principal risks, the directors framework defined by the Groups Risk standard.
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over Current business planning processes within Once identified, each principal risk or uncertainty the next three years, and have a reasonable Rio Tinto require the preparation of detailed is reviewed and monitored by the relevant expectation that the Group will be able to financial plans over a three-year time horizon.
internal experts and by the Risk Management continue to operate and meet its liabilities as The Groups strategy is developed, and capital Committee, the relevant board committees and they fall due over that period.
investment decisions are made, based on an the board.
assessment of cash flows over a multi-decade It is impossible to foresee all risks, and the There may be additional risks unknown to horizon, with financial investment capacity combinations in which they could manifest, and Rio Tinto and other risks currently not believed regularly tested to ensure capital commitments there may be risks that currently or individually to be material which could turn out to be can be funded in line with the Groups capital do not appear material that could turn out to be material.
A number of them, particulary those allocation model.
This multi-year planning material, particularly if occurring in with longer-term potential impacts, are, referred approach reflects our business model of close sequence.
Principal risks and uncertainties exposure at a glance 2016 trend External Internal Internal and external Commodity prices China development Increasing Regulation and regulatory pathway risk or intervention uncertainty Strategic partnerships Sovereign risk Attracting and retaining talent Execution of acquisitions No change Exploration and resources in risk or and divestments Operational excellence uncertainty Capital project development HSEC Decreasing risk or Liquidity uncertainty 2016 Annual report riotinto.
