48 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Principal risks The Groups enterprise risk team, led by dives into specific risks, in particular their Risk management the Director of Risk, is responsible for mitigation plans and controls, and to disseminating the risk policy and processes consider systemic issues and common Risk management is built into our daily and co-ordinating the effective operation root causes.
activities and is an integral part of how we of the RMS.
Progress of actions to mitigate work: from our engineering design, through Building much closer links to strategic risks and the adequacy of risk controls are to engine production, servicing and how we and business financial planning and regularly reviewed by the sector audit run our operations.
forecasting processes to develop risk committees.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk scenarios used to support our viability management and internal control systems Joint ventures constitute a large part of the statement.
Responsibility for risk and Updating the way we monitor and systems are designed to identify and manage, internal control in joint ventures lies with measure the effectiveness of the RMS, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to the managers of those operations.
We seek including the use of incident information achieve business objectives and to provide to exert influence over such joint ventures to drive learning and continuous reasonable, but not absolute, assurance through board representation.
Management improvement of our risk mitigation against material misstatement or loss.
and internal audit regularly review the activities.
activities of these joint ventures.
More information about our internal control The Board is aware that the effectiveness In 2016, we continued to embed system can be found in the Audit Committee of risk management is highly dependent enhancements to our RMS throughout report on pages 100 and 101. on behaviours, as a good process does not the Group, including strengthening risk automatically lead to a good outcome.
The governance and building improvements Our risk management system roll-out of the Groups High Performance to our risk operating model, reporting, Culture programme will continue to infrastructure and assurance processes.
Our risk management system RMS helps strengthen risk management as part of our us make better decisions and to deal with Examples of enhancements implemented culture.
In addition, the emphasis in our problems if they occur.
It is implemented in 2016 include: ethics and compliance programme of through a Group-wide framework Launching a new risk policy which was providing a culture of speaking up, mandated in the Group risk management mandated as part of the governance reinforces the values and behaviours policy and a network of trained risk framework and supported by improved required for an effective RMS.
It is supported risk management training, which is In 2017, we will continue to look for through the use of risk software.
opportunities to strengthen our RMS Businesses and functions are accountable Adopting a risk visualisation tool for use and our corporate culture by focusing for identifying and managing risks in line at the Board, Executive Leadership Team on embedding risk content in leadership with the Group risk management policy.
ELT and in the businesses to bring risk training programmes, discussing our Business continuity plans are in place discussions to life and enable better principal risks in employee communications to mitigate continuity risks and this year interrogation of risk information.
and regularly evaluating the effectiveness of there has been more regular testing of the our risk management activities.
Holding more regular ELT risk committee adequacy of these plans through exercises meetings quarterly to conduct deep with the businesses.
Management of principal risks Our risk framework ensures that risks are identified, managed and communicated throughout the Group.
Identify Impact of Monitor Governance Set risk appetite principal risks PRs on longmitigation and Reporting of PRs for PRs PRs term viability control of PRs Assess effectiveness of risk management system RMS STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS 49 supported by the ELT risk committee details of Brexit are still unclear, we are Principal risks performing deep dives of related bottom-up working with the UK government and Our RMS is designed so that principal risks key risks and the actions and controls in others to ensure the implications of leaving can be identified from multiple sources.
During the year, the the EU are understood and mitigated bottom-up risks are identified by businesses Board or the most appropriate Board if possible.
We recognise we have an and functions and the detail of risks that committee has undertaken a deep dive on obligation to look after our people in the UK, meet the Group threshold are subject to all of the Groups principal risks.
The Board Europe and beyond, and to ensure that we review and challenge by the ELT and the has also conducted a review of our strategic take the necessary steps to position the Board during their risk reviews.
risks as part of its annual strategy review.
Group to address both the opportunities and threats presented so that we can This ongoing review of risks has resulted in a These include monitoring the status of continue to do business effectively in and further principal risk being added this year: mitigation actions, adequacy of controls with Europe and the rest of the world with Disruptive technologies and business and any incidents that have occurred since minimal disruption.
This risk has been added to reflect the last review.
Risks captured during the the increasing importance of transformative Additionally, Rolls-Royce has significant strategy and business planning activities technologies and new ways of doing operations, a substantial employee base, also inform the development of the business, not least digitisation of processes, and important customers in North America, principal risks.
products and services, that if not properly where the new US administration has The Board, assisted by the ELT, has carried managed, could impact our future growth signalled broad policy changes.
Some of out a robust assessment of, and reviewed and profitability.
This risk will be overseen these changes in policy with regard to our appetite for, the principal risks facing by the Science & Technology Committee and trade, tax and defence and infrastructure the Group.
These include those principal was subject to a deep dive by the ELT at its spending could affect the industries which risks that threaten the business model, meeting in December 2016. we serve.
The North America leadership future performance, solvency and liquidity team is actively monitoring these of the Group.
These reviews have been The principal risks are also used to help developments to mitigate risk and position informed by the financial evaluation of select scenarios to exercise our Group crisis us advantageously in this new environment.
severe but plausible scenarios of our management team CMT.
This year an principal risks which has also been used to appropriate scenario was developed based support our viability statement on page 53. on the IT vulnerability principal risk.
This provided an opportunity for the CMT to During the year, the Board and ELT reviews understand the nature and complexity of have involved: discussing changes to the cyber threats and to test the Groups risks: reviewing the risk indicators for response procedures and identify where our principal risks: understanding any plan can be further strengthened.
unplanned incidents that have occurred to The Board gave initial consideration to the support the Boards consideration of our risk implications of Brexit for the Group, and due appetite: and, discussing with management to the prevailing uncertainty of timing and about how risks will be managed.
impact set up a steering group to monitor The Board, or the most appropriate Board developments and report back to the Board.
committee, undertakes in-depth reviews Rolls-Royce is headquartered in the UK but deep dives of our principal risks in which across continental Europe the Group has it assesses our material controls and the significant infrastructure, a large workforce, effectiveness of our risk management and many business units and a very important mitigation activities.
These reviews are customer and supplier base.
Whilst the 50 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Risk management enables our strategy Change in risk level Increased Decreased 1 Engineering excellence 3 Capturing aftermarket value 2 Operational excellence Static PRIORITIES FOR 2017 ON PAGE 13 New risk Change in Strategic Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it Key controls risk level priorities Strategic planning Disruptive technologies Horizon and emerging technology scanning, and understanding 1 process our competitors, including patent searches.
and business models Investment review 2 Investing in innovation and new technologies see page 9.
Disruptive technologies, new entrants committee Focusing on enhancing our skills and capabilities to maintain our with alternative business models Digital board 3 Research & technology leadership see page 41. or disruptions to key markets or technology board Forming strategic partnerships and conducting joint research customers could reduce our ability programmes.
to win sustainable future business, Establishing our digital business.
achieve operating results and realise future growth opportunities.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Science & Technology Committee.
Ensuring a culture that puts safety first.
Product safety Product failure 1 review board Applying our engineering design and validation process from initial Product not meeting safety Quality compliance 2 design, through production and into service.
expectations, or causing significant audit Reviewing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups product impact to customers or the Engineering 3 safety policies to ensure that they operate to the highest industry technical audit environment through failure Crisis management standards.
team Operating a safety management system SMS, governed by the product safety review board, and subject to continual improvement based on experience and industry best practice.
Product safety training is an integral part of our SMS see pages 104 and 107.
Improving our supply chain quality.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Safety & Ethics Committee.
Crisis management Continuing our investment in adequate capacity and modern Business continuity 2 team equipment and facilities see page 21.
Breakdown of external supply chain Major incidents 3 Identifying and assessing points of weakness in our internal or internal facilities that could board and external supply chain, our IT systems and the skills of our people.
be caused by destruction of key Quality board and process councils Selecting stronger suppliers, developing dual sources or facilities, natural disaster, regional Operations and dual capability see page 45. conflict, financial insolvency IT executive teams Developing and testing site-level incident management and of a critical supplier or scarcity of Supplier audit business recovery plans.
materials which would reduce Providing improved response to supply chain disruption through the ability to meet customer customer excellence centres.
commitments, win future business Understanding potential changes to supply chain responsiveness or achieve operational results.
and resilience resulting from Brexit and change to the US administration eg.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Operations and Implementing defence in depth through deployment of multiple IT vulnerability 1 IT executive teams layers of software and processes including web gateways, filtering, Breach of IT security causing IT security 2 firewalls, intrusion, advanced persistent threat detectors and controlled or critical data to be lost, management integrated reporting see page 100. made inaccessible, corrupted or Crisis management team Running security and network operations centres.
Actively sharing IT security information through industry, government and security forums.
STRATEGIC REPORT Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS 51 Change in Strategic Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it Key controls risk level priorities Financial Accessing and developing key technologies and service offerings which Competitive position 1 performance review differentiate us competitively see page 40.
The presence of large, financially Strategic planning 2 Focusing on being responsive to our customers and improving strong competitors in the majority process the quality, delivery and reliability of our products and services.
of our markets means that the Group Investment review 3 committee Partnering with others effectively.
is susceptible to significant price Science & Driving down cost and improving margins see page 10. pressure for original equipment or Technology Protecting credit lines.
services even where our markets are Committee Investing in innovation, manufacturing and production, mature or the competitors few.
Research & technology board and continuing governance of technology programmes Our main competitors have access see pages 111 and 112. to significant government funding Maintaining a healthy balance sheet to enable access to cost-effective programmes as well as the ability sources of third-party funding.
to invest heavily in technology and Understanding our competitors.
Understanding the potential implications on our competitiveness resulting from Brexit and change to the US administration.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Board.
Government Where possible, locating our facilities and supply chain in countries Political risk 2 relations and with a low level of political risk and or ensuring that we maintain Geopolitical factors that lead to an Group tax teams dual capability.
unfavourable business climate and Strategic planning Diversifying global operations to avoid excessive concentration significant tensions between major process Supplier audit of risks in particular areas.
trading parties or blocs which could The Groups international network and its businesses proactively impact the Groups operations.
example: explicit trade protectionism, Maintaining a balanced business portfolio with high barriers differing tax or regulatory regimes, to entry and a diverse customer base see page 14. potential for conflict: or broader Proactively influencing regulation where it affects us.
Steering committee, chaired by Group President, to co-ordinate activities across the Group and minimise the impact of Brexit.
Monitoring the potential impact of changes following the change to the US administration, relating to tax policy, trade and relationships with the UK government.
Rolls-Royce Major programmes are subject to Board approval see page 185.
Major programme delivery 1 management Reviewing major programmes at levels and frequencies appropriate Failure to deliver a major system 2 to their criticality and performance, against key financial and programme on time, within budget, Operational non-financial deliverables and potential risks throughout the to specification, or technical performance review Project assurance programmes lifecycles see page 185. performance falling significantly Gated business and Conducting technical audits at pre-defined points which are short of customer expectations, technical reviews performed by a team that is independent from the programme.
or not delivering the planned Quality compliance Requiring programmes to address the actions arising from reviews, business benefits, would have audit and audits and then monitoring and controlling progress through potentially significant adverse to closure.
financial and reputational Applying knowledge management principles to provide benefit to consequences, including the risk current and future programmes.
of impairment of the carrying value of the Groups intangible assets and This principal risk is subject to review by the Board.
the impact of potential litigation.
52 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 Change in Strategic Risk or uncertainty and potential impact How we manage it Key controls risk level priorities Corporate Taking an uncompromising approach to compliance.
Compliance 2 governance Operating an extensive compliance programme.
This programme Non-compliance by the Group with framework and the Global Code of Conduct are disseminated throughout legislation or other regulatory Compliance and the Group and are updated from time to time to ensure their requirements in the heavily regulated export control teams continued relevance, and to ensure that they are complied with, environments in which it operates Group Secretariat both in spirit and to the letter.
The Global Code of Conduct and eg.
export controls: use of controlled Legal teams the Groups compliance programme are supported by appropriate chemicals and substances: and training see page 105. anti-bribery and corruption Strengthening of the ethics, anti-bribery and corruption, compliance legislation compromising the ability and export control teams.
to conduct business in certain A legal team is in place to manage regulatory investigations.
jurisdictions and exposing the Group Engaging with external regulatory authorities.
to potential: reputational damage: Implementing a comprehensive Registration, Evaluation, financial penalties: debarment from Authorisation and restriction of CHemicals REACH compliance government contracts for a period of programme.
This includes establishing appropriate data systems time: and or suspension of export and processes, working with our suppliers, customers and trade privileges including export credit associations and conducting research on alternative materials.
financing, each of which could have a material adverse effect.
Financial Market and financial shock Maintaining a healthy balance sheet, through managing cash balances 2 performance review The Group is exposed to a number of and debt levels and maturities see page 17.
Financial risk 3 market risks, some of which are of a Providing financial flexibility by maintaining high levels of liquidity committee macro-economic nature eg.
oil price, and an investment grade credit rating.
Operational performance review exchange rates and some of which are Sustaining a balanced portfolio through earning revenue both from Group finance, more specific to the Group eg.
the sale of original equipment and aftermarket services, providing a treasury and liquidity and credit risks, credit rating, broad product range and addressing diverse markets that have taxation teams profitability post IFRS 15, reduction differing business cycles see page 18. in air travel or disruption to other Deciding where and what currencies to source in, and where and how customer operations.
Significant much credit risk is extended or taken.
The Group has a number of extraneous market events could also treasury policies that are designed to hedge residual risks using materially damage the Groups financial derivatives foreign exchange, interest rates and commodity competitiveness and or price risk see page 185. creditworthiness.
Review debt financing and hedging in light of volatility in external financial markets caused by external events, such as Brexit and change This would affect operational results of US administration.
or the outcomes of financial This principal risk is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Attracting, rewarding and retaining the right people with the right Talent and capability 1 Committee skills globally in a planned and targeted way, including regular Inability to attract and retain the ELT 2 benchmarking of remuneration see pages 70 and 72. critical capabilities and skills needed HR executive team Developing and enhancing organisational, leadership, technical and in sufficient numbers and to 3 functional capability to deliver global programmes and effectively organise, deploy and transformational change.
incentivise our people to deliver our Continuing a strong focus on individual development and strategy, business plan and projects.
Proactively monitoring retirement in key areas and actively managing the development and career paths of our people with a special focus on employees with the highest potential.
Embedding a lean, agile high performance culture that tightly aligns Group strategy with individual and team objectives.
Retaining, incentivising and effectively deploying the critical capabilities, skills and people needed to deliver our strategic priorities, plans and projects whilst implementing the Groups major programme to transform its business, to be resilient and to act with pace and simplicity.
Tracking engagement through our annual employee opinion survey and a commitment to drive year-on-year improvement to the employee experience and communications see page 43.
Reviewing employee mobility as part of Brexit steering committee.
This principal risk is subject to review by the Nominations & Governance Committee.
