Additional information Risk factors In the US, ongoing matters include various civil claims relating to Set out below are certain risk factors that could adversely affect legacy RMBS activities, the most material of which are those of the Group's future results, its financial condition and prospects the Federal Housing Finance Agency FHFA, and investigations and cause them to be materially different from what is expected.
by the civil and criminal divisions of the U. S. Department of The factors discussed below and elsewhere in this report should Justice DOJ and various other members of the RMBS Working not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of Group of the Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force including all potential risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
On 26 January 2017, the Group announced that it was taking a further 3.1bn $3.8bn provision The Group is subject to a number of legal, regulatory and in relation to these litigation and investigation matters including in governmental actions and investigations.
Unfavourable relation to the Groups issuance and underwriting of RMBS as outcomes in such actions and investigations could have a well as other RMBS litigation matters.
material adverse effect on the Groups operations, operating results, reputation, financial position and future prospects.
The duration and outcome of the DOJs civil and criminal The Groups operations remain diverse and complex and it investigations remain uncertain.
No settlement may be reached operates in legal and regulatory environments that expose it to with the DoJ and further substantial additional provisions and potentially significant legal and regulatory actions, including costs may be recognised.
Any finding of criminal liability by US litigation claims and proceedings and civil and criminal regulatory authorities including as a result of guilty pleas could have and governmental investigations, and other regulatory risk.
The material collateral consequences for the Groups operations.
Group has settled a number of legal and regulatory actions over These may include consequences resulting from the need to the past several years but continues to be, and may in the future reapply for various important licences or obtain waivers to be, involved in a number of legal and regulatory actions in the conduct certain existing activities of the Group, particularly but US, the UK, Europe and other jurisdictions.
not solely in the US, which may take a significant period of the time and the results of which are uncertain.
Failure to obtain such The legal and regulatory actions specifically referred to below licenses or waivers could adversely impact the Groups business, are, in the Groups view, the most significant legal and regulatory in particular the NatWest Markets business in the US, including if actions to which the Group is currently exposed.
However, the it results in the Group being precluded from carrying out certain Group is also subject to a number of additional claims, activities.
A further provision of 3.1 billion $3.8 billion was proceedings and investigations, the adverse resolution of which recorded by the Group in Q4 2016 in relation to RBSs various may also have a material adverse impact on the Group and RMBS investigations and litigation matters, taking the total of which include ongoing reviews, investigations and proceedings such provisions to 6.8 billion $8.3 billion at 31 December 2016. both formal and informal by governmental law enforcement and other agencies and litigation proceedings including class action The Group is also facing litigation in the UK in connection with its litigation, relating to, among other matters, the offering of 2008 shareholder rights issue.
In December 2016, the Group securities, including residential mortgage-backed securities concluded full and final settlements with four of the five RMBS, conduct in the foreign exchange market, the setting of shareholder groups representing 78% of the claims by value.
As benchmark rates such as LIBOR and related derivatives trading, announced in December, although the Group has determined a the issuance, underwriting, and sales and trading of fixed-income settlement figure of up to 800 million for the resolution of these securities including structured products and government matters including the settlement referred to above, which securities, product mis-selling, customer mistreatment, antiamount is covered by existing provisions.
This figure assumes money laundering, sanctions, and various other compliance that agreement is also reached with the remaining claimant issues.
See pages 370 to 386 for details for these matters.
The group, is split proportionally and is subject to validation of claims.
Group continues to cooperate with governmental and regulatory Following the settlements described above, a number of claims authorities in relation to ongoing regulatory actions.
Legal and remain outstanding with the final shareholder group and the regulatory actions are subject to many uncertainties, and their Group may not manage to reach a settlement agreement with the outcomes, including the timing, amount of fines or settlements or remaining claimants, and as a result remains exposed to the form of any settlements, which may be material, are often continuing litigation.
Trial is scheduled to commence in March difficult to predict, particularly in the early stages of a case or 2017. investigation.
It is expected that the Group will continue to have a material exposure to legal and regulatory actions relating to legacy issues in the medium term.
432 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group is subject to political risks, including economic, In addition, the Group is undertaking various remediation regulatory and political uncertainty arising from the outcome programmes in response to past conduct issues.
As announced of the referendum on the UKs membership of the European on 8 November 2016, the Group is also taking steps, including Union EU Referendum which could adversely impact the automatic refunds of certain complex fees and a new complaints Groups business, results of operations, financial condition process, overseen by an independent third party for small and and prospects.
medium entity SME customers in the UK and the Republic of In a referendum held on 23 June 2016, a majority voted for the Ireland that were in its Global Restructuring Group GRG UK to leave the European Union EU.
There is now prevailing between 2008 and 2013.
This new complaints review process uncertainty relating to the timing of the UKs exit from the EU, as and the automatic refund of complex fees was developed with the well as the negotiation and form of the UKs relationships with the involvement of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The FCAs EU, with other multilateral organisations and with individual review into these activities is continuing and fines or additional countries at the time of exit and beyond.
Once the exit process is redress commitments may be accepted by or imposed upon the triggered by the UK government, Article 50 of the Treaty on the Group, notwithstanding the steps the Group has already taken.
EU stipulates that a maximum two year period of negotiation will The Group booked a provision of 400 million in Q4 2016, based begin to determine the new terms of the UKs exit from the EU ad on its estimates of the costs associated with the new complaints set the framework for the UKs new relationship with the EU, after review process and the automatic refund of complex fees for which period its EU membership and all associated treaties will SME customers in GRG.
cease to apply, unless some form of transitional arrangement encompassing those associated treaties is agreed or there is In 2016, the Group booked additional provisions of 601 million unanimous agreement amongst EU member states and the with respect to payment protection insurance PPI, resulting in European Commission to extend the negotiation period.
The total provisions made for such matters of 4.9 billion, of which direct and indirect effects of the UKs decision to leave the EU 3.7 billion had been utilised by 31 December 2016 and are expected to affect many aspects of the Groups business, additional future provisions and costs are possible until such time including as described elsewhere in these risk factors, and may as the FCAs consultation on the deadline for PPI is concluded.
During the period in which the UK is negotiating its exit from the EU, the Group may face an increasingly uncertain Settlements, resolutions and outcomes in relation to ongoing operating environment.
legal or regulatory actions may result in material financial fines or penalties, non-monetary penalties, restrictions upon or revocation The longer term effects of the EU Referendum on the Groups of regulatory permissions and licences and other collateral operating environment are difficult to predict, and subject to wider consequences and may prejudice both contractual and legal global macro-economic trends and events, but are likely to rights otherwise available to the Group.
The costs of resolving significantly impact the Group and its customers and these legal and regulatory actions could individually or in counterparties who are themselves dependent on trading with the aggregate prove to be substantial and monetary penalties and EU or personnel from the EU and may result in periodic financial other outcomes could be materially in excess of provisions, if volatility and slower economic growth, in the UK in particular, but any, made by the Group.
New provisions or increases in existing also in Republic of Ireland ROI, Europe and potentially the provisions relating to existing or future legal or regulatory actions global economy.
These longer-term effects may endure until the may be substantial and may have a material adverse effect on bilateral and multilateral trading and economic relationships the Groups financial condition and results of operations as well between the UK, the EU, members of the World Trade as its reputation.
The outcome of on-going claims against the Organisation and other key trading partners are agreed, Group may give rise to additional legal claims being asserted implemented and settled.
Adverse outcomes or resolution of current or future legal or regulatory actions could result in restrictions or There is related uncertainty as to the respective legal and limitations on the Groups operations, adversely impact the regulatory arrangements under which the Group and its implementation of Groups current transformation programme as subsidiaries will operate when the UK is no longer a member of well as its capital position and its ability to meet regulatory capital the EU.
In addition, the Group and its counterparties may no adequacy requirements.
The remediation programmes or longer be able to rely on the EU passporting framework for commitments which the Group has agreed to in connection with financial services and could be required to apply for authorisation past settlements or investigations, could require significant in multiple jurisdictions in the EU, the costs, timing and viability of financial costs and personnel investment for the Group and may which is uncertain.
This uncertainty and any actions taken as a result in changes in its operations or product offerings, and failure result of this uncertainty, as well as new or amended rules, could to comply with undertakings made by the Group to its regulators have a significant impact on the Groups operations or legal entity may result in additional measures or penalties being taken structure, including attendant restructuring costs, capital against the Group.
requirements and tax implications and as a result adversely impact the Groups profitability, business model and product offering.
See also Changes to the prudential regulatory framework for banks and investment banks within the EU may require additional structural changes to the Groups operations which may affect current restructuring plans and have a material adverse effect on the Group.
433 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group is in the process of seeking to satisfy its The outcome of the EU Referendum has created constitutional commitments arising as a result of the receipt of State Aid in and political uncertainty as to how the Scottish parliamentary December 2008.
The process to amend the Groups State Aid process may impact the negotiations relating to the UKs exit obligations in respect of Williams & Glyn may not ultimately from the EU.
As RBSG and RBS plc, its principal operating amend such obligations or the revised obligations may be subsidiary, are both headquartered and incorporated in Scotland, more onerous than those currently being discussed.
The any changes to Scotlands relationship with the UK or the EU diversion of Group resources required to meeting the may further impact the environment in which the Group and its Groups obligations in respect of Williams & Glyn, subsidiaries operate, including as it may require changes to be associated costs or delays in meeting, or a failure to meet, made to the Groups structure, independently or in conjunction the deadline for compliance, could have a material adverse with other mandatory or strategic structural and organisational effect on the Groups operations, operating results, financial changes and as a result could adversely impact the Group.
Changes to the prudential regulatory framework for banks State Aid approval was received from the European Commission and investment banks within the EU may require additional in connection with the financial assistance provided to the Group structural changes to the Groups operations which may by the UK Government in 2008.
In connection with the receipt of affect current restructuring plans and have a material such financial assistance, and as a condition for State Aid adverse effect on the Group.
approval, the Group entered into a state aid commitment deed The exit from the European Union by the UK following the EU with HM Treasury as amended from time to time, the State Aid Referendum may result in one or more structural and Commitment Deed which set out conditions upon which such reorganisation changes being implemented within the Group, in State Aid approval was granted including the requirement for the addition to those currently planned for.
Current proposed Group to divest its RBS branches in England and Wales, changes to the European prudential regulatory framework for NatWest branches in Scotland, Direct SME banking and certain banks and investment banks may result in additional prudential or mid-corporate customers Williams & Glyn by the end of 2017.
In structural requirements being imposed on financial institutions light of its obligations under the State Aid Commitment Deed, the based outside the EU wishing to provide financial services within Group actively sought to fully divest Williams & Glyn and the EU which may apply to the Group once the UK has formally engaged in discussions with a number of interested parties exited the EU.
One of the proposals would impose a requirement concerning a transaction related to substantially all of the for any third country banks with two or more institutions within the Williams & Glyn business.
However, as none of these proposals EU to establish a single intermediate parent undertaking in the could deliver full divestment by 31 December 2017, the Group European Union.
These are currently draft proposals which, if announced on 28 April 2016 that there was a significant risk that adopted, are not expected to come into force until after the the previously planned separation and divestment of Williams & implementation deadline for the UK ring fencing regime 1 Glyn would not be achieved by the 31 December 2017 deadline.
The Group is currently assessing how these On 5 August 2016, the Group announced that the Board had proposals, if adopted, may impact the Group and its current determined that it would not be prudent to continue with the plan restructuring plans to implement the UK ring-fencing regime.
If for separating and divesting Williams & Glyn and announced that implemented, the impact of these proposals could be material various alternative divestment structures were being actively given the expectation that both the ring-fenced banking entities explored.
organised as a sub-group the RFB and the non-ring fenced group would continue to carry out operations in the EU.
If The Group subsequently announced on 17 February 2017 that adopted, these proposals would require further additional the Commissioner responsible for EU competition policy planned restructuring of the Groups operations and legal structure, in to propose to the European Commission to open proceedings to addition to the changes already planned to be implemented for develop an alternative plan for the Group to meet its remaining the purposes of compliance with the UK ring-fencing regime and State Aid obligations in regards to Williams & Glyn.
If adopted, it any other changes required to be implemented as a result of is intended that this alternative plan would replace the existing other regulatory, political or strategic developments and could requirement to achieve separation and divestment of Williams & result in material additional capital requirements and have Glyn by 31 December 2017 and the current conditions set out in adverse tax implications.
Planning and implementation of any the State Aid Commitment Deed would be amended accordingly.
additional restructuring of the Groups activities may also divert management and personnel resources from the effective conduct of the Groups operations, result in further material restructuring costs, jeopardise the delivery and implementation of a number of other significant change projects resulting from mandatory regulatory developments or as part of its transformation programme, impact the Groups product offering or business model or adversely impact the Groups ability to deliver its strategy and meet its targets and guidance, each of which could have a material adverse impact on the Groups results of operations, financial condition and prospects.
434 Additional information Risk factors continued As a direct consequence of the incentivised switching component Under the current form of the alternative plan, the Group will of the package of alternative measures described above, the deliver a package of measures to promote competition in the Group will lose existing customers and deposits and associated market for banking services to small and medium enterprises revenues and margins.
Furthermore, the SME banking capability SMEs in the UK.
This package will include: i an SME banking fund and financial services innovation fund envisaged by the capability fund, administered by an independent body, which alternative plan is intended to benefit challenger banks and eligible challenger banks could access to increase their SME negatively impact the Groups competitive position.
To support business banking capabilities: ii funding for eligible challenger this incentivised switching initiative, the Group will also have to banks to help them incentivise UK SME customers to switch their agree to grant business customers of eligible challenger banks accounts from RBS to eligible challenger banks by paying in the access to its branch network for cash and cheque handling, form of dowries: iii the Group granting business customers of which may result in reputational and financial exposure for the eligible challenger banks access to its branch network for cash Group and impact customer service quality for RBSs own and cheque handling, to support the incentivised switching customers with consequent competitive, financial and programme: and iv the funding of an independent financial reputational implications.
services innovation fund to invest in and help support the growth of existing businesses providing or developing innovative If the Group fails to come to an agreement with HM Treasury and financial services or products for UK SMEs.
In connection with the European Commission in respect of the proposed package of this package of alternative measures, the Group has taken a alternative measures, and a determination is made that the 750 million provision in 2016.
However, actual costs associated Group remains required to divest Williams & Glyn, there is no with the implementation of such measures may be materially guarantee that the Group will be able to identify or recommence higher as a result of unforeseen complexities and factors outside discussions with interested buyers for Williams & Glyn at that of the Groups control.
time or that it will be able to agree a divestment on commercially beneficial terms, and there is no certainty that any such Discussions will continue between the Group, HM Treasury and discussions would lead to a viable transaction.
In addition, the the European Commission to further develop the design of this Group would be required to conduct further restructuring in order package of alternative measures and the duration of them.
The to divest the Williams & Glyn business, at the same time that it is timing of the approval for this or any package of alternative implementing significant restructuring changes in connection with measures is uncertain and there is no guarantee that the the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime and other European Commission will ultimately agree to this or any restructuring changes which may be required as a result of the package of alternative measures in replacement of the original UK terminating its membership of the European Union, which terms of the State Aid Commitment Deed in relation to Williams & entails material execution risks and costs, as well as diverting Glyn.
In addition, the final scope and content of the package of Group and management resources.
In addition, if no alternative alternative measures will be subject to further market testing by to the Groups current State Aid Commitment Deed obligations HM Treasury and a consultation exercise by the European becomes effective, the Group would be unable to meet the Commission, either of which may result in amendments to the principal obligation in the State Aid Commitment Deed to divest scope of and costs associated with this package as a result of Williams & Glyn by 31 December 2017, which could entail which the final terms of a package of alternative measures may material sanctions including the appointment of a divestiture be more onerous than the scope of the plan set out above.
trustee, with the mandate to complete the divestment at no minimum price.
Implementation of the package, or if required as a result of the above process a more onerous package, and any associated A failure to comply with the terms of the revised State Aid business restructuring could divert resources from the Groups Commitment Deed, once agreed, could result in the imposition of operations and jeopardise the delivery and implementation of additional measures or limitations on the Groups operations, other significant plans and initiatives.
The incentivised transfer of additional supervision by the Groups regulators, and loss of SME customers to third parties places reliance on those third investor confidence, any of which could have a material adverse parties to achieve satisfactory customer outcomes which could impact on the Group.
Delays in execution may also impact the give rise to reputational damage if these are not forthcoming.
Groups ability to carry out its transformation programme, including the implementation of cost saving initiatives and Execution of the alternative measures package plan entails implement mandatory regulatory requirements, including the UK significant costs, including the funding commitments and financial ring-fencing regime.
Such risks will increase in line with any incentives envisaged to be provided under the plan.
the final terms of the agreement entered into among the Group, HM Treasury and the European Commission may include sanctions or additional financial incentives designed to ensure that the Group delivers its commitments.
The Group will also need to assess the timing and manner in which to reintegrate the remaining Williams & Glyn business into the Group which is expected to result in additional restructuring charges and may adversely impact the Groups existing restructuring plans, including in respect of the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
435 Additional information Risk factors continued As a result of the changes described above, the establishment of Implementation of the ring-fencing regime in the UK which the RFB sub-group will have a material impact on how the Group began in 2015 and must be completed before 1 January 2019 conducts its business and requires a significant legal and will result in material structural changes to the Groups organisational restructuring of the Group and the transfer of large business.
These changes could have a material adverse numbers of assets, liabilities and customers between legal effect on the Group.
entities and the realignment of employees which started in early The requirement to ring-fence retail banking operations was 2017.
The Group is still considering whether a number of its introduced under the UK Financial Services Banking Reform current activities will be conducted within or outside of the RFB.
Act 2013 the Banking Reform Act 2013 and adopted through The Groups final ring-fenced legal structure and the actions secondary legislation the UK ring-fencing regime.
These taken to achieve it, remain subject to, amongst other factors, reforms form part of a broader range of structural reforms of the additional regulatory, board and other approvals as well as banking industry seeking to improve the resilience and employee representative information and consultation resolvability of banks and which range from structural reforms procedures.
In particular, transfers of assets and liabilities including ring-fencing to the implementation of a new recovery through a ring-fencing transfer scheme are now subject to review and resolution framework which in the UK will incorporate by an Independent Skilled Person designated by the PRA in elements of the ring-fencing regime.
See The Group and its advance of commencing the formal court process in late 2017 subsidiaries are subject to a new and evolving framework on prior to such transfers and migrations taking place in 2018, which recovery and resolution, the impact of which remains uncertain, may result in amendments being required to be made to the and which may result in additional compliance challenges and Groups current plan and in delays in the implementation of the costs.
UK ring-fencing regime, additional costs and or changes to the Groups business.
On 30 September 2016, the Group announced plans for its future ring-fencing compliant structure.
By the end of 2018, the Group The implementation of these changes involves a number of risks intends to place the majority of its UK and Western European related to both the revised Group structure and also the process banking business in ring-fenced banking entities organised as a of transition to that new structure.
Those risks include the sub-group under an intermediate holding company named following: NatWest Holdings Limited which will be a direct subsidiary of RBSG and will ultimately assume ownership of National The Group is unable to predict how some customers may Westminster Bank Plc, Adam & Company PLC to be renamed react to the required changes, including for some customers The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC a requirement to deal with both the RFB and other Group Ulster Bank.
As a result, National Westminster Bank Plc will no entities outside the RFB to obtain the full range of products longer be a subsidiary of RBS plc.
The NatWest Markets and services or to take any affirmative steps in connection franchise formerly known as the Corporate and Institutional with the reorganisation.
Banking business and the RBS International business will be As part of the establishment of the RFB, the RFB will need outside the ring-fence in other banking subsidiaries of RBSG.
to operate independently from the rest of the Group and material changes to the existing corporate governance As part of this restructuring, in mid-2018, the majority of existing structure will need to be put in place by the Group to ensure personal, private, business and commercial customers of RBS the RFBs independence.
This new structure may result in plc will be transferred to the RFB, specifically to National divergences between the various governance bodies within Westminster Bank Plc and Adam & Company PLC which on the the Group and create operational challenges.
In addition, same day will be renamed The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
At the Group may experience difficulties in attracting qualified the same time, RBS plc which will sit outside the RFB will be candidates to occupy these new positions and the new renamed NatWest Markets Plc to bring its legal name in line with governance structure may result in an increase in overhead the rebranding of the NatWest Markets franchise which was and compliance costs.
initiated in December 2016, and will continue to operate the In order to comply with the requirements of the UK ringNatWest Markets franchise as a direct subsidiary of RBSG.
fencing regime, the Group will need to revise its operations infrastructure so as to comply with the shared services, independence and resolvability requirements set out in the UK ring-fencing rules, including in areas such as information technology IT infrastructure, human resources and critical service providers which may involve associated execution risk and may result in increased costs.
Arrangements between RFB and other Group entities will also need to be reviewed in light of these requirements and the requirement that all such transactions take place on an arms-length basis.
436 Additional information Risk factors continued The steps required to implement the UK ring-fencing regime The implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime will within the Group to comply with the relevant rules and regulations significantly impact the management of the Groups treasury are extraordinarily complex and require an extended period of operations, including internal and external funding time to plan, execute and implement and entail significant costs arrangements.
The changes required may adversely impact and operational, legal and execution risks, which risks may be the assessment made by credit rating agencies, creditors exacerbated by the Groups other ongoing restructuring efforts.
and other stakeholders of the credit strength of the different External or internal factors including new and developing legal entities on a standalone basis and may heighten the cost of requirements relating to the regulatory framework for the banking capital and funding for the Group and its subsidiaries.
The industry and the evolving regulatory and economic landscape ability of bank entities outside the RFB to meet funding and resulting from the UKs planned exit from the EU, as well as capital prudential requirements will be dependent on further political developments or changes to the Groups current obtaining an adequate credit rating.
Reliance on intragroup strategy or means of compliance with its EU State Aid exemptions in relation to the calculation of risk-weighted Commitment, may require the Group to further restructure its assets and large exposures may not be possible between operations including its operations in Western Europe and may the RFB and other Group entities and may result in riskin turn require further changes to be made to the Groups ringweighted assets inflation.
Intragroup distributions including fencing plans including the planned structure of the Group post payments of dividends between RFB and other Group implementation.
See Changes to the prudential regulatory entities with the exception of distributions to the Group framework for banks and investment banks within the EU may parent company will also be prohibited.
require additional structural changes to the Groups operations From 2026 it will not be possible for the RFB and other which may affect current restructuring plans and have a material Group entities that are not RFB entities or wholly owned adverse effect on the Group.
There is no certainty that the Group subsidiaries of the RFB to participate in the same defined will be able to complete the legal restructuring and migration of benefit pension plan.
As a result, it will be necessary to customers by the 1 January 2019 deadline or in accordance with restructure the Groups defined benefit pension plans future rules and the consequences of non-compliance are including The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, currently uncertain.
Conducting the Groups operations in the Groups main defined benefit pension scheme the Main accordance with the new rules may result in additional costs Scheme, such that either the RFB or other Group entities transitional and recurring following implementation and impact that are not wholly owned subsidiaries of the RFB leave the the Groups profitability.
As a result, the implementation of the UK current scheme.
The costs of separation may be material ring-fencing regime could have a material adverse effect on the and may trigger certain legal and regulatory obligations Groups reputation, results of operations, financial condition and including possibly increased contributions.
restructuring may also result in additional or increased cash contributions in the event the pension trustees determine The Group has been, and will remain, in a period of major that the employer covenant has been weakened as a result restructuring through to 2019, which carries significant of such separation.
execution and operational risks, and the Group may not be a The restructuring and planned transfers may also result in viable, competitive, customer-focused and profitable bank accounting consequences for the Group.
of transfers will be made at book value between fully owned Since early 2015, the Group has been implementing a major Group entities and will therefore not have an accounting restructuring and transformation programme, articulated around a impact, certain transfers will be made at fair value which strategy focused on the growth of its strategic operations in may result in a profit or loss being recognised by Group Personal & Business Banking PBB and Commercial & Private entities.
In addition, transfers of assets that have related Banking CPB and the further restructuring of the NatWest hedging arrangements may result in adverse operational, Markets franchise, to focus mainly on UK and Western European financial or accounting consequences if the transfer is not corporate and financial institutions.
As part of this programme, consistent with the unaffected continuation of such hedging the Group also continues to run-down certain of its operations, arrangements.
businesses and portfolios in order to reduce risk-weighted assets In addition, the proposed transfers may have tax costs, or as well as the scope and complexity of its activities, including may impact the tax attributes of the RFB or other Group through the run-down of the higher risk and capital intensive entities and the ability to transfer tax losses between RFB assets in Capital Resolution.
Throughout 2016, the Group and other Group entities.
stepped up the run-down of the higher risk and capital intensive assets in Capital Resolution, reducing risk-weighted assets by 14.5 billion.
437 Additional information Risk factors continued Due to the changed nature of the Groups business model, the Part of the focus of this transformation programme is to downsize Groups expectations with respect to its return to profitability and and simplify the Group, reduce underlying costs, strengthen its the timing thereof may not be achieved in the timescale overall capital position, improve customer experience and envisaged or at any time.
An adverse macroeconomic employee engagement, update its operational and technological environment, including sustained low interest rates, political and capabilities, strengthen governance and control frameworks and regulatory uncertainty, increased market competition and or better position the Group for the implementation of the UK ringheightened litigation costs may also pose significant headwinds fencing regime by 1 January 2019.
Together, these initiatives are to the profitability of the Group.
In addition there can be no referred to as the Groups transformation programme.
certainty that the new business model defined for the NatWest Markets franchise will result in a sustainable or profitable As part of its transformation programme, a number of financial, business.
capital, operational and diversity targets, expectations and trends have been set by management for the Group, both for the short More generally, the targets, expectations and trends which term and throughout the restructuring period.
These include but accompany the Groups transformation programme are based on are not limited to expectations relating to the Groups return to management plans, projections and models and are subject to a profitability and the timing thereof, one-off costs incurred in number of key assumptions and judgments any of which may connection with material litigation and conduct matters and the prove to be inaccurate.
Among others, the targets, expectations timing thereof, expected growth rates in income, customer loans and trends set as part of the Groups transformation programme and advances and volumes and underlying drivers and trends, assume that the Group will be successful in implementing its cost:income ratio targets, expectations with respect to reductions business model and strategy, in executing its transformation in operating costs, including remediation costs, expectations programme and reducing the complexity of its business and relating to restructuring costs and charges as well as impairment infrastructure at the same time that it will be implementing charges, disposal losses relating to Capital Resolution, CET1 significant structural changes to comply with the regulatory ratio targets and expectations regarding funding plans and environment and that it will implement and maintain a robust requirements, expectations with respect to reductions in riskcontrol environment and effective culture, including with respect weighted assets and the timing thereof, expectations with respect to risk management.
to employees engagement and diversity targets.
The Group may not be able to successfully implement any part of The successful implementation of the Groups transformation its transformation programme or reach any of its related targets programme and the Groups ability to meet associated targets or expectations in the time frames contemplated or at all.
The and expectations, are subject to various internal and external Groups transformation programme comprises a large number of factors and risks, including those described in this risk factor, the concurrent actions and initiatives, any of which could fail to be other risk factors included in this section and the disclosure implemented due to operational or execution issues.
included in the rest of this document.
These include, but are not Implementation of the Groups transformation programme is limited to, market, regulatory, economic and political expected to result in significant costs, which could be materially uncertainties, developments relating to litigation and regulatory higher than currently contemplated, including due to material matters, operational risks, risks relating to the Groups business uncertainties and factors outside of the Groups control.
model and strategy and delays or difficulties in implementing its transformation programme, including the restructuring of its Implementing the Groups current transformation programme, NatWest Markets franchise, the implementation of the UK ringincluding the restructuring of its NatWest Markets franchise, fencing regime and compliance with the Groups State Aid requires further material changes to be implemented within the obligations.
A number of factors may impact the Groups ability to Group over the medium term concurrent with the implementation maintain its CET1 ratio target at or over 13% throughout the of significant structural changes to comply with the UK ringrestructuring period, including conduct related costs, pension or fencing regime and resulting from the Groups seeking to comply legacy charges, accounting impairments or limited organic capital with its State Aid obligations.
This restructuring period will be generation through profits.
In addition, the run-down of riskdisruptive, will increase operational and people risks for the weighted assets may be accompanied by the recognition of Group and will continue to divert management resources from the disposal losses which may be higher than anticipated, including conduct of the Groups operations and development of its due to a degraded economic environment.
changes may also result in risk-weighted assets inflation in the medium term.
"For a further discussion of the risks associated The scale of changes being concurrently implemented has and with meeting the Groups capital targets, see"" The Groups will continue to require the implementation and application of business performance and financial position could be adversely robust governance and controls frameworks and there is no affected if its capital is not managed effectively or if it is unable to guarantee that the Group will be successful in doing so."
The Groups ability to meet its cost:income ratio target and the planned reductions in its annual underlying costs excluding restructuring and conduct-related charges may also be impacted, and the focus on meeting cost reduction targets may result in limited investment in other areas which could affect the Groups long-term product offering or competitive position.
438 Additional information Risk factors continued Operational risks are and will continue to be heightened as a Due to changes in the micro and macro-economic and political result of the number of initiatives being concurrently implemented and regulatory environment in which it operates, in particular as a by the Group, including the implementation of its transformation result of the consequences of the EU Referendum, the Group programme, including its cost-reduction programme, the may also be required to reconsider certain aspects of its current implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime compliance with its restructuring programme, or the timeframe for its implementation.
Individually, these initiatives carry In particular, there may be a need to further restructure the significant execution and delivery risk and such risks are Groups Western European operations, including for example, as heightened as their implementation is generally highly correlated a result of potential changes in the prudential regulatory and dependent on the successful implementation of framework for banks and investment banks within the EU or if the interdependent initiatives.
Group is no longer able to rely on the passporting framework for financial services applicable in the EU.
Any such additional These initiatives are being delivered against the backdrop of restructuring will be likely to increase operational and people ongoing cost challenges and increasing legal and regulatory risks for the Group.
uncertainty and will put significant pressure on the Groups ability to maintain effective internal controls and governance As a result, there can be no certainty that the implementation of frameworks.
Although the Group has implemented risk controls the Groups transformation programme will prove to be a and loss mitigation actions and significant resources and successful strategy, that the Group will meet its targets and planning have been devoted to mitigate operational risk, it is not expectations during the restructuring period or that the possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be restructured Group will be a viable, competitive, customereffective in controlling each of the operational risks faced by the focused or profitable bank.
Ineffective management of operational risks could have a Operational risks are inherent in the Groups businesses and material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial these risks are heightened as the Group implements its condition and results of operations.
transformation programme, including significant cost reductions, the UK ring-fencing regime and compliance with The Group is exposed to cyberattacks and a failure to its State Aid obligations against the backdrop of legal and prevent or defend against such attacks could have a material regulatory changes.
adverse effect on the Groups operations, results of Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or operations or reputation.
failed internal processes, people or systems, or from external The Group is subject to cybersecurity attacks which have events, including legal risks.
The Group has complex and diverse regularly targeted financial institutions and corporates as well as operations and operational risk and losses can result from a governments and other institutions and have materially increased number of internal or external factors, including: in frequency, sophistication and severity in recent years.
The internal and external fraud and theft from the Group: Group relies on the effectiveness of its internal policies and compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of associated procedures, IT infrastructure and capabilities to the Groups data, systems and services: protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information failure to identify or maintain the Groups key data within the held on its computer systems, networks and mobile devices, and limits of the Groups agreed risk appetite: on the computer systems, networks and mobile devices of third failure of the Groups technology services due to loss of parties on whom the Group relies.
data, systems or data centre failure or failure by third parties to restore services: The Group takes measures to protect itself from attacks designed failure to appropriately or accurately manage the Groups to prevent the delivery of critical business processes to its operations, transactions or security: customers.
Despite these preventative measures, the Groups incorrect specification of models used by the Group, computer systems, software, networks and mobile devices, and implementing or using such models incorrectly: those of third parties on whom the Group relies, are vulnerable to failure to effectively design, execute or deliver the Groups cyberattacks, sabotage, unauthorised access, computer viruses, transformation programme: worms or other malicious code, and other events that have a failure to attract retain or engage staff: security impact.
Financial institutions, such as the Group, with insufficient resources to deliver change and business-ascomplex legacy infrastructure may be even more susceptible to usual activity: attack due to the increased number of potential entry points and decreasing employee engagement or failure by the Group to weaknesses.
embed new ways of working and values: or incomplete, inaccurate or untimely statutory, regulatory or management reporting.
439 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups target capital ratio is based on its expected Failure to protect the Groups operations from cyberattacks or to regulatory requirements and internal modelling, including of continuously review and update current processes in response to stress scenarios.
However, the Groups ability to achieve such new threats could result in the loss of customer data or other targets depends on a number of factors, including the sensitive information as well as instances of denial of service for implementation of its transformation programme and any of the the Groups customers.
Although the Group experienced factors described below.
A shortage of capital, which could in turn attempted distributed denial of service DDoS attacks in 2016, affect the Groups capital ratio, could arise from: none of these attacks were successful.
During 2015, the Group a depletion of the Groups capital resources through experienced a number of DDoS attacks, one of which had a increased costs or liabilities including pension, conduct and temporary impact on some of NatWests web services, as well as litigation costs, reduced profits or increased losses which a smaller number of malware attacks.
would in turn impact retained earnings, sustained periods of low or lower interest rates, reduced asset values resulting in The Bank of England, the FCA and HM Treasury in the UK and write-downs or impairments or accounting charges: regulators, in the US and in Europe have identified cybersecurity an increase in the amount of capital that is required to meet as a systemic risk to the financial sector and highlighted the need the Groups regulatory requirements, including as a result of for financial institutions to improve resilience to cyberattacks and changes to the actual level of risk faced by the Group, the Group expects greater regulatory engagement, supervision factors influencing the Groups regulators determination of and enforcement on cybersecurity in the future.
The Group the firm-specific Pillar 2B buffer applicable to the Group continues to participate in initiatives led by the Bank of England PRA buffer, changes in the minimum levels of capital or and other regulators designed to test how major firms respond to liquidity required by legislation or by the regulatory significant cyberattacks.
The outputs of this exercise and other authorities or the calibration of capital or leverage buffers regulatory and industry-led initiatives are being incorporated into applicable to the Group, including countercyclical buffers, the Groups on-going IT priorities and improvement measures.
increases in risk-weighted assets or in the risk weighting of However, the Group expects to be the target of continued attacks existing asset classes, or an increase in the Groups view of in the future and there can be no certainty that the Group will be any management buffer it needs, taking account of, for able to effectively mitigate the impact of such attacks.
example, the capital levels or capital targets of the Groups peer banks and criteria set by the credit rating agencies.
Any failure in the Groups cybersecurity policies, procedures or capabilities, or cyber-related crime, could lead to the Group The Groups current capital strategy is based on the expected suffering reputational damage and a loss of customers, accumulation of additional capital through the accrual of profits regulatory investigations or sanctions being imposed and could over time and or through the planned reduction of its riskhave a material adverse effect on the Groups results of weighted assets through disposals or natural attrition, the operations, financial condition or prospects.
execution of which is subject to operational and market risks.
The Groups business performance and financial position Further losses or a failure to meet profitability targets or reduce could be adversely affected if its capital is not managed risk-weighted assets in accordance with or within the timeline effectively or if it is unable to meet its capital targets.
contemplated by the Groups capital plan, a depletion of its Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability capital resources, earnings and capital volatility resulting from the to operate its businesses, comply with its regulatory obligations, implementation of IFRS 9 as of 1 January 2018, or an increase in pursue its strategy of returning to stand-alone strength, resume the amount of capital it needs to hold including as a result of the dividend payments on its ordinary shares and maintain reasons described above, would adversely impact the Groups discretionary payments.
The Group is required by regulators in ability to meet its capital targets or requirements and achieve its the UK, the EU and other jurisdictions in which it undertakes capital strategy during the restructuring period.
regulated activities to maintain adequate capital resources.
If the Group is determined to have a shortage of capital as a Adequate capital also gives the Group financial flexibility in the result of any of the circumstances described above, the Group face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the global may suffer a loss of confidence in the market with the result that economy and specifically in its core UK and European markets.
access to liquidity and funding may become constrained or more expensive or may result in the Group being subject to regulatory The Group currently targets a CET1 ratio at or above 13% interventions and sanctions.
The Groups regulators may also throughout the period until completion of its restructuring.
On a request that the Group carry out certain capital management fully loaded basis, the Groups CET1 ratio was 13.4% at 31 actions or, in an extreme scenario, this may also trigger the December 2016, compared with 15.5% at 31 December 2015. implementation of its recovery plans.
Such actions may, in turn, affect the Groups product offering, capacity to continue its business operations, pay future dividends and make other distributions including discretionary coupons on capital instruments or pursue strategic opportunities, affecting the underlying profitability of the Group and future growth potential.
440 Additional information Risk factors continued Under CRD IV, the Group is required to hold at all times a If, in response to such shortage, certain regulatory capital minimum amount of regulatory capital calculated as a percentage instruments are converted into equity or the Group raises of risk-weighted assets Pillar 1 requirement.
CRD IV also additional capital through the issuance of share capital or introduced a number of new capital buffers that are in addition to regulatory capital instruments, existing shareholders may the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements as described below that experience a dilution of their holdings.
The success of such must be met with CET1 capital.
The combination of the capital issuances will also be dependent on favourable market conservation buffer which, subject to transitional provisions, will conditions and the Group may not be able to raise the amount of be set at 2.5% from 2019, the countercyclical capital buffer of capital required or on satisfactory terms.
Separately, the Group up to 2.5% which is currently set at 0% by the FPC for UK banks may address a shortage of capital by taking action to reduce and the higher of depending on the institution the systemic risk leverage and or risk-weighted assets, by modifying the Groups buffer, the global systemically important institutions buffer G-SIB legal entity structure or by asset or business disposals.
Such Buffer and the other systemically important institutions buffer, is actions may affect the underlying profitability of the Group.
referred to as the combined buffer requirement.
These rules entered into force on 1 May 2014 for the countercyclical capital Failure by the Group to comply with regulatory capital and buffer and on 1 January 2016 for the capital conservation buffer leverage requirements may result in intervention by its and the G-SIB buffer.
The G-SIB buffer is currently set at 1.0% regulators and loss of investor confidence, and may have a for the Group from 1 January 2017, and is being phased in over material adverse effect on its results of operations, financial the period to 1 January 2019.
The systemic risk buffer will be condition and reputation and may result in distribution applicable from 1 January 2019.
The Bank of Englands Financial restrictions and adversely impact existing shareholders.
Policy Committee the FPC was responsible for setting the The Group is subject to extensive regulatory supervision in framework for the systemic risk buffer and the PRA adopted in relation to the levels and quality of capital it is required to hold in December 2016 a final statement of policy implementing the connection with its business, including as a result of the FPCs framework.
In early 2019, the PRA is expected to transposition of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions determine which institutions the systemic risk buffer should apply regulatory capital framework Basel III in Europe by a Directive to, and if so, how large the buffer should be up to a maximum of and Regulation collectively known as CRD IV.
The systemic risk buffer will apply to ring-fenced entities only and not all entities within a In addition, the Group is currently identified as a global banking group.
The systemic risk buffer is part of the UK systemically important bank G-SIB by the Financial Stability framework for identifying and setting higher capital buffers for Board FSB and is therefore subject to more intensive oversight domestic systemically important banks D-SIBs, which are and supervision by its regulators as well as additional capital groups that, upon distress or failure, could have an important requirements, although the Group belongs to the last bucket of impact on their domestic financial systems.
This follows on the the FSB G-SIB list and is therefore subject to the lowest level of 2012 framework recommendations by the FSB that national additional loss-absorbing capital requirements.
As the Group authorities should identify D-SIBs and take measures to reduce reduces its global footprint and its balance sheet, the FSB may, the probability and impact of the distress or failure of D-SIBs.
at its discretion, determine that the Group is no longer a G-SIB.
In addition, national supervisory authorities may add extra capital requirements the Pillar 2A requirements to cover risks that they believe are not covered or insufficiently covered by Pillar 1 requirements.
The Groups current Pillar 2A requirement set by the PRA at an equivalent of 3.8% of risk-weighted assets.
The PRA has also introduced the PRA buffer which is a forwardlooking requirement set annually and based on various factors including firm-specific stress test results and credible recovery and resolution planning and is to be met with CET1 capital in addition to any CET1 Capital used to meet any Pillar 1 or Pillar 2A requirements.
Where appropriate, the PRA may require an increase in an institution's PRA buffer to reflect additional capital required to be held to mitigate the risk of additional losses that could be incurred as a result of risk management and governance weaknesses, including with respect to the effectiveness of the internal stress testing framework and control environment.
UK banks are required to meet the higher of the combined buffer requirement or PRA buffer requirement.
441 Additional information Risk factors continued The Basel Committee is currently consulting on new rules relating In addition to capital requirements and buffers, the regulatory to the risk weighting of real estate exposures and other changes framework adopted under CRD IV, as transposed in the UK, sets to risk-weighting calculations, including proposals to introduce out minimum leverage ratio requirements for financial institutions, floors for the calculation of risk-weighted assets, which could namely: i a minimum leverage requirement of 3% which applies directly affect the calculation of capital ratios.
However, given to major UK banks, ii an additional leverage ratio to be met by recent delays, the timing and outcome of this consultation is G-SIBs and ring-fenced institutions to be calibrated at 35% of the increasingly uncertain.
In the UK, the PRA is also considering relevant firms capital G-SIB Buffer or systemic risk buffer and ways of reducing the sensitivity of UK mortgage risk weights to which is being phased in from 2016 currently set at 0.175% from economic conditions.
The Basel Committee is also consulting on 1 January 2017 and iii a countercyclical leverage ratio buffer a revised standardised measurement approach for operational for all firms subject to the minimum leverage ratio requirements risk.
Certain EU officials have raised concerns in relation to the which is calibrated at 35% of a firms countercyclical capital new proposed rules and there is therefore uncertainty as to the buffer.
Further changes may be made to the current leverage way in which the FSBs proposals would be implemented in the ratio framework as a result of future regulatory reforms, including EU.
The new approach for operational risk would replace the FSB proposals and proposed amendments to the CRD IV three existing standardised approaches for calculating proposed by the European Commission in November 2016. operational risk, as well as the internal model-based approach.
The proposed new methodology combines a financial statementMost of the capital requirements which apply or will apply to the based measure of operational risk, with an individual firms past Group will need to be met in whole or in part with CET1 capital.
While the quantum of impact of these reforms CET1 capital broadly comprises retained earnings and equity remains uncertain owing to lack of clarity of the proposed instruments, including ordinary shares.
As a result, the Groups changes and the timing of their introduction, the implementation ability meet applicable CET1 capital requirements is dependent of such initiatives may result in higher levels of risk-weighted on organic generation of CET1 through sustained profitability assets and therefore higher levels of capital, and in particular and or the Groups ability to issue ordinary shares, and there is CET1 capital, required to be held by the Group, under Pillar 1 no guarantee that the Group may be able to generate CET1 requirements.
Such requirements would be separate from any capital through either of these alternatives.
further capital overlays required to be held as part of the PRAs determination of the Groups Pillar 2A or PRA buffer The amount of regulatory capital required to meet the Groups requirements with respect to such exposures.
regulatory capital requirements and any additional management buffer, is determined by reference to the amount of risk-weighted Although the above provides an overview of the capital and assets held by the Group.
The models and methodologies used leverage requirements currently applicable to the Group, such to calculate applicable risk-weightings are a combination of requirements are subject to ongoing amendments and revisions, individual models, subject to regulatory permissions, and more including as a result of final rules and recommendations adopted standardised approaches.
The rules are applicable to the by the FSB or by European or UK regulators.
In particular, on 23 calculation of the Groups risk-weighted assets are subject to November 2016, the European Commission published a regulatory changes which may impact the levels of regulatory comprehensive package of reforms including proposed capital required to be met by the Group.
amendments to CRD IV and the EU Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD.
Although such proposals are The Basel Committee and other agencies remain focused on currently being considered and discussed among the European changes that will increase, or recalibrate, measures of riskCommission, the European Parliament and the European Council weighted assets as the key measure of the different categories of and their final form and the timetable for their implementation are risk in the denominator of the risk-based capital ratio.
While they not known, such amendments may result in increased or more are at different stages of maturity, a number of initiatives across stringent requirements applying to the Group or its subsidiaries.
risk types and business lines are in progress that are expected to This uncertainty is compounded by the UKs decision to leave the impact the calculation of risk-weighted assets.
EU following the outcome of the EU Referendum which may result in further changes to the prudential and regulatory framework applicable to the Group.
If the Group is unable to raise the requisite amount of regulatory capital including loss absorbing capital, or to otherwise meet regulatory capital and leverage requirements, it may be exposed to increased regulatory supervision or sanctions, loss of investor confidence, restrictions on distributions and it may be required to reduce further the amount of its risk-weighted assets or total assets and engage in the disposal of core and other non-core businesses, which may not occur on a timely basis or achieve prices which would otherwise be attractive to the Group.
442 Additional information Risk factors continued The ability of the Group to meet the combined buffer requirement This may also result in write-down or the conversion into equity of will be subject to the Group holding sufficient CET1 capital in certain regulatory capital instruments issued by the Group or the excess of its minimum Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 capital requirements.
issue of additional equity by the Group, each of which could In addition, the interaction of such restrictions on distributions result in the dilution of the Groups existing shareholders.
A with the capital requirements and buffers applicable to the Group breach of the Groups applicable capital or leverage requirements remains uncertain in many respects while the relevant authorities may also trigger the application of the Groups recovery plan to in the EU and the UK consult on and develop their proposals and remediate a deficient capital position.
guidance on the application of the rules.
In particular, the proposals published by the European Commission in November Failure by the Group to comply with its capital requirements 2016 contain certain proposed amendments to Article 141, or to maintain sufficient distributable reserves may result in including to introduce a stacking order in the calculation of the the application of restrictions on its ability to make maximum distributable amount and establish certain priorities in discretionary distributions, including the payment of the payments which could be made in the event the restrictions dividends to its ordinary shareholders and coupons on apply with payments relating to additional tier 1 instruments certain capital instruments.
being required to be made before payments on CET1 In accordance with the provisions of CRD IV, a minimum level of instruments dividends or other discretionary payments.
The capital adequacy is required to be met by the Group in order for it treatment of MDA breaches under the European Commission to be entitled to make certain discretionary payments.
proposals differ from the proposed consequences set out in the final PRA rules and may result in uncertainty in the application of Pursuant to Article 141 Restrictions on distribution of the CRD these rules.
IV Directive, as transposed in the UK, institutions that fail to meet the combined buffer requirement will be subject to restricted In addition to these rules, in order to make distributions including discretionary payments which are defined broadly by CRD IV dividend payments in the first place, RBSG is required to have as payments relating to CET1 instruments dividends, variable sufficient distributable reserves available.
Furthermore, coupon remuneration and coupon payments on additional tier 1 payments due on the additional tier 1 instruments issued by instruments.
The resulting restrictions are scaled according to RBSG must be cancelled in the event that RBSG has insufficient the extent of the breach of the combined buffer requirement and distributable items as defined under CRD IV.
Both distributable calculated as a percentage of the profits of the institution since reserves and distributable items are largely impacted by the the last distribution of profits or discretionary payment which Groups ability to generate and accumulate profits or conversely gives rise to a maximum distributable amount MDA if any that by material losses including losses resulting from conduct the financial institution can distribute through discretionary related-costs, restructuring costs or impairments.
The EBA has clarified that the CET1 capital to be taken into account for the MDA calculation should be limited to RBSGs distributable reserves and distributable items are the amount not used to meet the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 own funds sensitive to the accounting impact of factors including the requirements of the institution.
In the event of a breach of the redemption of preference shares, restructuring costs and combined buffer requirement, the Group will be required to impairment charges and the carrying value of its investments in calculate its MDA, and as a consequence it may be necessary for subsidiaries which are carried at the lower of cost and their the Group to reduce or cease discretionary payments to the prevailing recoverable amount.
Recoverable amounts depend on extent of the breach.
discounted future cash flows which can be affected by restructurings, including the restructuring required to implement the UK ring-fencing regime, or unforeseen events.
The distributable reserves of RBSG also depend on the receipt of income from subsidiaries, principally as dividends.
The ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends is subject to their performance and applicable local laws and other restrictions, including their respective regulatory requirements and distributable reserves.
Any of these factors, including restructuring costs, impairment charges and a reduction in the carrying value of RBSG subsidiaries or a shortage of dividends from them could limit RBSGs ability to maintain sufficient distributable reserves to be able to pay coupons on certain capital instruments and dividends to its ordinary shareholders.
In Q3 2016, the Group reviewed the value of the investments in subsidiaries held in the parent company, RBSG, and in light of the deterioration in the economic outlook, impaired the carrying value of the investments by 6.0 billion to 44.7 billion.
443 Additional information Risk factors continued Under the 2016 Bank of England stress tests, which were based This had the effect of reducing distributable profits of RBSG by on the balance sheet of the Group for the year ended 31 6.0 billion and the Group may be required to recognise further December 2015, the Group did not meet its CET1 capital or Tier impairments in the future if the outlook for its subsidiaries were to 1 leverage hurdle rates before additional tier 1 conversion.
Whilst this level of distributable profits does not impact additional tier 1 conversion, it did not meet its CET1 systemic upon RBSGs ability to pay coupons on existing securities, the reference point or Tier 1 leverage ratio hurdle rate.
In light of the Group intends to implement a capital reorganisation in 2017 stress test results the Group agreed a revised capital plan with subject to shareholder and court approval in order to increase the PRA to improve its stress resilience in light of the various RBSGs distributable reserves, providing greater flexibility for challenges and uncertainties facing both the Group and the wider potential future distributions and preference share redemptions if economy highlighted by the concurrent stress testing process.
part of this revised capital plan, the Group intends to execute an array of capital management actions to supplement organic Failure by the Group to meet the combined buffer requirement or capital generation from its core franchises and further improve its retain sufficient distributable reserves or distributable items as a stress resilience, including: further decreasing the cost base of result of reduced profitability or losses, or changes in regulation the Group: further reductions in risk-weighted assets across the or taxes adversely impacting distributable reserves or Group: further run-down and sale of other non-core loan distributable items, may therefore result in limitations on the portfolios in relation to the personal and commercial franchises Groups ability to make discretionary distributions which may and the management of undrawn facilities in 2017.
Additional negatively impact the Groups shareholders, holders of additional management actions may be required by the PRA until the tier 1 instruments, staff receiving variable compensation such as Groups balance sheet is sufficiently resilient to meet the bonuses and other stakeholders and impact its market valuation regulators stressed scenarios.
and investors and analysts perception of its financial soundness.
Consistent with the approach set out in the 2015, the 2017 Bank The Group is subject to stress tests mandated by its of England stress test will, for the first time, test the resilience of regulators in the UK and in Europe which may result in the system, and individual banks within it, against two stress additional capital requirements or management actions scenarios.
In addition to the annual cyclical scenario, there will be which, in turn, may impact the Groups financial condition, an additional exploratory scenario that will be tested for the first results of operations and investor confidence or result in time in 2017.
This will allow the Bank of England to assess the restrictions on distributions.
resilience of the system, and the individual banks within it, to a The Group is subject to annual stress tests by its regulator in the wider range of potential threats, including weak global supply UK and also subject to stress tests by the European regulators growth, persistently low interest rates, and a continuation of with respect to RBSG, RBS NV and Ulster Bank.
Stress tests declines in both world trade relative to GDP and cross-border provide an estimate of the amount of capital banks might deplete banking activity.
If the Group were to fail under either of these in a hypothetical stress scenario.
In addition, if the stress tests scenarios, it may be required to take further action to strengthen reveal that a banks existing regulatory capital buffers are not its capital position.
In addition, the introduction of IFRS 9, sufficient to absorb the impact of the stress, it is possible that it effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, will need to take action to strengthen its capital position.
There is is expected to result in capital volatility for the Group, which in a strong expectation that the PRA would require a bank to take turn could have an impact on the Groups ability to meet its action if, at any point during the stress, a bank were projected to required CET1 ratio in a stress test scenario.
breach any of its minimum CET1 capital or leverage ratio requirements.
However, if a bank is projected to fail to meet its Failure by the Group to meet the thresholds set as part of the systemic buffers, it will still be expected to strengthen its capital stress tests carried out by its regulators in the UK and elsewhere position over time but the supervisory response is expected to be may result in the Groups regulators requiring the Group to less intensive than if it were projected to breach its minimum generate additional capital, increased supervision and or capital requirements.
The PRA will also use the annual stress regulatory sanctions, restrictions on capital distributions and loss test results to inform its determination of whether individual of investor confidence, which may impact the Groups financial banks current capital positions are adequate or need condition, results of operations and prospects.
For some banks, their individual stress-test results might imply that the capital conservation buffer and countercyclical rates set for all banks is not consistent with the impact of the stress on them.
In that case, the PRA can increase regulatory capital buffers for individual banks by adjusting their PRA buffers.
444 Additional information Risk factors continued The Bank of England is responsible for setting the MREL As a result of extensive reforms being implemented relating requirements for each UK bank, building society and certain to the resolution of financial institutions within the UK, the investment firms in consultation with the PRA and the FCA, and EU and globally, material additional requirements will arise such requirement will be set depending on the resolution strategy to ensure that financial institutions maintain sufficient lossof the financial institution.
In its final rules, the Bank of England absorbing capacity.
Such changes to the funding and has set out a staggered compliance timeline for UK banks, regulatory capital framework may require the Group to meet including with respect to those requirements applicable to G-SIBs higher capital levels than the Group anticipated within its including the Group.
Under the revised timeline, G-SIBs will be strategic plans and affect the Groups funding costs.
expected to i meet the minimum requirements set out in the In addition to the prudential requirements applicable under CRD FSBs TLAC term sheet from 1 January 2019 i. e. the higher of IV, the BRRD introduces, among other things, a requirement for 16% of risk-weighted assets or 6% of leverage exposures, and banks to maintain at all times a sufficient aggregate amount of ii meet the full MREL requirements to be phased in from 1 own funds and eligible liabilities that is, liabilities that can January 2020, with the full requirements applicable from 2 absorb loss and assist in recapitalising a firm in accordance with January 2022 i. e. for G-SIBs two times Pillar 1 plus Pillar 2A or a predetermined resolution strategy, known as the minimum the higher of two times the applicable leverage ratio requirement requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL, or 6.75% of leverage exposures.
MREL requirements are designed to ensure that the resolution of a financial institution expected to be set on consolidated, sub-consolidated and may be carried out, without public funds being exposed to the risk individual bases, and are in addition to regulatory capital of loss and in a way which ensures the continuity of critical requirements so that there can be no double counting of economic functions, maintains financial stability and protects instruments qualifying for capital requirements.
For institutions, including the Group, for which bail-in is the In November 2015, the FSB published a final term sheet setting required resolution strategy and which are structured to permit out its total loss-absorbing capacity TLAC standards for G-SIBs.
single point of entry resolution due to their size and systemic The EBA was mandated to assess the implementation of MREL importance, the Bank of England has indicated that in order to in the EU and the consistency of MREL with the final TLAC qualify as MREL, eligible liabilities must be issued by the standards and published an interim report setting out the resolution entity i. e. the holding company for the Group and be conclusions of its review in July 2016 and its final report in structurally subordinated to operating and excluded liabilities December 2016.
On the basis of the EBAs work and its own which include insured deposits, short-term debt, derivatives, assessment of CRD IV and the BRRD, the European structured notes and tax liabilities.
Commission published in November 2016 a comprehensive set of proposals, seeking to make certain amendments to the The final PRA rules set out a number of liabilities which cannot existing MREL framework.
In particular, the proposals make a qualify as MREL and are therefore excluded liabilities.
As a number of amendments to the MREL requirements under the result, senior unsecured issuances by RBSG will need to be BRRD, in part in order to transpose the FSBs final TLAC term subordinated to the excluded liabilities described above.
proceeds from such issuances will be transferred downstream to material operating subsidiaries in the form of capital or another The UK government is required to transpose the BRRD's form of subordinated claim.
In this way, MREL resources will be provisions relating to MREL into law through further secondary structurally subordinated to senior liabilities of operating legislation.
In November 2016, the Bank of England published its companies, allowing losses from operating companies to be final rules setting out its approach to setting MREL for UK banks.
transferred to the holding company and - if necessary - for These final rules which were adopted on the basis of the current resolution to occur at the holding company level, without placing MREL framework in force in the EU do not take into account the the operating companies into a resolution process.
The TLAC European Commissions most recent proposals with respect to standard includes an exemption from this requirement if the total MREL and differ in a number of respects.
In addition, rules amount of excluded liabilities on RBSGs balance sheet does not relating to a number of specific issues under the framework exceed 5% of its external TLAC i. e. the eligible liabilities RBSG remain to be implemented, following the publication of further has issued to investors which meet the TLAC requirements and rules by the FSB, in particular rules on internal MREL the Bank of England has adopted this criterion in its final rules.
If requirements, cross holdings and disclosure requirements are the Group were to fail to comply with this clean balance sheet outstanding.
requirement, it could disqualify otherwise eligible liabilities from counting towards MREL and result in the Group breaching its MREL requirements.
445 Additional information Risk factors continued Rating agencies regularly review the RBSG and Group entity Compliance with these and other future changes to capital credit ratings and their ratings of long-term debt are based on a adequacy and loss-absorbency requirements in the EU and the number of factors, including the Groups financial strength as well UK by the relevant deadline will require the Group to restructure as factors not within the Groups control, including political its balance sheet and issue additional capital compliant with the developments and conditions affecting the financial services rules which may be costly whilst certain existing Tier 1 and Tier 2 industry generally.
In particular, the rating agencies may further securities and other senior instruments issued by the Group will review the RBSG and Group entity ratings as a result of the cease to count towards the Groups loss-absorbing capital for the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, pension and purposes of meeting MREL TLAC requirements.
The Groups litigation regulatory investigation risk, including potential fines resolution authority can impose an MREL requirement over and relating to investigations relating to legacy conduct issues, and above the regulatory minima and potentially higher than the other macroeconomic and political developments, including in Groups peers, if it has concerns regarding the resolvability of the light of the outcome of the negotiations relating to the shape and Group.
As a result, RBSG may be required to issue additional timing of the UKs exit from the EU.
A challenging loss-absorbing instruments in the form of CET1 capital or macroeconomic environment, reduced profitability and greater subordinated or senior unsecured debt instruments or may result market uncertainty could negatively impact the Groups in an increased risk of a breach of the Groups combined buffer performance and potentially lead to credit ratings downgrades requirement, triggering the restrictions relating to the MDA which could adversely impact the Groups ability and cost of described above.
The Groups ability to access capital markets on acceptable terms and hence its ability to raise the amount of There remain some areas of uncertainty as to how these rules capital and funding required to meet its regulatory requirements will be implemented within the UK, the EU and globally and the and targets, including those relating to loss-absorbing final requirements to which the Group will be subject, and the instruments to be issued by the Group, could be affected.
Group may therefore need to revise its capital plan accordingly.
The European Commissions recent proposals also include a Any further reductions in the long-term or short-term credit ratings proposal seeking to harmonise the priority ranking of unsecured of RBSG or of certain of its subsidiaries particularly RBS plc, debt instruments under national insolvency proceedings to including further downgrades below investment grade, could facilitate the implementation of MREL across Europe.
This rule is adversely affect the Groups issuance capacity in the financial currently subject to consideration and negotiation by the markets, increase its funding and borrowing costs, require the European institutions but, to the extent it were to apply to the Group to replace funding lost due to the downgrade, which may Group, it could impact the ranking of current or future senior include the loss of customer deposits and may limit the Groups unsecured creditors of the Group.
access to capital and money markets and trigger additional collateral or other requirements in derivatives contracts and other The Groups borrowing costs, its access to the debt capital secured funding arrangements or the need to amend such markets and its liquidity depend significantly on its credit arrangements, limit the range of counterparties willing to enter ratings and, to a lesser extent, on the rating of the UK into transactions with the Group and its subsidiaries and Government.
adversely affect its competitive position, all of which could have a The credit ratings of RBSG, RBS plc and other Group members material adverse impact on the Groups earnings, cash flow and directly affect the cost of funding and capital instruments issued financial condition.
by the Group, as well as secondary market liquidity in those instruments.
A number of UK and other European financial As discussed above, the success of the implementation of the UK institutions, including RBSG, RBS plc and other Group ring-fencing regime and the restructuring of the Groups NatWest companies, have been downgraded multiple times in recent Markets franchise, is in part dependent upon the relevant banking years in connection with rating methodology changes and credit entities obtaining a sustainable credit rating.
A failure to obtain rating agencies revised outlook relating to regulatory such a rating, or any subsequent downgrades to current ratings developments, macroeconomic trends and a financial institutions may threaten the ability of the NatWest Markets franchise or capital position and financial prospects.
other entities outside of the RFB, in particular with respect to their ability to meet prudential capital requirements.
At 31 December The senior unsecured long-term and short-term credit ratings of 2016, a simultaneous one-notch long-term and associated shortRBSG are below investment grade by Moodys, and investment term downgrade in the credit ratings of RBSG and RBS plc by the grade by S&P and Fitch.
The senior unsecured long-term and three main ratings agencies would have required the Group to short-term credit ratings of RBS plc are investment grade by post estimated additional collateral of 3.3 billion, without taking Moodys, S&P and Fitch.
The outlook for RBSG and RBS plc by account of mitigating action by management.
Individual credit Moodys is currently positive and is stable for S&P and Fitch.
ratings of RBSG, RBS plc, RBS N. V, RBS International and Ulster Bank are also important to the Group when competing in certain markets such as corporate deposits and over-the-counter derivatives.
446 Additional information Risk factors continued The market view of bank credit risk has changed radically as a The major credit rating agencies downgraded and changed their result of the financial crisis and banks perceived by the market to outlook to negative on the UKs sovereign credit rating following be riskier have had to issue debt at significantly higher costs.
the results of the EU Referendum in June 2016.
Any further Although conditions have improved, there have been recent downgrade in the UK Governments credit ratings could periods where corporate and financial institution counterparties adversely affect the credit ratings of Group companies and may have reduced their credit exposures to banks and other financial result in the effects noted above.
Further political developments, institutions, limiting the availability of these sources of funding.
including in relation to the UKs exit from the EU or the outcome Rules currently proposed by the FSB and in the EU in relation to of any further Scottish referendum could negatively impact the the implementation of TLAC and MREL may also limit the ability credit ratings of the UK Government and result in a downgrade of of certain large financial institutions to hold debt instruments the credit ratings of RBSG and Group entities.
issued by other large financial institutions.
The ability of the Bank of England to resolve the Group in an orderly manner may also The Groups ability to meet its obligations including its increase investors perception of risk and hence affect the funding commitments depends on the Groups ability to availability and cost of funding for the Group.
Any uncertainty access sources of liquidity and funding.
relating to the credit risk of financial institutions may lead to Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its reductions in levels of interbank lending or may restrict the obligations, including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This Groups access to traditional sources of funding or increase the risk is inherent in banking operations and can be heightened by a costs or collateral requirements for accessing such funding.
number of factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of wholesale funding including, for example, short-term The Group has, at times, been required to rely on shorter-term and overnight funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide and overnight funding with a consequent reduction in overall phenomena such as market dislocation and major disasters.
liquidity, and to increase its recourse to liquidity schemes Credit markets worldwide, including interbank markets, have provided by central banks.
Such schemes require assets to be experienced severe reductions in liquidity and term funding pledged as collateral.
Changes in asset values or eligibility during prolonged periods in recent years.
In 2016, although the criteria can reduce available assets and consequently available Groups overall liquidity position remained strong, credit markets liquidity, particularly during periods of stress when access to the experienced elevated volatility and certain European banks, in schemes may be needed most.
The implementation of the UK particular in the peripheral countries of Spain, Portugal, Greece ring-fencing regime may also impact the Groups funding strategy and Italy, remained reliant on the ECB as one of their principal and the cost of funding may increase for certain Group entities sources of liquidity.
which will be required to manage their own funding and liquidity strategy, in particular those entities outside the ring-fence which The Group relies on retail and wholesale deposits to meet a will no longer be able to rely on retail deposit funding.
considerable portion of its funding.
The level of deposits may fluctuate due to factors outside the Groups control, such as a In addition, the Group is subject to certain regulatory loss of confidence, increasing competitive pressures for retail requirements with respect to liquidity coverage, including a customer deposits or the repatriation of deposits by foreign liquidity coverage ratio set by the PRA in the UK.
This wholesale depositors, which could result in a significant outflow of requirement is currently being phased in and is set at 90% from 1 deposits within a short period of time.
January 2017 to increase 100% in January 2018 as required by the CRR.
The PRA may also impose additional liquidity An inability to grow, or any material decrease in, the Groups requirements to reflect risks not captured in the leverage deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the other coverage ratio by way of Pillar 2 add-ons, which may increase factors described above, have a material adverse impact on the from time to time and require the Group to obtain additional Groups ability to satisfy its liquidity needs.
Increases in the cost funding or diversify its sources of funding.
Current proposals by of retail deposit funding may impact the Groups margins and the FSB and the European Commission also seek to introduce profitability.
certain liquidity requirements for financial institutions, including the introduction of a net stable funding ratio NSFR.
Under the The Group is using the Bank of Englands term funding scheme European Commission November 2016 proposals, the NSFR which was introduced in August 2016, in order to reduce the would be calculated as the ratio of an institution's available stable funding costs for the Group.
Such funding has a short maturity funding relative to the required stable funding it needs over a profile and hence the Group will diversify its sources of funding.
447 Additional information Risk factors continued The outlook for the global economy over the medium-term The NSFR would be expressed as a percentage and set at a remains uncertain due to a number of factors including: political minimum level of 100%, which indicates that an institution holds instability, continued slowdown of global growth, an extended sufficient stable funding to meet its funding needs during a oneperiod of low inflation and low interest rates and delays in year period under both normal and stressed conditions.
If an normalising monetary policy.
Such conditions could be worsened institutions NSFR were to fall below the 100% level, the by a number of factors including political uncertainty or macroinstitution would be required to take the measures laid down in economic deterioration in the Eurozone or the US, increased the CRD IV Regulation for a timely restoration to the minimum instability in the global financial system and concerns relating to level.
Competent authorities would assess the reasons for nonfurther financial shocks or contagion, a further weakening of the compliance with the NSFR requirement before deciding on any pound sterling, new or extended economic sanctions, volatility in potential supervisory measures.
These proposals are currently commodity prices or concerns regarding sovereign debt.
In being considered and negotiated among the European particular, concerns relating to emerging markets, including lower Commission, the European Parliament and the Council and, in economic growth or recession, concerns relating to the Chinese light of the UKs decision to leave the EU, there is considerable economy and financial markets, reduced global trade in emerging uncertainty as to the extent to which such rules will apply to the market economies to which the Group is exposed including Group.
those economies to which the Group remains exposed pending the exit of certain of its businesses and which include China, If the Group is unable to raise funds through deposits and or in India and Saudi Arabia or increased financing needs as existing the capital markets, its liquidity position could be adversely debt matures, may give rise to further instability and financial affected and it might be unable to meet deposit withdrawals on market volatility.
Any of the above developments could impact the demand or at their contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as Group directly by resulting in credit losses and indirectly by they mature, to meet its obligations under committed financing further impacting global economic growth and financial markets.
facilities, to comply with regulatory funding requirements or to fund new loans, investments and businesses.
The Group may Developments relating to current economic conditions, including need to liquidate unencumbered assets to meet its liabilities, those discussed above, could have a material adverse effect on including disposals of assets not previously identified for disposal the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations to reduce its funding commitments.
In a time of reduced liquidity, and prospects.
Any such developments may also adversely the Group may be unable to sell some of its assets, or may need impact the financial position of the Groups pension schemes, to sell assets at depressed prices, which in either case could which may result in the Group being required to make additional have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition contributions.
See The Group is subject to pension risks and and results of operations.
may be required to make additional contributions to cover pension funding deficits as a result of degraded economic The Groups businesses and performance can be negatively conditions or as a result of the restructuring of its pension affected by actual or perceived economic conditions in the schemes in relation to the implementation of the UK ring-fencing UK and globally and other global risks and the Group will be regime.
increasingly impacted by developments in the UK as its operations become increasingly concentrated in the UK.
In addition, the Group is exposed to risks arising out of Actual or perceived difficult global economic conditions create geopolitical events or political developments, such as trade challenging economic and market conditions and a difficult barriers, exchange controls, sanctions and other measures taken operating environment for the Groups businesses and its by sovereign governments that can hinder economic or financial customers and counterparties.
As part of its revised strategy, the activity levels.
Furthermore, unfavourable political, military or Group has been refocusing its business in the UK, the ROI and diplomatic events, armed conflict, pandemics and terrorist acts Western Europe and, accordingly is more exposed to the and threats, and the responses to them by governments, could economic conditions of the British economy as well as the also adversely affect economic activity and have an adverse Eurozone.
In particular, the longer term effects of the EU effect upon the Groups business, financial condition and results Referendum are difficult to predict, and subject to wider global of operations.
macro-economic trends, but may include periods of financial market volatility and slower economic growth, in the UK in particular, but also in the ROI, Europe and the global economy, at least in the short to medium term.
448 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and Changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates have its future earnings and financial condition may continue to significantly affected and will continue to affect the Groups be, materially affected by depressed asset valuations business and results of operations.
resulting from poor market conditions.
Some of the most significant market risks that the Group faces The Groups businesses and performance are affected by are interest rate and foreign exchange risks.
Monetary policy has financial market conditions.
The performance and volatility of been highly accommodative in recent years, including as a result financial markets affect bond and equity prices and have caused, of certain policies implemented by the Bank of England and HM and may in the future cause, changes in the value of the Groups Treasury such as the Funding for Lending scheme, which have investment and trading portfolios.
Financial markets have helped to support demand at a time of very pronounced fiscal recently experienced and may in the near term experience tightening and balance sheet repair.
In the UK, the Bank of significant volatility, including as a result of concerns about the England lowered interest rates to 0.25% in August 2016 and outcome of the EU Referendum, political and financial there remains considerable uncertainty as to whether or when the developments in the US and in Europe, including as a result of Bank of England and other central banks will increase interest general elections, geopolitical developments and developments rates.
While the ECB has been conducting a quantitative easing relating to trade agreements volatility and instability in the programme since January 2015 designed to improve confidence Chinese and global stock markets, expectations relating to or in the Eurozone and encourage more private bank lending, there actions taken by central banks with respect to monetary policy, remains considerable uncertainty as to whether such measures and weakening fundamentals of the Chinese economy, resulting have been or will be sufficient or successful and the extension of in further short-term changes in the valuation of certain of the this programme during 2017 may put additional pressure on Groups assets.
Uncertainty about potential fines for past margins.
Further decreases in interest rates by the Bank of misconduct and concerns about the longer-term viability of England or other central banks, continued sustained low or business models have also weighed heavily on the valuations of negative interest rates or any divergences in monetary policy some financial institutions in Europe and in the UK, including the approach between the Bank of England and other major central Group.
banks could put further pressure on the Groups interest margins and adversely affect the Groups profitability and prospects.
A Any further deterioration in economic and financial market continued period of low interest rates and yield curves and conditions or weak economic growth could require the Group to spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between recognise further significant write-downs and realise increased lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be impairment charges or goodwill impairments, all of which may heightened during periods of liquidity stress.
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and capital ratios.
As part of its transformation Conversely while increases in interest rates may support Group programme, the Group is executing the run-down or disposal of a income, sharp increases in interest rates could lead to generally number of businesses, assets and portfolios.
In addition, the weaker than expected growth, or even contracting GDP, reduced Groups interest in the remainder of the businesses and portfolios business confidence, higher levels of unemployment or within the exiting business may be difficult to sell due to underemployment, adverse changes to levels of inflation, unfavourable market conditions for such assets or businesses.
potentially higher interest rates and falling property prices in the markets in which the Group operates.
In turn, this could cause Moreover, market volatility and illiquidity and the assumptions, stress in the loan portfolio of the Group, particularly in relation to judgements and estimates in relation to such matters that may non-investment grade lending or real estate loans and change over time and may ultimately not turn out to be accurate consequently to an increase in delinquency rates and default make it difficult to value certain of the Groups exposures.
rates among customers, leading to the possibility of the Group Valuations in future periods reflecting, among other things, the incurring higher impairment charges.
Similar risks result from the then-prevailing market conditions and changes in the credit exceptionally low level of inflation in developed economies, which ratings of certain of the Groups assets may result in significant in Europe particularly could deteriorate into sustained deflation if changes in the fair values of the Groups exposures, such as policy measures prove ineffective.
Reduced monetary stimulus credit market exposures, and the value ultimately realised by the and the actions and commercial soundness of other financial Group may be materially different from the current or estimated institutions have the potential to impact market liquidity.
As part of its ongoing derivatives operations, the Group also faces significant basis, volatility and correlation risks, the Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar occurrence of which are also impacted by the factors noted and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets, above.
liabilities, income and expenses denominated in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the Groups non-UK subsidiaries and may affect the Groups reported consolidated financial condition or its income from foreign exchange dealing.
Such changes may result from the decisions of the Bank of England, ECB or of the US Federal Reserve or from political events and lead to sharp and sudden variations in foreign exchange rates, such as those seen in the GBP USD exchange rates during the second half of 2016 following the EU Referendum.
449 Additional information Risk factors continued The credit quality of the Groups borrowers and its other In addition, for accounting purposes, the Group carries some of counterparties is impacted by prevailing economic and market its issued debt, such as debt securities, at the current market conditions and by the legal and regulatory landscape in their price on its balance sheet.
Factors affecting the current market respective markets.
Credit quality has improved in certain of the price for such debt, such as the credit spreads of the Group, may Groups core markets, in particular the UK and Ireland, as these result in a change to the fair value of such debt, which is economies have improved.
However, a further deterioration in recognised in the income statement as a profit or loss.
economic and market conditions or changes to legal or regulatory landscapes could worsen borrower and counterparty credit The financial performance of the Group has been, and may quality and also impact the Groups ability to enforce contractual continue to be, materially affected by customer and security rights.
In particular, the UKs decision to leave the EU counterparty credit quality and deterioration in credit quality may adversely impact credit quality in the UK.
could arise due to prevailing economic and market conditions and legal and regulatory developments.
In addition, as the Group implements its new strategy and The Group has exposure to many different industries, customers withdraws from many geographic markets and continues to and counterparties, and risks arising from actual or perceived materially scale down its international activities, the Groups changes in credit quality and the recoverability of monies due relative exposure to the UK and certain sectors and asset classes from borrowers and other counterparties are inherent in a wide in the UK will increase significantly as its business becomes more range of the Groups businesses.
The level of UK household indebtedness remains high and the ability of some households to service their In particular, the Group has significant exposure to certain debts could be challenged by a period of higher unemployment.
individual customers and other counterparties in weaker business Highly indebted households are particularly vulnerable to shocks, sectors and geographic markets and also has concentrated such as falls in incomes or increases in interest rates, which country exposure in the UK, the US and across the rest of threaten their ability to service their debts.
Europe principally Germany, the Netherlands, Ireland and France.
In particular, in the UK the Group is at risk from volatility in property prices in both the residential and commercial sectors.
At 31 December 2016, current exposure in the UK was 338.9 With UK home loans representing the most significant portion of billion, in the US was 22.4 billion and in Western Europe the Groups total loans and advances to the retail sector, the excluding the UK was 79.7 billion : and within certain business Group has a large exposure to adverse developments in the UK sectors, namely personal, financial institutions, property, shipping residential property sector.
In the UK commercial real estate and the oil and gas sector at 31 December 2016, personal market, activity slowed during the second half of 2016 following lending amounted to 166.2 billion, lending to banks and other the EU Referendum.
There is a risk of further adjustment given financial institutions was 47.7 billion, property lending was 42.4 the reliance of the UK commercial real estate market in recent billion, lending to the oil and gas sector was 2.9 billion and years on inflows of foreign capital and, in some segments, shipping was 4.6 billion.
As a result, a fall in house prices, particularly in London and the South East of the UK, would be Provisions held on loans in default have decreased in recent likely to lead to higher impairment and negative capital impact as years due to asset sales and the portfolio run-down in Ulster loss given default rate increases.
In addition, reduced affordability Bank ROI and Capital Resolution.
If the risk profile of these loans of residential and commercial property in the UK, for example, as were to increase, including as a result of a degradation of a result of higher interest rates or increased unemployment, economic or market conditions, this could result in an increase in could also lead to higher impairments on loans held by the Group the cost of risk and the Group may be required to make additional being recognised.
provisions, which in turn would reduce earnings and impact the Groups profitability.
The Groups lending strategy or processes The Group also remains exposed to certain counterparties may also fail to identify or anticipate weaknesses or risks in a operating in certain industries which have been under pressure in particular sector, market or borrower category, which may result recent years, including the oil and gas and shipping industries, in an increase in default rates, which may, in turn, impact the and any further deterioration in the outlook the credit quality of Groups profitability.
Any adverse impact on the credit quality of these counterparties may require the Group to make additional the Groups customers and other counterparties, coupled with a provisions, which in turn would reduce earnings and impact the decline in collateral values, could lead to a reduction in Groups profitability.
recoverability and value of the Groups assets and higher levels of impairment allowances, which could have an adverse effect on the Groups operations, financial position or prospects.
450 Additional information Risk factors continued The vulnerabilities of the Groups IT systems are due to their In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when the complexity, attributable in part to overlapping multiple dated collateral it holds cannot be realised as a result of market systems that result from the Groups historical acquisitions and conditions or regulatory intervention or is liquidated at prices not insufficient investment prior to 2013 to keep the IT applications sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative and infrastructure up-to-date.
A complex IT estate containing exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur end-of-life hardware and software creates challenges in during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such recovering from system breakdowns.
IT failures adversely affect as those experienced in recent years.
This has particularly been the Groups relationship with its customers and reputation and the case with respect to large parts of the Groups commercial have led, and may in the future, lead to regulatory investigations real estate portfolio.
Any such deteriorations in the Groups and redress.
recoveries on defaulting loans could have an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
The Group experienced a limited number of IT failures in 2016 affecting customers, although improvements introduced since Concerns about, or a default by, one financial institution could 2012 allowed the Group to contain the impact of such failures.
lead to significant liquidity problems and losses or defaults by The Groups regulators in the UK are actively surveying progress other financial institutions, as the commercial and financial made by banks in the UK to modernise, manage and secure their soundness of many financial institutions may be closely related IT infrastructures, in order to prevent future failures affecting as a result of credit, trading, clearing and other relationships.
Any critical system failure, any prolonged loss of Even the perceived lack of creditworthiness of, or questions service availability or any material breach of data security could about, a counterparty may lead to market-wide liquidity problems cause serious damage to the Groups ability to service its and losses for, or defaults by, the Group.
This systemic risk may customers, could result in significant compensation costs or fines also adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing resulting from regulatory investigations and could breach agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and regulations under which the Group operates.
exchanges with which the Group interacts on a daily basis.
In particular, failures or breaches resulting in the loss or The effectiveness of recent prudential reforms designed to publication of confidential customer data could cause long-term contain systemic risk in the EU and the UK is yet to be tested.
damage to the Groups reputation, business and brands, which Counterparty risk within the financial system or failures of the could undermine its ability to attract and keep customers.
Groups financial counterparties could have a material adverse effect on the Groups access to liquidity or could result in losses The Group is currently implementing a number of complex which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups initiatives, including its transformation programme, the UK ringfinancial condition, results of operations and prospects.
fencing regime and the restructuring of the NatWest Markets franchise, all which put additional strains on the Groups existing The trends and risks affecting borrower and counterparty credit IT systems.
A failure to safely and timely implement one or quality have caused, and in the future may cause, the Group to several of these initiatives could lead to disruptions of the experience further and accelerated impairment charges, Groups IT infrastructure and in turn cause long-term damage to increased repurchase demands, higher costs, additional writethe Groups reputation, brands, results of operations and financial downs and losses for the Group and an inability to engage in position.
The Group has made, and will continue to make, considerable The Groups operations are highly dependent on its IT investments in its IT systems to further simplify and upgrade the systems.
A failure of the Groups IT systems, including as a systems and capabilities to make them more cost-effective and result of the lack of or untimely investments, could improve controls and procedures, strengthen cyber security adversely affect its operations, competitive position and defences, enhance the digital services provided to its bank investor and customer confidence and expose the Group to customers and improve its competitive position and address regulatory sanctions.
system failures which adversely affect its relationship with its The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a customers and reputation and may lead to regulatory very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while investigations and redress.
However, the Groups current focus complying with applicable laws and regulations where it does on cost-saving measures as part of its transformation programme business.
The proper functioning of the Groups payment may impact the resources available to implement further systems, financial and sanctions controls, risk management, improvements to the Group IT infrastructure or limit the resources credit analysis and reporting, accounting, customer service and available for investments in technological developments and other IT systems, as well as the communication networks innovations.
Should such investment and rationalisation initiatives between its branches and main data processing centres, are fail to achieve the expected results, or prove to be insufficient, it critical to the Groups operations.
could have a material adverse impact on the Groups operations, its ability to retain or grow its customer business or its competitive position and could negatively impact the Groups financial position.
451 Additional information Risk factors continued Any of these developments including failures to comply with new The Groups businesses are subject to substantial rules and regulations could have a significant impact on how the regulation and oversight.
Significant regulatory Group conducts its business, its authorisations and licences, the developments and increased scrutiny by the Groups key products and services it offers, its reputation and the value of its regulators has had and is likely to continue to increase assets, the Groups operations or legal entity structure, including compliance and conduct risks and could have a material attendant restructuring costs and consequently have a material adverse effect on how the Group conducts its business and adverse effect on its business, funding costs, results of on its results of operations and financial condition.
operations, financial condition and future prospects.
The Group is subject to extensive laws, regulations, corporate governance requirements, administrative actions and policies in Areas in which, and examples of where, governmental policies, each jurisdiction in which it operates.
Many of these have been regulatory and accounting changes and increased public and introduced or amended recently and are subject to further regulatory scrutiny could have an adverse impact some of which material changes.
Among others, the implementation and could be material on the Group include, but are not limited to, strengthening of the prudential and resolution framework those set out above as well as the following: applicable to financial institutions in the UK, the EU and the US, amendments to the framework or requirements relating to and future amendments to such rules, are considerably affecting the quality and quantity of regulatory capital to be held by the regulatory landscape in which the Group operates and will the Group as well as liquidity and leverage requirements, operate in the future, including as a result of the adoption of rules either on a solo, consolidated or subgroup level and taking relating to the UK ring-fencing regime, prohibitions on proprietary into account the Groups new legal structure following the trading, CRD IV and the BRRD and certain other measures.
implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime, including Increased regulatory focus in certain areas, including conduct, amendments to the rules relating to the calculation of riskconsumer protection regimes, anti-money laundering, payment weighted assets and reliance on internal models and credit systems, and antiterrorism laws and regulations, have resulted in ratings as well as rules affecting the eligibility of deferred tax the Group facing greater regulation and scrutiny in the UK, the assets: US and other countries in which it operates.
the design and implementation of national or supranational mandated recovery, resolution or insolvency regimes or the Recent regulatory changes, proposed or future developments implementation of additional or conflicting loss-absorption and heightened levels of public and regulatory scrutiny in the UK, requirements, including those mandated under MREL or by Europe and the US have resulted in increased capital, funding the FSBs recommendations on TLAC: and liquidity requirements, changes in the competitive landscape, new or amended regulations or taxes that reduce profits changes in other regulatory requirements and increased attributable to shareholders which may diminish, or restrict, operating costs, and have impacted, and will continue to impact, the accumulation of the distributable reserves or product offerings and business models.
distributable items necessary to make distributions or coupon payments or limit the circumstances in which such Such changes may also result in an increased number of distributions may be made or the extent thereof: regulatory investigations and proceedings and have increased the monetary, fiscal, interest rate and other policies of the risks relating to the Groups ability to comply with the central banks and other governmental or regulatory bodies: applicable body of rules and regulations in the manner and within further investigations, proceedings or fines either against the the time frames required.
Group in isolation or together with other large financial institutions with respect to market conduct wrongdoing: Such risks are currently exacerbated by the outcome of the EU the imposition of government-imposed requirements and or Referendum and the UKs decision to leave the EU and the related fines and sanctions with respect to lending to the UK unprecedented degree of uncertainty as to the respective legal SME market and larger commercial and corporate entities: and regulatory frameworks in which the Group and its increased regulatory scrutiny with respect to mortgage subsidiaries will operate when the UK is no longer a member of lending, including through the implementation of the UK the EU.
For example, current proposed changes to the European mortgage market review and other initiatives led by the Bank prudential regulatory framework for banks and investment banks of England or European regulators: may result in additional prudential or structural requirements additional rules and regulatory initiatives and review relating being imposed on financial institutions based outside the EU to customer protection, including the FCAs Treating wishing to provide financial services within the EU which may Customers Fairly regime and increased focus by regulators apply to the Group once the UK has formally exited the EU.
See on how institutions conduct business, particularly with also Changes to the prudential regulatory framework for banks regard to the delivery of fair outcomes for customers and and investment banks within the EU may require additional orderly transparent markets: structural changes to the Groups operations which may affect the imposition of additional restrictions on the Groups ability current restructuring plans and have a material adverse effect to compensate its senior management and other employees Group.
In addition, the Group and its counterparties may no and increased responsibility and liability rules applicable to longer be able to rely on the European passporting framework for senior and key employees: financial services and could be required to apply for authorisation in multiple European jurisdictions, the costs, timing and viability of which is uncertain.
452 Additional information Risk factors continued Changes in laws, rules or regulations, or in their interpretation or regulations relating to, and enforcement of, anti-bribery, antienforcement, or the implementation of new laws, rules or money laundering, anti-terrorism or other similar sanctions regulations, including contradictory laws, rules or regulations by regimes: key regulators in different jurisdictions, or failure by the Group to rules relating to foreign ownership, expropriation, comply with such laws, rules and regulations, may have a nationalisation and confiscation of assets: material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial changes to financial reporting standards including condition and results of operations.
In addition, uncertainty and accounting standards or guidance and guidance or the lack of international regulatory coordination as enhanced timing of their implementation: supervisory standards are developed and implemented may changes to risk aggregation and reporting standards: adversely affect the Groups ability to engage in effective changes to corporate governance requirements, senior business, capital and risk management planning.
manager responsibility, corporate structures and conduct of business rules: The Group is subject to pension risks and may be required competition reviews and investigations relating to the retail to make additional contributions to cover pension funding banking sector in the UK, including with respect to SME deficits as a result of degraded economic conditions or as a banking and PCAs: result of the restructuring of its pension schemes in relation financial market infrastructure reforms establishing new to the implementation of the UK ring-fencing regime.
rules applying to investment services, short selling, market The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension abuse, derivatives markets and investment funds, including schemes for certain former and current employees.
Pension risk the European Market Infrastructure Regulation and the includes the risk that the assets of the Groups various defined Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and Regulation in benefit pension schemes do not fully match the timing and the EU and the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform Consumer amount of the schemes liabilities, as a result of which the Group Protection Act of 2010 in the US: is required or chooses to make additional contributions to increased attention to competition and innovation in UK address deficits that may emerge.
Risk arises from the schemes payment systems following the establishment of the new because the value of the asset portfolios may be less than Payments Systems Regulator and developments relating to expected and because there may be greater than expected the UK initiative on Open Banking and the European increases in the estimated value of the schemes liabilities and directive on payment services: additional future contributions to the schemes may be required.
new or increased regulations relating to customer data and privacy protection, including the EU General Data Protection The value of pension scheme liabilities varies with changes to Regulation: long-term interest rates including prolonged periods of low restrictions on proprietary trading and similar activities within interest rates as is currently the case, inflation, monetary policy, a commercial bank and or a group: pensionable salaries and the longevity of scheme members, as the introduction of, and changes to, taxes, levies or fees well as changes in applicable legislation.
In particular, as life applicable to the Groups operations, such as the imposition expectancies increase, so too will the pension scheme liabilities: of a financial transaction tax, changes in tax rates, increases the impact on the pension scheme liabilities due to a one year in the bank corporation tax surcharge in the UK, restrictions increase in longevity would have been expected to be 1.5 billion on the tax deductibility of interest payments or further as at 31 December 2016. restrictions imposed on the treatment of carry-forward tax losses that reduce the value of deferred tax assets and In addition, as the Group expects to continue to materially reduce require increased payments of tax: the scope of its operations as part of the implementation of its investigations into facilitation of tax evasion or avoidance or transformation programme and of the UK ring-fencing regime, the creation of new civil or criminal offences relating thereto: pension liabilities will therefore increase relative to the size of the the regulation or endorsement of credit ratings used in the Group, which may impact the Groups results of operations and EU whether issued by agencies in European member capital position.
states or in other countries, such as the US : and other requirements or policies affecting the Groups Given economic and financial market difficulties and volatility, the profitability or product offering, including through the low interest rate environment and the risk that such conditions imposition of increased compliance obligations or may occur again over the near and medium term, some of the obligations which may lead to restrictions on business Groups pension schemes have experienced increased pension growth, product offerings, or pricing.
The last triennial valuation of the Main Scheme, had an effective date of 31 December 2015.
This valuation was concluded with the acceleration of the nominal value of all committed contributions in respect of past service 4.2 billion, which was paid in Q1 2016.
453 Additional information Risk factors continued Pension risk and changes to the Groups funding of its The next triennial period valuation will take place in Q4 2018 and pension schemes may have a significant impact on the the Main Scheme pension trustee has agreed that it would not Groups capital position.
seek a new valuation prior to that date, except where a material The Groups capital position is influenced by pension risk in change arises.
The 2018 triennial valuation is expected to result several respects: Pillar 1 capital is impacted by the requirement in a significant increase in the regular annual contributions in that net pension assets are to be deduced from capital and that respect of the ongoing accrual of benefits.
Notwithstanding the actuarial gains losses impact reserves and, by extension, CET1 2016 accelerated payment and any additional contributions that capital: Pillar 2A requirements result in the Group being required may be required beforehand as a result of a material change, the to carry a capital add-on to absorb stress on the pension fund Group expects to have to agree to additional contributions, over and finally the risk of additional contributions to the Groups and above the existing committed past service contributions, as a pension fund is taken into account in the Groups capital result of the next triennial valuation.
Under current legislation, framework plan.
such agreement would need to be reached no later than Q1 2020.
The cost of such additional contributions could be material The Group believes that the accelerated payment to the Groups and any additional contributions that are committed to the Main Main Scheme pension fund made in Q1 2016 improved the Scheme following new actuarial valuations would trigger the Groups capital planning and resilience through the period to recognition of a significant additional liability on the Groups 2019 and provided the Main Scheme pension trustee with more balance sheet and or an increase in any pension surplus flexibility over its investment strategy.
This payment has resulted derecognised, which in turn could have a material adverse effect in a reduction in prevailing Pillar 2A add-on.
However, on the Groups results of operations, financial position and subsequent contributions required in connection with the 2018 prospects.
triennial valuation may adversely impact the Groups capital position.
The Groups expectations as to the impact on its capital In addition, the UK ring-fencing regime will require significant position of this payment in the near and medium term and of the changes to the structure of the Groups existing defined benefit accounting impact under its revised accounting policy are based pension schemes as RFB entities may not be liable for debts to on a number of assumptions and estimates, including with pension schemes that might arise as a result of the failure of an respect to the beneficial impact on its Pillar 2A requirements and entity that is not an RFB or wholly owned subsidiary thereof after confirmation of such impact by the PRA and the timing thereof, 1 January 2026.
The restructuring of the Group and its defined any of which may prove to be inaccurate including with respect benefit pension plans to implement the UK ring-fencing regime to the calculation of the CET1 ratio impact on future periods, could affect assessments of the Groups pension scheme deficits including as a result of factors outside of the Groups control or result in the pension scheme trustees considering that the which include the PRAs approval.
employer covenant has been weakened and result in additional contributions being required.
As a result, if any of these assumptions proves inaccurate, the Groups capital position may significantly deteriorate and fall The Group is developing a strategy to meet these requirements, below the minimum capital requirements applicable to the Group which has been discussed with the PRA and is likely to require or Group entities, and in turn result in increased regulatory the agreement of the pension scheme trustee.
Discussions with supervision or sanctions, restrictions on discretionary the pension scheme trustee are ongoing and will be influenced by distributions or loss of investor confidence, which could the Groups overall ring-fence strategy and its pension funding individually or in aggregate have a material adverse effect on the and investment strategies.
Groups results of operations, financial prospects or reputation.
If agreement is not reached with the pension trustee, alternative The impact of the Groups pension obligations on its results and options less favourable to the Group may need to be developed operations are also dependent on the regulatory environment in to meet the requirements of the pension regulations.
The costs which it operates.
There is a risk that changes in prudential associated with the restructuring of the Groups existing defined regulation, pension regulation and accounting standards, or a benefit pension schemes could be material and could result in lack of coordination between such sets of rules, may make it higher levels of additional contributions than those described more challenging for the Group to manage its pension obligations above and currently agreed with the pension trustee which could resulting in an adverse impact on the Groups CET1 capital.
have a material adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial position and prospects.
454 Additional information Risk factors continued The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the The Group relies on valuation, capital and stress test models accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that to conduct its business, assess its risk exposure and underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
Its anticipate capital and funding requirements.
Failure of these results in future periods may be affected by changes to models to provide accurate results or accurately reflect applicable accounting rules and standards.
changes in the micro-and macroeconomic environment in The preparation of financial statements requires management to which the Group operates or findings of deficiencies by the make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the Groups regulators resulting in increased regulatory capital reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
requirements could have a material adverse effect on the Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, results Groups business, capital and results.
reported in future periods may reflect amounts which differ from Given the complexity of the Groups business, strategy and those estimates.
Estimates, judgements and assumptions take capital requirements, the Group relies on analytical models to into account historical experience and other factors, including manage its business, assess the value of its assets and its risk market practice and expectations of future events that are exposure and anticipate capital and funding requirements, believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The Groups valuation, capital and The accounting policies deemed critical to the Groups results stress test models and the parameters and assumptions on and financial position, based upon materiality and significant which they are based, need to be periodically reviewed and judgements and estimates, include goodwill, provisions for updated to maximise their accuracy.
liabilities, deferred tax, loan impairment provisions, fair value of financial instruments, which are discussed in detail in Critical Failure of these models to accurately reflect changes in the accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty on environment in which the Group operates or to be updated in line pages 190, 308 and 310.
IFRS Standards and Interpretations that with the Groups business model or operations, or the failure to have been issued by the International Accounting Standards properly input any such changes could have an adverse impact Board the IASB but which have not yet been adopted by the on the modelled results or could fail to accurately capture the Group are discussed in Accounting developments on pages 310 Groups risk exposure or the risk profile of the Groups financial to 315.
Changes in accounting standards or guidance by internal instruments or result in the Group being required to hold accounting bodies or in the timing of their implementation, additional capital as a function of the PRA buffer.
The Group also whether mandatory or as a result of recommended disclosure uses valuation models that rely on market data inputs.
If incorrect relating to the future implementation of such standards could market data is input into a valuation model, it may result in result in the Group having to recognise additional liabilities on its incorrect valuations or valuations different to those which were balance sheet, or in further write-downs or impairments and could predicted and used by the Group in its forecasts or decision also significantly impact the financial results, condition and making.
Internal stress test models may also rely on different, prospects of the Group.
less severe, assumptions or take into account different data points than those defined by the Groups regulators.
In July 2014, the IASB published a new accounting standard for financial instruments IFRS 9 effective for annual periods Some of the analytical models used by the Group are predictive beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It introduces a new in nature.
In addition, a number of internal models used by Group framework for the recognition and measurement of credit subsidiaries are designed, managed and analysed by the Group impairment, based on expected credit losses, rather than the and may not appropriately capture risks and exposures at incurred loss model currently applied under IAS 39.
Some of the Group's internal models are subject of loss allowances with respect to all financial assets that are not to periodic review by its regulators and, if found deficient, the recorded at fair value will tend to result in an increase in overall Group may be required to make changes to such models or may impairment balances when compared with the existing basis of be precluded from using any such models, which could result in measurement under IAS 39.
As a result of ongoing regulatory an additional capital requirement which could have a material consultation, there is currently uncertainty as to the impact of the impact on the Groups capital position.
implementation of this standard on the Groups CET1 capital and therefore CET1 ratio, although it is expected that this will result The Group could face adverse consequences as a result of in increased earnings and capital volatility for the Group.
decisions which may lead to actions by management based on models that are poorly developed, implemented or used, or as a result of the modelled outcome being misunderstood or such information being used for purposes for which it was not designed.
Risks arising from the use of models could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition and or results of operations, minimum capital requirements and reputation.
455 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group is exposed to conduct risk which may adversely The valuation of financial instruments, including derivatives, impact the Group or its employees and may result in measured at fair value can be subjective, in particular where conduct having a detrimental impact on the Groups models are used which include unobservable inputs.
to establish the fair value of these instruments, the Group relies In recent years, the Group has sought to refocus its culture on on quoted market prices or, where the market for a financial serving the needs of its customers and continues to redesign instrument is not sufficiently active, internal valuation models that many of its systems and processes to promote this focus and utilise observable market data.
In certain circumstances, the data strategy.
However, the Group is exposed to various forms of for individual financial instruments or classes of financial conduct risk in its operations.
These include business and instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be strategic planning that does not consider customers needs, available or may become unavailable due to prevailing market ineffective management and monitoring of products and their conditions.
In such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation distribution, a culture that is not customer-centric, outsourcing of models require the Group to make assumptions, judgements and customer service and product delivery via third parties that do not estimates to establish fair value, which are complex and often have appropriate levels of control, oversight and culture, the relate to matters that are inherently uncertain.
Resulting changes possibility of alleged mis-selling of financial products or the in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could mishandling of complaints related to the sale of such product, or continue to have a material adverse effect on the Groups poor governance of incentives and rewards.
Some of these risks earnings, financial condition and capital position.
have materialised in the past and ineffective management and oversight of conduct issues may result in customers being poorly The Groups operations entail inherent reputational risk.
or unfairly treated and may in the future lead to further Reputational risk, meaning the risk of brand damage and or remediation and regulatory intervention enforcement.
financial loss due to a failure to meet stakeholders The Groups businesses are also exposed to risk from employee expectations of the Groups conduct, performance and misconduct including non-compliance with policies and regulatory business profile, is inherent in the Groups business.
rules, negligence or fraud, any of which could result in regulatory Stakeholders include customers, investors, rating agencies, sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm to the Group.
employees, suppliers, governments, politicians, regulators, In recent years, a number of multinational financial institutions, special interest groups, consumer groups, media and the including the Group, have suffered material losses due to the general public.
actions of employees, including, for example, in connection with Brand damage can be detrimental to the business of the Group in the foreign exchange and LIBOR investigations and the Group a number of ways, including its ability to build or sustain business may not succeed in protecting itself from such conduct in the relationships with customers, low staff morale, regulatory censure future.
It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct or reduced access to, or an increase in the cost of, funding.
In and the precautions the Group takes to prevent and detect this particular, negative public opinion resulting from the actual or activity may not always be effective.
perceived manner in which the Group conducts its business The Group has implemented a number of policies and allocated activities and operations, including as a result of speculative or new resources in order to help mitigate against these risks.
The inaccurate media coverage, the Groups financial performance, Group has also prioritised initiatives to reinforce good conduct in ongoing investigations and proceedings and the settlement of its engagement with the markets in which it operates, together any such investigations and proceedings, IT failures or cyberwith the development of preventative and detective controls in attacks resulting in the loss or publication of confidential order to positively influence behaviour.
customer data or other sensitive information, the level of direct and indirect government support, or the actual or perceived The Groups transformation programme is also intended to strength or practices in the banking and financial industry may improve the Groups control environment.
Nonetheless, no adversely affect the Groups ability to keep and attract customers assurance can be given that the Groups strategy and control and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors.
framework will be effective and that conduct issues will not have Modern technologies, in particular online social networks and an adverse effect on the Groups results of operations, financial other broadcast tools which facilitate communication with large condition or prospects.
audiences in short time frames and with minimal costs, may also The Group may be adversely impacted if its risk significantly enhance and accelerate the impact of damaging management is not effective and there may be significant information and allegations.
challenges in maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups Reputational risks may also be increased as a result of the risk management framework as a result of the number of restructuring of the Group to implement its transformation strategic and restructuring initiatives being carried out by programme and the UK ring-fencing regime.
Although the Group the RBS Group simultaneously.
has implemented a Reputational Risk Policy across customerThe management of risk is an integral part of all of the Groups facing businesses to improve the identification, assessment and activities.
Risk management includes the definition and management of customers, transactions, products and issues monitoring of the Groups risk appetite and reporting of the which represent a reputational risk, the Group cannot ensure that Groups exposure to uncertainty and the consequent adverse it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from effect on profitability or financial condition arising from different reputational risk, which could result in a material adverse effect sources of uncertainty and risks as described throughout these on the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations risk factors.
456 Additional information Risk factors continued The Groups business and results of operations may be Ineffective risk management may arise from a wide variety of adversely affected by increasing competitive pressures and events and behaviours, including lack of transparency or technology disruption in the markets in which it operates.
incomplete risk reporting, unidentified conflicts or misaligned The markets for UK financial services, and the other markets incentives, lack of accountability control and governance, lack of within which the Group operates, are very competitive, and consistency in risk monitoring and management or insufficient management expects such competition to continue or intensify in challenges or assurance processes.
response to customer behaviour, technological changes including the growth of digital banking, competitor behaviour, Failure to manage risks effectively could adversely impact the new entrants to the market including non-traditional financial Groups reputation or its relationship with its customers, services providers such as large retail or technology shareholders or other stakeholders, which in turn could have a conglomerates, new lending models such as peer-to-peer significant effect on the Groups business prospects, financial lending, industry trends resulting in increased disaggregation or condition and or results of operations.
unbundling of financial services or conversely the reintermediation of traditional banking services, and the impact of Risk management is also strongly related to the use and regulatory actions and other factors.
In particular, developments effectiveness of internal stress tests and models.
See The Group in the financial sector resulting from new banking, lending and relies on valuation, capital and stress test models to conduct its payment solutions offered by rapidly evolving incumbents, business, assess its risk exposure and anticipate capital and challengers and new entrants, in particular with respect to funding requirements.
Failure of these models to provide payment services and products, and the introduction of disruptive accurate results or accurately reflect changes in the micro-and technology may impede the Groups ability to grow or retain its macroeconomic environment in which the Group operates or market share and impact its revenues and profitability, findings of deficiencies by the Groups regulators resulting in particularly in its key UK retail banking segment.
These trends increased regulatory capital requirements could have a material may be catalysed by regulatory and competition policy adverse effect on the Groups business, capital and results.
implemented by the UK government, particularly as a result of the Open Banking initiative and remedies imposed by the A failure by the Group to embed a strong risk culture across Competition and Markets Authority CMA designed to support the organisation could adversely affect the Groups ability to the objectives of this initiative.
In response to weaknesses identified in previous years, the Increasingly many of the products and services offered by the Group is currently seeking to embed a strong risk culture within Group are, and will become, technology intensive and the the organisation based on a robust risk appetite and governance Groups ability to develop such services has become increasingly framework.
A key component of this approach is the three lines of important to retaining and growing the Groups customer defence model designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk business in the UK.
across all levels of the organisation.
This framework has been implemented and improvements continue and will continue to be There can be no certainty that the Groups investment in its IT made to clarify and improve the three lines of defence and capability intended to address the material increase in customer internal risk responsibilities and resources, including in response use of online and mobile technology for banking will be to feedback from regulators.
Notwithstanding the Groups efforts, successful or that it will allow the Group to continue to grow such changing an organisations risk culture requires significant time, services in the future.
Certain of the Groups current or future investment and leadership, and such efforts may not insulate the competitors may have more efficient operations, including better Group from future instances of misconduct.
A failure by any of IT systems allowing them to implement innovative technologies these three lines to carry out their responsibilities or to effectively for delivering services to their customers.
Furthermore, the embed this culture could have a material adverse effect on the Groups competitors may be better able to attract and retain Group through an inability to achieve its strategic objectives for customers and key employees and may have access to lower its customers, employees and wider stakeholders.
cost funding and or be able to attract deposits on more favourable terms than the Group.
Although the Group invests in new technologies and participates in industry and research led initiatives aimed at developing new technologies, such investments may be insufficient, especially against a backdrop of cost savings targets for the Group, or the Group may fail to identify future opportunities or derive benefits from disruptive technologies.
If the Group is unable to offer competitive, attractive and innovative products that are also profitable, it will lose market share, incur losses on some or all of its activities and lose opportunities for growth.
457 Additional information Risk factors continued The impact of any such developments in the UK will become In addition, recent and future disposals and restructurings by the more significant as the Groups business becomes increasingly Group relating to the implementation of non-customer facing concentrated in the UK retail sector.
These and other changes to elements of its transformation programme and the UK ringthe competitive framework in which the Group operates could fencing regime, or required by the Groups regulators, as well as have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, margins, constraints imposed on the Groups ability to compensate its profitability, financial condition and prospects.
employees at the same level as its competitors, may also have an impact on its ability to compete effectively.
Intensified As a result of the commercial and regulatory environment in competition from incumbents, challengers and new entrants in which it operates, the Group may be unable to attract or the Groups core markets could lead to greater pressure on the retain senior management including members of the board Group to maintain returns and may lead to unsustainable growth and other skilled personnel of the appropriate qualification decisions.
These and other changes in the Groups competitive and competence.
The Group may also suffer if it does not environment could have a material adverse effect on the Groups maintain good employee relations.
business, margins, profitability, financial condition and prospects.
Implementation of the Groups transformation programme and its future success depend on its ability to attract, retain and The Group operates in markets that are subject to intense remunerate highly skilled and qualified personnel, including scrutiny by the competition authorities and its business and senior management which includes directors and other key results of operations could be materially affected by employees, in a highly competitive labour market.
This cannot competition rulings and other government measures.
be guaranteed, particularly in light of heightened regulatory The competitive landscape for banks and other financial oversight of banks and the increasing scrutiny of, and in some institutions in the UK, the rest of Europe and the US is changing cases restrictions placed upon, employee compensation rapidly.
Recent regulatory and legal changes have and may arrangements, in particular those of banks in receipt of continue to result in new market participants and changed Government support such as the Group, which may place the competitive dynamics in certain key areas, such as in retail and Group at a competitive disadvantage.
In addition, the market for SME banking in the UK where the introduction of new entrants is skilled personnel is increasingly competitive, thereby raising the being actively encouraged by the UK Government.
The cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel.
competitive landscape in the UK is also likely to be affected by the UK Governments implementation of the UK ring-fencing Certain of the Groups directors as well as members of its regime and other customer protection measures introduced by executive committee and certain other senior managers and the Banking Reform Act 2013.
The implementation of these employees are also subject to the new responsibility regime reforms may result in the consolidation of newly separated introduced under the Banking Reform Act 2013 which introduces businesses or assets of certain financial institutions with those of clearer accountability rules for those within the new regime.
The other parties to realise new synergies or protect their competitive senior managers regime and certification regime took effect on 7 position and is likely to increase competitive pressures on the March 2016, whilst the conduct rules will apply to the wider Group.
employee population from 7 March 2017 onwards, with the exception of some transitional provisions.
The new regulatory The UK retail banking sector has been subjected to intense regime may contribute to reduce the pool of candidates for key scrutiny by the UK competition authorities and by other bodies, management and non-executive roles, including non-executive including the FCA, in recent years, including with a number of directors with the right skills, knowledge and experience, or reviews inquiries being carried out, including market reviews increase the number of departures of existing employees, given conducted by the CMA and its predecessor the Office of Fair concerns over the allocation of responsibilities and personal Trading regarding SME banking and Personal Current Accounts liability introduced by the new rules.
PCAs, the Independent Commission on Banking and the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards.
These In addition, in order to ensure the independence of the RFB, the reviews raised significant concerns about the effectiveness of Group will be required to recruit new independent directors and competition in the banking sector.
The CMAs Retail Banking senior members of management to sit on the boards of directors Market Investigation report sets out measures primarily intended and board committees of the RFB and other Group entities, and to make it easier for consumers and businesses to compare PCA there may be a limited pool of competent candidates from which and SME bank products, increase the transparency of price such appointments can be made.
comparison between banks and amend PCA overdraft charging.
The CMA is working with HM Treasury and other regulators to The Groups evolving strategy has led to the departure of a large implement these remedies which are likely to impose additional number of experienced and capable employees.
The compliance requirements on the Group and could, in aggregate, restructuring relating to the ongoing implementation of the adversely impact the Groups competitive position, product Groups transformation programme and related cost-reduction offering and revenues.
targets may cause experienced staff members to leave and prospective staff members not to join the Group.
The lack of Adverse findings resulting from current or future competition continuity of senior management and the loss of important investigations may result in the imposition of reforms or remedies personnel coordinating certain or several aspects of the Groups which may impact the competitive landscape in which the Group restructuring could have an adverse impact on its operates or result in restrictions on mergers and consolidations implementation.
within the UK financial sector.
458 Additional information Risk factors continued The Group is committed to executing the run-down and sale The failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately of certain businesses, portfolios and assets forming part of skilled personnel to manage the complex restructuring required to the businesses and activities being exited by the Group.
implement the Groups strategy could prevent the Group from Failure by the Group to do so on commercially favourable successfully implementing its strategy and meeting regulatory terms could have a material adverse effect on the Groups commitments.
This could have a material adverse effect on the operations, operating results, financial position and Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, many of the Groups employees in the UK, The Groups ability to dispose of the remaining businesses, continental Europe and other jurisdictions in which the Group portfolios and assets forming part of the businesses and activities operates are represented by employee representative bodies, being exited by the Group and the price achieved for such including trade unions.
Engagement with its employees and such disposals will be dependent on prevailing economic and market bodies is important to the Group and a breakdown of these conditions, which remain volatile.
relationships could adversely affect the Groups business, As a result, there is no assurance that the Group will be able to reputation and results.
sell, exit or run down these businesses, portfolios or assets either on favourable economic terms to the Group or at all or that it may HM Treasury or UKFI on its behalf may be able to exercise do so within the intended timetable.
Material tax or other a significant degree of influence over the Group and any contingent liabilities could arise on the disposal or run-down of further offer or sale of its interests may affect the price of assets or businesses and there is no assurance that any securities issued by the Group.
conditions precedent agreed will be satisfied, or consents and On 6 August 2015, the UK Government made its first sale of approvals required will be obtained in a timely manner or at all.
RBSG ordinary shares since its original investment in 2009 and The Group may be exposed to deteriorations in the businesses, sold approximately 5.4% of its stake in RBSG.
Following this portfolios or assets being sold between the announcement of the initial sale, the UK Government exercised its conversion rights disposal and its completion, which period may span many under the B Shares on 14 October 2015 which resulted in HM months.
Treasury holding 72.88% of the ordinary share capital of RBSG.
In addition, the Group may be exposed to certain risks, including The UK Government, through HM Treasury, currently holds risks arising out of ongoing liabilities and obligations, breaches of 71.3% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Group.
The UK covenants, representations and warranties, indemnity claims, Government has indicated its intention to continue to sell down its transitional services arrangements and redundancy or other shareholding in the Group.
transaction-related costs, and counterparty risk in respect of buyers of assets being sold.
Any offers or sale, or expectations relating to the timing thereof, of a substantial number of ordinary shares by HM Treasury, could The occurrence of any of the risks described above could have a negatively affect prevailing market prices for the outstanding material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of ordinary shares of RBSG and other securities issued by the operations, financial condition and capital position and Group and lead to a period of increased price volatility for the consequently may have the potential to impact the competitive Groups securities.
position of part or all of the Groups business.
The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the In addition, UKFI manages HM Treasurys shareholder Group has purchased depends on the value of the relationship with the Group and, although HM Treasury has underlying assets and the financial condition of the insurers indicated that it intends to respect the commercial decisions of and counterparties.
the Group and that the Group will continue to have its own The Group has some remaining credit exposure arising from independent board of directors and management team over-the-counter derivative contracts, mainly credit default swaps determining its own strategy, its position as a majority CDSs, and other credit derivatives, each of which are carried at shareholder and UKFIs position as manager of this fair value.
shareholding means that HM Treasury or UKFI might be able to exercise a significant degree of influence over, among other The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to things, the election of directors and appointment of senior the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on management, the Groups capital strategy, dividend policy, the valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument remuneration policy or the conduct of the Groups operations.
against which protection has been bought.
Many market The manner in which HM Treasury or UKFI exercises HM counterparties have been adversely affected by their exposure to Treasurys rights as majority shareholder could give rise to residential mortgage-linked and corporate credit products, conflicts between the interests of HM Treasury and the interests whether synthetic or otherwise, and their actual and perceived of other shareholders.
The Board has a duty to promote the creditworthiness may deteriorate rapidly.
If the financial condition success of the Group for the benefit of its members as a whole.
of these counterparties or their actual or perceived creditworthiness deteriorates, the Group may record further credit valuation adjustments on the credit protection bought from these counterparties under the CDSs.
The Group also recognises any fluctuations in the fair value of other credit derivatives.
459 Additional information Risk factors continued The BRRD requires national resolution funds to raise ex ante Any such adjustments or fair value changes may have a material contributions on banks and investment firms in proportion to their adverse impact on the Groups financial condition and results of liabilities and risk profiles and allow them to raise additional ex operations.
post funding contributions in the event the ex-ante contributions do not cover the losses, costs or other expenses incurred by use The Group and its subsidiaries are subject to a new and of the resolution fund.
Although receipts from the UK bank levy evolving framework on recovery and resolution, the impact are currently being used to meet the ex-ante and ex post funding of which remains uncertain, and which may result in requirements, the Group may be required to make additional additional compliance challenges and costs.
In addition, Group entities in countries In the EU, the UK and the US, regulators have implemented or subject to the European banking union are required to pay are in the process of implementing recovery and resolution supervisory fees towards the funding of the SSM as well as regimes designed to prevent the failure of financial institutions contributions to the single resolution fund.
and resolution tools to ensure the timely and orderly resolution of financial institutions.
These initiatives have been complemented The new recovery and resolution regime implementing the BRRD by a broader set of initiatives to improve the resilience of financial in the UK replaces the previous regime and has imposed and is institutions and reduce systemic risk, including the UK ringexpected to impose in the near-to medium-term future, additional fencing regime, the introduction of certain prudential compliance and reporting obligations on the Group which may requirements and powers under CRD IV, and certain other result in increased costs, including as a result of the Groups measures introduced under the BRRD, including the mandatory participation in resolution funds, and heightened requirements relating to loss absorbing capital.
compliance risks and the Group may not be in a position to comply with all such requirements within the prescribed deadlines The BRRD which was implemented in the UK from January 2015, or at all.
provides a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms, their subsidiaries and certain In addition, the PRA has adopted a new framework requiring holding companies in the EU, and the tools and powers financial institutions to ensure the continuity of critical shared introduced under the BRRD include preparatory and preventive services provided by entities within the group or external measures, early supervisory intervention powers and resolution providers to facilitate recovery action, orderly resolution and tools.
post-resolution restructuring, which will apply from 1 January 2019.
Implementation of certain provisions of the BRRD remains subject to secondary rulemaking as well as a review by the The application of such rules to the Group may require the Group European Parliament and the European Commission of certain to restructure certain of its activities or reorganise the legal topics mandated by the BRRD.
In November 2016, as a result of structure of its operations, may limit the Groups ability to this review, the European Commission published a package of outsource certain functions and or may result in increased costs proposals seeking to introduce certain amendments to CRD IV resulting from the requirement to ensure the financial and and the BRRD as well as a new proposal seeking to harmonize operational resilience and independent governance of such creditor hierarchy.
These proposals are now subject to further critical services.
discussions and negotiations among the European institutions and it is not possible to anticipate their final content.
Further In addition, compliance by the Group with this new recovery and amendments to the BRRD or the implementing rules in the EU resolution framework has required and is expected to continue to may also be necessary to ensure continued consistency with the require significant work and engagement with the Groups FSB recommendations on resolution regimes and resolution regulators, including in order for the Group to submit to the PRA planning for G-SIBs, including with respect to TLAC credible recovery and resolution plans, the outcome of which may requirements.
impact the Groups operations or structure.
Such rules will need to be implemented consistently with the UK ring-fencing regime.
In light of these potential developments as well as the impact of the UKs decision to leave the EU following the result of the EU Referendum, there remains uncertainty as to the rules which may apply to the Group going forward.
In addition, banks headquartered in countries which are members of the Eurozone are now subject to the European banking union framework.
In November 2014, the ECB assumed direct supervisory responsibility for RBS NV and Ulster Bank Ireland under the Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM.
As a result of the above, there remains uncertainty as to how the relevant resolution regimes in force in the UK, the Eurozone and other jurisdictions, would interact in the event of a resolution of the Group.
460 Additional information Risk factors continued The stabilisation options are intended to be applied prior to the The Group may become subject to the application of point at which any insolvency proceedings with respect to the stabilisation or resolution powers in certain significant relevant entity would otherwise have been initiated.
Accordingly, stress situations, which may result in various actions being the stabilisation options may be exercised if the relevant UK taken in relation to the Group and any securities of the resolution authority: i is satisfied that a UK bank or investment Group, including the write-off, write-down or conversion of firm is failing, or is likely to fail: ii determines that it is not the Groups securities.
reasonably likely that ignoring the stabilisation powers action The Banking Act 2009, as amended to implement the BRRD will be taken by or in respect of a UK bank or investment firm that Banking Act confers substantial powers on relevant UK will result in condition i above ceasing to be met: iii considers authorities designed to enable them to take a range of actions in the exercise of the stabilisation powers to be necessary, having relation to UK banks or investment firms and certain of their regard to certain public interest considerations such as the affiliates in the event a bank or investment firm in the same group stability of the UK financial system, public confidence in the UK is considered to be failing or likely to fail.
Under the Banking Act, banking system and the protection of depositors, being some of wide powers are granted to the relevant resolution authorities, as the special resolution objectives and iv considers that the appropriate as part of a special resolution regime the SRR.
special resolution objectives would not be met to the same extent These powers enable the relevant UK resolution authority to by the winding-up of the UK bank or investment firm.
implement resolution measures with respect to a UK bank or investment firm and certain of its affiliates including, for example, In the event that the relevant UK resolution authority seeks to RBSG each a relevant entity in circumstances in which the exercise its powers in relation to a UK banking group company relevant UK resolution authority is satisfied that the resolution such as RBSG, the relevant UK resolution authority has to be conditions are met.
Under the applicable regulatory framework satisfied that A the conditions set out in i to iv above are met and pursuant to guidance issued by the Bank of England, in respect of a UK bank or investment firm in the same banking governmental capital support, if any is provided, would only be group or, in respect of an EEA or third country credit institution used as a last resort measure where a serious threat to financial or investment firm in the same banking group, the relevant EEA stability cannot be avoided by other measures such as the or third country resolution authority is satisfied that the conditions stabilisation options described below, including the UK bail-in for resolution applicable in its jurisdiction are met and B certain power and subject to the limitations set out in the Banking Act.
criteria are met, such as the exercise of the powers in relation to such UK banking group company being necessary having regard Several stabilisation options and tools are available to the to public interest considerations.
The use of different stabilisation relevant UK resolution authority under the SRR, where a powers is also subject to further specific conditions that vary resolution has been triggered.
In addition, the UK resolution according to the relevant stabilisation power being used.
authority may commence special administration or liquidation Although the SRR sets out the pre-conditions for determining procedures specifically applicable to banks.
Where stabilisation whether an institution is failing or likely to fail, it is uncertain how options are used which rely on the use of public funds, the option the Bank of England would assess such conditions in any can only be used once there has been a contribution to loss particular pre-insolvency scenario affecting RBSG and or other absorption and recapitalisation of at least 8% of the total liabilities members of the Group and in deciding whether to exercise a of the institution under resolution.
The Bank of England has resolution power.
Further regulatory developments, including indicated that among these options, the UK bail-in tool as proposals by the FSB on cross-border recognition of resolution described further below would apply in the event a resolution of actions, could also influence the conditions for the exercise of the the Group were triggered.
There has been no application of the SRR Further, the Banking Act grants broad powers to the UK powers in the UK to a large financial institution, such as RBSG, to resolution authority, the application of which may adversely affect date, which could provide an indication of the relevant UK contractual arrangements and which include the ability to i resolution authoritys approach to the exercise of the resolution modify or cancel contractual arrangements to which an entity in powers, and even if such examples existed, they may not be resolution is party, in certain circumstances: ii suspend or indicative of how such powers would be applied to RBSG.
override the enforcement provisions or termination rights that Therefore, holders of shares and other securities issued by the might be invoked by counterparties facing an entity in resolution, Group may not be able to anticipate a potential exercise of any as a result of the exercise of the resolution powers: and iii such powers.
disapply or modify laws in the UK with possible retrospective effect to enable the powers under the Banking Act to be used The UK bail-in tool is one of the powers available to the UK effectively.
resolution authority under the SRR and was introduced under the Banking Reform Act 2013.
The UK government amended the provisions of the Banking Act to ensure the consistency of these provisions with the bail-in provisions under the BRRD, which amendments came into effect on 1 January 2015.
The UK bail-in tool includes both a power to write-down or convert capital instruments and triggered at the point of non-viability of a financial institution and a bail-in tool applicable to eligible liabilities including senior unsecured debt securities issued by the Group and available in resolution.
461 Additional information Risk factors continued Although the above represents the risks associated with the UK The capital instruments write-down and conversion power may bail-in power currently in force in the UK and applicable to the be exercised independently of, or in combination with, the Groups securities, changes to the scope of, or conditions for the exercise of a resolution tool, and it allows resolution authorities to exercise of the UK bail-in power may be introduced as a result of cancel all or a portion of the principal amount of capital further political or regulatory developments.
In addition, further instruments and or convert such capital instruments into common political, legal or strategic developments may lead to structural equity Tier 1 instruments when an institution is no longer viable.
changes to the Group, including at the holding company level.
The point of non-viability for such purposes is the point at which Notwithstanding any such changes, the Group expects that its the Bank of England or the PRA determines that the institution securities would remain subject to the exercise of a form of bail-in meets the conditions for entry into the Special Resolution Regime power, either pursuant to the provisions of the Banking Act, the as defined under the Banking Act or will no longer be viable BRRD or otherwise.
unless the relevant capital instruments are written down or extraordinary public support is provided, and without such In the UK and in other jurisdictions, the Group is responsible support the appropriate authority determines that the institution for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of would no longer be viable.
banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to meet their obligations to customers.
Where the conditions for resolution exist and it is determined that In the UK, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS a stabilisation power may be exercised, the Bank of England may was established under the Financial Services and Markets Act use the bail-in tool in combination with other resolution tools 2000 and is the UKs statutory fund of last resort for customers of under the Banking Act to, among other things, cancel or reduce authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS pays all or a portion of the principal amount of, or interest on, certain compensation if a firm is unable to meet its obligations.
The unsecured liabilities of a failing financial institution and or convert FSCS funds compensation for customers by raising levies on the certain debt claims into another security, including ordinary industry, including the Group.
In relation to protected deposits, shares of the surviving entity.
each deposit-taking institution contributes towards these levies in proportion to their share of total protected deposits.
In addition, the Bank of England may use the bail-in tool to, among other things, replace or substitute the issuer as obligor in In the event that the FSCS needs to raise additional and respect of debt instruments, modify the terms of debt instruments unexpected funding, is required to raise funds more frequently or including altering the maturity if any and or the amount of significantly increases the levies to be paid by authorised firms, interest payable and or imposing a temporary suspension on the associated costs to the Group may have an adverse impact payments and discontinue the listing and admission to trading of on its results of operations and financial condition.
The exercise of the bail-in tool will be the deposit protection limit increased by 10,000 to 85,000 determined by the Bank of England which will have discretion to effective from 30 January 2017, which will result in an increase to determine whether the institution has reached a point of nonthe Groups FSCS levies.
viability or whether the conditions for resolution are met, by To the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group operates application of the relevant provisions of the Banking Act, and have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, involves decisions being taken by the PRA and the Bank of contributory or reimbursement schemes, the Group may make England, in consultation with the FCA and HM Treasury.
As a further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, result, it will be difficult to predict when, if at all, the exercise of which may have an adverse impact on its financial condition and the bail-in power may occur.
The potential impact of these powers and their prospective use The Groups results could be adversely affected in the event may include increased volatility in the market price of shares and of goodwill impairment.
other securities issued by the Group, as well as increased The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess difficulties in issuing securities in the capital markets and of the cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the increased costs of raising such funds.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is recognised initially at cost and subsequently If these powers were to be exercised or there is an increased at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
As required by risk of exercise in respect of the Group or any entity within the IFRS Standards, the Group tests goodwill for impairment Group such exercise could result in a material adverse effect on annually, or more frequently when events or circumstances the rights or interests of shareholders which would likely be indicate that it might be impaired.
An impairment test involves extinguished or very heavily diluted.
Holders of debt securities comparing the recoverable amount the higher of the value in use which may include holders of senior unsecured debt, would see and fair value less cost to sell of an individual cash generating the conversion of part or all of their claims into equity or written unit with its carrying value.
down in part or written off entirely.
In accordance with the rules of At 31 December 2016, the Group carried goodwill of 5.6 billion the Special Resolution Regime, the losses imposed on holders of on its balance sheet.
The value in use and fair value of the equity and debt instruments through the exercise of bail-in Groups cash-generating units are affected by market conditions powers would be subject to the no creditor worse off safeguard, and the performance of the economies in which the Group which requires losses not to exceed those which would be operates.
462 Additional information Risk factors continued Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, but it has no effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
Further impairments of the Groups goodwill could have an adverse effect on the Groups results and financial condition.
Recent and anticipated changes in the tax legislation in the UK are likely to result in increased tax payments by the Group and may impact the recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the Group.
In accordance with IFRS Standards, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent it is probable that they will be recovered.
The deferred tax assets are quantified on the basis of current tax legislation and accounting standards and are subject to change in respect of the future rates of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and offsetting allowable losses.
In the UK, legislation has been introduced over the past few years which seeks to impose restrictions on the use of certain brought forward tax losses of banking companies.
This has impacted and will continue to impact the extent to which the Group is able to recognise deferred tax assets.
Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or further changes in tax legislation including rates of tax or accounting standards may reduce the recoverable amount of the recognised deferred tax assets.
Further changes to the treatment of deferred tax assets may impact the Groups capital, for example by reducing further the Groups ability to recognise deferred tax assets.
The implementation of the rules relating to the UK ring-fencing regime and the resulting restructuring of the Group may further restrict the Groups ability to recognise tax deferred tax assets in respect of brought forward losses.
