Capital and risk management Page Risk overview 164 Risk culture and appetite 164 Governance, assurance and risk models 169 Capital risk 170 Definition and sources 170 Key developments 170 Determination of capital sufficiency 170 Minimum going concern capital requirements 173 Regulatory changes 176 Capital management 178 Measurement 180 Liquidity and funding risk 187 Definitions and sources 187 Key developments 187 Policy, framework and governance 187 Liquidity risk 189 Funding risk 190 Encumbrance 197 Business risk 199 Reputational risk 199 Conduct and regulatory risk 200 Operational risk 202 Pension risk 205 Credit risk: management basis 207 Definition and sources 207 Key developments 207 Governance 207 Risk appetite, risk measurement and models 209 Risk mitigation 211 Portfolio overview 214 Wholesale credit risk 218 Problem debt management and forbearance 220 Key credit portfolios 224 Personal credit risk 234 Problem debt management and forbearance 234 Personal portfolio overviews 236 Key credit portfolios 239 Credit risk: balance sheet analysis 244 Financial assets 244 Loans, REIL and impairment provisions 248 Securities and AFS reserves 254 Derivatives and valuation reserves 258 Market risk 260 Definition and sources 260 Key developments 260 Governance 262 Traded market risk 262 Non-traded market risk 268 Presentation of information Except as otherwise indicated by an asterisk, information in the Capital and risk management section pages 163 to 276 is within the scope of the Independent auditors report.
Unless otherwise indicated, disclosures in this section include disposal groups in relevant exposures and measures.
Refer to page 162 for the Analysis of the balance sheet pre and post disposal groups.
163 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview Risk-based key performance indicators Risk culture and appetite RBS-wide remuneration policy ensures that the remuneration Risk culture arrangements for all employees reflect the principles and A strong risk culture is essential if RBS is to achieve its ambition standards prescribed by the UK Remuneration Code.
For further to build a truly customer-focused bank.
RBS has measured and benchmarked its risk culture across all Training functions and businesses.
It has set a risk culture target, making Enabling employees to have the capabilities and confidence to risk simply part of the way that employees work and think.
manage risk is core to RBSs learning strategy.
Such a culture must be built on strong risk capabilities, with RBS offers a wide range of risk learning, both technical and robust risk practices and appropriate risk behaviours embedded behavioural, across the risk disciplines.
This training can be across the organisation.
mandatory, role-specific or for personal development.
To achieve this RBS is focusing on leaders as role models and Mandatory learning for all staff is focused on keeping employees, taking actions to build clarity, develop capability and motivate customers and RBS safe.
This is easily accessed online and is employees to reach the required standards of risk culture assigned to each person according to their role and business behaviours including: area.
The system allows monitoring at all levels to ensure Taking personal accountability and proactively managing completion.
risk: Respecting risk management and the part that it plays in Code of Conduct daily work: Aligned to RBSs values is the Code of Conduct.
The Code Understanding clearly the risks associated with individual provides guidance on expected behaviour and sets out the roles: standards of conduct that support the values.
It explains the Aligning decision-making to RBSs risk appetite: effect of decisions that are taken and describes the principles that Considering risk in all actions and decisions: must be followed.
Escalating risks and issues early: Taking action to mitigate risks: These principles cover conduct-related issues as well as wider Learning from mistakes and near-misses: business activities.
They focus on desired outcomes, with Challenging others attitudes, ideas and actions: and practical guidelines to align the values with commercial strategy Reporting and communicating about risks transparently.
The embedding of these principles facilitates sound decision-making and a clear focus on good customer outcomes.
To embed and strengthen the required risk culture behaviours, a They are also consistent with the people management and number of RBS-wide activities have been undertaken.
remuneration processes and support a positive and strong risk culture through appropriate incentive structures.
To support a consistent tone from the top, senior management frequently communicate the importance of the required risk A simple decision-making guide called the YES check has behaviours through various channels, linking them to the been included in the Code of Conduct.
It is a simple, intuitive set achievement of good customer outcomes.
of five questions, designed to ensure RBS values guide day-today decisions: RBSs target risk culture behaviours have been embedded into a Does what I am doing keep our customers and RBS safe statement of Our Standards, which are clearly aligned to the and secure?
core values of serving customers, working together, doing the Would customers and colleagues say I am acting with right thing and thinking long term.
They act as a clear starting integrity?
point for a strong and effective risk culture, as Our Standards Am I happy with how this would be perceived on the are used for performance management, recruitment and outside?
Is what I am doing meeting the standards of conduct In addition to embedding risk culture behaviours into performance required?
management, in 2016 an objective aligned to RBS risk culture In five years time would others see this as a good way to target was set for the Executive Committee and made integral to work?
Each of the five questions is a prompt to think about how the RBSs policies require that risk behaviour assessment is situation fits with RBS Groups values.
It ensures that employees incorporated into performance assessment and compensation can think through decisions that do not have a clear answer, and processes for enhanced governance staff.
To track progress towards RBSs risk culture target a programme of assessment commenced in 2016. unaudited 164 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued The annual process of establishing risk appetite statements is If conduct falls short of RBSs required standards, the completed alongside the business and financial planning process accountability review process is used to assess how this should to ensure risk appetite remains appropriate given the levels of be reflected in pay outcomes for those individuals concerned.
risk expected over the planning horizon.
The Group Performance and Remuneration Committee also The effective communication of risk appetite is essential in considers risk performance and conduct when determining embedding appropriate risk-taking into RBSs culture.
The Committees decisions on pay aim to reinforce the need for good behaviours by all employees.
RBS frequently reviews its risk profile to ensure it remains within risk appetite and that management focus is brought to bear on all Risk appetite strategic risks, material risks and emerging risk issues.
RBS has Risk capacity defines the maximum level of risk RBS can assume effective processes in place to report against risk appetite to the before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital RBS Board and senior management.
and liquidity needs, the operational environment, and from a conduct perspective.
Articulating risk capacity is helpful in determining where risk appetite should be set, ensuring there is a Establishing risk appetite: buffer between internal risk appetite and RBSs ultimate capacity to absorb losses.
Risk appetite defines the types of risk RBS is willing to accept, Our priorities and long-term targets within risk capacity, in order to achieve strategic objectives and business plans.
It links the goals and priorities to risk management in a way that guides and empowers staff to serve customers well and achieve financial targets.
Risk capacity Risk Appetite Framework The Risk Appetite Framework bolsters effective risk management by promoting sound risk taking and ensuring emerging risk and risk taking activities are recognised, assessed, escalated and addressed in a timely manner.
Risk appetite for strategic risks The Board approves the Risk Appetite Framework annually.
Strategic risks Strategic risks are the foundations on which RBS ensures it remains safe and sound while implementing its strategic business Risk appetite for material risks objectives.
They are: Capital adequacy: Earnings volatility: Funding and liquidity: and Stakeholder confidence.
Franchise Function Legal entity risk risk risk The Board sets risk appetite for strategic risks to help ensure appetite appetite appetite statements statements statements RBS is well placed to meet its priorities and long-term targets even under challenging economic environments.
All other risk appetites for material risks such as credit risk, market risk and operational risk should align to strategic risks.
Risk appetite for our strategic risks is tested using a variety of stress tests.
Risk appetite statements Risk appetite is communicated across RBS through risk appetite statements.
Each statement provides clarity on the scale and type of activities permitted, in a manner that is easily conveyed to staff.
Risk appetite statements consist of qualitative statements of appetite supported by risk limits and triggers that operate as a defence against excessive risk-taking.
The purpose of risk appetite statements is to strengthen understanding of acceptable levels of risk.
Risk appetite statements are established at an RBS-wide level for strategic risks and material risks, and at a franchise, function and legal entity level.
unaudited 165 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Risk governance Governance structure The risk governance structure in 2016 and the main purposes of each of the committees are illustrated below.
RBS Group Board Reviews and approves the risk appetite framework and risk appetite targets for the Group's strategic risk objectives.
Executive Committee Responsible for managing and overseeing all aspects of the Group's business and operations.
Board Risk Committee RBS Group Asset and Liability Executive Risk Forum Committee Providing oversight and advice on current and potential future Acts on all material and or Oversees the effective management risk exposures, and future risk enterprise wide risk and control of the current and future balance strategy, including determination matters across the Group.
sheet in line with Board-approved of risk appetite and tolerance.
Pension Committee Technical Executive Risk Forum Functional Risk RBS Group Provisions Committees Committee The primary forum for considering Responsibilities include technical eg.
Retail Wholesale Credit Risk the financial strategy, risk updates and escalations from other Committees, Operational Risk management, balance sheet and Responsible for approving Executive Risk Forum subExecutive Committee, Market and large credit impairment remuneration and policy committees, and annual deep-dives on Treasury Risk Committee, and charges or releases.
implications of RBSs pension significant risk frameworks.
Business Risk Committees and Business Provisions Committees Risk committees review and monitor all risks, providing guidance, recommendations and decisions on risks affecting the businesses.
Business provisions committees approve individual specific provisions up to defined levels.
unaudited 166 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Overseeing and challenging the management of risks and Three lines of defence controls.
The three lines of defence model is used industry-wide for the Leading the articulation, design and development of RBS's management of risk.
It provides a clear set of principles by which risk culture and appetite.
to implement a cohesive operating model, one that provides a Analysing the aggregate risk profile and ensuring that risks framework for the articulation of accountabilities and are being managed to the desired level risk appetite.
responsibilities for managing risk across the organisation.
Providing expert advice to the business on risk management.
First line of defence - Management and supervision Providing senior executives with relevant management The first line of defence includes customer franchises, information and reports and escalating concerns where Technology and Operations and support functions such as appropriate.
Human Resources, Communications and Financial Management Undertaking risk assurance refer below for more Information.
Owning, managing and supervising, within a defined risk appetite, the risks which exist in business areas and support Third line of defence - Internal Audit functions.
Responsibilities include: Ensuring appropriate controls are in place to mitigate risk, Designing and delivering a risk-based audit plan to provide balancing control, customer service and competitive assurance on material risks and report on whether RBS is advantage.
managing its material risks effectively.
Ensuring that the culture of the business supports balanced Monitoring, evaluating and reporting on the remediation of risk decisions and compliance with policy, laws and material risks across RBS.
Engaging with management and participating in key Ensuring that the business has effective mechanisms for governance fora to provide perspectives, insights and identifying, reporting and managing risk and controls.
challenge so as to influence the building of a sustainable bank.
Second line of defence - Oversight and control Advising the Group Audit Committee and executive The second line of defence in 2016 included RBS Risk management with respect to RBSs material risks and their Management and Conduct & Regulatory Affairs refer below for associated controls.
further information, Legal, and the financial control aspects of Reporting any matters which warrant escalation to the RBS Finance.
Responsibilities include: Board, the Board Risk Committee, Group Audit Committee Working with the businesses and functions to develop the and the Executive Committee as appropriate.
risk and control policies, limits and tools for the business to Providing independent assurance to the FCA, PRA, CBI and use in order to discharge its responsibilities.
other key jurisdictional regulators on both specific risks and control themes.
unaudited 167 Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued Risk management structure RBSs management structure in 2016 and the main elements of each role are illustrated below.
Group Chief Credit Officer Credit risk, credit approval, concentration risk, assessment of provision adequacy Director of Enterprise Stress testing, capital review, strategic risk, risk appetite and policy framework Wide Risk risk analytics, risk models Director of Risk Infrastructure Risk systems and risk governance Director of Operational Risk Operational risk and risk oversight Chief Risk Officer Credit quality assurance, market risk assurance, risk culture and model risk Director of Risk Assurance management Director of Market Risk Market risk, pension risk and insurance risk Business franchise and regional All risks pertaining to their area directors of Risk Chief Executive RBS Group General Counsel RBS Group Legal Director of Financial Crime Financial crime advisory support across all customer businesses Directors of C&RA Advisory Conduct risk advisory support across all customer businesses Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer Director of Remediation Conduct remediation and customer redress strategies and programmes Delivery of assurance, management information, change and support across Director of Compliance Services C&RA Director of Regulatory Affairs Management of relationships with core regulators Chief Financial Refer to the Capital Risk, Liquidity Treasurer Capital risk, Liquidity and funding risk Officer and Funding risk sections Notes: 1 RBS Risk Management In 2016, the RBS Chief Risk Officer CRO led RBS Risk Management since 1 January 2017 it has been known as Risk, Conduct & Restructuring.
The CRO reported directly to the Chief Executive and had an indirect reporting line to the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee and had a right of access to the Committees chairman.
RBS Risk Management was a function independent of the franchises, structured by risk discipline to facilitate the effective management of risk.
Risk Management was organised into six functional areas: Credit Risk: Enterprise-Wide Risk: Risk Infrastructure: Operational Risk: Risk Assurance: and Market Risk.
There were also directors of risk for each of the franchises and for Services.
The directors of risk functions were responsible for RBS-wide risk appetite and standards within their respective disciplines and reported to the CRO.
CROs were in place for certain jurisdictions and legal entities to meet local regulatory and governance requirements.
The key CRO roles reported directly to the RBS CRO.
Risk committees in the customer businesses and key functional risk committees oversaw risk exposures arising from management and business activities and focused on ensuring that they were adequately monitored and controlled.
2 Conduct & Regulatory Affairs In 2016, Conduct & Regulatory Affairs C&RA was led by the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer, who reported directly to the Chief Executive and had an indirect reporting line to the Board Risk Committee and a right of access to the committees chairman.
C&RA was responsible for providing oversight of conduct risk and regulatory risk at RBS, and did so by setting RBS-wide policy and standards, providing advice to each customer business, and ensuring that the mitigating controls were suitable.
C&RA also provided leadership of RBSs relationships with its regulators.
The functional heads the directors of Financial Crime, Advisory, Remediation, Compliance Services, and Regulatory Affairs reported to the Chief Conduct & Regulatory Affairs Officer.
Each was responsible, where appropriate, for the RBS-wide risk appetite and standards of their respective areas.
3 Plans to merge parts of the C&RA function with Risk Management were announced in December 2016.
The changes, designed to take advantage of synergies across the risk, conduct and regulatory agendas, were effective from 1 January 2017.
Regulatory Affairs moved to Corporate Governance & Secretariat, and Remediation and Complaints moved to Services Chief Operating Office.
unaudited 168 Risk and Control Framework, Risk Appetite & Challenge, Oversight of Risk Management Business review Capital and risk management Risk overview continued MRM performs reviews of relevant risk and pricing models in two Risk Assurance instances: i for new models or amendments to existing models Risk Assurance is an independent second line of defence and ii as part of its ongoing programme to assess the function which provides assurance to both internal and external performance of these models.
stakeholders including the Board, senior management, risk functions, franchises, Internal Audit and regulators.
Teams within A new model is typically introduced when an existing model is Risk Assurance perform quality assurance on both credit and deemed no longer fit for purpose or when exposure to a new market risk activity, review key controls and manage model risk.
product requires a new approach to ensure that risks are The remit of each team is summarised below.
Amendments are usually made when a weakness is identified during use of a model or following analysis Franchise Risk Assurance: These teams focus on credit risk and either by the model developers or by MRM.
market risk assurance in the customer-facing franchises.
The teams undertake qualitative reviews which assess various MRM reviews may test and challenge the logic and conceptual aspects of risk as appropriate, including: the quality of risk soundness of the methodology, or the assumptions underlying a portfolios: the accuracy of the Basel Input and related probability model.
Reviews may also test whether or not all appropriate risks of default loss given default classification, the quality of risk have been sufficiently captured as well as checking the accuracy management practices, policy compliance and adherence to risk and robustness of calculations.
This includes testing the banks credit portfolios and market risk exposures to assist in early identification of emerging Based on the review and findings from MRM, the banks model or risks, as well as undertaking targeted reviews to examine specific risk committees with appropriate delegated authority consider concerns raised either by these teams or by their stakeholders.
whether a model can be approved for use and whether any conditions need to be imposed, including those relating to the Controls Assurance: This team tests the adequacy and remediation of material issues raised through the review process.
effectiveness of key controls owned and operated by the Risk Once approved through internal governance, the new or function with a particular focus on credit risk and market risk amended model is implemented.
Models used for regulatory controls.
The teams remit includes controls within the scope of reporting may additionally require regulatory approval before Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
the teams scope extended to include testing of controls supporting risk data aggregation reporting to support compliance MRM reassesses the appropriateness of approved risk models with Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS 239. on a periodic basis according to the approved Periodic Review Policy.
Each periodic review begins with an initial assessment.
A Risk Assurance Committee decision is then made by an internal model governance The Risk Assurance Committee RAC ensures a consistent committee with appropriate delegated authority.
Based on the and fair approach to all aspects of the credit risk, market risk and initial assessment, the committee will decide to re-ratify a model control assurance review activities.
The RAC also monitors based on the initial assessment or to carry out additional work and validates the ongoing programme of reviews and tracks the prior to making a decision.
In the initial assessment, MRM remediation of review actions.
The credit and market risk assesses changes since the last approval along the following assurance teams also attend relevant committees run by the dimensions, as appropriate: change in size composition of the customer franchises and other risk functions.
portfolio, market changes, model performance, model changes, Model Risk status of any outstanding issues and scheduled activities Model Risk Governance including work carried over from previous reviews.
Model Risk Governance is responsible for setting policy and MRM also monitors the performance of RBSs portfolio of models providing a governance framework for all of RBSs modelling to ensure that they appropriately capture underlying business processes.
It is also responsible for defining and monitoring risk rationale.
appetite in conjunction with model owners and model users, monitoring the model risk profile and reporting on the model For specific information relating to market risk models and pricing population as well as escalating issues to senior management, models, refer to Model Validation in the Market Risk section.
through the Model Risk Forum, and the respective franchise and Models used in Risk function risk committees.
RBS uses a variety of models as part of its risk management process and activities.
Key examples include the use of model Model Risk Management outputs to support risk assessments in the credit approval Model Risk Management MRM performs independent model process, ongoing credit risk management, monitoring and validation for material models where necessary.
It works with reporting, as well as the calculation of risk-weighted assets.
individual businesses and functions to set appropriate model Other examples include the use of models to measure market standards and monitor adherence to these, ensure that models risk exposures and calculate associated capital requirements, as are developed and implemented appropriately and that their well as for the valuation of positions.
The models used for stressoperational environment is fit for purpose.
testing purposes also play a key role in ensuring the bank holds unaudited sufficient capital, even in stressed market scenarios.
169 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk RBSs PRA minimum leverage ratio requirement of 3% has Definition and sources been supplemented with an additional GSII leverage ratio Capital consists of reserves and instruments issued that are buffer of 0.13125%, equivalent to 897 million of CET1 available to the Group that have a degree of permanency and are capital.
A number of strict conditions set by regulators must be satisfied to be eligible to count as capital.
MREL and MDA RBS issued 4.2 billion of MREL-eligible senior debt, in line Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital and with the 3 - 5 billion senior debt issuance target for 2016. other loss absorbing debt instruments to operate effectively RBS successfully completed a cash tender for 2.3 billion including meeting minimum regulatory requirements, operating senior debt securities, including those considered nonwithin Board approved risk appetite and supporting its strategic MREL compliant, as part of ongoing transition to a holding goals.
company capital and term funding model, in line with Capital management is the process by which the Group manages regulatory requirements.
its capital risk and is a key focus of its risk management activities.
The current estimated headroom over the fully phased MDA trigger in 2019 is 2.9%, based on our target CET1 ratio of The following disclosures in this section are audited: Capital 13.0% and MDA requirement of 10.1%.
Key developments in 2016 13.4% CET1 ratio Determination of capital sufficiency The CET1 ratio decreased by 210 basis points to 13.4% in In determining whether the Group holds sufficient capital and 2016, reflecting lower CET1 capital partially offset by a other loss absorbing debt instruments, the Group assesses the reduction in RWAs.
amount and type of capital under a number of different bases: Litigation and conduct costs of 5.9 billion in 2016 contributed to a significant reduction in the CET1 capital.
Going concern vs. gone concern view Management actions to normalise the ownership structure Going concern and improve the long-term resilience of RBS also This determination of capital sufficiency is made on the basis that contributed to the reduction.
These actions included the final there is sufficient capital to absorb losses and remain a viable Dividend Access Share payment of 1.2 billion and the going concern.
impact of the accelerated pension payment of 4.2 billion.
RWAs decreased by 14.4 billion to 228.2 billion primarily The Group is considered a going concern if it can operate in the as result of run down of Capital Resolution and the reduction foreseeable future to carry out its objectives and commitments in operational risk 5.9 billion partly offset by adverse without the need or intention on the part of management to exchange rate movements 11.5 billion as sterling liquidate.
weakened against all major currencies.
Tier 1 capital benefitted from the successful issuance of 2 Gone concern billion of Additional Tier 1 AT1 capital notes in August This determination of capital sufficiency is made on the basis that 2016.
Total end-point Capital Requirements Regulation there is sufficient capital and other loss absorbing instruments to CRR compliant AT1 capital now stands at 4.0 billion.
enable an orderly resolution in the event of failure.
Gone concern 5.1% leverage ratio would apply if the Group had been deemed to fail by the Bank of The leverage ratio reduced by 50 basis points to 5.1% at 31 England BoE.
Technically, the Group would have to fail or be December 2016, primarily reflecting CET1 capital erosion, likely to fail the BoEs threshold conditions for authorisation in a partially offset by additional AT1 issuance.
way that justifies the withdrawal of that authorisation and it must The leverage exposure decreased by 19.2 billion to 683.3 not be reasonably likely that action will be taken that will result in billion at 31 December 2016.
Growth in PBB and CPB the Group no longer failing or likely to fail.
lending has been more than offset by lower undrawn commitments and derivative potential future exposures Spot vs. forward looking view PFE.
During 2016, approximately half the interest rate Spot view trades cleared through London Clearing House have been This determination of capital sufficiency is made on the basis of settled-to-market each day, rather than being collateralised, prevailing actual positions and exposures.
The UK leverage ratio reflecting the post EU referendum Forward-looking view measures announced by the Bank of England in Q3 2016 This determination of capital sufficiency is made on the basis of was estimated at 5.6%.
positions, balance and exposures under a forward looking view of the balance sheet in line with the Groups planning horizons and unaudited parameters.
This analysis examines both base and stress views.
170 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Capital sufficiency: going concern view Regulatory vs. risk appetite view The regulatory requirement for going concern capital typically Regulatory requirements takes the form of a ratio of capital compared to a defined This determination of capital sufficiency is an assessment of exposure amount having to exceed a minimum percentage: whether the Group has sufficient capital and other loss absorbing  debt instruments to meet the requirements of prudential  regulation.
 Regulation may be set by rule-making bodies in the UK and at  European level.
Individual legal entities within the Group may be CapitalHeld subject to requirements set by local regulators in jurisdictions MinimumPercentage outside of the UK and the EU.
Exposure Rule-making bodies may set regulation according to standards agreed at international level, such as those published by the  : Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS.
Exposure Risk appetite Ratio type Description This determination of capital sufficiency is an assessment of whether the Group has sufficient capital and other loss absorbing Capital Risk-weighted Assesses capital held against debt instruments to meet risk appetite limits.
adequacy assets both size and inherent riskiness ratio of on and off-balance sheet This Groups risk appetite framework establishes quantitative and exposures qualitative targets and limits within which the Group operates to Leverage Leverage Assesses capital held against achieve its strategic objectives.
ratio exposure the size of on and off-balance sheet exposures largely based This framework includes risk appetite in relation to the amount on accounting value with some and quality of the Groups capital on both a risk and balance adjustments sheet measurement basis.
This includes setting management buffers on top of regulatory minima such that the Group operates Constituents of capital held with sufficient cushioning against those minimum regulatory The determination of what instruments and financial resources requirements.
are eligible to be counted as capital is laid down by applicable regulation.
Capital risk is one of the Groups top strategic risk appetite constituents as it is a stand-alone risk and is both influenced by, Capital is categorised by applicable regulation under two tiers and influences, other key risks.
Tier 1 and Tier 2 according to the ability to absorb losses, degree of permanency and the ranking of absorbing losses.
There are three broad categories of capital across these two tiers: CET1 capital.
CET1 capital must be perpetual and capable of unrestricted and immediate use to cover risks or losses as soon as these occur.
This includes ordinary shares issued and retained earnings.
CET1 capital absorbs losses before other types of capital and any loss absorbing instruments.
This is the second form of loss absorbing capital and must be capable of absorbing losses on a going concern basis.
These instruments are either written down or converted into CET1 capital when a pre-specified CET1 ratio is reached.
Coupons on AT1 issuances are discretionary and may be cancelled at the discretion of the issuer at any time.
AT1 capital may not be called, redeemed or repurchased for five years from issuance.
Tier 2 capital is the Groups supplementary capital and provides loss absorption on a gone concern basis.
Tier 2 capital absorbs losses after Tier 1 capital.
It unaudited typically consists of subordinated debt securities with a minimum maturity of five years.
171 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued These minimum requirements are explained in more detail on the In addition to capital, other specific loss absorbing instruments, next page.
These ratios apply in full from 1 January 2019.
Before including senior notes issued by RBSG, may be used to cover this date there are transitional rules in place that mean that the certain gone concern capital requirements which, in the EU, is minimum capital requirements that the Group has to comply with referred to as minimum requirement for own funds and eligible are lower although the Group, in line with other UK banks, has liabilities MREL.
been reporting on a fully implemented basis since 2014.
In order for liabilities to be eligible for MREL a number of Pillar 1 requirements conditions must be met including the BoE being able to apply its The Group is subject to system wide minimum capital adequacy stabilisation powers to them, including the use of bail-in ratio requirements that apply to all banks under applicable provisions.
There are two broad categories of capital requirements: Capital adequacy ratios The Group has to hold a minimum amount and quality of capital Category Description to satisfy capital adequacy ratio regulatory requirements.
Minimum capital Represents the minimum amount of capital Risk-weighted assets adequacy ratio that all banks must hold at all times Capital adequacy ratios compare the amount of capital held to RWAs.
RWAs are a measure of the Groups assets and offCapital buffers Comprises of: balance sheet positions that capture both the size and risks Capital required to be held by banks inherent in those positions.
that may be used in periods of stress Capital held by banks that are deemed For regulatory purposes, RWAs are grouped into four categories: to be systemically important Risk Description Pillar 2 requirements In addition to the minimum Pillar 1 requirements that apply to all Credit Risk of loss from a borrower failing to banks, the Group may be required to hold additional capital if repay amounts due by the due date specified by its regulators.
This is captured under the Pillar 2 Counterparty credit Risk of loss from a counterparty not framework and consists of two components: meeting its contractual obligations Pillar 2A: covers risks to the Group that are not captured or not fully captured under Pillar 1.
For example, pension risk is Also included is the risk of loss from not captured in Pillar 1 therefore capital that may need to be changes in the fair value of derivative held against this risk is assessed under Pillar 2A.
instruments PRA buffer: covers risks that the Group may become exposed to across a forward-looking planning horizon for Market Risk of loss arising from fluctuations in example due to changes to the economic environment.
market prices Operational Risk of loss from inadequate or failed The PRA buffer is a capital buffer that is designed to ensure that internal processes, people and systems the Group can continue to meet minimum requirements Pillar 1 or from external events and Pillar 2A during a stressed period.
The PRA buffer is required to be held if Pillar 1 capital buffers are determined to be Minimum percentage insufficient.
Regulation defines a minimum percentage of capital compared to RWAs.
The percentage comprises of system-wide requirements The assessment of Pillar 2 requirements is an output from the that apply to all banks and a component where the percentage is Groups internal capital adequacy assessment process that is specific to the Group.
This is summarised as follows: described in more detail on page 179.
Pillar 2 also utilises the Type Name Description output of the Groups stress testing exercises which is described in more detail on pages 178 and 179.
SystemPillar 1 Standard minimum percentages wide applicable to all banks Future changes to regulation Throughout 2015 and 2016, UK, EU and international standard Pillar 2A Captures risks that apply to and rule-making bodies have issued proposals and final individual banks that are either not standards on revising the level and measurement of capital adequately captured or not Bankadequacy ratios including the measurement of RWAs.
This may captured at all under Pillar 1 specific affect the level of RWAs and the capital that the Group is PRA buffer Captures forward looking risks and required to hold in the future years.
Further details of prudential potential losses under a severe regulatory changes that may impact the Groups capital stress scenario adequacy ratio are set out on page 177. unaudited 172 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Leverage ratios In common with capital adequacy ratios, the leverage ratio The Group has to hold a minimum amount and quality of capital requirement for the Group consists of a minimum requirement to satisfy the leverage ratio regulatory requirements.
Unlike and a leverage ratio buffer.
Details of the Groups leverage ratio capital adequacy ratios, leverage ratio requirements do not requirements are set out below.
consider the riskiness of the Groups positions.
The leverage ratio requirements that the Group must meet may The leverage exposure is broadly aligned to the accounting value be subject to change from developing regulation.
Further details of the Groups on and off-balance sheet exposures but subject to are set out on page 177. certain adjustments for trading positions, repurchase agreements and off balance sheet exposures.
Minimum percentage for going concern capital requirements under applicable regulation Capital adequacy ratios The Group is subject to minimum requirements in relation to the amount of capital it must hold in relation to its RWAs.
The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to RWAs that the Group is expected to have to meet once all currently adopted regulation is fully implemented by 1 January 2019.
These ratios apply at the consolidated group level.
Different minimum capital requirements may apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups.
Minimum requirements Type CET1 Total Tier 1 Total capital System wide Pillar 1 minimum requirements 4.50% 6.00% 8.00% Capital conservation buffer 2.50% 2.50% 2.50% 1 UK countercyclical capital buffer 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 2 G-SIB buffer 1.00% 1.00% 1.00% 4 Bank specific Pillar 2A 2.10% 2.90% 3.80% 5 Total excluding PRA buffer 10.10% 12.40% 15.30% Notes: 1 The countercyclical capital buffer CCyB applied to UK designated assets is set by the Financial Policy Committee FPC.
The UK CCyB may be set between 0% and 2.5% and is linked to the state of the UK economy.
On 5 July 2016, the FPC reduced the UK CCyB from 0.5% to 0%.
Foreign exposures may be subject to different CCyBs depending on the CCyB rate set in the jurisdiction of the foreign exposure.
The net CCyB for the Group is non-zero but rounds to 0.00%.
2 Globally systemically important banks G-SIBs, as designated by the Financial Stability Board FSB, are subject to an additional capital buffer of between 1% and 3.5%.
Based on the most recent determination of the FSB, the Group is subject to an additional capital requirement of 1.0% 3 The Group will be subject to a systemic risk buffer SRB of between 0% and 3%.
The SRB will apply from 1 January 2019 and will apply at the ring-fenced bank sub-group level rather than at the consolidated group level.
The SRB may require the Group to hold a minimum amount of capital at the consolidated group level beyond the levels set out in the table above.
4 Additional capital requirements under Pillar 2A may be specified by the PRA as a ratio or as an absolute value.
The table sets out an implied ratio to cover the full value of Pillar 2A requirements.
5 The Group may be subject to a PRA buffer requirement as set by the PRA.
The PRA buffer consists of two components: - A risk management and governance buffer that is set as a scalar of the Pillar 1 and Pillar 2A requirements.
The scalar could range between 10% and 40%.
- A buffer relating to the results of the BoE concurrent stress testing results.
The PRA requires that the level of this buffer is not publicly disclosed.
6 The capital conservation buffer, the countercyclical capital buffer, the G-SIB buffer and systemic risk buffer where applicable make up the combined buffer.
If the Group fails to meet the combined buffer requirement, it is subject to restrictions on distributions on CET1 instruments, discretionary coupons on AT1 instruments and on payment of variable remuneration or discretionary pension benefits.
These restrictions are calculated by reference to the Groups Maximum Distributable Amount MDA.
The MDA trigger is below the PRA buffer and MDA restrictions are not automatically triggered if the Group fails to meet its PRA buffer.
The MDA is calculated as the amount of interim or year-end profits not yet incorporated into CET1 capital multiplied by a factor ranging from 0 to 0.6 depending on the size of the CET1 shortfall against the combined buffer.
Leverage ratios The table below summarises the minimum ratios of capital to leverage exposure under the PRA UK leverage framework that the Group must meet.
In November 2016, the European Commission published a proposal for the adoption of a legally binding 3% of Tier 1 capital minimum leverage ratio with consideration of a leverage buffer ratio for G-SIBs once a final international agreement had been reached.
Different minimum requirements may apply to individual legal entities or sub-groups.
Type CET1 Total Tier 1 Minimum ratio 2.25% 3.00% 1 UK countercyclical leverage ratio buffer 0.00% 0.00% 2 Additional leverage ratio buffer 0.35% 0.35% Total 2.60% 3.35% Notes: 1 The countercyclical leverage ratio buffer is set at 35% of the Groups CCyB.
As noted above this buffer may be set between 0% and 2.5% and the FPC has currently set the UK CCyB at 0%.
The applicable ratio for foreign exposures may be different.
2 As set out in the FPCs SRB framework, published in May 2016, the FPC intends to direct the PRA to apply an additional leverage ratio buffer to UK G-SIBs set at 35% of the GSIB buffer rate.
As noted above, based on the most recent determination of the FSB, the G-SIB buffer rate for the Group is 1.0%.
unaudited 173 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued The examination of capital requirements under the base Capital sufficiency: going concern forward looking view economic and market conditions allows the Group to The Group examines its going concern capital requirements on a demonstrate how the projected business performance allows it to forward looking basis through assessing the resilience of capital meet all internal and regulatory capital requirements as they arise adequacy and leverage ratios under hypothetical future states of over the plan horizon.
For example, the Group will assess its the world, including as part of its annual budgeting process.
ability issue to loss absorbing debt instruments in sufficient quantity to meet regulatory timelines.
The cost of issuance will be A range of future states of the world are examined.
In particular: factored into business performance metrics.
The Group will assess capital requirements based on a The examination of capital requirements under adverse economic forecast of the Groups future business performance under and market conditions is assessed through stress testing.
Stress its expectations of economic and market conditions over the testing is used to quantify, evaluate and understand the potential forecast period impact of the financial strength of the Group, including its capital The Group will assess capital requirements based on a position, given specified changes to risk factors.
This is described forecast of the Groups future business performance under in more detail on page 178. adverse economic and market conditions over the forecast period.
A range of scenarios of different severity may be The results of stress tests are not only used widely across the examined Group but also by the Groups regulators to set bank-specific capital buffers through the PRA buffer.
The Group participates in a number of regulatory stress tests implemented by regulatory authorities to test industry-wide vulnerabilities under crystallising global and domestic systemic risks.
In 2016, the Group participated in two regulatory stress tests.
Details of these stress tests are set out on the following page.
unaudited 174 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Regulatory stress tests In 2016, the Group participated in two regulatory stress tests set by the EBA and BoE.
These scenarios are hypothetical in nature and do not represent a forecast of the Groups future business or profitability.
The results of the regulatory stress tests are carefully assessed by the Group and form part of the wider risk management of the Group.
BoE Stress Test EBA Stress Test Designed to evaluate impact over three years of Designed to assess the resilience of major UK an adverse macro financial scenario that banks to tail risk events.
The severity of the test examines four systemic risks identified by the is related to policymakers assessments of risk European Systemic Risk Board as representing levels across markets and regions.
the most material threats to the stability of the EU The 2016 stress test examined the impact over Scenario financial sector.
five years of a synchronised global downturn A static balance sheet assumption was made across the UK and global economies.
The across the period of stress and therefore stress test also assessed a stressed level of mitigating actions such as balance sheet misconduct costs.
reduction, business growth and cost savings are not factored into the stress outcomes.
The 2016 EBA stress test did not contain a Under the 2016 BoE stress test, CET1 ratio pass fail threshold reached a low point of 5.5% in 2017, below the On a fully loaded basis, the Groups CET1 ratio CET1 hurdle rate of 6.6%.
under the adverse scenario was projected to be Post the impact of management actions and the 8.1% as at 31 December 2018.
The low point conversion of 2 billion AT1 capital in place for CET1 ratio of 7.8% occurs in 2017.
2015, the Groups low point CET1 ratio The Groups modelled leverage ratio under the increased from 5.5% to 6.7%, meeting the adverse scenario is projected as 3.6% on a fully Results CET1 ratio hurdle rate.
loaded Basel 3 basis and 4.2% under the PRA Tier 1 leverage rate was projected to be 2.7% transitional definition for leverage ratio as at 31 in 2017, which increased to 2.9% after the December 2018.
The low point occurs in 2017 management actions, below the 3% leverage with a stress leverage ratio of 3.5% on a fully hurdle rate.
loaded Basel 3 basis as at 31 December 2016 The stress was based on an end of 2015 and 4.2% under the PRA transitional definition.
Since then, the Group has taken actions to strengthen its capital position.
As a result, the Group now has a revised capital plan that brings it back over the thresholds.
The 2016 EBA and BoE stress test results demonstrate that the Group has made good progress in transforming the balance sheet to being safe and sustainable.
However, the legacy issues still heavily impact the Groups performance.
What does this Rebuilding the capital strength remains one of the Groups core strategic priorities.
narrowed the range of uncertainty around its capital and leverage position by addressing a number of legacy issues including recording additional provisions of 5.9 billion for conduct and litigation costs.
RBS also continued to fide-risk its balance sheet.
In August 2016 the Group successfully issued an additional 2 billion AT1 capital, bolstering the Groups capital position and leverage ratio.
unaudited 175 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued On the basis of the BoE policy statement, the Group expects Capital sufficiency: gone concern view to issue between 3 billion and 5 billion of MREL compliant The Group will be required to hold sufficient capital and other senior debt from the single resolution entity RBSG each year loss absorbing instruments such that, in the event of failure, to meet this requirement.
there can be an orderly resolution that minimises any adverse impact on financial stability whilst preventing public funds In order that there is sufficient loss absorbing capacity prebeing exposed to loss.
positioned across the Group, the proceeds of externally issued MREL will be downstreamed to material operating subsidiaries In November 2016, the BoE published its policy statement on in the form of capital or other subordinated claims.
This its approach to setting MREL.
ensures that internal MREL will absorb losses before operating liabilities within operating subsidiaries.
MREL will be set by the BoE on a case-by-case basis but it has stated that it expects institutions that are G-SIBs and Although the BoE continue to develop its approach to the subject to a bail-in resolution strategy, such as the Group, to calibration of MREL within banking groups, the BoE policy meet interim MREL requirements from 1 January 2019 and statement sets out the framework that it will use to determine end state MREL requirements from 1 January 2022 as follows: the distribution of MREL within banking groups.
Under this framework, the BoE will set individual MRELs for all institutions Interim MREL within the Group and may also set individual MRELs for entities within the Group that are important from a resolution 1 January The minimum requirements set out in the perspective.
2019 FSB total loss absorbing capacity standard being the higher of: The Group is not planning to downstream the proceeds of 16% of the Groups RWAs: and external MREL issuance prior to the completion of legal entity 6% of the Groups leverage exposures and business realignment required to implement ring-fencing.
1 January The higher of: 2020 The sum of two times the Groups Pillar Regulatory changes that may impact capital requirements 1 requirement and one times the The Group faces a number of changes in prudential regulation Groups Pillar 2A add-ons: and that may adversely impact the amount of capital it must hold Two times the applicable leverage ratio and consequently may increase funding costs and reduce requirement for the Group return on equity.
The nature and timing of implementation of a number of these changes is not currently final.
End state MREL 1 January The higher of: In 2017, the UK, EU and BCBS are expected to further 2022 Two times the sum of the Groups Pillar develop prudential regulation including the approach to 1 requirement and Groups Pillar 2A calculating credit risk and operational risk RWAs, additional add-ons: and details on the MREL framework and a review of the leverage The higher of: ratio framework.
o Two times the applicable leverage ratio requirement for the Group: Regulatory changes are actively monitored by the Group and including engagement with industry associations and o 6.75% of the Groups leverage regulators and participation in quantitative impact studies.
exposure Monitoring the changing regulatory landscape forms a fundamental part of capital planning and management of its business.
The BoE is intending to review its general approach to the calibration of MREL before the end of 2020 prior to setting The Group believes that its strategy to focus on simpler, lower end-state MRELs.
risk activities within a more resilient recovery and resolution framework will enable it to manage the impact of these MREL may consist of capital and other loss absorbing changes.
In order for liabilities to be eligible for MREL, a number of strict conditions will be set by the BoE including the Key prudential regulatory developments that have been ability for the BoE to apply its stabilisation powers to those published and may impact the Group are set out in the liabilities.
In addition, liabilities must have an effective following table.
remaining maturity taking account of any rights of early repayment to investors of greater than one year.
unaudited 176 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Summary of potential changes to regulation that may impact the Groups capital requirements Area of Actual or potential key changes that might impact the Groups Source of changes development capital requirements Capital adequacy A new systemic risk buffer will apply to the RBS ring-fenced Statement of Policy published by buffers bank sub-group from 1 January 2019. the PRA in December 2016.
The buffer will be set between 0% and 3%.
Credit risk RWAs Restriction in the scope of using internal models.
Mostly relate to consultations Avoidance of mechanistic reliance on external ratings.
For model-based RWAs, potential change to capital floors Mortgage risk weights changes based on the standardised approach.
proposed by the PRA for 31 Potential amendment of risk weights for securitisation March 2019. exposures.
Revision to UK residential mortgage risk weights.
Counterparty credit Change to exposure amounts under the standardised The standardised approach risk RWAs 1 approach.
relates to the CRR 2 proposal to Increase in the number of risk factors captured in the amend regulation published by calculation of the counterparty valuation adjustment CVA.
Changes to CVA relate to a consultation published by the BCBS.
1 Market risk RWAs Change from value at risk to expected shortfall models.
Relates to the CRR 2 proposal Implementation of a more risk-sensitive standardised to amend regulation published by approach.
Inclusion of risk of market illiquidity.
Operational risk Incorporation of bank-specific loss data into the calculation.
Consultation published by the RWAs BCBS.
1 Leverage ratio Changes to the design and calibration of the framework with a Relates to the CRR 2 proposal focus on derivative exposures and margining.
to amend regulation published by Recalibration of the UK leverage ratio framework to offset the European Commission.
exclusion of central bank reserves from the calculation.
Statements made by the FPC and PRA.
1 Large exposure Changes to the design and calibration of the capital base and Relates to the CRR 2 proposal framework large exposure limit.
to amend regulation published by the European Commission.
Note: 1 CRR 2 relates to the European Commission publication on 23 November 2016 to amend the Capital Requirements Regulation.
Additional amendments were proposed to amend the Capital Requirements Directive and Banking Recovery and Resolution Directive.
unaudited 177 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Capital planning is one of the tools that the Group uses to Capital management monitor and manage the risk of excessive leverage.
Capital management is the process by which the Group ensures that it has sufficient capital and other loss absorbing instruments Stress testing to operate effectively including meeting minimum regulatory Stress testing is a key risk management tool used by the Group requirements, operating within Board approved risk appetite, and is a fundamental component of the Groups approach to maintaining its credit rating and supporting its strategic goals.
Capital management is critical in supporting the Groups business Stress testing is used to quantify, evaluate and understand the and is enacted through an end to end framework across the potential impact on the financial strength of the Group, including Group, its businesses and the legal entities on which it operates.
its capital position, given specified changes to risk factors.
Stress testing includes: The key elements of the Groups capital management approach Scenario testing: examines the impact of a hypothetical are set out below.
future state of the world to define changes in risk factors Risk appetite affecting the Group: and Capital risk appetite is set by the Board, reflecting the Groups Sensitivity testing: examining the impact of an incremental strategic objectives, current and future prudential regulatory change to one or more risk factors.
The process for stress testing consists of four broad stages: It is expressed as a set of target ratios for CET1 and leverage under both normal and stressed financial conditions.
Capital risk Identify RBS specific vulnerabilities and risks.
appetite is set at various levels including for the Group and its Define Define and calibrate scenarios to examine risks businesses.
Performance against risk appetite is regularly scenarios and vulnerabilities.
Formal governance process to agree scenarios.
Capital planning Capital planning is integrated into the Groups wider annual Translate scenarios into risk drivers.
budgeting process and is assessed and updated at least monthly.
Assess Assess impact to positions, income and costs.
Regular returns are submitted to the PRA which include a two impact Impact assessment captures input from across year rolling forward view.
the Group including from businesses.
Capital plans are produced for the Group, its key operating entities and its businesses over a five Calculate Aggregate impacts into overall results.
results and Results from part of risk management process.
capital Shorter term forecasts are developed frequently in assess Scenario results used to inform the banks plans response to actual performance, changes in internal implications business and capital plans.
and external business environment and to manage risks and opportunities.
Scenario results analysed by subject matter Capital plans are developed to maintain capital of Develop and experts and appropriate management actions are sufficient quantity and quality to support the Groups agree developed.
business and strategic plans over the planning management Scenario results and management actions are Assess horizon within approved risk appetite and minimum actions reviewed and agreed by senior management capital regulatory requirements.
through executive committees including ERF, adequacy Capital resources and capital requirements are BRC and the Board.
assessed across a defined planning horizon.
Impact assessment captures input from across the Group including from businesses.
Capital planning informs potential capital actions including managing capital through buy backs or through new issuance.
Inform Decisions on capital actions will be influenced by capital strategic and regulatory requirements, the cost and actions prevailing market conditions.
As part of capital planning, the Group will monitor its portfolio of capital issuance and assess the optimal blend and most cost effective means of financing.
unaudited 178 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Capital allocation Stress testing is used widely across the Group: key areas are The Group has mechanisms to allocate capital across its legal summarised in the diagram below: entities and businesses that aim to optimise the utilisation of capital resources taking into account applicable regulatory requirements, strategic and business objectives and risk appetite.
The framework for allocating capital is approved by the Asset and Liability Committee.
Governance Capital management is subject to substantial review and governance across the Group including capital management policies that are approved by the Asset and Liability Committee or Board Risk Committee The Board approves the Groups capital plans, including its key legal entities and businesses, and including the results of the stress tests relating to those capital plans.
Recovery and resolution planning The Group maintains a recovery plan that sets out credible recovery options that could be implemented in the event of a severe stress to restore its business to a stable and sustainable condition, focussing on addressing the Groups capital and liquidity position.
Specific areas that involve capital management include: The recovery plan sets out a range of triggers that activate the 1 Strategic financial and capital planning: through assessing implementation of the recovery plan and sets out the operational the impact of sensitivities and scenarios on the capital plan plan for its implementation.
The recovery plan is a key component of the overall risk 2 Risk appetite: through gaining a better understanding of the management of the Group including the framework for managing drivers of and the underlying risks associated with risk its capital.
3 Risk identification: through a better understanding of the The recovery plan is prepared and updated annually and risks that could potentially impact the Groups financial approved by the Board.
The recovery plan is assessed for strength and capital position.
appropriateness on an ongoing basis, and is maintained in line 4 Risk mitigation: through identifying actions that can be taken with regulatory requirements.
to mitigate risks or could be taken in the event of adverse Resolution is implemented if the Group fails and the appropriate changes to the business or economic environment.
Risk regulator places the Group into resolution.
Resolution is owned mitigation is substantially supplemented through the Groups and implemented by the appropriate regulatory authority and the recovery plan.
Group has a multi-year programme in place to develop resolution The Group also undertakes regular reverse stress testing which capability and meet regulatory requirements.
examines circumstances that can lead to specific, defined The Group is working with global regulators to ensure that the business outcomes such as business failure.
Reverse stress Group is compliant with the principles of resolution planning, testing allows the Group to examine potential vulnerabilities in its demonstrating the process by which the Group and relevant business model more fully.
regulatory bodies can develop a set of actions that would be Internal assessment of capital adequacy taken to manage the failure of the Group or one of its significant The Group conducts an annual internal assessment of its legal entities in an orderly manner.
material risks and evaluates how much capital is required to cover these risks.
This is referred to as the Internal Capital Ring-fencing Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The ICAAP is approved As part of the response to the 2008 financial crisis the UK by the Board and submitted to the PRA.
Governments Independent Commission on Banking report recommended that banks separate their retail and investment The ICAAP consists of a point in time capital assessment of the banking operations, helping to mitigate against the risk of the Groups exposures and risks at the financial year end and a investment bank division running into financial difficulty.
forward looking stress capital assessment.
The ICAAP is used by the Group to form a view of capital Primary legislation and FCA PRA regulations have been issued adequacy separately to the regulatory minimum requirements.
which must be complied with by 1 January 2019.
For more details The ICAAP is used by the PRA to make an assessment of bankon ring-fencing, refer to page 125. specific capital requirements through the Pillar 2 framework.
unaudited 179 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Measurement Capital and leverage: Key ratios Capital, RWAs and risk asset ratios, on the basis of end-point Capital Requirements Regulation CRR and transitional rules, calculated in accordance with PRA definitions, are set out below.
All regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full for both bases with the exception of unrealised gains on available-for-sale securities which has been included from 2015 under the PRA transitional basis.
2 Based on 3 month average of month end leverage exposure and Tier 1 Capital.
General: From 1 January 2015, RBS has been required to meet at least 56% of its Pillar 2A capital requirement with CET1 capital and the balance with Additional Tier 1 and or Tier 2 capital.
The Pillar 2A capital requirement is the additional capital that RBS must hold, in addition to meeting its Pillar 1 requirements in order to comply with the PRAs overall financial adequacy rule.
Measures in relation to end-point CRR basis, including RWAs, are based on the current interpretation, expectations, and understanding, of the CRR requirements, as well as further regulatory clarity and implementation guidance from the UK and EU authorities end-point CRR basis.
The actual end-point CRR impact may differ when the final technical standards are interpreted and adopted.
Capital base: 1 Own funds are based on shareholders equity.
2 The adjustment arising from the application of the prudent valuation requirements to all assets measured at fair value, has been included in full.
Additional valuation adjustments relating to unearned credit spreads on exposures under the advanced internal ratings approach has been included in the determination of the expected loss amount deducted from CET1.
3 Where the deductions from AT1 capital exceed AT1 capital, the excess is deducted from CET1 capital.
4 Insignificant investments in equities of other financial entities net : long cash equity positions are considered to have matched maturity with synthetic short positions if the long position is held for hedging purposes and sufficient liquidity exists in the relevant market.
All the trades are managed and monitored together within the equities business.
5 Based on our current interpretations of the Commission Delegated Regulation issued in December 2013 on credit risk adjustments, RBSs standardised latent provision has been reclassified to specific provision and is not included in Tier 2 capital.
RWAs: 1 Current securitisation positions are shown as risk-weighted at 1,250%.
2 RWA uplifts include the impact of credit valuation adjustments and asset valuation correlation on large financial sector entities 3 RWAs reflect implementation of the full internal model method suite, and include methodology changes that took effect immediately on CRR implementation.
4 Counterparties which meet the eligibility criteria under CRR are exempt from the credit valuation adjustments volatility charges 5 The CRR final text includes a reduction in the risk-weight relating to small and medium-sized enterprises.
unaudited 180 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Capital and leverage: Capital resources 2016 2015 PRA PRA End-point transitional End-point transitional CRR basis 1 basis 1 CRR basis 1 basis 1 m m m m Shareholders equity excluding non-controlling interests Shareholders' equity 48,609 48,609 53,431 53,431 Preference shares - equity 2,565 2,565 3,305 3,305 Other equity instruments 4,582 4,582 2,646 2,646 41,462 41,462 47,480 47,480 Regulatory adjustments and deductions Own credit 304 304 104 104 Defined benefit pension fund adjustment 208 208 161 161 Cash flow hedging reserve 1,030 1,030 458 458 Deferred tax assets 906 906 1,110 1,110 Prudential valuation adjustments 532 532 381 381 Goodwill and other intangible assets 6,480 6,480 6,537 6,537 Expected losses less impairments 1,371 1,371 1,035 1,035 Other regulatory adjustments 8 8 86 64 10,839 10,839 9,872 9,850 CET1 capital 30,623 30,623 37,608 37,630 AT1 capital Eligible AT1 4,041 4,041 1,997 1,997 Qualifying instruments and related share premium subject to phase out 5,416 5,092 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 339 1,627 AT1 capital 4,041 9,796 1,997 8,716 Tier 1 capital 34,664 40,419 39,605 46,346 Qualifying Tier 2 capital Qualifying instruments and related share premium 6,893 7,066 5,745 6,265 Qualifying instruments issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties 2,268 4,818 2,257 7,354 Tier 2 capital 9,161 11,884 8,002 13,619 Total regulatory capital 43,825 52,303 47,607 59,965 Note: 1 CRR as implemented by the Prudential Regulation Authority in the UK, with effect from 1 January 2014.
All regulatory adjustments and deductions to CET1 have been applied in full for the end-point CRR basis with the exception of unrealised gains on available-for-sale securities which has been included from 2015 for the PRA transitional basis.
2 The Groups Tier 1 grandfathering cap is set at 5.8 billion for 2016 2015 - 6.7 billion.
The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR CET1, AT1 and Tier 2 capital for the year.
CET1 AT1 Tier 2 Total m m m m At 1 January 2016 37,608 1,997 8,002 47,607 Loss for the year 6,955 6,955 Own credit 200 200 Share capital and reserve movements in respect of employee share schemes 208 208 Ordinary shares issued 215 215 Foreign exchange reserve 1,214 1,214 Available-for-sale reserves 69 69 Goodwill and intangibles deduction 57 57 Deferred tax assets 204 204 Prudential valuation adjustments 151 151 Expected loss over impairment provisions 336 336 Capital instruments issued matured 2,044 2,044 Net dated subordinated debt grandfathered instruments 826 826 Foreign exchange movements 1,985 1,985 Other movements 1,172 1,172 At 31 December 2016 30,623 4,041 9,161 43,825 unaudited 181 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Leverage exposure The leverage exposure is based on the CRR Delegated Act.
End-point CRR basis 2016 2015 Leverage bn bn Derivatives 247.0 262.5 Loans and advances 340.3 327.0 Reverse repos 41.8 39.9 Other assets 169.6 186.0 Total assets 798.7 815.4 Derivatives - netting 241.7 258.6 - potential future exposures 65.3 75.6 Securities financing transactions gross up 2.3 5.1 Undrawn commitments analysis below 58.6 63.5 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 0.1 1.5 Leverage exposure 683.3 702.5 Tier 1 capital 34.7 39.6 Leverage ratio % 5.1 5.6 Average leverage exposure 712.1 Average Tier 1 capital 38.0 Average leverage ratio % 5.3 UK leverage ratio % 5.6 Note: 1 The UK leverage ratio excludes central bank claims from the leverage exposure where deposits held are denominated in the same currency and of contractual maturity that is equal or longer than that of the central bank claims.
Weighted undrawn commitments The table below provides a breakdown of weighted undrawn commitments.
2016 2015 bn bn Unconditionally cancellable credit cards 2.4 2.4 Other Unconditionally cancellable items 7.7 7.2 Unconditionally cancellable items 1 10.1 9.6 Undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled 1.8 0.6 Other off-balance sheet items with 20% CCF 0.9 1.4 Items with a 20% CCF 2.7 2.0 Revolving credit risk facilities 27.2 25.3 Term loans 3.1 4.3 Mortgages 0.1 5.9 Other undrawn commitments 1 year which may not be cancelled & off-balance sheet items with 50% CCF 3.3 5.3 Items with a 50% CCF 33.7 40.8 Items with a 100% CCF 12.1 11.1 Total 58.6 63.5 Note: 1 Based on a 10% credit conversion factor CCF.
unaudited 182 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Loss absorbing capital RBSs capital components and estimated loss absorbing capital LAC at 31 December 2016 based on current regulatory interpretations are set out below.
For details regarding regulatory developments in relation to MREL requirements, refer to page 176.
The roll-off profile and average spread relating to senior debt and Tier 2 instruments is set out on the next page.
The following table illustrates the components of estimated LAC in RBSG and operating subsidiaries.
2 Regulatory capital instruments issued from operating companies are included in the transitional LAC calculation, to the extent they meet the MREL criteria.
3 LAC value reflects RBSs interpretation of the Bank of Englands policy statement on the minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities MREL, published in November 2016.
MREL policy and requirements remain subject to further potential development, as such RBS estimated position remains subject to potential change.
Liabilities excluded from LAC include instruments with less than one year remaining to maturity, structured debt, operating company senior debt, and other instruments that do not meet the MREL criteria.
Includes Tier 1 and Tier 2 securities prior to incentive to redeem.
4 CRD IV capital buffers met by CET1 in addition to MREL requirements: being 3.5% in 2017 based on a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and G-SIB requirement of 1.0%, and 4.0% in 2016 based on a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% and a G-SIB requirement of 1.5%.
Excludes consideration of any additional management buffer.
5 Corresponding shareholders equity was 48.6 billion 2015 - 53.4 billion.
6 Regulatory amounts reported for AT1, Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments are before grandfathering restrictions imposed by CRR.
unaudited 183 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Roll-off profile Based on current guidance, RBS anticipates issuing senior bonds from its holding company to ensure LAC classification under MREL proposals.
The following table illustrates the roll-off profile and weighted average spreads of RBSs major wholesale funding programmes.
2 Based on first call date of instrument 3 The weighted average spread reflects the average net funding cost to RBS.
This is calculated as the difference between the issuing coupon and the equivalent hedging rate.
unaudited 184 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued Risk-weighted assets The table below analyses the movement in credit risk RWAs on the end-point CRR basis during the year, by key drivers.
Credit risk RWAs Non-counterparty Counterparty Total bn bn bn At 1 January 2016 166.4 23.4 189.8 Foreign exchange movement 10.1 1.4 11.5 Business movements 10.5 2.4 12.9 Risk parameter changes 1 4.5 0.5 4.0 Model updates 0.7 0.7 At 31 December 2016 162.2 22.9 185.1 Note: 1 PD model changes relating to counterparty risks are included with risk parameter changes in line with EBA Pillar 3 Guidelines issued in December 2016.
The table below analyses the movement in market and operational risk RWAs on the end-point CRR basis during the year.
Market risk RWAs Operational risk NatWest Markets Other Total RWAs Total bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2016 13.8 7.4 21.2 31.6 52.8 Business and market movements 2.2 1.6 3.8 5.9 9.7 At 31 December 2016 11.6 5.8 17.4 25.7 43.1 Key points Growth in UK lending, both new and organic, and the RWAs decreased by 14.4 billion to 228.2 billion primarily transfer of Northern Ireland loans from UK PBB were the as result of run down of Capital Resolution and the reduction key contributors to the increase in Commercial Banking.
in operational risk 5.9 billion partly offset by adverse NatWest Markets RWAs increased by 2.1 billion principally exchange rate movements 11.5 billion as sterling due to business movements and the impact of the weakened against all major currencies.
The foreign exchange movement occurred primarily in Capital Resolution RWAs continued to decrease in line with Capital Resolution 4.2 billion, Ulster Bank RoI 2.6 risk reduction strategy 14.5 billion with the majority of the billion Commercial Banking 2.1 billion and NatWest movement seen in Markets 4.9 billion, primarily derivative Markets 1.2 billion.
mitigation activities and terminations, and disposals and runThe annual operational risk recalculation resulted in a off in Global Transactions Services 3.1 billion, shipping decrease of 2.0 billion and a further 3.9 billion reduction 1.7 billion and legacy loan portfolio 2.3 billion.
relating to the removal of the Citizens related element The Central items decrease of 7.1 billion is significantly following PRA approval.
driven by the operational risk reduction relating to Citizens.
unaudited 185 Business review Capital and risk management Capital risk continued RWAs by segment The chart below illustrates the concentration of risk-weighted assets by segment.
Group 100% Group % Credit Risk 81.1 Market Risk 7.6 OperationalRisk 11.3 UK PBB Ulster Bank RoI Commercial Banking Private Banking 14.3% 7.9% 34.4% 3.8% UK PBB % % %% Credit Risk 10.8 Credit Risk 7.4 Credit Risk 31.6 Credit Risk 3.3 Market Risk - Market Risk - Market Risk-- - Market Risk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk 3.5 0.5 2.8 0.5 NatWest RBS International Capital Resolution Central items & Williams & Glyn 4.2% Markets 4.2% 15.1% Other 0.6% 15.5% % %% % % Credit Risk Credit Risk 3.9 Credit Risk 8.6 Credit Risk 11.8 3.6 Credit Risk 0.1 Market Risk - Market Risk 5.1 Market Risk 2.1 Market Risk - Market Risk 0.4 OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk OperationalRisk 0.3 1.8 1.2 0.6 0.1 The table below analyses the movement in end-point CRR RWAs by segment during the year.
Ulster Central Bank Commercial Private NatWest Capital items UK PBB RoI Banking Banking RBSI Markets Resolution W&G & other Total Total RWAs bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn At 1 January 2016 33.3 19.4 72.3 8.7 8.3 33.1 49.0 9.9 8.6 242.6 Foreign exchange movement 2.6 2.1 0.6 1.2 4.2 0.8 11.5 Business movements 1.8 4.1 0.6 1.2 18.1 0.2 8.3 22.5 Risk parameter changes 1 1.0 2.1 0.2 0.1 0.9 0.1 4.0 Methodology changes 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.1 Model updates 2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.7 At 31 December 2016 32.7 18.1 78.5 8.6 9.5 35.2 34.5 9.6 1.5 228.2 Credit risk - non-counterparty 24.8 16.9 72.0 7.5 8.8 5.5 18.2 8.2 0.3 162.2 - counterparty 0.1 14.1 8.7 22.9 Market risk 11.6 4.8 1.0 17.4 Operational risk 7.9 1.1 6.5 1.1 0.7 4.0 2.8 1.4 0.2 25.7 Total RWAs 32.7 18.1 78.5 8.6 9.5 35.2 34.5 9.6 1.5 228.2 Notes: 1 Risk parameter changes relate to changes in credit quality metrics of customers and counterparties such as probability of default PD and loss given default LGD as well as IRB model changes relating to counterparty credit risk in line with EBA Pillar 3 Guidelines.
2 Credit risk models were updated during the year including LGD model for quasi governments and PD model for banks.
unaudited 186 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk RBS may access various funding facilities offered by central Definition banks from time to time.
The use of such facilities can be both Liquidity and funding risk arises when RBS is unable to meet its part of a wider strategic objective to support initiatives to help financial obligations, including financing wholesale maturities or stimulate economic growth or as part of the broader liquidity customer deposit withdrawals, as and when they fall due.
Usage and repayment of available central bank facilities will fit within the overall liquidity All the quantitative disclosures in this section are audited except risk appetite and concentration limits.
for those in Liquidity metrics and Behavioural maturity.
Policy, framework and governance Key developments in 2016 The key elements of the liquidity and funding framework within Liquidity position: RBS are as follows: The liquidity portfolio of 164 billion covered total wholesale funding, including derivative collateral, by more than two Type Description times.
The liquidity portfolio increased by 8 billion in the Meeting regulatory and set internal risk year driven by secondary liquidity, as the volume of Risk appetite limits for liquidity and funding.
mortgage assets placed into the Discount Window Facility How we manage liquidity and funding DWF increased during 2016.
The regulatory liquidity coverage ratio LCR metric Management oversight and three lines decreased to 123% at 31 December 2016 from 136% at the Governance of defence.
prior year end, driven by Capital Resolution run down and by UK PBB and Commercial Banking lending growth.
Internal liquidity and funding policies are designed to ensure that Internal stressed outflow coverage SOC was 139% at 31 RBS: December 2016, down from 227% in 2015, primarily due to Has a clearly stated liquidity and funding risk tolerance: The a change in approach that restricts reliance on DWF assets.
liquidity and funding risk tolerance forms part of RBSs bankFunding position: wide risk appetite statement, which is overseen by the Net stable funding ratio NSFR remained broadly Board Risk Committee and approved by the RBS Board.
unchanged from the prior year at 121%.
This is comfortably The risk appetite statement defines key metrics, risk trigger above the minimum target of 100% and reflects RBSs levels and capacity for liquidity and funding management funding strategy to rely on stable customer deposits.
within RBS The Board also sets the appetite for funding risk Loan:deposit ratio was 91% at the end of 2016, a 2% to ensure that stable sources of funding are used to fund increase from the prior year, driven by Capital Resolution RBSs core assets.
RBS monitors its liquidity positions running down more deposits than loans.
against these risk tolerances on a daily basis.
In setting risk limits the Board considers the nature of RBSs activities, Sources of liquidity and funding overall risk appetite, market best practice and regulatory Liquidity and funding risks arise through the maturity compliance.
transformation role that banks perform.
It is dependent on RBS Has in place strategies, policies and practices to ensure that specific factors such as maturity profile, composition of sources RBS maintains sufficient liquidity: the risk management and uses of funding and the quality and size of the liquidity framework determines the sources of liquidity risks and the portfolio.
Broader market factors, such as wholesale market steps that can be taken when these risks exceed certain conditions and depositor and investor behaviour, are also monitored limits.
These steps include when and how to use contributing factors.
the liquid asset portfolio, and other balance sheet actions that can be undertaken.
The Asset and Liability RBSs primary funding sources are as follows: Management Committee ALCo, and by delegation the ALCo Technical Committee, oversees the implementation of Type Description liquidity and funding management across RBS within set risk Customer deposits PBB and CPB deposit taking franchises.
Short-term less than 1 year unsecured Incorporates liquidity costs, benefits and risks in product Wholesale markets money markets and secured repo pricing and performance management: RBS uses internal market funding.
funds transfer pricing to ensure liquidity costs are reflected Issuance of long-term more than 1 in the measurement of business performance, and to Term debt year unsecured and secured debt correctly incentivise the business to source the most securities.
187 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Liquidity risks are reviewed at significant legal entity and Regulatory oversight and liquidity framework business levels daily, with performance reported to ALCos at RBS operates across multiple jurisdictions and is subject to a least monthly.
number of regulatory regimes, with the key metrics being: Exposure Any breach of internal metric limits will set in motion a series of Ratio type Description actions and escalations outlined under the RBS Recovery Plan Liquidity Liquidity Coverage of 30 day net cash refer to page 179, which covers all legal entities within the coverage profile outflows in stress - effective from Group.
The plan sets out credible recovery options that could be ratio 1 October 2015. implemented in the event of a severe stress to restore the business to a stable and sustainable position, focussing on Net stable Structural Required and available stable addressing the banks capital and liquidity position.
funding funding profile funding sources less than and ratio greater than 1 year timeline.
Two significant legal entities, RBS Securities Inc and The Royal Effective from 1 January 2018.
Bank of Scotland International Limited, have been requested by local regulators to maintain separate recover plans to address The principal regulator, the PRA, has a comprehensive set of specific liquidity risks.
These plans will be aligned to the 2017 liquidity regulations which implement the Capital Requirements RBS Recovery Plan to ensure they operate consistently in the Directive CRD IV liquidity regime in the UK.
To comply with the event of a stress scenario.
PRA regulatory framework, RBS undertakes the following: Stress testing Activity Description Under the liquidity risk management framework RBS maintains the ILAAP, a component of which is an assessment of net Individual Liquidity An ongoing exercise to comply with best stressed liquidity outflows.
RBS considers a range of extreme but Adequacy practice and regulatory standards for plausible stress scenarios on cash flows, liquidity resources, Assessment liquidity management.
profitability, solvency, asset encumbrance and survival horizon.
Process ILAAP L-SREP An annual Liquidity Supervisory Review Type Description and Evaluation Process L-SREP with Idiosyncratic The market perceives RBS to be the PRA, that involves a comprehensive scenario suffering from a severe stress event review of the RBS ILAAP, liquidity which results in an immediate policies and risk management assumption of increased credit risk or framework.
This results in the settings concerns over solvency.
of the Individual Liquidity Guidance, which influences the size and overall Market-wide A market stress event affecting all composition of the liquidity portfolio.
scenario participants in a market through contagion, counterparty failure and Regulatory developments other market risks.
RBS is impacted LCR is being introduced on a phased basis and UK banks are under this scenario but no more initially required to maintain a minimum 90% LCR by 1 January severely than any other participants with 2017, rising to 100% by 1 January 2018. equivalent exposure.
The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS published Combined scenario This scenario models the combined its final recommendations for implementation of the NSFR in impact of an idiosyncratic and market October 2014.
The proposal included an implementation date of stress occurring at once.
The combined 1 January 2018, by which time banks are expected to meet and scenario reflects the contingency that a maintain an NSFR ratio of 100%.
The European Commission severe name-specific event occurs at EC is due to submit a legislative proposal to the European RBS in conjunction with a broader Parliament during 2017 for implementing the NSFR in the market stress, causing wider damage to European Union EU.
In the meantime, RBS uses the definitions the market and financial sector and from the BCBS guidelines, and its own internal interpretations, to severely impacting funding markets and calculate the NSFR.
Measurement, monitoring and contingency planning RBS uses the most severe combination of these to set the In implementing the liquidity risk management framework, a suite internal stress testing scenario.
The results of this enable the of tools are used to monitor, limit and stress test the risks within bank to set its internal liquidity risk appetite which complements the balance sheet.
Set limits control the amount and composition the regulatory LCR requirement.
of funding sources, asset and liability mismatches and funding concentrations, in addition to the level of liquidity risk.
unaudited 188 Business review Capital and risk management Separate from the liquidity portfolio, RBS holds high quality Liquidity and funding risk continued assets to meet payment systems collateral requirements: these Liquidity portfolio The size of the portfolio is determined under the liquidity risk are managed by RBS Treasury.
management framework with reference to RBSs liquidity risk RBS categorises its liquidity portfolio, including its locally appetite.
managed liquidity portfolios, into primary and secondary liquid The majority of the portfolio is centrally managed by RBS assets: Treasury, ring-fenced from the NatWest Markets trading book, Primary liquid assets such as cash and balances at central and is the ultimate responsibility of the RBS Treasurer.
This banks, treasury bills and other high quality government and portfolio is held in the PRA regulated UK Domestic Liquidity US agency bonds.
Subgroup UK DoLSub comprising RBSs five licensed deposit Secondary liquid assets are eligible as collateral for local taking UK banks: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, National central bank liquidity facilities, but do not meet the core local Westminster Bank Plc, Ulster Bank Limited, Coutts & Co and regulatory definition.
These assets include own-issued Adam & Company PLC.
securitisations or whole loans that are retained on balance sheet and pre-positioned with a central bank so that they Two of RBS's significant operating subsidiaries, RBS N. V. and may be converted into additional sources of liquidity at very Ulster Bank Ireland DAC, hold locally managed portfolios that short notice.
comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
RBS retains a prudent approach to setting the composition of the The UK DoLSub liquidity portfolio accounted for 96% of the total liquidity portfolio, which is subject to internal policies and limits liquidity portfolio: this portion is available to meet liquidity needs over quality of counterparty, maturity mix and currency mix.
The as they arise across RBS.
The remaining liquidity reserves are liquidity value of the portfolio is determined with reference to held within non-UK bank subsidiaries for local use.
current market prices and the haircuts necessary to generate cash from the asset.
Liquidity risk Key metrics The table below sets out the key liquidity and related metrics monitored by RBS.
Ratios are set out in order of tenor.
2016 2015 Liquidity portfolio 164bn 156bn Liquidity coverage ratio 1 123% 136% Stressed outflow coverage 2 139% 227% Net stable funding ratio 3 121% 121% Loan:deposit ratio 91% 89% Notes: 1 On 1 October 2015 the LCR became the PRAs primary regulatory liquidity standard.
It is a Pillar 1 metric to which the PRA apply Pillar 2 add-ons.
UK banks are required to meet a minimum standard of 90% from 1 January 2017, rising to 100% by 1 January 2018.
The published LCR excludes Pillar 2 add-ons.
RBS calculates the LCR using its own interpretations of the EU LCR Delegated Act, which may change over time and may not be fully comparable with those of other financial institutions.
2 RBS's liquidity risk appetite is measured by reference to the liquidity portfolio as a percentage of stressed contractual and behavioural outflows under the worst of three severe stress scenarios of a market-wide stress, an idiosyncratic stress and a combination of both in RBSs ILAAP.
This assessment is performed in accordance with PRA guidance.
3 BCBS issued its final recommendations for the implementation of the net stable funding ratio in October 2014, proposing an implementation date of 1 January 2018.
Pending further guidelines from the EU and the PRA, RBS uses the definitions and proposals from the BCBS paper and internal interpretations, to calculate the NSFR.
Consequently RBSs ratio may change over time and may not be comparable with those of other financial institutions.
unaudited 189 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Liquidity portfolio The table below shows the liquidity portfolio by product, liquidity value and by carrying value.
Liquidity value is lower than carrying value as it is stated after discounts applied by the Bank of England and other central banks to instruments, within the secondary liquidity portfolio, eligible for discounting.
In addition, certain of RBSs significant operating subsidiaries, RBS N. V. and Ulster Bank Ireland DAC, hold managed portfolios that comply with local regulations that may differ from PRA rules.
2 Comprises assets eligible for discounting at the Bank of England and other central banks.
The table below shows the liquidity value of the liquidity portfolio by currency.
GBP USD EUR Other Total Total liquidity portfolio m m m m m 2016 128,614 9,582 24,833 897 163,926 2015 110,289 20,861 24,574 155,724 Funding risk The composition of RBSs balance sheet is a function of the RBSs asset and liability types broadly match.
Customer deposits broad array of product offerings and markets served by its core provide more funding than customer loans utilise: repurchase businesses.
The structural composition of the balance sheet is agreements are largely covered by reverse repurchase augmented as needed through active management of both asset agreements: interbank lending and funding largely nets off and and liability portfolios.
The objective of these activities is to this gap has narrowed over the past five years: and derivative optimise the liquidity profile, while ensuring adequate coverage of assets are largely netted against derivative liabilities.
all cash requirements under extreme stress conditions.
Key funding metrics The table below summarises the key funding metrics.
Short-term wholesale funding 1 Total wholesale funding Net inter-bank funding 2 Excluding Including Excluding Including Net derivative derivative derivative derivative inter-bank collateral collateral collateral collateral Deposits Loans 3 funding bn bn bn bn bn bn bn 2016 total 13.9 34.6 59.3 80.0 12.6 10.6 2.0 2015 total 17.2 37.6 58.7 79.1 7.7 7.3 0.4 Notes: 1 Short-term wholesale funding is funding with a residual maturity of less than one year.
190 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Funding sources The table below shows the carrying values of the principal funding sources.
2 Cash collateral includes 10,002 million 2015 - 9,504 million from financial institutions.
Repos The table below analyses repos by counterparty type.
2016 2015 m m Financial institutions - central and other banks 5,239 10,266 - other financial institutions 25,652 20,130 Other corporate 1,444 6,982 Total 32,335 37,378 Key point Reverse repos at 31 December 2016 were 41.8 billion 2015 - 39.9 billion.
Fair value of securities received as collateral for reverse repos was 41.8 billion 2015 - 39.8 billion, of which 30.5 billion 2015 - 29.0 billion had been rehypothecated for RBSs own transactions, in line with normal market practice.
191 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Loan:deposit ratios and funding surplus gap The table below shows loans and advances to customers, customer deposits, loan:deposit ratios LDR and funding surplus gap.
3 Calculated as customer deposits less loans and advances to customers 4 nm not meaningful Key points Deposit growth continued in 2016, particularly in UK PBB, The loan:deposit ratio was 91%, up from 89% at the end of Commercial Banking, Private Banking and RBSI.
These 2015 as loans grew more than deposits.
increases were partially offset by deposit reductions in Loan growth was driven by mortgage lending in UK PBB Capital Resolution as the business continued to run down, and corporate lending in Commercial Banking.
and the sale of the International Private Banking business.
unaudited 192 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued The table below shows RBS's principal funding sources.
Debt securities in issue Commercial Covered Subordinated Total notes Total notes paper and CDs MTNs bonds Securitisations Total liabilities in issue in issue 2016 m m m m m m m % Less than 1 year 3,205 3,388 96 6,689 1,062 7,751 17 1-3 years 3 4,937 871 5,811 2,814 8,625 18 3-5 years 3,323 1,883 5,206 483 5,689 12 More than 5 years 6,973 1,085 1,481 9,539 15,060 24,599 53 Total including disposal groups 3,208 18,621 3,935 1,481 27,245 19,419 46,664 100 2015 Less than 1 year 742 6,639 2,171 4 9,556 323 9,879 20 1-3 years 202 5,567 758 6,527 2,801 9,328 18 3-5 years 6,203 1,627 7,830 317 8,147 16 More than 5 years 3,770 1,029 2,438 7,237 16,406 23,643 46 Total 944 22,179 5,585 2,442 31,150 19,847 50,997 100 193 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Maturity analysis The contractual maturity of balance sheet assets and liabilities reflects the maturity transformation role banks perform, lending long-term but obtaining funding predominantly through short-term liabilities such as customer deposits.
In practice, the behavioural profiles of many liabilities exhibit greater stability and longer maturity than the contractual maturity.
This is particularly true of many types of retail and corporate deposits which, despite being repayable on demand or at short notice, have demonstrated very stable characteristics even in periods of acute stress.
In its analysis to assess and manage asset and liability maturity gaps RBS determines the expected customer behaviour through qualitative and quantitative techniques, incorporating observed customer behaviours over long periods of time.
This analysis is subject to governance through ALCos down to a segment level.
Behavioural analysis Contractual maturity analysis and net behavioural funding surplus gap are set out below.
billion during 2016 to 31 billion, driven by loan growth in The net funding surplus in 2016 is concentrated in the addition to deposit rundown in Capital Resolution, partially longer dated buckets, reflecting the stable characteristics of offset by underlying deposit growth.
customer deposits and lending that is behaviourally shorter dated.
unaudited 194 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Contractual maturity The following table shows the residual maturity of financial instruments, based on contractual date of maturity.
Held-for-trading HFT assets and liabilities have been excluded from the maturity analysis in view of their short-term nature and are shown in total in the table below.
Hedging derivatives are included within the relevant maturity bands.
The typical securities repurchase agreements.
characteristics that support encumbrance are an ability to pledge Pre-positioned with central banks as part of funding those assets to another counterparty or entity through operation schemes and those encumbered under such schemes.
of law without necessarily requiring prior notification, Not currently encumbered.
In this category, RBS has in homogeneity, predictable and measurable cash flows, and a place an enablement programme which seeks to identify consistent and uniform underwriting and collection process.
assets which are capable of being encumbered and to Retail assets including residential mortgages, credit card identify the actions to facilitate such encumbrance whilst not receivables and personal loans display many of these features.
impacting customer relationships or servicing.
197 Business review Capital and risk management Liquidity and funding risk continued Encumbered as a result of transactions with Pre-positioned Unencumbered assets not pre-positioned counterparties other than central banks & encumbered with central banks Covered assets held bonds & Repos & at central Readily Other Cannot securitisation Derivatives similar 2 Total banks 4 available available be used Total Total 2015 1 bn bn bn bn bn 5 bn 6 bn 7 bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 2.5 2.5 77.3 0.1 77.4 79.9 Loans and advances - banks 1.5 11.0 0.4 12.9 4.3 1.3 0.5 6.1 19.0 - residential mortgages - UK 15.2 15.2 81.3 18.6 8.4 27.0 123.5 - Irish 7.4 7.4 1.2 4.0 0.1 4.1 12.7 - credit cards 4.4 0.2 4.6 4.6 - personal loans 6.0 5.1 11.1 11.1 - other 0.8 17.2 0.4 18.4 8.3 8.9 98.4 22.1 129.4 156.1 Reverse repos 39.9 39.9 39.9 Debt securities 2.9 31.9 34.8 47.2 0.5 47.7 82.5 Equity shares 0.8 0.2 0.4 1.4 1.4 Settlement balances 4.1 4.1 4.1 Derivatives 262.5 262.5 262.5 Intangible assets 6.5 6.5 6.5 PP&E 0.3 0.3 3.1 1.1 4.2 4.5 Deferred tax 2.6 2.6 2.6 Other assets 4.5 4.5 4.5 24.9 31.1 35.5 91.5 90.8 171.5 117.3 344.3 633.1 815.4 Notes: 1 Covered bonds and securitisations include securitisations, conduits and covered bonds.
2 Repos and other secured deposits, cash, coin and nostro balance held with the Bank of England as collateral against deposits and notes in circulation are included here rather than within those positioned at the central bank as they are part of normal banking operations.
3 Total assets encumbered as a result of transactions with counterparties other than central banks are those that have been pledged to provide security and are therefore not available to secure funding or to meet other collateral needs.
4 Assets pre-positioned at the central banks include loans provided as security as part of funding schemes and those encumbered under such schemes.
5 Readily available for encumbrance: including assets that have been enabled for use with central banks but not pre-positioned: cash and high quality debt securities that form part of RBSs liquidity portfolio and unencumbered debt securities.
6 Other assets that are capable of being encumbered are those assets on the balance sheet that are available for funding and collateral purposes but are not readily realisable in their current form.
These assets include loans that could be prepositioned with central banks but have not been subject to internal and external documentation review and diligence work.
7 Cannot be used includes: a Derivatives, reverse repurchase agreements and trading related settlement balances.
b Non-financial assets such as intangibles, prepayments and deferred tax.
c Loans that cannot be pre-positioned with central banks based on criteria set by the central banks, including those relating to date of origination and level of documentation.
d Non-recourse invoice financing balances and certain shipping loans whose terms and structure prohibit their use as collateral.
8 In accordance with market practice, RBS employs securities recognised on the balance sheet, and securities received under reverse repo transactions as collateral for repos.
Secured derivative liabilities reflect net positions that are collateralised by balance sheet assets.
198 Business review Capital and risk management Business risk Reputational risk Definition and sources of risk Definition and sources of risk Business risk arises as a result of RBSs exposure to the macroReputational risk can arise from the conduct of employees: environment, to the competitive environment, and to activities of customers and the sectors and countries in which technological changes.
In addition, internal factors such as they operate: provision of products and transactions: as well as volatility in sales volumes, and input costs, and other operational operations and infrastructure.
risks such as RBSs ability to assess the business operating environment, or to execute its chosen strategy, contribute to Key developments in 2016 business risk.
Reputational risk has Board-level oversight reinforced by a Reputational Risk Policy.
The Board Risk Committee and Board Key developments in 2016 Sustainable Banking Committee are responsible for overseeing The Board has ultimate responsibility for business risk and for how RBS manages its reputation.
The Boards oversight of approving strategic plans, initiatives and changes to strategic reputational issues is supported by the senior RBS-wide direction.
Reputational Risk Forum RRF which opines on cases that represent a material reputational risk to the whole organisation.
RBSs strategic planning process is managed by Strategy and The RRF, which has delegated authority from the Executive Risk Corporate Development.
The Risk and Finance functions are key Forum ERF, also acts as a central forum to review sector or contributors to strategic planning.
theme-specific reputational risk acceptance positions, including Environmental, Social and Ethical risk positions.
Responsibility for the day-to-day management of business risk lies primarily with the franchises, with oversight by the Finance RBS articulated its appetite for reputational risk through the function.
The franchises are responsible for delivery of their implementation of a qualitative reputational risk appetite business plans and the management of such factors as pricing, statement and framework.
This has improved the identification, sales volumes, marketing expenditure and other factors that can assessment and management of customers and issues that introduce volatility into earnings.
present a material reputational risk, resulting in a greater awareness and focus on the importance of this risk and an Business risk is identified and managed at the product and increase in the number of cases brought to franchise and RBStransaction level.
Estimated revenue, costs and capital are key wide Reputational Risk fora.
considerations in the design of any new product or in any new investment decision.
Reputational risk is mitigated through the policy and governance framework, with ongoing staff training to ensure early Business risk is reported, assessed and challenged at every identification, assessment and escalation of material issues.
governance level within the organisation.
Each franchise monitors its financial performance relative to plans and reports The most material threats to RBSs reputation continued to this on a regular basis to the finance directors of each franchise.
originate from historical and more recent conduct issues.
As a result, RBS has been the subject of investigations and reviews by RBS operates a monthly rolling forecasting process to identify a number of its regulators, some of which have resulted in fines projected changes in, or risks to, key financial metrics, and and public censure.
Refer to the Litigation, investigations and ensures appropriate actions are taken.
reviews section of Note 31 on the consolidated accounts on page 367.
RBS continued to reduce its business risk profile by implementing its strategic plan to shift the business mix towards the UK and retail and commercial banking segments, with higher risk activities in NatWest Markets and Capital Resolution curtailed through disposals and run-downs.
RBS also continued with its simplification and cost reduction programmes.
Market conditions have become more volatile following the EU referendum result, and RBS has been closely monitoring and assessing the operating environment and its impact on business risk.
unaudited 199 Business review Capital and risk management Conduct and regulatory risk Definition The Conduct Risk Appetite Framework was established in 2015 Conduct and regulatory risk is the risk that the behaviour of RBS and continues to be embedded across RBS.
and its staff towards customers, or in the markets in which it operates, leads to unfair or inappropriate customer outcomes and results in reputational damage, financial loss or both.
The damage or loss may be the result of a failure to comply with or We have no appetite for actions that result in adequately plan for changes to relevant official sector policy, inappropriate outcomes for our customers or laws, regulations, or major industry standards, or of failing to breach legal or regulatory requirements leading to censure or financial meet customers or regulators expectations.
All the disclosures in penalty this section are unaudited.
Policy Standard Zero Tolerance Sources of risk Risk Appetite Statements articulate the level of risk which Conduct and regulatory risk exists across all stages of RBSs functions and franchises Risk Appetite Statements must not exceed i. e. the relationships with its customers, from the development of its RBS-wide cascaded risk appetite business strategies, to post-sales processes.
The activities Businesses undertake selfthrough which conduct risk may arise are varied and include assessments with Conduct Performance Advisory providing Assessment oversight and product design, marketing and sales, complaint handling, staff challenge training, and handling of confidential Insider Information.
Conduct risk also exists if RBS does not take effective action to prevent Qualitative and quantitative MI linked to the fraud, bribery and money laundering.
Regulatory risk arises from Conduct Risk MI Risk Appetite Pillars the regulatory, business or operating environment and from RBSs response to it.
As set out in the Litigation, investigations The Conduct Risk Appetite Framework is divided into seven and reviews section in Note 30 on the consolidated accounts, pillars, ensuring that conduct risk exposures are understood and RBS and certain members of staff are party to legal proceedings managed in accordance with agreed risk appetite.
The Conduct and are subject to investigation and other regulatory action in the Risk Appetite Framework requires regular and consistent UK, the US and other jurisdictions.
assessment through periodic Conduct Performance Assessment, reporting of risk exposures and the operating effectiveness of Key regulatory and conduct developments in 2016 controls, across the businesses.
RBS continued to remediate historical conduct issues, while also focusing its customer-facing businesses and support functions Product profitability and We can clearly demonstrate pricing structures are fair We can clearly demonstrate around the needs of its customers including the delivery of a that our business model is and transparent that our products and services consistent with our strategy and number of regulatory change programmes.
Conduct and litigation are designed to meet customer serves our customers well while needs, their level of complexity balancing the commercial costs were 5.9 billion in 2016 compared with 3.6 billion in Product is appropriate for the target needs of the bank Profitability market and they work in the 2015.
& Pricing way they are expected to Business Model The remediation of PPI continued, with the FCA due to & Strategy Product update on policy during the first quarter of 2017.
We have no appetite Our governance, for actions that result Provisioning was increased by 601 million principally to Our customers are sold in inappropriate policies and products and services outcomes for our customers procedures ensure cover the potential pushing back of the time bar.
appropriate for their or breach legal or regulatory that good customer requirements leading to needs.
Any information and conduct On 8 November, RBS announced it would be taking two censure or financial or advice provided is Customer outcomes are Governance penalty suitable, relevant and Lifecycle steps in relation to the FCAs S166 review into GRG, firstly achieved.
We abide communicated in a by all relevant laws clear, fair way.
Delivery to implement a complaints process with independent thirdand regulations and of post-sales support conflicts of interest party oversight for all customers in scope and secondly to meets customer Competency, Financial are managed expectations Culture Crime provide an automatic refund of complex fees paid by in- & Reward scope SME customers.
The FCA review is ongoing and the Our colleagues are trained, managed and rewarded to final report findings are awaited.
We have robust systems serve customers well and and controls in place to deliver good outcomes.
Our RBS made a provision for the industry-wide review by the prevent financial crime people act with integrity and understand the impact of their Central Bank of Ireland on the treatment of customers who decisions and behaviours on customer outcomes were sold mortgages with a tracker interest rate or with a Other activities undertaken to address regulatory risk included: tracker interest rate entitlement.
Following the outcome of the FCAs thematic review on Migration to simpler, principle-based policies with Packaged Bank Accounts, NatWest was required to provide accountable executives identified and roles, accountabilities an attestation that it is compliant with FCA rules.
and responsibilities defined: The application of the revised Markets in Financial Roll-out of RBS-wide policies, processes and strategic Instruments Directive and Regulation MiFID II MiFIR was systems to identify and manage conflicts of interest better: delayed by a year to January 2018, while UK and EU Enhancement of the RBS-wide surveillance programme: regulators published several consultations on its and implementation.
Significant investment in anti-money laundering controls, The Market Abuse Regime took effect from July 2016. governance and training.
The UKs Senior Managers and Certification regime was successfully implemented.
Work continues on the UKs ring-fencing requirements.
unaudited 200 pillars Business review Capital and risk management Conduct and regulatory risk continued Risk appetite Governance The conduct risk appetite framework has now been embedded RBS defines appropriate standards of conduct and drives and the Conduct Performance Assessment, which forms part of adherence to those standards through its framework for it, facilitates a consistent approach across RBS for assessing managing conduct and regulatory risk.
The Board and its senior conduct and regulatory risk.
committees receive updates on conduct risk exposures and action plans through regular reporting.
Risk appetite statements, in line with RBS-wide risk appetite, articulate the levels of risk which franchises and functions must Key elements of the governance structure are set out below: not exceed.
Where businesses are operating outside of appetite, The Conduct & Regulatory Affairs C&RA Executive the problems are addressed through agreed risk mitigation plans.
Committee considers emerging material risks and issues, and implements Board and Executive Committee risk Risk monitoring and measurement management policy decisions: The Board and senior RBS committees receive updates on The Financial Crime Accountable Executive Committee conduct risk exposures and action plans through monthly accountable to the Executive Risk Forum ensures that the reporting.
The reporting is intended to be focused, forwardcustomer businesses and the Services function fulfil looking and action-oriented.
strategic objectives by identifying and managing their financial crime risks effectively: and The most material conduct matters are reported to the The Mandatory Change Advisory Committee, reports to the appropriate committees, including the Board, the Group Audit Bank-Wide Investment Committee, acting as the reception Committee and Board Risk Committee.
committee for reviewing externally mandated changes that may affect RBS.
It also recommends appropriate responses, An annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers Report is including change implementation activities.
In doing so, it submitted to the Board and the FCA.
This covers RBSs Antidetermines which businesses or functions own individual Money Laundering AML framework and the operation and risks: and commissions and reviews impact assessments effectiveness of the systems and controls in place to comply with from customer businesses and functions.
In addition, it covers the systems and controls in place to prevent the financing of terrorism and to Plans to merge parts of the C&RA function with Risk ensure compliance with sanctions as well as embargoes and management were announced in December 2016 to take effect export controls.
The change is designed to take advantage The Group Audit Committee is provided with a whistleblowing of synergies across the risk, conduct and regulatory agendas.
It details cases by internal reporting Regulatory Affairs will move to Corporate Governance & categories based on the RBS definition of whistleblowing, which Secretariat, and Remediation and Complaints will move to is contained within RBSs Speak Up policy.
The policy encompasses both the legislative definition contained Controls and assurance within the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 and the regulatory Under the Policy framework, there are 19 conduct risk policies.
definition within FCA and PRA regulations and guidance.
It Each policy is designed to provide both high-level direction and extends these to include conduct or behaviour which does not RBS-wide requirements.
The policies ensure RBS meets its meet the expected bank standards documented in Our Code.
They also provide the necessary clarity to The whistleblowing report identifies underlying trends and staff on their conduct obligations.
highlights the outcomes of investigations.
RBSs Regulatory Affairs department separately oversees Each business within RBS has enhanced its use of management regulatory developments, interactions with regulators and information by linking it to the risk appetite statement.
This is regulatory approvals for individuals.
required to help ensure appropriate customer outcomes are delivered and that the management information is compliant with Assurance and monitoring activities are essential to measure the the Basel Committee on Banking Supervisions principles for extent to which RBS manages its delivery of specific customer effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting.
Risk mitigation Risk assessments are used to identify material conduct risks and Information is communicated to each customer-facing business implement key controls across all business areas.
The risk and function about regulatory developments and discussions with assessment process is designed to confirm that risks are regulators.
This helps identify and execute any required effectively managed and prioritised, as well as ensure controls mitigating changes to strategy or to business models.
Scenario analysis is used to assess the impact of extreme but Early identification and effective management of changes in plausible conduct risks including financial crime.
The scenarios legislation and regulation are critical to the successful mitigation assess the exposures that could significantly affect RBSs of conduct and regulatory risk.
The effects of all changes are financial performance or reputation and are an important managed to ensure timely compliance readiness.
Changes component in the operational risk framework and capital model.
assessed as having a High or Medium-High impact are unaudited managed closely.
201 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk The external fraud threat environment across the industry Definition continued to escalate in 2016, with this trend predicted to Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or continue.
RBS has put in place a collective bank-wide response failed internal processes, people and systems, or external events.
plan to the increased threat.
This aligns fraud prevention It arises from day-to-day operations and is relevant to every programmes across the bank with the objective of mitigating the aspect of the business.
customer and financial impacts of external fraud.
The plan successfully delivered key strategic programmes in 2016 that Operational risk may directly affect customers, lead to financial enhanced RBSs fraud prevention and detection capabilities, loss or damage RBSs reputation for example, a major IT enabling it to limit the impact of fraudulent activity on its systems failure or fraudulent activity.
There can also be a link customers.
As a result RBS recorded an increase in its fraud between operational risk failures and conduct risk issues.
detection rates in the second half of 2016.
RBS is also supporting an industry-led education initiative in 2017-2018 which will offer All the disclosures in this section are unaudited.
advice to help the public protect themselves from preventable Sources of risk financial fraud.
The initiative is led by Financial Fraud Action UK Operational risk may arise from a failure to manage operations, Ltd and is being delivered in conjunction with the Home Office, systems, transactions and assets appropriately.
This can take the law enforcement and other banks.
form of human error, an inability to deliver change adequately or on time, the non-availability of technology services, or the loss of The information and cyber security risk facing RBS continues to customer data.
Fraud and theft are sources of operational risk, as change in line with the constantly evolving threat environment in is the impact of natural and man-made disasters.
It can also arise which it operates.
Internal security improvement programmes from a failure to account for changes in law or regulations or to continue to progress RBS-wide, developing new, and take appropriate measures to protect assets.
strengthening existing controls to protect RBS and its customers.
RBS continuously develops and utilises pro-active threat Key developments in 2016 management and intelligence processes to understand, manage During 2016, RBSs operational risk management framework was and mitigate credible threats.
enhanced with improved links between risk appetite and risk exposures.
This underpins an appropriate risk-based approach to Throughout 2016 RBS has decommissioned a number of operational risk management.
internet-facing websites thus reducing the attack surface visible to external parties such as hackers and fraudsters.
Improvements The year also saw a continued focus on the risks arising from the have also been made to access controls for RBS systems.
execution of major projects, including the Transformation Internal training programmes continue to ensure all employees programme, the restructuring of NatWest Markets formerly CIB, are fully aware of the constant threats facing RBS and remain preparations for the implementation of the Independent vigilant to unauthorised attempts by internal or external parties to Commission on Bankings ring-fencing proposals, the planned access systems and data.
divestment of Williams & Glyn, and the impact on RBSs control environment due to cost reduction measures.
These are essential Risk governance to the achievement of RBSs strategic objectives and, A strong Operational Risk management function is vital to accordingly, Operational Risk continued to oversee these, support RBSs ambitions to serve its customers better.
Improved ensuring the associated risks were assessed and understood management of operational risk against a defined appetite with mitigating activity in place wherever possible.
directly supports the strategic risk objective of improving stakeholder confidence and is vital for stability and reputational There was also a continued strong focus on RBSs enhanced integrity.
risk and control assessment methodology.
This approach enhances understanding of the risk profile for the most critical The Operational Risk function, part of the second line of defence, products and services.
As a core aspect of the Controls undertakes a leadership role and is tasked with delivering a Transformation Programme, the new approach, building on robust operational risk management framework and culture design in 2015, continued to be rolled out and embedded across across RBS.
The Director of Operational Risk reports to the Chief the organisation.
A significant number of assessments were Risk Officer.
carried out during 2016 in order to identify and quantify the most material risks to key products and services.
Refer to page 203 for The Operational Risk function is responsible for the design, further details.
development, delivery and continuous improvement of the operational risk management framework.
The Operational Risk Policy is incorporated into the RBS Policy Framework and provides direction for the consistent identification, assessment, management, monitoring and reporting of operational risk.
Through a network of oversight teams, the function seeks to ensure the integrity of the framework, and manages overall operational risk profile against risk appetite.
unaudited 202 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk continued Above these sit an RBS-level operational risk appetite statement The Operational Risk Executive Committee OREC, which is a which encompasses the full range of operational risks.
This sub-committee of the Executive Risk Forum ERF, acts on all drives the strategic risk measurement of stakeholder confidence operational risk matters.
This includes reviewing operational risk and is reviewed annually by the ERF.
The statement is supported exposure against risk appetite: identifying and assessing both by three simple measures: i the relationship between current and emerging material operational risks: reviewing and operational risk losses and RBSs gross income: ii metrics monitoring the operational risk profile: and reviewing and covering control environment performance: and iii the approving material operational risk policy management requirement for the material RBS-wide operational risks to be framework changes.
Risk identification and assessment Controls and assurance Across all business areas, risk and control assessments are used The Control Environment Certification CEC process is a half to identify and assess material operational and conduct risks and yearly self-assessment by the CEOs of RBSs customer-facing key controls.
To support identification of risk concentrations, all franchises and business units, as well as the heads of the banks risks and controls are mapped to the risk directory.
Risk support and control functions.
It gives an assessment on the assessments are refreshed at least annually to ensure they adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control environment in remain relevant and capture any emerging risks.
a consistent and comparable manner, highlighting areas where The process is designed to confirm that risks are effectively targeted effort is needed to meet the standards required in order managed and prioritised in line with the stated risk appetite.
to create a safer and more secure bank for customers.
It covers Controls are tested at the appropriate frequency to verify that material risks and the key controls that underpin them, including they remain fit-for-purpose and operate effectively.
financial, operational and compliance controls, as well as the supporting risk management frameworks.
During 2016, work continued on rolling out and embedding the enhanced end-to-end risk and control assessment methodology The CEC outcomes, including forward-looking assessments for originally developed in 2015.
This approach, which strengthens the next two half-yearly cycles and the progress made to improve understanding of the risk profile of key products and services, is the control environment, are reported to the Board, the Group used to identify and quantify the most material operational risks.
Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee BRC.
They are Subject matter experts and key stakeholders are engaged from also shared with external auditors.
across RBS to underpin management action in line with RBSs financial and non-financial appetite statement.
Assessments were The CEC process helps to ensure compliance with the RBS carried out on a number of critical products and services during Policy Framework, Sarbanes-Oxley 404 requirements concerning 2016.
The results of these assessments support RBSs on-going internal control over financial reporting as referenced in the journey to build on, and enhance, its control environment.
Compliance report section on page 112, and certain requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Risk mitigation Risks are mitigated through the application of key preventative Risk appetite and detective controls.
This is an integral step in the risk The operational risk appetite framework supports effective assessment methodology, which determines residual risk management of key operational risks.
It expresses the level and exposure.
Control owners are accountable for the design, types of operational risk the bank is willing to accept in order to execution, performance and maintenance of key controls.
achieve its strategic objectives and business plans.
These key controls are regularly assessed for adequacy and tested for effectiveness.
The control testing results are monitored RBSs operational risk appetite is expressed through a set and, where a material change in performance is identified, it of qualitative risk appetite statements and quantitative measures results in a re-evaluation of the associated risk.
which are defined at an aggregate, bank-wide and individual business level.
Appetite covers RBSs most material operational RBS purchases insurance to provide the business with financial risks, defined by a materiality assessment, which in turn protection against specific losses and to comply with statutory or considers past, current and future risk exposures.
exposures for all material risks are regularly reported to business risk committees, the OREC, ERF and BRC.
Risk monitoring Monitoring and reporting are part of RBSs operational risk The aggregation of operational risk appetite drives measurement management processes, which aim to ensure that risks are of how effectively RBS is managing its material risks across the identified, considered by senior executives, and managed core components of the operational risk management framework.
The most material operational risks and their position It provides for an aggregate view of risk appetite, risk and control relevant to risk appetite are regularly reviewed at the OREC, profile, loss and event data management and control along with any emerging risks and the actions taken to mitigate environment.
These are also reported to the BRC and the ERF.
Exposures specific to each business are communicated through regular risk and control reports discussed at business risk committees.
unaudited 203 Business review Capital and risk management Operational risk continued All losses and recoveries associated with an operational risk Risk measurement event are reported against their financial accounting date.
A RBS uses the standardised approach to calculate its operational single event can result in multiple losses or recoveries that may risk capital requirement.
This is based upon multiplying three take time to crystallise.
Losses and recoveries with a financial years average historical gross income by coefficients set by the accounting date in 2016 may relate to events that occurred, or regulator based on type of income.
were identified in, prior years.
As part of the wider ICAAP an operational risk economic capital Percentage and value of events model is used as a key capital benchmark.
The model uses loss At 31 December 2016, events aligned to the clients, products data and scenario analysis inputs from the operational risk and business practices event category accounted for 99% of framework, plus external loss data and certain other factors to RBSs operational risk losses compared to 98% in 2015.
These provide a risk-sensitive view of RBSs operational risk capital losses primarily resulted from new conduct-related provisions in requirement.
respect of RBS's issuance and underwriting of residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS, the majority settlement of Scenario analysis is used to assess how extreme but plausible the 2008 shareholder litigation, the automatic refund of complex operational risks will affect RBS.
It provides a forward-looking fees paid by SME customers in RBS's Global Restructuring basis for evaluating and managing operational risk exposures.
Group and further increased provisions relating to Payment Protection Insurance, together with other regulatory settlements.
Refer to the Capital risk section for operational risk capital requirement figures.
A small number of operational risk events contributed a high Event and loss data management percentage of the total losses.
In 2016, around 1% of the events The operational risk event and loss data management process contributed 97% of the losses.
This was in line with 2015. ensures RBS captures and records operational risk loss events that meet defined criteria.
Loss data is used for regulatory and industry reporting and is included in capital modelling when calculating economic capital for operational risk.
The most serious events are escalated in a simple, standardised process to all senior management, by way of a Group Notifiable Event Process.
Value of events Volume of events 1 m Proportion Proportion 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Fraud 51 40 1% 1% 79% 78% Clients, products and business practices 6,282 3,449 99% 98% 13% 14% Execution, delivery and process management 15 23 1% 8% 7% Employment practices and workplace safety 1 15 1% 6,349 3,527 100% 100% 100% 100% Note: 1 The calculation in the above table is based on the volume and value of events where the associated loss is more than or equal to 10,000. unaudited 204 Business review Capital and risk management Pension risk Throughout 2016, various pension risk stress-testing initiatives Definition were undertaken, focused both on internally defined scenarios Pension obligation risk is the risk to RBS caused by its and on scenarios to meet integrated Bank of England and contractual or other liabilities to or with respect to a pension European Banking Authority stress-testing requirements.
For scheme whether established for its employees or those of a more information on stress testing, refer to the following page.
It also means the risk that RBS will make payments or other contributions to or with respect to a Governance pension scheme because of a moral obligation or because RBS The Main scheme operates under a trust deed.
The corporate considers that it needs to do so for some other reason.
trustee, RBS Pension Trustee Limited, is a wholly owned subsidiary of National Westminster Bank Plc.
The trustee board Sources of risk comprises six directors selected by RBS and four directors RBS has exposure to pension risk through its defined benefit nominated by members.
The trustee is supported by RBS schemes worldwide.
The five largest schemes, which represent Investment Executive Ltd RIEL, which specialises in pension around 97% of RBSs pension liabilities are: the Main Section of investment strategy.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the Main scheme, the AA Section of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group The Pension Committee PC chaired by the RBS Chief Risk Pension Fund, the Ulster Bank Pension Scheme, the Ulster Bank Officer, acts as a sub-committee of the RBS Asset and Liability Pension Scheme Republic of Ireland, and the Royal Bank of Committee ALCo and formulates RBSs view of pension risk.
The Main scheme is the The PC considers mechanisms that could potentially be used for principal source of pension risk.
Further detail on the Groups managing risk within the funds as well as financial strategy.
It pension obligations can be found in Note 4 on the consolidated also reviews actuarial assumptions from a sponsor perspective accounts.
The PC is a key component of RBSs approach to managing pension risk and it reviews and monitors risk Pension scheme liabilities vary with changes in long-term interest management, asset strategy and financing issues on behalf of rates and inflation as well as with pensionable salaries, the RBS.
The PC also serves as a formal link between RBS, RIEL longevity of scheme members and legislation.
Pension scheme and the trustee.
assets vary with changes in interest rates, inflation expectations, credit spreads, exchange rates, and equity and property prices.
For further information on Risk governance, refer to page 166.
RBS is exposed to the risk that the schemes assets, together with future returns and additional future contributions, are Risk appetite insufficient to meet liabilities as they fall due.
In such Investment policy for the schemes is defined by the trustee with circumstances, RBS could be obliged or might choose to make input from RIEL and other specialist advisers employed by the additional contributions to the schemes, or be required to hold trustee.
While the trustee is responsible for the management of additional capital to mitigate this risk.
the scheme assets, it consults with RBS on material changes to the Main schemes risk appetite and investment policy.
Prior to 6 April 1997 individuals who contracted out of the UK State Second Pension were entitled to a Guaranteed Minimum RBS maintains an independent view of the risk inherent in Pension GMP.
Men accrued GMP at different rates to women.
pension funds, with an associated risk appetite, and has defined The Government intends that GMP should be equalised but until metrics against which risk is measured.
In addition to the scrutiny the mechanism is defined, pension funds are uncertain of their provided by the PC, RBS undertakes regular pension risk obligations.
In the meantime, no allowance is made for GMP monitoring and reporting to the Board and the BRC on the equalisation in the IAS 19 defined benefit obligations and risk material pension schemes that RBS has an obligation to support.
Risk mitigation Key developments in 2016 The trustee has taken measures to mitigate inflation and interest As part of the 31 December 2015 triennial valuation, RBS made a rate risks, both by investing in suitable financial assets and by single 4.2 billion payment to the RBS Group Pension Fund in entering into inflation and interest rate swaps.
The Main scheme March 2016, instead of a series of annual contributions up to also uses derivatives to manage the allocation of the portfolio to 2023, removing an element of pension risk.
RBS and the trustee different asset classes and to manage risk within asset classes.
also agreed that the next valuation of the RBS Group Pension The assets of the Main scheme, which represented around 89% Fund will take place as at 31 December 2018, giving certainty to of RBSs pension plan assets at 31 December 2016, are invested pension funding commitments until at least 2020. in a diversified portfolio.
This includes quoted and private equity, government and corporate fixed interest and index-linked bonds, unaudited property and other alternative assets.
205 Business review Capital and risk management Pension risk continued Pension stress tests take the form of both stochastic and Risk monitoring and measurement deterministic stresses over time horizons ranging from Pension risk reports are submitted quarterly in the RBS Risk and instantaneous to five years in duration.
They are designed to Conduct Report.
The report includes a measurement of the examine the behaviour of the pension schemes assets and overall deficit or surplus position, estimated capital requirements, liabilities under a range of financial and demographic shocks.
The and an assessment of the associated assets and liabilities.
results of the stress tests and their consequential impact on RBSs balance sheet, income statement and capital position are RBS also undertakes stress tests and scenario analyses on its incorporated into the overall RBS-wide stress test results.
material defined benefit pension schemes each year as part of its risk measurement framework.
These stress tests are also used to The table below shows the sensitivity of the Main schemes satisfy the requests of regulatory bodies such as the Bank of assets and liabilities measured according to IAS 19 Employee England.
The stress testing framework includes pension risk Benefits.
It includes changes in interest rates and equity values capital calculations for the purposes of the ICAAP as well as at the year-end, taking account of the current asset allocation and additional stress tests for a number of internal management hedging arrangements.
Asset sensitivity to changes in nominal purposes.
yields increased over the year as swap yields fell at longer durations.
Change in Change in Change in value of value of net pension assets liabilities obligations 2016 m m m Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 1,048 502 546 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 1,485 1,552 67 Fall in AA credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields or other credit spreads 9 2,074 2,065 Fall in equity values of 10% 905 905 2015 Fall in nominal swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or real swap yields 874 363 511 Fall in real swap yields of 0.25% at all durations with no change in credit spreads or nominal swap yields 1,029 1,104 75 Fall in AA credit spreads of 0.25% at all durations with no change in nominal or real swap yields or other credit spreads 7 1,526 1,519 Fall in equity values of 10% 667 667 The chart below shows the pension liability cash flow profile, allowing for expected indexation of future payments.
The majority of expected cash flows 80% are anticipated within the next 40 years.
The profile will vary depending on the assumptions made regarding inflation expectations and mortality.
25% 2016 2015 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 0-10 11-20 21-30 31-40 41-50 Over 50 Years unaudited 206 Proportion of liability cash flows Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis UK personal lending - The increase in the UK Personal portfolio Definition was driven by significant mortgage lending activity.
Underwriting Credit risk is the risk of financial loss due to the failure of a standards are constantly monitored to ensure that they remain customer or counterparty to meet its obligation to settle adequate in the current market environment and were not outstanding amounts.
weakened to sustain the growth observed during the period.
The UK unsecured lending portfolio remained stable during the year The following disclosures in this section are audited: with no material changes to asset quality.
Risk assessment and monitoring Shipping - RBS is winding down its shipping portfolio and has Portfolio overview - geography also disposed of assets during the year.
RBS continues to Wholesale credit risk management witness difficult market conditions which are affecting vessel o Risk mitigation values and contributing to high levels of forbearance and o Problem debt management - Forbearance impairments.
o Key credit portfolios - Commercial Real Estate LTV distribution Natural Resources - The Oil & Gas sector continued to be Personal credit risk management affected by low oil prices which are predominantly due to overo Problem debt management - Forbearance supply.
Exposures to the Oil & Gas sector were further reduced o Overview of personal portfolios - Forbearance, during 2016 and credit quality remained strong with the majority mortgage balances, and LTV distribution.
of the portfolio investment grade.
The prolonged challenging market conditions did however result in a limited number of Sources of credit risk customers experiencing financial stress during the year, which The principal sources of credit risk for RBS are as follows: resulted in impairments in the sector.
For further information, refer to the Key credit portfolios section on page 228.
Lending - RBS offers a number of lending products that involve an obligation to provide credit facilities to customers.
To mitigate Credit risk measurement - RBS has changed its measure of the risk of loss, security may be obtained in the form of physical credit risk exposure from Credit Risk Assets CRA to Current collateral such as commercial real estate assets and residential Exposure CE and Potential Exposure PE.
This change is property or financial collateral such as cash and bonds.
Exposures arising from leasing activities are also included.
Risk of Credit Loss - A new framework for managing problem Off-balance sheet products - RBS provides trade finance and debts in the wholesale portfolio was introduced during the year.
guarantees for customers, as well as committed but undrawn The framework is discussed in detail on page 220. lending facilities, and is exposed to credit risk as a result.
IFRS 9 - The new IFRS 9 accounting requirement for loan impairments will draw extensively on the banks risk models and Derivatives and securities financing - RBS enters into derivatives measures in the calculation of expected credit loss required by contracts and securities financing transactions.
These result in the standard.
A cross-functional programme involving teams in counterparty credit risk, which is the risk of financial loss arising Finance, Risk and Services is delivering the additional from the failure of a counterparty to meet obligations that vary in capabilities in terms of models, systems and operational value by reference to a market rate or asset price.
risk of loss, collateral and netting are used along with the Credit risk management function additional legal rights provided under the terms of over-theGovernance counter contracts.
The activities of the RBS credit risk management function, which is led by the Group Chief Credit Officer GCCO, include: Debt securities - RBS holds some debt securities for liquidity Approving credit for customers: management purposes and is exposed to credit risk as a result.
Ensuring that credit risk is within the risk appetite set by the Board: Other activities - RBS is exposed to settlement risk through its Managing concentration risk and credit risk control activities in foreign exchange, trade finance and payments.
frameworks: Developing and ensuring compliance with credit risk Key developments in 2016 policies: and Credit quality - The portfolio was reduced due to strategic Conducting RBS-wide assessments of provision adequacy.
disposals and the ongoing run-off of assets in Capital Resolution, although this was offset by the depreciation of the value of sterling relative to most major currencies.
Asset quality remained stable against a backdrop of challenging economic conditions in the Shipping and Natural Resources sectors.
unaudited 207 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The key elements of the credit risk management function are set out below.
Element Managed by Description Leadership GCCO The GCCO has overall responsibility for the credit risk function.
The GCCO chairs the Credit Risk Committee and, with the CRO, co-chairs the RBS Provisions Committee.
Governance Credit Risk Committees The Wholesale Credit Risk Committee and the Retail Credit Risk Committee have authority for risk appetite within appetite set by the board, strategy, frameworks and policy as well as oversight of RBSs credit profile.
Provisions Committee 1,2 The Provisions Committee has authority over provisions adequacy and to approve recommendations from business provisions committees in accordance with approval thresholds.
Risk appetite Concentration frameworks Wholesale frameworks are maintained to ensure - Wholesale that the risk of an outsized loss due to concentration Single name to a particular borrower, sector, product type or Sector country remains within appetite.
The credit Country frameworks are aligned to the RBS risk appetite Product and asset class framework.
- Personal credit risk appetite framework RBS uses a product and asset class framework to Reputational and environmental, social control credit risk for its Personal businesses.
The and ethical frameworks framework sets limits that measure and control the quality of both existing and new business for each Credit policy relevant franchise or segment.
Controls and risk assurance Risk Assurance Credit policy standards are in place for both Wholesale and Personal portfolios and are expressed as a set of mandatory controls.
Assurance activities, as defined by the RBS credit policy, are undertaken by the independent Risk Assurance function.
Credit stewardship Credit assessment standards Credit risk stewardship takes place throughout the Credit risk mitigation and collateral customer relationship, from initial credit approval Credit documentation and on a continuous basis thereafter.
Regular portfolio customer review Problem debt identification and The methodology applied for assessing and management monitoring credit risk varies between customer types and segments.
Customers Segmentation Customers are managed differently reflecting different customer types and risks.
Wholesale customers - including corporates, banks and other financial institutions - are grouped by industry sectors and geography as well as by product asset class and are managed on an individual basis.
Personal customers - usually in UK PBB and Ulster Bank RoI as well as personal lending activities in Private Banking - are grouped into portfolios of similar risk and managed on a portfolio basis.
Notes: 1 Authority is delegated by the Executive Risk Forum.
2 For further information on the RBS provisioning and impairment practices refer to page 302. unaudited 208 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Risk appetite Risk appetite across all risk types is set using specific quantitative targets under stress, including earnings volatility and capital adequacy.
The credit risk appetite frameworks have been designed to reflect factors that influence the ability to meet those targets.
Tools such as stress testing and economic capital are used to measure credit risk volatility and develop links between the credit risk appetite frameworks and risk appetite targets.
The frameworks are supported by a suite of policies and transaction acceptance standards that set out the risk parameters within which franchises must operate.
For further information on the specific frameworks for Wholesale and Personal refer to page 218 and 234 respectively.
Risk measurements and models RBS has changed its measure of credit risk exposure from Credit Risk Assets CRA to Current Exposure CE and Potential Exposure PE.
In these credit risk disclosures the measure used, unless otherwise stated, is Current Exposure.
2015 comparatives have been restated in Current Exposure.
The table below summarises the differences between CRA, Current Exposure and Potential Exposure: CRA Current Exposure Potential Exposure 1 Lending exposure Drawn balances Legally committed limits 2 Comprises cash balances at central Drawn balances gross of banks as well as Measured net of individual, collective and latent provisions unless impairment provisions loans and advances otherwise stated.
Measured using the Measured using the  value of market value of derivatives Measured using scaled credit limit utilisation, derivatives after the which takes into account mark-to-market after the effect of enforceable effect of enforceable movements, any collateral held and expected netting agreements and Counterparty netting agreements and market movements over a specified horizon.
regulator-approved models exposure net of legally enforceable 2,3 but before the effect of financial collateral.
Calculations are gross of credit valuation Current and Potential Exposures are measured net of CVA unless adjustments CVAs.
Contingent obligations Primarily letters of Drawn balances Drawn balances Legally committed amount 2 credit and guarantees.
Trading book bonds Equity securities Trading book bonds Settlement risk Equity securities Intra-group credit Settlement risk Exclusions exposures Suretyships Securities financing Intra-group credit exposures transactions repos Banking book debt securities Net of cash and gold collateral.
Other Current Exposure and Potential Exposure are reported against the guarantor of a transaction to reflect the transfer of risk.
Notes: 1 Potential Exposure includes all drawn exposure and all legally committed undrawn exposure.
2 Cannot be less than Current Exposure.
3 Current Exposure and Potential Exposure for exchange-traded derivatives are defined as exposure at default EAD.
Comparing the Current Exposure measure to the previous CRA In the Banks & Other Financial Institutions sector, the netting measure, the following changes are noted: of financial collateral reduced the Current Exposure value Exposures to the Sovereign sector are higher.
Risk transfer also reduced current primarily due to the inclusion of government bond exposure exposure compared to CRA.
held in the banking book and managed in Treasury and Capital Resolution.
The increased current exposure value, Outside these sectors, the impact of risk transfer is less compared to CRA, is also a result of risk transfer related to material.
However, the impact of netting impairment guarantees pledged by sovereign customers for obligors provisions means that for most other wholesale sectors active in other sectors.
Current Exposure is less than CRA.
unaudited 209 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Risk models RBS uses the output of credit risk models in the credit approval process, as well as for ongoing credit risk assessment, monitoring and reporting, to inform credit risk appetite decisions.
These models are divided into different categories: Model 1 Calculation method Wholesale Personal Each customer is assigned a Each customer account is scored and probability of default PD rating and models are used to assign a PD rating.
PD is calculated Inputs vary across portfolios and include using a combination of quantitative both internal account and customer level Individual PD model counterparty account inputs, such as recent financial data, as well as data from credit bureaus.
performance, and qualitative inputs This score is used to support automated such as management performance credit decision-making through the use of a and sector outlook.
Loss given default LGD models estimate the amount that would not be recovered in the event of a customer default.
When estimating LGD, RBSs models assess both Individual borrower and facility characteristics, as well as any credit risk mitigants.
The cost of LGD model counterparty facility product collections and a time-discount factor for the delay in cash recovery are also incorporated.
Exposure at default EAD models provide estimates of credit facility utilisation at the time of a customer default, recognising that customers may make further drawings on unused credit facilities prior to default or that exposures may increase due to market movements.
EAD estimates for committed and uncommitted facilities are based on Individual EAD model historic data on limit utilisation.
The estimates are also gross of provisions, as well as counterparty facility product cash and gold collateral, and as a result can be higher or lower than Potential Exposure.
In accordance with regulatory requirements, EAD for Lending Exposures must always be equal to, or higher, than the drawn balance sheet amount, though it can be reduced by a legally enforceable netting agreement.
The credit economic capital EC model is a framework that allows for the calculation of portfolio credit loss distributions and associated metrics over a given risk horizon for a variety of business purposes.
The model takes into account migration risk the risk that credit assets will deteriorate in credit quality across multiple years, factor EC model Portfolio level correlation the assumption that groups of obligors share a common factor and contagion risk for example, the risk that the weakening of the sovereigns credit worthiness has a significant impact on the creditworthiness of a business operating in that country.
unaudited 210 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Risk mitigation Impact of credit model changes Risk mitigation techniques, as set out in RBSs credit policies, are RBS reviews and updates models on an ongoing basis in order to used in the management of credit portfolios across RBS, typically reflect the effects of more recent data, changes to products and to mitigate credit concentrations in relation to an individual portfolios, and new regulatory requirements.
The PD models for customer, a borrower group or a collection of related borrowers.
banks, local authorities, housing associations, property, Where possible, customer credit balances are netted against housebuilders and mortgages were recalibrated during the year.
Mitigation tools applied can include: structuring a This resulted in some downwards ratings migrations across security interest in a physical or financial asset: use of credit internal asset quality bands.
derivatives, including credit default swaps, credit-linked debt instruments and securitisation structures: and use of guarantees and similar instruments for example, credit insurance from Model changes affect year-on-year comparisons of risk measures related and third parties.
When seeking to mitigate risk, at a in certain disclosures.
Where meaningful, in commentary RBS minimum RBS considers the following: has differentiated between instances where movements in risk The suitability of the proposed risk mitigation, particularly if measures reflect the impact of model changes and those where restrictions apply: such movements reflect changes in the size of underlying credit The means by which legal certainty is to be established, portfolios or their credit quality.
including required documentation, supportive legal opinions and the steps needed to establish legal rights: For more information on model governance and review refer to The acceptability of the methodologies to be used for initial the Models used in Risk section on page 169. and subsequent valuation of collateral, the frequency of Asset quality valuations and the advance rates given: Credit grades are assigned at legal entity level for wholesale The actions which can be taken if the value of collateral or customers.
other mitigants is less than needed: The risk that the value of mitigants and counterparty credit All credit grades map to both an RBS-level asset quality scale, quality may deteriorate simultaneously: used for external financial reporting, and a master grading scale The need to manage concentration risks arising from for wholesale exposures, used for internal management reporting collateral types: and across portfolios.
Accordingly, measures of risk exposure may be The need to ensure that any risk mitigation remains legally aggregated and reported at differing levels of detail depending on effective and enforceable.
Performing loans are The business and credit teams are supported by specialist indefined as AQ1-AQ9 where the PD is less than 100% and nonhouse documentation teams.
RBS uses industry-standard loan performing loans as AQ10 where the PD is 100%.
and security documentation wherever possible.
However, when non-standard documentation is used, external lawyers are The PD models used to assign a credit grade for the purposes of employed to review it on a case-by-case basis.
Mitigants credit risk management assess the probability of a customer including any associated insurance are monitored throughout failing to honour its credit obligations over a one-year time period.
the life of the transaction to ensure that they perform as anticipated.
Similarly, documentation is also monitored to ensure The AQ bands and corresponding probability of default ranges it remains enforceable.
are set out below: For further information refer to the sub-sections on Wholesale Probability of default credit risk management and Personal credit risk management.
AQ band mid-point Indicative S&P rating Counterparty credit risk AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA RBS mitigates counterparty credit risk arising from both AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AAderivatives transactions and repurchase agreements through the AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to Ause of market standard documentation, enabling netting, and AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% BBB to BBBthrough collateralisation.
AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BB to B Amounts owed by RBS to a counterparty are netted against AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B amounts the counterparty owes the bank, in accordance with AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC relevant regulatory and internal policies.
However, generally, this AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C is only done if a netting agreement is in place.
A legal opinion, to the effect that the agreement is enforceable in the relevant AQ10 100% D jurisdictions, is also required.
Collateral may consist of either cash or securities.
Additional collateral may be called should the net value of the obligations to RBS rise or should the value of the collateral itself fall.
The unaudited majority of agreements are subject to daily collateral calls with collateral valued using RBSs internal valuation methodologies.
RBS restricts counterparty credit exposures by setting limits that take into account the potential adverse movement of an exposure after adjusting for the impact of netting and collateral where applicable.
211 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Days-past-due measures are typically used to identify evidence Risk assessment and monitoring of impairment.
In both Wholesale and Personal portfolios, a Practices for credit stewardship - including credit assessment, period of 90 days past due is used.
In sovereign portfolios, the approval and monitoring as well as the identification and period used is 180 days past due.
Indicators of impairment management of problem debts - differ between the Wholesale include the borrowers financial condition: a forbearance event: a and Personal portfolios.
For further information refer to the loan restructuring: the probability of bankruptcy: or evidence of relevant sub-sections on page 218 and 234.
A key aspect of diminished cash flows.
credit risk stewardship is ensuring that, when signs of impairment are identified, appropriate impairment provisions are recognised.
Provisioning The amount of an impairment loss is measured as the difference Impairment, provisioning and write-offs between the asset carrying amount and the present value of the In the overall assessment of credit risk, impairment, provisioning estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets and write-offs are used as key indicators of credit quality.
The current net realisable value of the collateral will be taken into account in determining the need Impairment for a provision.
This includes cash flows from foreclosure less A financial asset is impaired if there is objective evidence that the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral, whether or not amount, or timing, of future cash flows has been adversely foreclosure is probable.
Impairment provisions are not recognised affected.
Refer to accounting policies on page 302 for details where amounts due are expected to be settled in full on the regarding the quantification of impairment losses.
RBS uses one of the following three methods to quantify the provision required: individual: collective: and latent, as set out below: Provision method Asset type Quantification method Key factors considered Customer and guarantor performance.
Case-by-case Impaired, individually Future value of collateral.
Individual assessment of future cash significant Future economic conditions based on factors flows available at the time.
Impaired but not Level of arrears.
individually significant, Value of security.
grouped into Quantitative review of Historical and projected cash recovery trends.
Collective homogenous portfolios, relevant portfolio Current economic conditions.
by Retail products and Operational processes.
Wholesale businesses Latest cash collection profile.
For Wholesale customers PD, LGD and EAD values are used.
For Personal, calculations are performed at portfolio level by product e. g. mortgages, credit cards or PD% x LGD% x EAD x Latent Not impaired unsecured loans.
Emergence Period Portfolio-level emergence periods are based on products or businesses with similar homogenous characteristics.
Emergence periods range from 120 to 365 days.
Note: 1 Refer to pages 248 to 253 for an analysis of impaired loans, related provisions and impairments.
Refer to page 302 for details of accounting policies.
For details on collateral, refer to the Counterparty credit risk section on page 211 as well as the Wholesale and Personal risk mitigation sections on pages 218 and 234.
212 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Available-for-sale portfolios Sensitivity of impairments to assumptions Available-for-sale portfolios are also regularly reviewed for Key assumptions relating to impairment levels relate to economic evidence of impairment, including: default or delinquency in conditions, the interest rate environment, the ease and timing of interest or principal payments: significant financial difficulty of the enforcing loan agreements in varying legal jurisdictions and the issuer or obligor: and increased likelihood that the issuer will level of customer co-operation.
enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation.
In addition, for secured lending, key assumptions relate to the Determining whether evidence of impairment exists requires the valuation of the security and collateral held, as well as the timing exercise of management judgement.
It should be noted that the and cost of asset disposals based on underlying market depth following factors are not, of themselves, evidence of impairment, and liquidity.
Assessments are made by relationship managers but may be evidence of impairment when considered with other on a case-by-case basis for  provisions and factors: are validated by credit teams.
The Restructuring Credit team will Disappearance of an active market because an entitys ultimately recommend or approve any provisions that may be financial instruments are no longer publicly traded.
required under their delegated authority.
For individual A downgrade of an entitys credit rating.
impairments greater than 1 million, oversight is provided by the A decline in the fair value of a financial asset below its cost RBS Provisions Committee.
Write-offs Impaired loans and receivables are written-off when there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part, or the entire loan.
For loans that are individually assessed for impairment, the timing of write-off is determined on a case-by-case basis.
Such loans are reviewed regularly and write-offs may be prompted by bankruptcy, insolvency, forbearance and similar events.
For details of the typical time frames, from initial impairment to write off, for collectively assessed portfolios refer to the accounting policies section on 301.
Amounts recovered after a loan has been written-off are credited to the loan impairment charge for the period in which they are received.
213 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Portfolio overview - asset quality The table below summarises Current and Potential Exposure, net of provisions and after risk transfer, by sector and asset quality.
2 Includes exposure to central governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities.
3 Excludes Private Banking, Lombard and Invoice Finance exposures which are not material in context of the Risk of Credit Loss portfolio.
5 Forbearance stock: Wholesale forbearance stock represents loans that have been subject to a forbearance event in the two years up to the reported date.
Personal forbearance stock is aligned to the European Banking Authority definition for forbearance reporting refer to individual Personal section on page 234 for further details.
Key points The increase in credit risk exposure in the personal sector The following key portfolios are either designated highwas predominantly driven by growth in UK mortgage oversight sectors under the sector framework or constitute a lending.
This portfolio is managed on a specific risk material proportion of Current Exposure and are discussed in appetite framework and the growth observed the year more detail below.
For further information refer to page 236.
Commercial Real Estate CRE in Property - refer to page The Wholesale portfolio decreased by 8% 25.1 billion 224: on a constant currency basis foreign exchange impact of Oil & Gas in Natural Resources - refer to page 228: 18.8 billion.
This was predominately due to a reduction Mining & Metals in Natural Resources - refer to page 231: in the sovereign sector, driven by liquidity management Shipping - refer to page 232: and activities, and in the transport sector in line with the exit Personal, including mortgages - refer to page 234. strategy for the shipping sector.
The quality of the Personal portfolio improved with AQ1- RBSs credit risk exposure has been affected by the AQ4 making up 67% of personal lending against 63% in significant appreciation of both the euro and US dollar 2015.
For the Wholesale portfolio AQ1-AQ4 made up against sterling.
This was relevant to exposures in 72% of the portfolio 2015 - 74%.
Ireland, Western Europe and the US and is discussed in further detail on page 216. unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 214 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The Risk of Credit Loss framework was fully implemented in April 2016.
Exposure classified as Risk of Credit Loss Credit impairment charges increased during 2016.
In decreased during 2016 due to customers who defaulted particular large individual charges were incurred in the during the year and are shown in AQ10.
Shipping, Oil & Gas and Mining & Metals sectors.
For Wholesale, the flow into forbearance remained stable Challenging economic conditions resulted in reduced and continued to reflect the challenging conditions in global demand, oversupply and consequently volatile certain sectors, notably Transport.
45% 2015 - 29% of commodity prices, which adversely affected the shipping the total forbearance granted related to non-performing market and vessel values.
Provision coverage of non-performing forborne were lower in 2016 with less asset disposal activity.
Refer to the Wholesale In Personal, including mortgages, the flow into defaults Forbearance section page 221 for further details.
Cash repayments and The reduction in defaulted exposures during the year was recoveries on previously defaulted debt remained strong.
primarily due to specific portfolio disposals, including in the Republic of Ireland of small and medium enterpriserelated exposures and buy-to-let mortgages, during the fourth quarter of 2016.
This was partly offset by higher defaulted assets in Capital Resolutions Shipping portfolio.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 215 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Portfolio overview - geography The table below summarises both Current and Potential Exposure, net of provisions and after risk transfer by geographic region, as well as providing further detail for selected country risk exposure.
216 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Notes: 1 Includes SME customers managed in UK PBB Business Banking who are assigned a sector under RBSs sector concentration framework.
2 Includes exposures to central governments, central banks and sub-sovereigns such as local authorities.
4 Comprises Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa.
RoW also includes supranationals such as the World Bank and exposure relating to ocean-going vessels which cannot be meaningfully assigned to specific countries from a country risk perspective.
5 Countries where current exposure is greater than 1 billion.
6 Finland, Austria, Malta, Slovakia, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia and Slovenia.
7 Non-eurozone countries displayed in the table are those that are A or worse and with current exposure greater than 1 billion.
Key points The proportion of RBSs exposure to the UK is now 74% Country Risk exposure was significantly affected by foreign 70% - 2015. exchange movements 10.4 billion during the year.
On a constant currency basis, eurozone exposure decreased by 3.9 billion.
Sovereign exposure to the US and RoW decreased.
This is in line with RBS strategy to reduce activity in the US as well as reductions in RoW, which were partly due to reduced exposure in the shipping sector and other Capital Resolution disposals.
unaudited 217 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Wholesale credit risk management This section sets out further detail on RBSs approach to credit risk management for its Wholesale customers.
Four formal frameworks are used to manage Wholesale credit concentration risks within RBSs risk appetite.
These frameworks are regularly reassessed to ensure they remain appropriate for RBSs varied business franchises, economic and market conditions and to reflect refinements in risk measurement models as well as agreed risk appetite.
Wholesale credit risk framework A summary of the frameworks is set out below.
Concentration Single name framework concentration SNC Sector Product and asset class Country Risk addressed Concentration on a Concentration in a single Concentration on certain Concentration on a single borrower or sector or across sectors products or asset classes.
susceptible to similar stress events.
Basis for classification Size or LGD - based on Size - based on exposure: Size - based on exposure Size - based on exposure net customer exposure and risk - based on to a product or asset class: to a particular country.
for a given probability of Economic Capital and and risk - based on default.
heightened risk characteristics of a product.
Limit types Customer exposure and Bank-wide and franchise Bank-wide and franchise Bank-wide country limits.
LGD limits relative to sector and sub-sector product asset class PD.
Controls within the Elevated approval requirements, mandatory controls and procedures, monitoring and reporting, the framework requirement for regular reviews and for plans to address any exposures in excess of limit.
Exposure measure Both net and gross of Gross exposure to a Net gross - dependent on Net of provisions and risk net gross eligible mitigants.
Where type of risk and limit transfer.
be eligible under the PE is used it is net of definition.
Where PE is framework, mitigants eligible collateral and used it is net of eligible must be legally provisions.
enforceable, structurally effective and of appropriate maturity.
Recent developments The aggregate SNC Risk appetite has remained The product and asset Risk appetite limits were exposure remained broadly stable across all class framework was reduced for exit countries outside RBS long term sectors, allowing for growth enhanced during the year taking account of the risk appetite.
Whilst the in our core franchises in to encompass all products revised risk appetite and number of SNC accordance with our and asset classes where international strategy.
CRE limits have there is a specific identified 17.1%, the value of the remained broadly flat, credit risk which needs to SNC excesses allowing for a limited be managed at the product decreased by 9.1% amount of targeted growth and asset class level rather during the year.
The top within the sector and there than at customer or sector ten SNC excesses has been some notable level.
comprised 87.7% of total growth in certain of our SNC excesses.
non-Bank FI sectors where a more targeted growth strategy has been in place.
unaudited 218 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Refinancing risk - the risk of loss arising from the failure of a Risk assessment customer to settle an obligation on expiry of a facility Before credit facilities are made available to customers a credit through the drawdown of another credit facility provided by assessment is undertaken.
The assessment process is the same RBS or by another lender: for all customers.
However, in RBS credit risk management is Consideration of other risks such as environmental, social organised in terms of the complexity of the assessment rather and ethical, regulatory and reputational risks: and than aligned to franchises.
Capital Resolution is not managed The portfolio impact of the transaction, including the impact separately but is shown in tables to aid understanding of the size on any credit risk concentration limits or agreed business of the exit portfolio.
Credit is only granted to customers following franchise risk appetite.
joint approval by an approver from the business and the credit risk function.
Where the customer is part of a group, the credit assessment considers aggregated credit risk limits for the customer group as These approvers act within a delegated approval authority under well as the nature of the relationship with the broader group e. g. the wholesale Credit Authorities Framework CAF approved by parental support and its impact on credit risk.
Credit relationships are reviewed and credit grades PD and The level of delegated authority held by approvers is dependent LGD re-approved annually.
The review process addresses on their experience and expertise.
Only a small number of senior borrower performance, including reconfirmation or adjustment of executives hold the highest authority provided under the CAF.
risk parameter estimates: the adequacy of security: compliance Both business and credit approvers are accountable for the with terms and conditions: and refinancing risk.
quality of each decision taken but the credit risk approver holds ultimate sanctioning authority.
Risk mitigation RBS mitigates credit risk relating to Wholesale customers In 2016, new sector specific Transaction Acceptance Standards through the use of netting, collateral and market standard TAS were introduced to provide more detailed transactional documentation, depending on the nature of the counterparty and lending and risk acceptance rules and guidelines.
The most common types of mitigation are: the tools used to control risk appetite at the customer transaction Commercial real estate - Refer to CRE section on page 224. level.
The introduction of sector-specific TAS followed the Other physical assets - Including stock, plant, equipment, introduction of general sector TAS in November 2015, providing machinery, vehicles, ships and aircraft.
Such assets are full sector coverage.
TAS are supplementary to the Credit Policy.
suitable collateral only if RBS can identify, locate, and segregate them from other assets on which it does not have When assessing credit risk the following must be considered at a a claim.
RBS values physical assets in a variety of ways, minimum: depending on the type of asset and may rely on balance The amount, terms, tenor, structure, conditions, purpose sheet valuations in certain cases.
and appropriateness of all credit facilities: Receivables - These are amounts owed to RBSs Compliance with relevant credit policies and transaction counterparties by their own customers.
RBS values them acceptance standards: after taking into account the quality of its counterpartys The customers ability to meet obligations, based on an receivable management processes and excluding any that analysis of financial information: are past due.
A review of payment and covenant compliance history: Financial collateral - Refer to Counterparty credit risk section The customers risk profile, including sector, sensitivity to on page 211. economic and market developments and management capability: All collateral is assessed case by case to ensure that it will retain Legal capacity of the customer to engage in the transaction: its value independently of the provider.
RBS monitors the value of Credit risk mitigation including requirements for valuation the collateral and, if there is a shortfall, will seek additional and revaluation.
The customers credit grade and the loss collateral.
given default estimate for the facilities, including any expected changes: The requirement for the provision of financial information, covenants and or monitoring formulae to monitor the customers financial performance: unaudited 219 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Heightened Monitoring customers are performing customers who Key sectors where RBS provides asset-backed lending are have met certain characteristics, which have led to material credit commercial real estate and shipping.
Collectively, characteristics reflect circumstances are detailed below.
that may affect the customers ability to meet repayment obligations.
Characteristics include trading issues, covenant Commercial real estate valuations - RBS has a panel of breaches, material PD downgrades and past due facilities.
Sector chartered surveying firms that cover the spectrum of geography specific characteristics also exist.
Heightened Monitoring and property sectors in which RBS takes collateral.
RBS has a customers require pre-emptive actions outside the customers programme that identifies suitable valuers for particular assets.
normal trading patterns to return or maintain their facilities within They are contracted through a single service agreement to the banks current risk appetite prior to maturity.
ensure consistency of quality and advice.
Valuations are commissioned when an asset is taken as security: a material Risk of Credit Loss customers are performing customers who increase in a facility is requested: or an event of default is have met the criteria for Heightened Monitoring and also pose a anticipated or has occurred.
In the UK, RBS also applies an risk of credit loss to the bank in the next 12 months, should independent third-party market indexation to update external mitigating action not be taken or be successful.
valuations once they are more than a year old.
Once classified as either Heightened Monitoring or Risk of Credit Loss a number of mandatory actions are taken in accordance Shipping valuations - Vessel valuations are obtained using with RBS-wide policies.
This includes a review of the customers several different independent sources.
Valuations are usually credit grade, facility and security documentation and the valuation undertaken on a desktop basis, assuming a willing buyer and of security.
Depending on the severity of the financial difficulty willing seller.
Most vessels are valued on a charter-free basis, and the size of the exposure, the customer relationship strategy but in certain circumstances the valuations take account of longer is reassessed by credit officers, by specialist credit risk or term committed charter income.
Valuations are normally relationship management units in the relevant business or by performed on a quarterly basis.
From time to time, particularly for Restructuring.
facilities showing increased signs of financial stress, a more formal valuation or specialist advice will be obtained.
Agreed customer management strategies are regularly monitored by both the business and credit teams.
The largest Risk of Credit Problem debt management Loss exposures in RBS and in each business are regularly Early problem identification reviewed by a Risk of Credit Loss Committee.
The committee Each segment has defined early warning indicators EWIs to members are experienced credit, business and Restructuring identify customers experiencing financial difficulty, and to specialists.
The purpose of the committee is to review and increase monitoring if needed.
EWIs may be internal, such as a challenge the strategies undertaken for those customers who customers bank account activity, or external, such as a publiclypose the largest risk of credit loss to the bank.
If EWIs show a customer is experiencing potential or actual difficulty, or if relationship Appropriate corrective action is taken when circumstances managers or credit officers identify other signs of financial emerge that may affect the customers ability to service its debt difficulty they may decide to classify the customer within the Risk see Heightened Monitoring characteristics.
Corrective actions of Credit Loss Framework.
may include granting a customer various types of concessions.
Any decision to approve a concession will be a function of Risk of Credit Loss Framework specific country and sector appetite, the credit quality of the The Risk of Credit Loss framework, which was fully implemented customer, the market environment and the loan structure and in April 2016, has replaced RBSs previous Watchlist process for security.
All customers granted forbearance are classified managing problem debts.
The new framework focuses on Heightened Monitoring as a minimum.
For further information, Wholesale customers whose credit profiles have deteriorated refer to the Wholesale forbearance section.
Expert judgement is applied by experienced credit risk officers to classify cases into categories that reflect Other potential outcomes of the relationship review are to: take progressively deteriorating credit risk to the bank.
All customers the customer off the Risk of Credit Loss framework: offer that have been granted forbearance are managed under this additional lending and continue monitoring: transfer the framework.
There are two classifications which apply to nonrelationship to Restructuring if appropriate: or exit the relationship defaulted customers within the framework - Heightened altogether.
Monitoring and Risk of Credit Loss.
The framework also applies to those customers that have met the banks default criteria The Risk of Credit Loss framework does not apply to problem AQ10 exposures.
debt management for Business Banking customers in UK PBB.
These customers are, where necessary, managed by specialised problem debt management teams, depending on the size of exposure or the Business Banking recoveries team where a loan has been impaired.
unaudited 220 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Types of wholesale forbearance Restructuring The type of forbearance offered is tailored to the customers For the Wholesale problem debt portfolio, customer relationships individual circumstances.
For wholesale customers forbearance are managed by the Restructuring team this excludes customers may involve the following types of concessions: managed by PBB.
The factor common to all customers with Covenant waiver Restructuring involvement is that RBSs exposure is outside risk A recalibration of covenants or a covenant amendment may appetite.
The purpose of Restructuring is to protect the banks be used to cure a potential or actual covenant breach.
Where practicable, Restructuring do this by working with return for this relief, RBS may seek to obtain a return corporate and commercial customers to support their turnaround commensurate with the risk that it is required to take.
The and recovery strategies and enable them to return to mainstream increased return for the increased risk can be structured banking.
Restructuring will always aim to recover capital in a fair flexibly to take into account the customers circumstances.
For example it may be structured as either increased margin on a cash or payment-in-kind basis, deferred-return Specialists in Restructuring work with customers experiencing instruments or both.
While RBS considers these types of financial difficulties, and showing signs of financial stress, with concessions qualitatively different from other forms of the aim of restoring their business to financial health whenever forbearance, they constitute a significant proportion of UK practicable.
The objective is to find a mutually acceptable Wholesale forborne loans and are therefore included in solution, including restructuring of existing facilities, repayment or these disclosures.
Amendment to margin Contractual margin may be amended to assist the An assessment of the viability of the business, as well as the customers day-to-day liquidity to help sustain its business ability of management to deal with the causes of financial as a going concern.
This would normally be a short-term difficulty, is carried out by specialists in Restructuring, focusing solution.
RBS would seek a return commensurate to the risk on both financial and operational issues.
Following the that it is required to take.
assessment, options which may include forbearance and or Payment concessions and loan rescheduling including restructuring of facilities are developed.
Credit risk decisions, extensions in contractual maturity including reviewing and approving any restructuring solutions in May be granted to improve the customers liquidity or in the relation to these customers, are made by a dedicated expectation that the customers liquidity will recover when Restructuring Credit team, which is part of the credit risk market conditions improve.
In addition, they may be granted management function.
if the customer will benefit from access to alternative sources of liquidity, such as an issue of equity capital.
These Where a solvent outcome is not possible, insolvency may be options have been used in CRE transactions, particularly considered as a last resort.
However, helping the customer return during periods where a shortage of market liquidity has ruled to financial health and restoring a normal banking relationship is out immediate refinancing and made short-term collateral always the preferred outcome.
Debt forgiveness debt for equity swap Forbearance May be granted where the customers business condition or Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the economic environment is such that it cannot meet contractual terms of a loan in response to a customers financial obligations and where other forms of forbearance are difficulties.
Concessions granted where there is no evidence of unlikely to succeed.
Debt forgiveness can be used for financial difficulty, or where any changes to terms and conditions stressed corporate transactions and is typically structured are within current risk appetite, or reflect improving credit market on the basis of projected cash flows from operational conditions for the customer, are not considered forbearance.
activities, rather than underlying tangible asset values.
Provided that the underlying business model, strategy and The aim of forbearance is to restore the customer to financial debt level are viable, maintaining the business as a going health while minimising risk to RBS.
To ensure that forbearance concern is the preferred option, rather than realising the is appropriate for the needs and financial profile of the customer, value of the underlying assets.
RBS applies minimum standards when assessing, recording, monitoring and reporting forbearance.
Loans may be forborne more than once, generally where a temporary concession has been granted and circumstances warrant another temporary or permanent revision of the loans terms.
All customers are assigned a PD and related facilities an LGD.
These are re-assessed prior to finalising any forbearance arrangement in light of the loans amended terms and any revised grading is incorporated in the calculation of the unaudited impairment loss provisions for RBSs wholesale exposures.
221 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Forbearance may result in the value of the outstanding debt The ultimate outcome of a forbearance strategy is unknown at exceeding the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
It is highly dependent on the cooperation of This may result in the recognition of an impairment loss or a the borrower and the continued existence of a viable business.
Where forbearance is no longer viable, RBS will consider other options such as the enforcement of security, insolvency For performing loans, credit metrics are an integral part of the proceedings or both.
The following are generally considered to be latent provision methodology and therefore the impact of options of last resort: covenant concessions will be reflected in the latent provision.
For Enforcement of security or otherwise taking control of assets non-performing loans, covenant concessions will be considered - Where RBS holds collateral or other security interest and is in determining the overall provision for these loans.
entitled to enforce its rights, it may enforce its security or otherwise take control of the assets.
The preferred strategy In the case of non-performing forborne loans, the loan is to consider other possible options prior to exercising these impairment provision assessment almost invariably takes place rights.
prior to forbearance being granted.
The amount of the loan Insolvency - Where there is no suitable forbearance option impairment provision may change once the terms of the or the business is no longer sustainable, insolvency will be forbearance are known, resulting in an additional provision considered.
Insolvency may be the only option that ensures charge or a release of the provision in the period the forbearance that the assets of the business are properly and efficiently is granted.
The transfer of wholesale loans subject to forbearance from Provisions for forborne wholesale loans are assessed in impaired to performing status follows assessment by relationship accordance with normal provisioning policies refer to Impairment managers and the Restructuring credit team.
When no further loss provision methodology.
The customers financial position losses are anticipated and the customer is expected to meet the and prospects as well as the likely effect of the forbearance, loans revised terms, any provision is written off and the balance including any concessions granted, are considered in order to of the loan returned to performing status.
This course of action is establish whether an impairment provision is required.
not dependent on a specified time period and follows the credit risk managers assessment.
Wholesale loans granted forbearance are individually assessed in most cases and are not therefore segregated into a separate risk pool.
222 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Flow into forbearance The table below shows the value of loans excluding loans where RBS has initiated recovery procedures where forbearance was completed during the year, by sector and types.
This includes only the forborne facility Current Exposure net of provisions and after risk transfer.
No exit criteria are currently applied.
2016 2015 NonProvision NonProvision Performing performing Total coverage 1 Performing performing Total coverage 1 Wholesale forbearance during the year by sector m m m % m m m % Property 330 307 637 25 474 561 1,035 45 Natural resources 365 166 531 36 610 33 643 36 Transport 141 614 755 25 147 58 205 29 Retail and leisure 424 87 511 22 269 99 368 32 Services 201 225 426 33 451 105 556 44 Other 324 54 378 8 297 71 368 46 Total 1,785 1,453 3,238 27 2,248 927 3,175 43 Note: 1 Provision coverage reflects impairment provision as a percentage of non-performing loans gross of provisions.
Forbearance arrangements The table below shows the main types of Wholesale renegotiations.
2016 2015 Wholesale renegotiations during the year by type 1 m m Payment concessions 1,751 2,091 Non-payment concessions 1,487 1,084 Total 3,238 3,175 Note: 1 Previously reported forbearance types are classified as non-payment covenant concessions, release of security and payment payment concessions and loan rescheduling, forgiveness of all or part of the outstanding debt, variation in margin, standstill agreements.
Restated - refer to page 209 for further details.
Key points The levels of completed forbearance in 2016 remained 1.6 billion of the facilities granted forbearance in 2016 were stable.
Year-on-year comparisons of the level of managed by Restructuring Credit.
This equated to 48% of forbearance within the various sectors may be impacted by loans managed by Restructuring Credit excluding loans to individual material cases during a given year.
customers where recovery procedures have commenced.
Loans totalling 1.4 billion were granted approval for The value of loans forborne during 2015 and 2016 and still forbearance but had not yet reached legal completion at 31 outstanding at 31 December 2016 was 4.3 billion 2015 - December 2016 2015 - 1.4 billion.
These exposures are 4.5 billion, of which 1.0 billion related to arrangements referred to as in process and are not included in the tables completed during 2015 2015 - 1.3 billion completed in above.
61% 0.9 billion of these in process exposures 2014. related to non-performing customers and 39% 0.5 billion By value, 77% 1.7 billion of the performing loans granted related to performing loans.
The principal types of forbearance in 2015 2.2 billion remained performing at 31 arrangements offered were payment concessions and loan December 2016. rescheduling.
Provisions for non-performing loans disclosed above are for Forbearance in the Transport sector has increased in 2016 the most part individually assessed.
As a result, material driven by the Shipping sector 0.7 billion.
A number of provisions and associated fluctuations in coverage levels Shipping facilities which were forborne in 2016 were can impact direct comparison across periods.
Provision included in a portfolio sale during Q4.
Refer to page 232 for coverage decreased in 2016, which is reflective of the further information.
proportion of the 2015 forborne portfolio relating to Exit The decrease in exposure in the Natural Resources sector portfolios where the strategy resulted in high levels of is reflective of forbearance being granted to defaulted provisions.
"Provision coverage for non-performing ""in customers with provisions in the Oil & Gas sector given the process"" loans was 29%."
Additional provisions charged in sectors challenges refer to page 228 for further 2016 and relating to loans forborne during 2015 totalled information.
As the exposure measure is net of provisions, 160 million.
Provision coverage of these loans at 31 this reduced forborne exposure is not reported in the table December 2016 was 50%.
On a gross basis, the level of forbearance granted The data presented above include loans forborne during to customers in the Natural Resources sector was 2015 and 2014.
Until April 2014 a reporting threshold was in consistent with 2015. place which ranged from nil to 3 million after which no Forbearance for performing Retail & Leisure customers thresholds were in use.
A number of immaterial portfolios increased driven by a limited number of covenant waivers have forbearance assessed under a portfolio approach.
for individually material cases, while the volume of customers receiving forbearance decreased.
223 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The majority of CRE lending applications are reviewed by Key credit portfolios specialist CRE transactional credit teams, including a dedicated Commercial Real Estate development team.
Lending guidelines and policy are informed The CRE sector relates to lending activity for the development of, by lessons learned from the 2008 financial crisis.
and investment in, commercial and residential properties.
New business is monitored and controlled against agreed A dedicated portfolio controls team is responsible for reviewing underwriting standards.
Sub-sector and asset class limits are portfolio strategy, credit risk appetite and policies, as well as used to restrict exposure to emerging risks when appropriate.
oversight of valuations and environmental frameworks.
The This activity is reviewed and monitored on a regular basis.
sector is reviewed regularly at senior executive committees.
Reviews include portfolio credit quality, capital consumption and control frameworks.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 224 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued CRE lending exposure by sub-sector based on current exposure net of provisions and after risk transfer Other Western UK RoI Europe US RoW Total By sub-sector m m m m m m 2016 Residential 6,889 204 73 4 3 7,173 Office 3,322 155 518 41 15 4,051 Retail 4,970 50 56 2 5,078 Industrial 2,696 33 65 1 2,795 Mixed other 6,152 269 113 113 10 6,657 Total 24,029 711 825 159 30 25,754 2015 Residential 7,424 175 9 1 25 7,634 Office 2,938 76 398 85 62 3,559 Retail 4,497 93 85 19 22 4,716 Industrial 2,600 36 39 7 2,682 Mixed other 6,403 161 90 137 125 6,916 Total 23,862 541 621 242 241 25,507 A breakdown of the Commercial Banking UK investment portfolio for 2016 by UK region is set out below.
UK region 1 Proportion Greater London 29% Portfolio 2 22% Midlands 13% South East 12% North 11% Scotland 7% Rest of the UK 3 6% Notes: 1 Based on management estimates using the postcode of the security.
Percentages are based on current exposure gross of provisions.
2 Includes lending secured against property portfolios comprising numerous properties across multiple UK locations.
Key points With the outlook for UK commercial property more A slowdown in the UK commercial property investment uncertain, underwriting standards have been tightened market, which began in the third quarter of 2015, continued across all commercial property investment portfolios to after the EU referendum result in June 2016.
As a result, mitigate potential declines in property values.
capital values were down by approximately 3% on average Lending to the CRE sector in the UK increased during the in the second half of 2016.
Despite a minor recovery in the year as a result of CPB and PBB having appetite to support final months of 2016, forecasts suggest that values will activity in the sector.
However, the sector The increase in exposure in RoI and Western Europe was continues to attract equity flows given its attractive yields.
primarily due to foreign exchange movements.
unaudited 225 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued CRE exposure by LTV band The table below provides a breakdown of the CRE portfolio by LTV band.
2 Weighted average by Current Exposure gross of provisions 3 Relates to the development of commercial and residential properties.
LTV is not a meaningful measure for this type of lending activity.
Key points Interest payable on outstanding loans was covered 3.7x in The reduction in overall portfolio average is primarily the Commercial Banking and 1.1x in Capital Resolution 2015 - result of repayments, asset sales and write-offs of legacy 3.4x and 1.6x respectively.
non-performing assets from Ulster Bank RoI, CPB and NatWest Markets.
Remaining exposures with LTVs greater than 100% are legacy transactions.
The exposure in Other relates mainly to lending to large corporate entities.
It is not asset-backed but lent against corporate balance sheets.
restated - refer to page 209 for further details.
226 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued A breakdown of CRE portfolio lending, gross of provision and after risk transfer, risk elements in lending REIL and provisions is provided below.
Total Commercial Banking Capital Resolution 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 CRE loans, REIL and provisions m m m m m m Lending gross of provisions 26,265 27,561 18,296 18,178 1,193 2,842 Of which REIL 1,407 3,560 731 1,050 497 1,951 Provisions 511 2,054 263 305 119 1,323 REIL as a % of gross loans to customers 5.4% 12.9% 4.0% 5.8% 41.7% 68.6% Provisions as a % of REIL 36% 58% 36% 29% 24% 68% Asset quality A breakdown of asset quality of the CRE portfolio measured on a Current Exposure basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is set out below.
9,000 8,000 7,000 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 - AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Note: 1 There is little variation between CE and PE figures for the CRE portfolio as facilities tend to be fully drawn.
Key point The growth in AQ6 band is the result of the introduction of a more conservative calibration of certain commercial real estate asset quality models, rather than deterioration of underlying asset quality.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 227 millions 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Natural Resources Exposure to the Natural Resources sector, measured on both a Current Exposure CE and Potential Exposure PE basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
2016 2015 Of which: Of which: Of which: Of which: Capital Capital Capital Capital CE Resolution PE Resolution CE Resolution PE Resolution m m m m m m m m Oil and gas 2,911 159 5,286 191 3,544 1,539 6,798 2,117 Mining and metals 623 32 1,887 126 729 237 1,823 391 Electricity 3,430 797 9,076 1,087 2,851 1,128 7,683 1,773 Water and waste 5,436 3,386 9,176 6,041 4,657 1,648 8,261 3,039 12,400 4,374 25,425 7,445 11,781 4,552 24,565 7,320 Commodity traders 631 1 992 1 900 444 1,320 452 Of which: Natural resources 568 744 521 212 752 212 Key points Electricity - CE and PE increased during the year by 9% and Oil & Gas - CE and PE decreased during the year by 27% 5% 0.3 billion and 0.4 billion on a constant currency and 32% 1.1 billion and 2.5 billion respectively on a basis, with foreign exchange impact of 0.3 billion CE and constant currency basis, with foreign exchange impact of 1.0 billion PE.
This was mainly due to refined 0.5 billion CE and 1.0 billion PE.
This portfolio remains classification of exposure in the natural resources sector subject to active risk management see below.
which lead to a transfer of regulated utility exposure from Oil Mining & Metals - CE and PE decreased during the year by and Gas to Electricity and an increase in Project Finance 23% and 10% 0.2 billion and 0.2 billion on a constant exposure as part of the RBS growth strategy.
currency basis, with foreign exchange impact of 0.1 billion Water & Waste - CE and PE increased during the year by CE and 0.3 billion PE.
There was some deterioration in 16% and 10% 0.7 billion and 0.8 billion on a constant asset quality due to challenging market conditions and this currency basis, with foreign exchange impact of 0.1 billion portfolio remains subject to active risk management see CE and 0.1 billion PE.
predominately due to mark-to-market movements in longdated inflation linked swaps driven by changes in long-term inflation outlook.
Oil & Gas Exposure to the Oil & Gas sector, split by sub-sector and geography, measured on a Potential Exposure basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
Other Western UK RoI Europe US RoW 1 Total 2016 m m m m m m Producers including international oil companies 664 1,087 2 236 1,989 Oilfield service providers 701 9 630 68 5 1,413 Other wholesale and trading activities 489 43 542 46 280 1,400 Refineries 27 285 3 315 Pipelines 33 4 121 1 10 169 1,914 56 2,380 402 534 5,286 Of which: National oil companies 16 76 92 International oil companies 450 821 155 14 1,440 Exploration and production 302 154 2 141 599 2015 Producers including international oil companies 1,177 51 1,028 275 256 2,787 Oilfield service providers 700 10 678 279 51 1,718 Other wholesale and trading activities 450 76 475 45 432 1,478 Refineries 21 2 327 18 368 Pipelines 98 310 31 8 447 2,446 139 2,491 957 765 6,798 Of which: National oil companies 21 70 91 International oil companies 654 868 273 10 1,805 Exploration and production 338 38 130 118 624 Note: 1 Comprises Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 228 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Asset quality A breakdown of asset quality for the oil and gas portfolio, measured on both a Current Exposure and Potential Exposure basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
3,000 2,500 PE CE 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Key points The sub-sector in which a customer operates is a primary Oil prices dipped below $30 per barrel at the start of the consideration for assessing credit risk.
Customers involved year but ended the year above $50 per barrel following in exploration and production E&P are most immediately positive announcements from OPEC and Non-OPEC exposed to low oil prices and these companies have producers around implementing production cuts of 1.8 introduced capital spending reductions and tight cost million barrels a day.
However, there is considerable market controls to conserve cash.
In turn, this has impacted oilfield uncertainty around future oil prices and the outlook for the service providers, with E&P companies buying fewer sector remains challenging.
products and services from the oilfield service providers, The portfolio reduced by 1.5 billion during the year or 22% and demanding lower prices for those they do purchase.
32% or 2.5 billion on a constant currency basis.
The other principal components of exposure to producers Regulated gas distribution companies are no longer are International Oil Companies IOCs and National Oil reported under the Oil and Gas sector and this Companies NOCs.
IOCs and NOCs are less vulnerable to reclassification reduced sector exposure by 724 million.
the oil price decline due to scale, diversification and, in the The other reductions are attributable to the continued run-off case of NOCs, implicit support from governments.
At 31 of the US and APAC portfolios and active risk management December 2016, 29% of the portfolio exposure was to IOCs in all regions.
The risk management strategy during the year remained to focus the portfolio towards investment grade customers with robust credit profiles and strong liquidity to manage through the extended downturn.
At 31 December 2016, 71% 2015 - 76% of the portfolio exposure was investment grade AQ1- AQ4 or equivalent to BBBand above.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 229 millions 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The number and value of cases on the Risk of Credit Loss Committed lending exposure included legal commitments to framework in the Oil & Gas sector decreased during the syndicated bank facilities and bilateral facilities with tenors year.
The framework exposure is predominantly classified up to five years.
These committed facilities are for general as Heightened Monitoring and the sector continues to be corporate purposes - including funding operating needs and monitored closely.
At 31 December 2016, exposures capital expenditures - and are available as long as classified as Risk of Credit Loss totalled 2 million.
counterparties comply with the terms of the credit The increase in AQ10 reflected ongoing challenging market agreement.
Contingent obligations relate to guarantees, conditions which resulted in a small number of customers letters of credit and suretyships provided to customers.
RBS experiencing financial stress during the year.
AQ10 assets had no high-yield bond or loan underwriting positions at 31 at 31 December 2016 totalled 181 million 2015 - 44 December 2016 2015 - Nil.
The number of forbearance events was consistent with 2015.
In 2016 there was an increase in payment concessions granted compared to 2015 which predominantly involved the relaxation of financial covenants to give customers more financial flexibility.
Most forbearance involved customers in the E&P and oilfield services subsectors where earnings have been more immediately and materially affected by the downturn.
unaudited 230 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Mining & Metals Exposure to the Mining & Metals sector, measured on a Potential Exposure basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
Other Western UK RoI Europe US RoW 1 Total 2016 m m m m m m Mining 118 36 129 566 849 Metals - production 120 1 340 2 463 - wholesale 184 3 382 6 575 422 40 851 6 568 1,887 2015 Mining 31 1 7 105 447 591 Metals - production 308 1 361 13 40 723 - wholesale 164 2 309 34 509 503 4 677 152 487 1,823 Note: 1 Comprises Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa Asset quality A breakdown of asset quality for the Mining & Metals portfolio, measured on both a Current Exposure and Potential Exposure basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
600 500 PE CE 400 300 200 100 0 AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 Key point The deterioration in asset quality reflected the challenging operating environment in 2016. unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 231 millions 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Shipping Exposure to the Shipping sector, measured on both a Current Exposure and Potential Exposure basis net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
2016 2015 Of which: Of which: Of which: Of which: Current Capital Potential Capital Current Capital Potential Capital Exposure Resolution Exposure Resolution Exposure Resolution Exposure Resolution m m m m m m m m Shipping 4,553 3,854 5,173 4,005 6,776 6,162 7,301 6,309 Asset quality A breakdown of asset quality for the Shipping sector, measured on both a Current Exposure and Potential Exposure basis, net of provisions and after risk transfer, is summarised below.
3,000 2,500 PE CE 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 AQ1 AQ2 AQ3 AQ4 AQ5 AQ6 AQ7 AQ8 AQ9 AQ10 unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 232 millions 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points The Capital Resolution portfolio LTV at 31 December Shipping exposure was 4.6 billion on a Current 2016 was 102% 2015 - 85%, or 92% net of the Exposure basis down 43% or 3.4 billion on a constant provisions outlined below.
The year-on-year increase in currency basis compared with 2015, with foreign LTV is reflective of the market and vessel value exchange impact of 1.2 billion and 5.2 billion on a movements outlined above.
The LTV calculation includes Potential Exposure basis down 40% or 3.4 billion on a vessel security only and does not incorporate any nonconstant currency basis compared with 2015, with foreign vessel security such as cash or guarantees.
At 31 December 2016, exposures classified as Risk of Most of the Shipping portfolio is managed in Capital Credit Loss totalled 363 million reflecting the prolonged Resolution and is related to exposure secured by oceanmarket downturn in this sector.
The remaining exposure outside Capital Provisions, excluding latent provisions, increased from Resolution related principally to is within the Shipbuilding 169 million to 386 million during 2016.
Again, this was and Inland Water Transport sub-sectors.
The reduction in due to weak market conditions, and increasing LTV, exposure was mainly driven by asset sales and debt which led to an increase in the portfolios levels of default.
repayments in Capital Resolution, in line with RBSs At 31 December 2016, AQ10 exposure, net of provisions strategy.
Within Capital Resolution, Concentrations were as There was an increase in the number of forbearance follows: Containers 34% 2015 - 21%, Dry Bulk 26% events, mainly involving the relaxation of minimum 2015 - 37%, Tankers at 18% 2015 - 23%.
Other vessel security covenants due to deteriorating asset prices.
Total types included liquid petroleum gas, natural gas and rollforbearance for this sector was 723 million.
on roll-off vessels at 22% of exposure 2015 - 19%.
Conditions remained depressed in the Dry Bulk market, notwithstanding a gradual improvement during the second half of the year.
The Container market also saw a marked downturn in 2016 with a significant reduction in spot rates and vessel values and this is set to continue into 2017.
Tanker rates also weakened in 2016 with a general deterioration in vessel values.
233 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued In the process, they may consider granting the customer Personal credit risk management forbearance.
This section sets out further detail on RBSs approach to credit Additionally, in the UK and Ireland support is provided to risk management for its personal customers.
customers with unsecured loans who establish a repayment plan Risk appetite with RBS through a debt advice agency or a self-help tool.
Such RBS uses a credit risk appetite framework to control credit risk for breathing space suspends collections activity for a 30-day its personal businesses.
The framework sets limits that measure period to allow time for the repayment plan to be put in place.
and control, for each relevant franchise or reportable segment, Arrears continue to accrue for customer loans granted breathing the quality of both existing and new business.
performance of each portfolio is tracked relative to these limits If collections strategies are unsuccessful the relationship is and action taken where necessary.
These limits apply to a range transferred to the recoveries team.
of credit risk-related measures including expected loss of the portfolio, the expected loss in a given stress scenario, projected Forbearance credit default rates and the LTV of personal mortgage portfolios.
Forbearance takes place when a concession is made on the contractual terms of a loan in response to a customer's financial Personal credit risk assessment difficulties.
Personal lending entails making a large number of small-value loans.
To ensure that these lending decisions are made Customers who contact RBS directly because of financial consistently, RBS analyses credit information, including the difficulties, or who are already in payment arrears, may be historical debt servicing behaviour of customers with respect to granted forbearance.
In the course of assisting customers, more both RBS and their other lenders.
RBS then sets its lending rules than one forbearance treatment may be granted.
accordingly, developing different rules for different products.
The process is then largely automated, with customers receiving a The type of forbearance granted will differ based upon an credit score that reflects a comparison of their credit profile with assessment of the customer's circumstances.
Forbearance is the rule set.
However, for relatively high-value, complex personal granted principally to customers with mortgages and less loans, including some residential mortgage lending, specialist frequently to customers with unsecured loans.
This includes credit managers make the final lending decisions.
instances where forbearance may be taken for customers with highly flexible mortgages.
Personal risk mitigation RBS takes collateral in the form of residential property to mitigate Forbearance options include, but are not limited to: the credit risk arising from mortgages and home equity lending.
Payment concessions - A temporary reduction in, or RBS values residential property during the loan underwriting elimination of, the periodic usually monthly loan repayment process by either appraising properties individually or valuing is agreed with the customer.
At the end of the concessionary them collectively using statistically valid models.
RBS updates period, forborne principal and accrued interest outstanding residential property values quarterly using the relevant residential is scheduled for repayment over an agreed period.
Ulster property index, namely: Bank RoI also offers payment concessions in the form of discounted interest rates that involve the forgiveness of Region Index used some interest.
UK Halifax quarterly regional house price index Capitalisation of arrears - The customer repays the arrears Northern UK House Price Index published by the Land over the remaining term of the mortgage and returns to an Ireland Registry up-to-date position.
RoI Central Statistics Office residential property price Term extensions - The loans maturity date is extended.
index Interest only conversions - The loan converts from principal and interest repayment to interest only repayment.
This is Problem debt management only available in Ulster Bank RoI and Ulster Bank North on a Personal customers in financial difficulty are managed through temporary basis.
These forbearance concessions are no either collections or recoveries functions.
longer offered to customers in UK PBB, RBSI and Private Collections Banking.
Collections functions in each of RBSs personal businesses Types of forbearance offered in the unsecured portfolios vary by provide support to customers who cannot meet their obligations reportable segment.
Such customers may miss a payment on their loan, borrow more than their agreed limit, or ask for help.
Dedicated support teams are also in place to identify and help customers who have not yet missed a payment but may be facing financial difficulty.
The collections function uses a range of tools to initiate contact with such customers, establish the cause of their financial difficulty and support them where possible.
unaudited 234 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Monitoring of forbearance - Forborne loans are separated into a Recoveries distinct population and reported on a regular basis until they exit Once a loan has been identified as impaired it is managed by the forborne population.
recoveries teams in the relevant businesses.
The teams seek to minimise RBSs loss by maximising cash recovery while treating A loan is considered to have exited forbearance when it meets customers fairly.
the criteria set out by the European Banking Authority EBA requirements for Financial Reporting.
These include being Where an acceptable repayment arrangement cannot be agreed classified as performing for two years since the last forbearance with the customer litigation may be considered.
In the UK and event, making regular repayments and the debtor being less than Northern Ireland, no repossession procedures are initiated until at 30 days past due.
least six months following the emergence of arrears in the Republic of Ireland, regulations prohibit taking legal action for an The act of granting of forbearance in itself will only change the extended period.
Additionally, certain forbearance options are delinquency status of the loan in exceptional circumstances, made available to customers managed by the recoveries which can include capitalisation of principal and interest in function.
arrears, where the loan may be returned to the performing book if it remains up to date for the duration of the probation period and is deemed likely to continue to do so.
Additionally for some forbearance types a loan may be transferred to the performing book following a probationary period if a customer makes payments that reduce loan arrears below 90 days Ulster Bank RoI, UK PBB collections function.
Impairments for forbearance The methodology used for provisioning in respect of forborne loans will differ depending on whether the loans are performing or non-performing and which business is managing them due to local market conditions.
For the latent calculation, an extended emergence period is applied to account for the impact of forbearance within the portfolio.
Additionally for portfolios with material forbearance, forborne loans form a separate risk pool and use different PD model: UK PBB excl.
NI and W&G: forborne mortgages form a separate risk pool for 24 months after the agreement of forbearance and the calculation uses the higher of the observed default rates or PD.
On unsecured loans, separate risk pools are used for the duration of the forbearance treatment.
Ulster Bank: forborne and previously forborne mortgages form a separate risk pool taking into account the term of the forbearance treatment and applicable probationary periods.
The PD model used is calibrated separately for forborne loans, using information on the historic performance of loans subject to similar arrangements.
For non-performing loans, there is no difference in treatment with the exception of Ulster Bank, where forborne loans which result in an economic loss to the group form a separate risk pool where specific LGDs are allocated using observed cohort performance.
2 Weighted by current exposure gross of provisions.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 236 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Overview of new mortgage lending on a Current Exposure basis net of provisions Ulster Private UK PBB Bank RoI Banking RBSI W&G Total 2016 m m m m m m Gross new mortgage lending 1 29,027 893 3,291 470 2,156 35,837 Of which: Owner occupied 25,086 876 2,819 300 1,833 30,914 Average LTV by weighted value 71% 74% 55% 69% 70% 70% Buy-to-let 3,941 17 472 170 323 4,923 Average LTV by weighted value 62% 59% 54% 62% 62% 61% 1 Excludes additional lending to existing customers 2015 Gross new mortgage lending 22,713 553 2,383 258 1,728 27,635 Of which: Owner occupied 18,884 541 2,161 179 1,412 23,177 Average LTV by weighted value 71% 77% 54% 64% 69% 69% Buy-to-let 3,829 12 222 79 316 4,458 Average LTV by weighted value 64% 65% 64% 57% 64% 64% Forbearance stock and flow on a Current Exposure basis net of provisions 2016 Forbearance stock 1 1,290 3,709 65 43 177 5,284 Forbearance stock: arrears Current 790 2,077 65 29 107 3,068 1-3 months in arrears 286 473 2 41 802 3 months in arrears 214 1,159 12 29 1,414 Provisions against forbearance stock 51 790 1 8 850 Forbearance type: Long-term arrangements 2 701 1,249 63 37 111 2,161 Short-term arrangements 3 860 2,460 2 6 110 3,438 Forbearance flow 406 316 49 10 53 834 2015 Forbearance stock 1 1,444 3,643 64 43 202 5,396 Forbearance stock: arrears Current 863 2,165 64 31 124 3,247 1-3 months in arrears 329 470 6 46 851 3 months in arrears 252 1,008 6 32 1,298 Provisions against forbearance stock 59 884 1 8 952 Forbearance type: Long-term arrangements 2 800 1,173 39 35 129 2,176 Short-term arrangements 3 953 2,470 25 8 120 3,576 Forbearance flow 435 197 47 17 57 753 Notes: 1 Q4 2016 forbearance calculation has moved to the FINREP EBA basis.
2 Capitalisation term extensions, economic concessions.
238 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points UK PBB Fixed interest rate products of varying time durations The total portfolio increased by 11.9% from 31 December accounted for approximately 73% by value of the mortgage 2015.
This was in line with the segments growth strategy portfolio with 2% a combination of fixed and variable rates and within risk appetite.
The portfolio is closely monitored and the remainder variable rate.
The proportion of the and risk appetite is regularly reviewed to ensure it is portfolio on fixed rate products rose due to the very high appropriate for market conditions.
Underwriting standards proportion of customers taking out fixed rate mortgages in were not relaxed during the year.
Other Personal lending remained stable during the year in Based on the Halifax House Price Index at September 2016, the context of an upward trend in unsecured household debt the portfolio average indexed LTV by volume was 50% in the wider UK market.
Asset quality remained stable with 2015 - 49% and 56% by weighted value of debt no deterioration in the arrears rate from the prior year.
The 2.2 billion of mortgages Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 29.0 billion granted by Ulster Bank North were indexed against the UK excluding additional lending to existing customers in 2016 house price index published by the Land Registry.
with an average LTV by weighted value of 69% 2015 - The arrears rate three or more repayments past due fell 69%.
Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was from 0.8% by volume in December 2015 to 0.7% at 31 25.1 billion 2015 - 18.9 billion and had an average LTV December 2016.
The number of properties repossessed in by weighted value of 71% 2015 - 71%.
Buy-to-let lending 2016 was also lower at 519 compared with 727 in 2015. was 3.9 billion 2015 - 3.8 billion with an average LTV by The flow of new forbearance was 406 million in 2016 weighted value of 62% 2015 - 64%.
The value of mortgages Approximately 12% by value of owner-occupied mortgages subject to forbearance decreased by 10.4% compared with were on interest-only terms with a bullet repayment and 5% 2015 to 1.3 billion equivalent to 1.1% of the total mortgage were on a combination of interest-only and capital and book.
This was mainly driven by benign market conditions.
The remainder were capital and interest.
65% by A release of provision on  mortgages value of the buy-to-let mortgages were on interest-only was the key driver in an overall provision release of 20.5 terms and 3% on a combination of interest only and capital million for the year 2015 charge of 2.8 million.
of underlying defaults was slightly lower year-on-year.
The table below summarises UK mortgage exposure by region and LTV.
unaudited 239 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued The table below shows interest only mortgage portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type and by contractual year of maturity.
2 Includes 0.1 billion 2015 - 0.1 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest-only concessions forbearance.
3 Maturity date relates to the expiry of the interest only period.
Key points Ulster Bank RoI The number of customers approaching Ulster Bank RoI for Excluding the impact of exchange rate movements, the the first time in respect of forbearance assistance declined portfolio decreased by 2.9% 433 million from 31 during 2016.
The majority 69% of forbearance December 2015 as a result of amortisation and portfolio arrangements were less than 90 days in arrears.
The volume of new business has A key driver of both reduced forbearance rates and longer increased reflecting continuing market demand.
average forbearance durations was the introduction of Ulster Tracker-rate products accounted for approximately 64% of Bank RoIs sustainability policy in the fourth quarter of the portfolio, while variable rate totalled 21% and fixed rate 2015.
Under that policy customers are only eligible for 15%.
forbearance as part of a sustainable solution.
The use of The decrease in portfolio average indexed LTV reflected forbearance is therefore more limited than previously, positive house price index trends over the last 12 months applying only to those customers who can be returned to a and the impacts of Central Bank of Ireland requirements for sustainable status through forbearance.
The AQ10 population reduced to 1.8 billion.
This was At 31 December 2016, 26% of total mortgage assets 3.7 mainly the result of the disposal of a distressed portfolio.
billion were subject to a forbearance arrangement, an There was a very high provision coverage in relation to this increase of 2% 66 million from 31 December 2015. portfolio and, as a result, the disposal also led to a reduction Excluding the impact of exchange rate movements of 606 in provision coverage.
million, the value of mortgage assets subject to a forbearance arrangement decreased by 540 million 13%.
The table below shows interest only mortgage portfolios excluding mixed repayment mortgages by type and by contractual year of maturity.
2 Includes 0.2 billion 2015 - 0.3 billion of repayment mortgages that have been granted interest only concessions forbearance.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 240 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points Private Banking The majority of the Private Banking personal lending Fixed interest rate products accounted for approximately portfolio related to mortgage lending.
The net portfolio 41% of the mortgage portfolio, with two-year term products increase was 616 million 9.4% from 31 December 2015, accounting for 58% of all fixed deals.
in line with the segments growth strategy and risk appetite.
Approximately 82% of all mortgages were on interest-only Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 3.3 billion in terms: 82% of owner-occupied mortgages were interest-only 2016.
Lending to owner-occupiers during the period was with 90% of buy-to-let mortgages on interest-only terms.
2.8 billion 2015 - 2.2 billion and had an average LTV by Provisions remained minimal during the period.
Buy-to-let lending was 472 million 2015 - 222 million with an average LTV by weighted value of 54% 2015 - 64%.
Key points RBS International The number of customers granted forbearance in 2016 The total portfolio increased by 4% from 2.6 billion to 2.7 decreased by 28%.
A total of 37 million of forborne loans billion from 31 December 2015 in line with the franchises were subject to a long-term arrangement term extensions growth strategy and risk appetite.
and covenant breaches at 31st December 2016 2015 - 35 Gross new mortgage lending amounted to 470 million in million.
Short term forbearance comprises payment 2016.
Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was suspensions and reduced payments.
300 million 2015 - 175 million and had an average LTV The arrears rate increased from 0.75% in December 2015 to by weighted value of 69% 2015 - 64%.
Buy-to-let lending 0.78% at the end of December 2016. was 170 million 2015 - 79 million with an average LTV There was a provision impairment charge of 8.5 million for by weighted value of 62% 2015 - 57%.
personal mortgages in 2016 release of 1 million in 2015.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 241 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Key points Williams & Glyn The flow of new forbearance remained low during the year, The total portfolio increased by 3.74% from 31 December with exposure totalling 53 million 2015 - 57 million 2015, driven by gross new mortgage lending amounting to granted forbearance in 2016.
The value of mortgages 2.2 billion in 2016 but remained within risk appetite.
subject to forbearance remain low, showing a decrease of Lending to owner-occupiers during this period was 1.8 12% in 2016 to 0.18 billion equivalent to 1.6% of the total billion 2015 - 1.4 billion and had an average LTV by mortgage portfolio as a result of improved market weighted value of 70% 2015 - 70%.
323 million 2015 - 316 million with an average LTV by There was a reduction of impairment provision balances for weighted value of 62% 2015 - 64%.
personal mortgages in 2016 to 23 million compared with Fixed interest rate products of varying time durations 26 million in 2015.
The provision release resulted from accounted for approximately 65% of the mortgage portfolio revised modelling assumptions reflecting current market with 6% a combination of fixed and variable rates and the conditions.
unaudited restated - refer to page 209 for further details 242 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Balance sheet to current exposure bridge The table below provides a bridge between the balance sheet and the related components of Current Exposure CE.
Within Netting Methodology Not within the Balance the scope of Disposal and differences and scope of sheet market risk 1 groups 2 collateral 3 reclassifications 4 CE 5 CE 2016 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 0.6 4.2 69.5 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 6 41.8 39.4 2.4 Loans and advances 340.3 0.2 24.4 8.4 1.7 305.6 Debt securities 72.5 24.4 0.4 48.5 Equity shares 0.7 0.2 0.5 Settlement balances 5.5 5.5 Derivatives 247.2 226.8 1.4 19.0 Other assets 7 16.8 15.5 1.3 Total assets 799.1 24.8 290.6 10.5 26.9 446.3 Contingent obligations 11.3 457.6 2015 Cash and balances at central banks 79.4 0.5 0.2 3.9 75.8 Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing 6 39.8 37.3 2.5 Loans and advances 324.7 0.3 2.4 28.9 8.3 1.5 288.1 Debt securities 82.1 35.7 0.5 0.6 0.3 47.2 Equity shares 1.4 0.7 0.7 Settlement balances 4.1 4.1 Derivatives 262.5 244.0 2.2 20.7 Other assets 7 21.4 3.4 0.1 16.5 1.4 Total assets 815.4 36.7 310.2 6.5 26.3 435.7 Contingent obligations 15.1 450.8 Notes: 1 The exposures in regulatory trading book businesses are subject to market risk and are hence excluded from current exposure.
2 Amounts reclassified to balance sheet lines.
3 Primarily includes: - Reverse repos: reflects netting of collateral and cash legs.
- Loans and advances: cash collateral pledged with counterparties in relation to net derivative liability positions.
- Derivatives: impact of master netting arrangements.
4 Primarily includes cash management pooling arrangements not allowed under IFRS for Loans and Advances.
- Settlement balances: exposure not included in current exposure measure 5 Primarily includes cash in ATMs and branches: Other assets see note below : and Settlement balances not within the scope of current exposure.
6 Balance sheet position shows reverse repurchase and stock borrowing position: current exposure position shows net reverse repurchase stock borrowing and repurchase stock lending position.
7 Balance sheet position includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, deferred tax, prepayments and accrued income and assets of disposal groups.
unaudited 243 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis Current and Potential Exposures presented in Credit risk: management basis are used by Risk Management for risk management and monitoring.
However, they exclude certain exposures, primarily trading securities and take account of legal netting agreements that provide a right of legal set-off but do not meet the offset criteria in IFRS.
The tables that follow are therefore provided to supplement the disclosures in the Credit risk: management basis section, to reconcile to the balance sheet.
The tables in this section include balances relating to disposal groups, reflecting the total credit risk and losses faced by RBS.
All the disclosures in this section are audited.
Financial assets Exposure summary and credit mitigation The following table analyses financial asset exposures, both gross and net of offset arrangements, as well as credit mitigation and enhancement.
During 2016, changes in the legal contracts with LCH led to many derivatives cleared through that counterparty being settled to market each day rather than being collateralised as previously.
This led to the derecognition of the associated assets and liabilities.
2 The carrying value on the balance sheet represents the exposure to credit risk by class of financial instrument.
3 The amount by which credit risk exposure is reduced through arrangements, such as master netting agreements and cash management pooling, which give RBS a legal right to set off the financial asset against a financial liability due to the same counterparty.
4 RBS holds collateral in respect of individual loans and advances to banks and customers.
This collateral includes mortgages over property both personal and commercial : charges over business assets such as plant, inventories and trade debtors: and guarantees of lending from parties other than the borrower.
RBS obtains collateral in the form of securities in reverse repurchase agreements.
Cash and securities are received as collateral in respect of derivative transactions.
5 Includes cash collateral pledged by counterparties based on daily mark-to-market movements of net derivative positions with the counterparty.
6 Represent the fair value of securities received from counterparties, mainly relating to reverse repo transactions as part of netting arrangements.
7 Property valuations are capped at the loan value and reflect the application of haircuts in line with regulatory rules to indexed valuations.
Commercial collateral includes ships and plant and equipment collateral.
8 Comprises credit derivatives bought protection and guarantees against exposures.
Key points Net exposure fell by 9.8 billion or 4% reflecting disposals The majority of the 227.9 billion net exposure comprises and run-down within Ulster Bank RoI and Capital Resolution cash and balances at central banks, unsecured commercial and lower held-for-trading bonds partially offset by higher and personal bank lending and sovereign debt securities.
Lending increase of 6.5 billion primarily reflected growth in PBB and CPB.
244 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Sector concentration The following table analyses financial assets by industry sector.
For geographic concentrations refer to: Derivatives: Summary and uncollaterised exposures Lending: Loans and related credit metrics and Credit risk Equity shares.
management basis: Portfolio overview - asset quality Debt securities: Issuer and IFRS measurement and Credit risk - Country risk and Credit risk management basis: Portfolio overview - geography 245 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Asset quality Internal asset Probability of Indicative The asset quality analysis presented below is based on internal quality band default range S&P rating asset quality ratings which have ranges for the probability of AQ1 0% - 0.034% AAA to AA default.
Customers are assigned credit grades, based on various AQ2 0.034% - 0.048% AAcredit grading models that reflect the key drivers of default for the AQ3 0.048% - 0.095% A to A customer type.
All credit grades across RBS map to both an AQ4 0.095% - 0.381% BBB to BBBasset quality scale, used for external financial reporting, and a AQ5 0.381% - 1.076% BB to BB master grading scale for wholesale exposures used for internal AQ6 1.076% - 2.153% BBto B management reporting across portfolios.
Debt securities are AQ7 2.153% - 6.089% B to B analysed by external ratings and are therefore excluded from the AQ8 6.089% - 17.222% Bto CCC following table and are set out on pages 254 to 256.
AQ9 17.222% - 100% CCC to C AQ10 100% D The table that follows details the relationship between internal asset quality AQ bands and external ratings published by The mapping to the S&P ratings is used by RBS as one of Standard & Poors S&P, for illustrative purposes only.
This several benchmarks for its wholesale portfolios, depending on relationship is established by observing S&Ps default study customer type and the purpose of the benchmark.
The mapping statistics, notably the one year default rates for each S&P rating is based on all issuer types rated by S&P.
It should therefore be grade.
A degree of judgement is required to relate the probability considered illustrative and does not, for instance, indicate that of default ranges associated with the master grading scale to exposures reported against S&P ratings either have been or these default rates given that, for example, the S&P published would be assigned those ratings if assessed by S&P.
In addition, default rates do not increase uniformly by grade and the historical the relationship is not relevant for retail portfolios, smaller default rate is nil for the highest rating categories.
corporate exposures or specialist corporate segments given that S&P does not typically assign ratings to such entities.
Impaired loans are all loans including loans subject to forbearance for which an impairment provision has been established: for collectively assessed loans, impairment loss provisions are not allocated to individual loans and the entire portfolio is included in impaired loans.
Accruing loans past due 90 days or more comprise loans past due 90 days where no impairment loss is expected.
Loans and related credit metrics The tables below analyse gross loans and advances excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by reportable segment.
by disposals and wind downs in Capital Resolution.
REIL and loan impairment provisions declined by 1.8 billion UK PBB: mortgage growth of 13.8 billion was the principal and 2.7 billion to 10.3 billion and 4.5 billion respectively.
driver of the 11.4 billion gross lending increase in 2016.
These reductions were predominantly driven by the portfolio Commercial Banking: lending growth of 9.7 billion was sale of non-performing SME lending and buy-to-let across a variety of sectors supporting businesses in the UK mortgages in Ulster Bank RoI in Q4 2016 and related writeand Western Europe.
These decreases were offset by the adverse impact of Ulster Bank RoI: customer lending increased by 1.5 billion exchange rate movements of 1.0 billion in REIL and 0.5 reflecting new lending, invoice finance and foreign exchange billion in loan impairment provisions respectively.
movements, partially offset by portfolio sales and Net impairment charge of 537 million largely related to the repayments.
Shipping portfolio within Capital Resolution.
Private Banking: lending growth of 1.0 billion primarily Amounts written off were significantly lower at 3.7 billion mortgage lending.
compared with 9.0 billion in 2015, primarily in commercial real estate 1.5 billion in 2016 compared with 6.2 billion in 2015.
248 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: management basis continued Impairment charge and provisions The tables below analyse the categories of loan impairment losses releases and provisions by reportable segment.
Impairment losses releases Impairment provision Individual Collective Latent Total Individual Collective Latent Total 2016 m m m m m m m m UK PBB 83 83 1,116 176 1,292 Ulster Bank RoI 8 99 204 113 69 1,053 78 1,200 Commercial Banking 196 3 7 206 479 278 88 845 Private Banking 2 5 3 27 4 31 RBS International 9 1 10 32 6 38 NatWest Markets 1 1 Capital Resolution 331 2 17 312 761 23 18 802 W&G 5 35 2 42 26 190 29 245 Central items & other 1 1 Total 535 218 216 537 1,395 2,660 400 4,455 2015 UK PBB 73 79 6 1 1,665 181 1,847 Ulster Bank RoI 8 126 24 142 46 1,620 245 1,911 Commercial Banking 58 33 22 69 373 299 77 749 Private Banking 8 5 13 28 9 37 RBS International 1 1 27 4 31 NatWest Markets 7 7 1 1 Capital Resolution 505 22 267 794 2,173 52 41 2,266 W&G 20 8 13 15 24 225 26 275 Central items & other 1 1 22 22 Total 410 35 408 853 2,694 3,861 584 7,139 249 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Sector and geographical concentration The tables below analyse gross loans and advances to banks and customers excluding reverse repos and related credit metrics by sector and geography based on the location of lending office.
Ulster Bank RoI contributes a significant proportion of the European loan exposure.
251 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Risk elements in lending The tables below analyse REIL by segment.
2016 2015 Impaired loans Accruing past due Impaired loans Accruing past due m m m m - UK 5,557 1,122 6,095 1,262 - overseas 3,308 323 4,775 25 Total 8,865 1,445 10,870 1,287 Notes: 1 REIL are stated without giving effect to any security held that could reduce the eventual loss should it occur or to any provisions marked.
2 For details on impairment methodology refer to Credit risk on page 212 and Accounting policy 15 Impairment of financial assets on page 302.
252 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Provisions The tables below analyse provisions by segment.
2016 2015 Ulster Central UK Bank Commercial Private RBS NatWest Capital items PBB RoI Banking Banking International Markets Resolution W&G & other Total Total m m m m m m m m m m m At 1 January 1,847 1,911 749 37 31 1 2,266 275 22 7,139 18,040 Inter segment transfers 173 1,257 443 1,527 Currency translation and other adjustments 215 8 3 253 1 480 562 Repayments and disposals 554 Amounts written-off 453 2,057 577 3 6 511 68 22 3,697 9,144 Recoveries of amounts previously written-off 28 24 28 1 27 1 109 253 Charges releases to income statement from continuing operations 83 113 206 3 10 312 42 537 853 Charges releases to income statement from discontinued operations 103 Unwind of discount 40 37 12 1 18 5 113 144 At 31 December 1,292 1,200 845 31 38 1 802 245 1 4,455 7,139 Past due analysis The table below shows loans and advances to customers that were past due at the balance sheet date but are not considered impaired.
2016 2015 m m Past due 1-29 days 3,852 4,150 Past due 30-59 days 753 769 Past due 60-89 days 512 530 Past due 90 days or more 1,445 1,287 Total 6,562 6,736 Past due analysis by sector Personal 3,577 3,437 Property and construction 1,020 1,341 Financial institution 94 187 Other corporate 1,871 1,771 Total 6,562 6,736 unaudited 253 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Securities and available-for-sale reserves Debt securities The table below analyses debt securities by issuer and IFRS measurement classifications.
The other financial institutions category includes US government sponsored agencies and securitisation entities, the latter principally relating to asset-backed securities ABS.
Ratings are based on the lowest of Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
Repayments made on the underlying mortgages are used to make payments to holders of the mortgage-backed securities MBS.
The risk of the MBS will vary primarily depending on the quality and geographic region in which the underlying mortgage assets are located and the credit enhancement of the securitisation structure.
Several tranches of notes are issued, each secured against the same portfolio of mortgages, but providing differing levels of seniority to match the risk appetite of investors.
The most junior or equity notes will suffer early capital and interest losses experienced by the referenced mortgage collateral, with each more senior note benefiting from the protection provided by the subordinated notes below.
Additional credit enhancements may be provided to the holder of senior MBS notes.
The main categories of mortgages that serve as collateral to RMBS held by RBS are set out below and described in the Glossary on page 475.
The US market has more established definitions of differing underlying mortgage quality and these are used as the basis for RBS's RMBS categorisation.
2 Includes US agency and Dutch government guaranteed securities.
3 Comprises HFT 282 million 2015 - 303 million, AFS 99 million 2015 - 106 million and LAR nil 2015 - 37 million.
4 Comprises HFT 25 million 2015 - 46 million, AFS nil 2015 - 28 million and LAR 48 million 2015 - 475 million.
256 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Equity shares The table below analyses holdings of equity shares for eurozone countries and other countries with balances of more than 50 million by country, issuer and measurement classification.
The HFT positions are used mainly for economic hedging of debt issuances and equity derivatives.
The AFS balances are individually small holdings in unlisted companies, mainly acquired through debt for equity transactions in Restructuring.
2016 HFT AFS DFV 1 Other financial Total Other financial Total AFS Banks institutions 2 Corporate HFT Banks institutions 2 Corporate AFS DFV Total reserves Countries m m m m m m m m m m Luxembourg 91 91 91 Belgium 80 80 80 6 Netherlands 61 61 61 2 Other 8 11 19 5 3 8 27 Total eurozone 99 11 110 85 64 149 259 8 UK 10 32 11 53 284 9 293 346 37 US 1 1 53 2 55 56 12 Other 2 2 38 2 40 42 36 Total 10 132 24 166 460 77 537 703 19 2015 Total 47 283 330 660 5 640 80 725 1,385 302 Notes: 1 Designated as at fair value through profit or loss balances are 171 million 2015 - 147 million, of which 142 million are other financial institutions 2015 - 111 million and 29 million are corporate 2015 - 36 million.
3 HFT short positions of 3 million 2015 - 2 million did not relate to non-periphery eurozone countries.
257 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Derivatives Summary and net uncollateralised exposures The table below analyses derivatives by type of contract.
The master netting agreements and collateral shown below do not result in a net presentation on the balance sheet under IFRS.
2 Transactions with securitisation vehicles and funds where collateral posting is contingent on RBSs external rating.
3 Predominantly large corporate with whom RBS may have netting arrangements in place, but operational capability does not support collateral posting.
4 Sovereigns and supranational entities with one way collateral agreements in their favour.
5 The notional amount of interest rate derivatives include 9,724 billion 2015 - 11,555 billion in respect of contracts cleared through central clearing counterparties.
The associated derivatives assets and liabilities including variation margin reflect IFRS offset of 51 billion 2015 - 124 billion and 51 billion 2015 - 118 billion respectively.
Key point At Group level, derivative assets and liabilities reduced reflecting lower trading volumes of 34 billion, TriOptima tear-ups of 9 billion, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange movements.
Increases in trading activity in NatWest Markets of 15 billion was more than offset by disposals and run-off in Capital Resolution.
258 Business review Capital and risk management Credit risk: balance sheet analysis continued Valuation reserves When valuing financial instruments in the trading book, adjustments are made to mid-market valuations to cover bid-offer spread, liquidity and credit risk.
The following table shows credit valuation adjustments CVA and other valuation reserves.
CVA represents an estimate of the adjustment to fair value that a market participant would make to incorporate the risk inherent in derivative exposures.
For details of CVA methodology, refer to Note 9 on the consolidated accounts: Financial instruments - valuation.
2016 2015 m m Funding valuation adjustments FVA 936 752 Credit valuation adjustments CVA 618 774 Bid-offer reserves 334 304 Product and deal specific 643 660 Valuation reserves 2,531 2,490 The table below analyses CVA relating to counterparties by rating and sector.
2016 2015 m m Ratings AAA 4 37 AA to AA 22 66 A to AA- 52 49 BBBto A- 388 293 Non-investment grade and unrated 152 329 618 774 Counterparty Banks 22 18 Other financial institutions 70 126 Corporate 337 470 Government 189 160 618 774 Key points The decrease in CVA reserves of 156 million, was driven FVA reserves increased by 184 million during 2016, by credit spreads tightening together with trade close-outs primarily driven by interest rates tightening with the and novations.
movements in the first half of the year partially reversing in The increase in bid-offer reserves of 30 million mainly the second half of 2016. reflected sterling weakening against all major currencies.
Derivatives: settlement basis and central counterparties The table below analyses the derivative notional and fair value by trading and settlement method.
Notional Asset Liability Traded over the counter Traded on Not settled Traded on Traded Traded on Traded recognised Settled by central by central recognised over the recognised over the exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counter exchanges counter 2016 bn bn bn bn m m m m Interest rate 2,849 9,724 5,400 17,973 170,524 158,485 Exchange rate 8 4,443 4,451 75,442 77,148 Credit 42 42 682 557 Equity and commodity 5 20 25 333 4 281 Total 2,862 9,724 9,905 22,491 246,981 4 236,471 2015 Interest rate 2,761 11,585 5,437 19,783 206,138 2 194,852 Exchange rate 23 3,679 3,702 54,938 58,243 Credit 67 67 909 840 Equity and commodity 1 17 18 1 558 44 752 Total 2,785 11,585 9,200 23,570 1 262,543 46 254,687 259 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk Hedging activity aims to reduce RBSs sensitivity to potential Definition adverse impacts of exchange rate and interest rate Market risk is the risk of losses arising from fluctuations in movements, in particular on its Common Equity Tier 1 ratio.
interest rates, credit spreads, foreign currency rates, equity Ahead of the EU referendum, the residual sensitivity of this prices, commodity prices and other factors, such as marketratio was low and no adverse impact from RBSs economic implied volatilities, that may lead to a reduction in earnings, risk exposure resulted from the outcome of the vote.
However, the sensitivity of interest income to a further downward shock in interest rates increased after the RBS is exposed to traded market risk through its trading activities referendum as interest rates fell sharply, with the UK base and to non-traded market risk as a result of its banking activities.
This reflected the limited ability It manages its traded and non-traded market risk exposures of banks, including RBS, to pass on further rate cuts to separately, largely in line with the regulatory definitions of the customers that already receive low nominal returns on trading and non-trading books.
For more commentary on earnings sensitivity, refer to page 268.
The following disclosures in this section are audited: Traded market risk - Internal VaR Sources of risk Non-traded market risk: Traded market risk Internal banking book VaR: and The majority of traded market risk exposure arises in NatWest Foreign exchange risk Markets and Capital Resolution.
Key developments in 2016 The primary objective of RBSs trading activities is to provide a Traded market risk: range of financing, risk management and investment services to The year was characterised by higher market volatility.
This its customers - including major corporations and financial was particularly notable during Q1 2016 - due to market institutions around the world.
From a market risk perspective, the concerns over the stability of the financial sector - and trading activities are focused on the following markets: around key events, such as the UK referendum on EU currencies: rates: securitised products: and traded credit.
membership in June and the US presidential election in November.
RBS undertakes transactions in financial instruments including NatWest Markets significantly reduced its traded market risk debt securities, loans, deposits and equities, as well as securities exposure in the run-up to these key events, reflecting financing and derivatives.
Value-at-Risk VaR fell as low as 11 million on 22 June, the day before the EU referendum, from Some of these transactions involve trading or clearing financial 16 million at the start of that month.
The focus of the risk instruments on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, reduction was in the Rates business.
Holders of these instruments provide margin Market flows increased markedly following these events, on a daily basis with cash or other security at the exchange.
supporting NatWest Markets customer activity.
Given the significant risk reduction achieved in recent years, notably in Other products are not transacted on an exchange.
Of these Capital Resolution, by year-end 2016 the Groups VaR over-the-counter transactions, those with standard terms may be profile was more reflective of NatWest Markets areas of cleared through central counterparties, while those that are more activity in line with its strategic focus.
complex are settled directly with the counterparty and may give Total market risk RWAs fell 18% or 3.8 billion to 17.4 rise to counterparty credit risk.
For more information on the billion, driven by reductions under both the standardised management of counterparty credit risk, refer to the Credit risk approach and the internal model approach.
The majority of the VaR back-testing exceptions by legal entity during the year were driven by the increased market Non-traded market risk volatility.
The majority of RBSs non-traded market risk exposure arises from retail and commercial banking activities in all franchises Non-traded market risk: from assets and liabilities that are not classified as held for The non-traded market risk appetite statement and metrics trading.
The risk appetite metrics were enhanced to capture a combination of earnings-based and Non-traded market risk is largely managed in line with the economic value-based metrics, as prescribed by regulatory following key categories: interest rate risk: credit spread risk: guidelines.
The appetite framework was also aligned to foreign exchange risk: equity risk: and accounting volatility risk.
RBSs capital framework and directly supports the strategic risk objectives of maintaining capital adequacy and delivering stable earnings growth.
unaudited 260 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Interest rate risk Equity risk Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR arises from the provision to Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in income and customers of a range of banking products that have differing reserves arising from changes in the values of non-trading book interest rate characteristics.
When aggregated, these products equity positions.
Equity exposures may arise through strategic form portfolios of assets and liabilities with varying degrees of acquisitions, venture capital investments and certain restructuring sensitivity to changes in market interest rates.
these characteristics can give rise to volatility in net interest income as interest rates vary.
Accounting volatility risk Accounting volatility risk arises when a non-trading book NTIRR comprises three primary risk factors: gap risk, basis risk exposure is accounted for at amortised cost but economically and option risk.
For more information, refer to page 268. hedged by a derivative that is accounted for at fair value.
Although this is not an economic risk, the difference in accounting Credit spread risk between the exposure and the hedge creates volatility in the Credit spread risk arises from the potential adverse economic income statement.
impact of a move in the spread between bond yields and swap rates, where the bond portfolios are accounted at fair value in the Pension risk non-trading book.
Pension-related activities also give rise to market risk.
Refer to page 205 for more information on risk related to pensions.
Foreign exchange risk Non-traded foreign exchange risk exposures arise from two main sources: Structural foreign exchange risk - arising from the capital deployed in foreign subsidiaries, branches and joint arrangements and related currency funding where it differs from sterling.
Non-trading book foreign exchange risk - arising from customer transactions and profits and losses that are in a currency other than the functional currency of the transacting operation.
unaudited 261 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Risk controls and assurance Risk governance For information on risk controls and assurance, refer to page 169.
RBS manages the key categories of traded and non-traded market risk separately.
Each category is discussed in dedicated Traded market risk sections below.
Risk identification and assessment Identification and assessment of traded market risk is achieved Responsibility for identifying, measuring, monitoring and through gathering, analysing, monitoring and reporting market controlling the market risk arising from trading or non-trading risk information by business line or at a consolidated level.
activities lies with the relevant trading or non-trading business, Industry expertise, continued system developments and with  oversight provided by the Market techniques such as stress testing are also used to enhance the Risk function, headed by the Director of Market Risk.
effectiveness of the identification and assessment of all material market risks.
Market risk positions are reported monthly to the Executive Risk Forum ERF and quarterly to the Board Risk Committee.
In This is complemented by the New Product Risk Assessment addition, traded market risk positions are reported monthly to the process, which requires market risk teams to assess and quantify Treasury and Market Risk Committee and non-traded market risk the market risk associated with all proposed new products.
positions are reported to the ALCo monthly in the case of interest rate, credit spread and accounting volatility risks and Risk monitoring quarterly in the case of foreign exchange and equity risks.
Traded market risk exposures are monitored against limits and analysed daily by market risk reporting and control functions.
A The ERF approves market risk frameworks.
Market risk policy daily report that summarises market risk exposures against the statements set out the governance and risk management limits set by the ERF is sent to the Chief Risk Officer and market framework through effective identification, measurement, risk managers across the function.
reporting, mitigation, monitoring and control.
A risk review of trading businesses is undertaken weekly with RBSs policy is to manage risk exposures within an appetite that senior risk and front office staff.
This includes a review of profit is set by the ERF and, in the case of non-traded market risk, and loss drivers, notable position concentrations and other endorsed by the ALCo.
This appetite is expressed in the form of positions of concern.
Risk appetite Businesses profit and loss performance is monitored RBSs qualitative market risk appetite is set out in policy automatically via loss triggers which, if breached, require a statements.
remedial action plan to be agreed with the Market Risk function.
The loss triggers are set using both a fall-from-peak approach Its quantitative market risk appetite is expressed in terms of limits and an absolute loss level.
for the trading and non-trading activities that are consistent with business plans.
The Market Risk function also prepares daily risk reports that detail exposures against a more granular set of limits and The Market Risk Committee cascades the limits further down the triggers.
For each trading business, a document Limit reporting is supplemented with regulatory capital and stress known as a dealing authority compiles details of all applicable testing information as well as ad hoc reporting.
In addition, as noted under Risk governance above, regular The limit framework at RBS level comprises VaR, stressed valueupdates on traded market risk positions are provided to the ERF, at-risk SVaR and sensitivity and stress limits for more details the Board Risk Committee, Treasury and the Market Risk on VaR and SVaR, refer to pages 263 to 266.
framework at trading unit level also comprises additional metrics that are specific to the market risk exposures within its scope.
The reporting and updates facilitate frequent reviews and These additional metrics aim to control various risk dimensions discussions of traded market risk exposures and related issues such as product type, exposure size, aged inventory, currency between the market risk functions, senior management and the and tenor.
The limits are reviewed to reflect changes in risk appetite, business plans, portfolio composition and the market and economic environments.
To ensure approved limits are not breached and that RBS remains within its risk appetite, triggers at RBS and lower levels have been set such that if exposures exceed a specified level, action plans are developed by the front office, Market Risk and Finance.
For further information on risk appetite, refer to page 165. unaudited 262 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued The internal VaR model captures the potential impact of the Risk measurement following risk factors: RBS uses a comprehensive set of methodologies and techniques General interest rate risk - which arises from the impact of to measure traded market risk.
changes in interest rates and volatilities on cash instruments and derivatives.
This includes interest rate tenor basis risk and cross-currency basis risk.
Specific interest rate risk - which arises from the impact of changes in the credit spreads of sovereign bonds, corporate bonds, securitised products and credit derivatives.
Currency risk - which arises from the impact of changes in currency rates and volatilities.
Equity risk - which arises from the impact of changes in equity prices, volatilities and dividend yields.
Commodity risk - which arises from the impact of changes in commodity prices and volatilities.
When simulating potential movements in risk factors, a combination of absolute and relative returns is used, depending on the risk factor.
The following types of risk - which are components of the abovementioned factors - are also considered: Basis risk - which is the risk that imperfect correlation between two instruments in a hedging strategy creates the potential for excess gains or losses, thus adding risk to the position: Prepayment risk - which is the risk associated with early The main risk measurement methods are VaR, SVaR and the unscheduled return of principal on a fixed rate security: and incremental risk charge.
Risks that are not adequately captured Inflation risk - which is the risk of a decrease in the value of by VaR or SVaR are captured by the Risks not in VaR RNIV instruments as a result of changes in inflation rates and framework to ensure that RBS is adequately capitalised for associated volatilities.
In addition, stress testing is used to identify any vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of VaR and SVaR.
VaR limitations Historical VaR and RBSs implementation of this risk The key inputs into these measurement methods are market data measurement methodology have a number of known limitations, and risk factor sensitivities.
Sensitivities refer to the changes in as summarised below, and VaR should be interpreted in light of deal or portfolio value that result from small changes in market these.
RBSs approach is to supplement VaR with other risk parameters that are subject to the market risk limit metrics that address these limitations to ensure appropriate framework.
Revaluation ladders are used in place of sensitivities coverage of all material market risks.
to capture the impact on the income statement of large moves in risk factors or the joint impact of two risk factors.
Historical simulation VaR may not provide the best estimate of future market movements.
It can only provide a forecast of These methods have been designed to capture correlation portfolio losses based on events that occurred in the past.
The effects and allow RBS to form an aggregated view of its traded RBS model uses the previous 500 days of data: this period market risk across risk types, markets and business lines while represents a balance between model responsiveness to recent also taking into account the characteristics of each risk type.
shocks and risk factor data coverage.
Value-at-risk Market data time series are updated on a daily basis, with a tenVaR is a statistical estimate of the potential change in the market working-day time lag.
value of a portfolio and, thus, the impact on the income statement over a specified time horizon at a given confidence The use of a 99% confidence level VaR statistic does not provide level.
information about losses beyond this level, usually referred to as For internal risk management purposes, VaR assumes a time tail risks.
These risks are more appropriately assessed using horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of 99%.
The measures such as SVaR and stress testing.
VaR model is based on a historical simulation, utilising market data from the previous 500 days on an equally weighted basis.
Finally, where market data time series are not appropriate due to poor quality or a lack of liquidity in the market, RBS uses proxy The internal traded VaR model captures all trading book positions time series or excludes the risk factor from its VaR model and including those products approved by the regulator.
For an capitalises the risk through its RNIV framework.
explanation of the distinction between internal VaR and regulatory VaR, refer to page 267. unaudited 263 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued 1-Day 99% traded internal VaR 2016 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Total Trading VaR General Interest Rate VaR Specific Interest Rate VaR Equity VaR FX VaR Commodity VaR The table below analyses 1-day 99% internal VaR for RBSs trading portfolios, segregated by type of market risk exposure.
The extent of the diversification benefit depends on the correlation between the assets and risk factors in the portfolio at a particular time.
The diversification factor is the sum of the VaR on individual risk types less the total portfolio VaR.
Key points On a period end basis, total traded VaR increased in 2016 On an average basis, total traded VaR decreased in 2016 by 39%.
The increase was mainly driven by the Rates by 10%.
The reduction was mainly driven by lower risk business.
positions during Q1 2016, with reduced market activity VaR fluctuated throughout 2016, reflecting developments in reflecting concerns over the stability of the financial sector.
US and the eurozone and other macroeconomic factors.
Stronger client flows later in the year, mainly in NatWest These included, but were not limited to, the US presidential Markets strategic Rates and Currencies businesses, elections, the EU referendum in the UK and central bank resulted in a risk increase in the second half of 2016. actions.
However, total traded VaR was managed within risk appetite.
264 m Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued VaR back-testing VaR validation The main approach employed to assess the ongoing In addition to being a key risk management measure used by performance of the VaR model is back-testing, which counts the Market Risk in its  oversight of the risk number of days when a loss exceeds the corresponding daily arising from trading activities, VaR is also used as one of the VaR estimate, measured at a 99% confidence level.
components of RBSs market risk regulatory capital requirements refer to page 267 for more information.
Two types of profit and loss P&L are used in back-testing comparisons: Actual P&L and Hypothetical Hypo P&L.
Therefore, VaR is subject not only to model management review and validation but also to regulation compliance, which includes The Actual P&L for a particular business day is the firms actual but is not restricted to regulator-prescribed back-testing.
P&L for that day in respect of the trading activities within the scope of the firms regulatory VaR model, including any intraday The performance and adequacy of the VaR model are tested on activities, adjusted by stripping out fees and commissions, a regular basis through the following processes: brokerage, and additions to and releases from reserves that are Back-testing - Internal and regulatory back-testing is not directly related to market risk.
Ongoing model validation - VaR model performance is The Hypo P&L reflects the firms Actual P&L excluding any intraassessed both regularly and on an ad-hoc basis if market day activities.
conditions or book constitution change significantly.
RNIV framework - The RNIV framework ensures that all A portfolio is said to produce a back-testing exception when the material risks outside the internal VaR models are captured Actual or Hypo P&L exceeds the VaR level on a given day.
Such by, if necessary, developing an RNIV calculation to manage an event may be caused by a large market movement or may the risk refer to page 266. highlight issues such as missing risk factors or inappropriate time Model Risk Management review - As part of the model series.
Any such issues identified are analysed and addressed lifecycle, all risk models including the VaR model are through taking appropriate remediation or development action.
independently reviewed to ensure that the model is still fit for RBS monitors both Actual and Hypo back-testing exceptions.
purpose given current market conditions and book constitution refer to page 169.
The table below shows internal back-testing exceptions for a period of 250 days for 1-day 99% traded internal VaR vs. Actual and Hypo P&L for major NatWest Markets businesses.
Back-testing exceptions Description Actual Hypo Rates 2 4 Credit 3 4 Currencies 9 Securitised products 3 2 Key points The exceptions in the Credit business were mainly driven by Statistically RBS would expect to see back-testing mark-downs and changes in credit default swap spreads.
exceptions 1% of the time over the 250-day period.
The exceptions in the Currencies business were mainly The top-level businesses presented in the table above are driven by the increased volatility connected with the large subject to quarterly review by the PRA.
For these market movements in the run-up to and following the EU businesses, exceptions were noted during the period and referendum.
In addition, a small number of exceptions were analysis conducted as explained below.
driven in part by movements in the independent price The exceptions in the Rates business were driven by rates verification reserve.
and volatility changes adversely affecting the desk.
The exceptions in the Securitised Products business were mainly due to mark-downs and tightening in credit default swap spreads.
unaudited 265 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued In each of these approaches, potential diversification benefits Stressed VaR SVaR between RNIVs are ignored.
As with VaR, the SVaR technique produces estimates of the potential change in the market value of a portfolio, over a The RNIV calculations provide the additional capital required to specified time horizon, at a given confidence level.
SVaR is a capture the market risks not captured in the internal VaR model VaR-based measure using historical data from a one-year period and are regularly reported to senior management and the of stressed market conditions.
regulator and discussed with them.
The methodology used in the material RNIV calculations is internally reviewed by Model Risk The risk system simulates 99% VaR on the current portfolio for Management.
Where appropriate, risk managers set sensitivity each 250-day period from 2005 to the current VaR date, moving limits to monitor specific risk factors.
RNIV calculations form an forward one day at a time.
The SVaR is the worst VaR outcome integral part of RBSs ongoing model and data improvement of the simulated results.
efforts to capture all market risks in scope for model approval in VaR and SVaR.
This is in contrast with VaR, which is based on a rolling 500-day historical data set.
For the purposes of both internal risk Stress testing management and regulatory SVaR calculation, a time horizon of RBS undertakes daily market risk stress testing to identify ten trading days is assumed with a confidence level of 99%.
vulnerabilities and potential losses in excess of or not captured in VaR.
The calculated stresses measure the impact of changes in The internal traded SVaR model captures all trading book risk factors on the fair values of the trading and available-for-sale positions, including not only those products, locations and legal portfolios.
entities approved by the regulator.
RBS conducts historical, macroeconomic and vulnerability-based 10-day 99% trading internal SVaR 2016 2015 stress testing.
m m Total RBS 161 145 Historical stress testing is a measure that is used for internal management.
Using the historical simulation framework Key point employed for VaR, the current portfolio is stressed using Total traded SVaR was broadly unchanged in 2016 historical data since 1 January 2005.
The methodology simulates compared to 2015, although it fluctuated during the year.
the impact of the 99.9 percentile loss that would be incurred by historical risk factor movements over the period, assuming Risks not in VaR RNIVs variable holding periods specific to the risk factors and the The RNIV framework is used to identify and quantify market risks businesses.
that are inadequately captured by the internal VaR and SVaR models.
Historical stress tests form part of the market risk limit framework and their results are reported daily to senior management The need for an RNIV calculation is typically identified in one of the following three circumstances: i as part of the New Product Macroeconomic stress tests are carried out periodically as part of Risk Assessment process, when a risk manager determines that the firm-wide, cross-risk capital planning process.
The scenario the associated risk is not adequately captured by the VaR model narratives are translated into risk factor shocks using historical or system: ii when risks are mapped to time series that are events and insights by economists, risk managers and the front deemed to be inadequate for example, due to data quality office.
Market risk stress results are combined with those for problems or proxy series usage : or iii as a result of a other risks into the capital plan that is presented to the Board.
recommendation made during the ongoing model validation or by The cross-risk capital planning process is conducted once a year, Model Risk Management during its annual review of the VaR in September October, with a planning horizon of five years.
scenario narratives cover both regulatory scenarios and macroeconomic scenarios identified by the firm.
RNIVs that are related specifically to instruments that have level 3 valuation hierarchy assumptions refer to page 336 are mainly included in the following categories: proxied sensitivities or risk Vulnerability-based stress testing begins with the analysis of a factors, higher-order sensitivity terms, and static pricing portfolio and expresses the key vulnerabilities of the portfolio in parameters.
terms of plausible, so-called vulnerability scenarios under which the portfolio would suffer material losses.
These scenarios can be RBS adopts two approaches for the quantification of RNIVs: historical, macroeconomic or forward-looking hypothetical.
Under this approach, two values are Vulnerability-based stress testing is used for internal calculated: i the VaR RNIV: and ii the SVaR RNIV.
management information and is not subject to limits.
Under this approach, an the results for relevant scenarios are reported to senior assessment of ten-day extreme, but plausible, market management.
moves is used in combination with position sensitivities to give a stress-type loss number - the stress-based RNIV value.
unaudited 266 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued The changes were requested by RBS, reflecting the continued Economic capital simplification of its operations.
RBS has IMA permission for the The market risk economic capital framework uses models to following material legal entities: RBS plc and NatWest Plc.
calculate the market and default risk in the trading book which are aligned with other models that are used for limit setting and While internal VaR provides a measure of the economic risk, market risk management.
The results are annualised to be regulatory VaR is one of the measures of regulatory capital consistent with the other economic capital models to permit requirements by legal entity.
consolidation of all risk types as part of the RBS-wide economic capital programme.
The calculation of regulatory VaR differs from that of the internal VaR as it takes into account only regulator-approved products, Market risk regulatory capital locations and legal entities.
In addition, it is based on a directly Regulatory treatment modelled ten-day holding period, rather than a scaled one-day The market risks subject to capital requirements under Pillar 1 holding period, for market risk capital calculations.
are primarily interest rate, credit spread and equity risks in the trading book and foreign exchange and commodity risks in both The PRA approval covers general market risk in interest rate, the trading and non-trading books.
Interest rate and equity risks foreign exchange, equity and commodity products and specific are split between general and specific risks.
General risks market risk in interest rate and equity products.
represent market risks due to a move in a market as a whole, such as a main index or yield curve, while specific risks represent Regulatory SVaR market risks arising from events particular to an underlying RBSs SVaR model has also been approved by the PRA for use issuer.
in the capital requirement calculation.
The distinction between The aggregation approach taken for general and specific risks is regulatory SVaR and internal SVaR is the same as that between as follows: regulatory VaR and internal VaR.
General risks are aggregated at the simulation level, adding P&L forecasts generated by the VaR model before statistics Risks not in VaR such as VaR and SVaR are extracted.
As discussed earlier, RBS has an established RNIV framework Specific equity risks are aggregated with general risks using that ensures that the risks not captured in VaR are adequately the simulation-level approach.
In line with regulatory guidelines for Specific interest rate risks have both a systematic external reporting, VaR RNIV values are reported as a subset of component and an idiosyncratic component.
The systematic the VaR-based regulatory capital charge, whereas SVaR RNIV component captures the risk in market movements of credit and stress-based RNIV values are reported as subsets of the spreads across sectors, geographic locations and ratings SVaR-based charge.
while the idiosyncratic component captures the credit spread variability of the underlying entity.
The systematic Incremental risk charge IRC components of specific interest rate risks are aggregated at The IRC model quantifies the impact of rating migration and the simulation level, while the idiosyncratic components are default events on the market value of instruments with embedded calculated as a standalone charge.
credit risk in particular, bonds and credit default swaps that are RBS uses two broad methodologies to calculate its market risk held in the trading book.
It further captures basis risk between capital charge: i the standardised or non-modelled approach, different instruments, maturities and reference entities.
Following whereby regulator-prescribed rules are applied, and ii the the internal ratings-based approach for credit risk, the IRC is internal model approach, where, subject to regulatory approval, a calculated over a one-year capital horizon with a 99.9% model such as VaR is used to calculate the capital charge.
The dependency of positions is modelled using a single-factor Gaussian copula.
VaR and SVaR capture general and specific risks using a single model but not risks arising from the impact of defaults and rating The IRC is mainly driven by three-month credit rating transition, changes associated with traded credit products and their default and correlation parameters.
The portfolio impact of derivatives.
For these risks, two product-dependent approaches correlated defaults and rating changes is assessed by observing are used: changes in the market value of positions using stressed recovery The incremental risk charge model captures risks arising rates and modelled credit spread changes.
Revaluation matrices from rating migration and default events for the more liquid are used to capture any non-linear behaviour.
traded credit instruments and their derivatives.
Securitisation and re-securitisation risks in the trading book The transition matrix is estimated using Moodys history of issuer are treated with the non-trading book non-modelled ratings.
Regulatory VaR The average liquidity horizon by position weighted by materiality The PRA renewed RBSs Internal Model Approach IMA at the year end was 3.2 months 2015 - 3.2 months.
The horizon permission with effect from 30 November 2016, incorporating is determined based on issuer liquidity, position concentration, changes to the legal entity coverage of the permission removal product type and maturity.
of RBSSI and minor revisions to its product and trading location coverage.
unaudited 267 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Risk models Market risk RWAs and minimum capital requirements All model changes are approved through model governance At 31 December 2016, total market risk RWAs were 17 billion committees at franchise level.
Changes to existing models are 31 December 2015 - 21 billion.
Minimum capital requirements, subject to MRM review and RBS follows regulatory guidance for which represent 8% of RWAs, were 1.4 billion 31 December assessing the materiality of extensions and changes to the 2015 - 1.7 billion.
internal model approach for market risk.
By regulatory approach, the internal model approach accounted MRMs independent oversight provides additional assurance that for 80% of the total 2015 - 78%.
By legal entity, RBS plc RBS holds appropriate capital for the market risk to which it is accounted for 90% of the total 2015 - 90%.
Model validation In addition to MRMs independent oversight, the model testing RBS uses a variety of models to manage and measure market team monitors the model performance for market risk through risk.
These include pricing models used for valuation of back-testing, which is discussed in more detail on page 265, and positions and risk models for risk measurement and capital other processes.
They are developed in both RBS-level and lower-level functions and are subject to independent review and Non-traded market risk sign-off.
As noted earlier, RBS largely manages the key categories of nontraded market risk separately.
The categories are: interest rate For general information on the independent model validation risk: credit spread risk: foreign exchange risk: equity risk: and carried out by Model Risk Management MRM, which applies accounting volatility risk.
also to market risk models including VaR models, refer to page 169.
Additional details relating to pricing and market risk models Risk assessment, monitoring and mitigation are presented below.
Interest rate risk Non-traded interest rate risk NTIRR factors are grouped into the Pricing models following categories: Pricing models are developed by a dedicated front office Gap risk - which arises from the timing of rate changes in quantitative team, in conjunction with the trading desk.
They are non-trading book instruments.
The extent of gap risk used for the valuation of positions for which prices are not directly depends on whether changes to the term structure of observable and for the risk management of the portfolio.
interest rates occur consistently across the yield curve parallel risk or differentially by period non-parallel risk.
Any pricing models that are used as the basis for valuing books Basis risk - which captures the impact of relative changes in and records are subject to approval and oversight by asset-level interest rates for financial instruments that have similar modelled product review committees.
tenors but are priced using different interest rate indices, or on the same interest rate indices but with different tenors.
These committees comprise representatives of the major Option risk - which arises from option derivative positions or stakeholders in the valuation process - trading, finance, market from optional elements embedded in assets, liabilities and or risk, model development and model review functions.
off-balance sheet items, where RBS or its customer can alter the level and timing of their cash flows.
Option risk can The review process comprises the following steps: be further characterised into automatic option risk and The committees prioritise models for review by MRM, behavioural option risk.
One example of behavioural option considering the materiality of the risk booked against the risk is pipeline risk.
This is the risk of loss arising from model and an assessment of the degree of model risk, that personal customers owning an option to draw down a loan is the valuation uncertainty arising from the choice of typically a mortgage loan at a committed rate.
interest rates can result in greater or fewer customers than MRM quantifies the model risk by comparing front office anticipated taking up the committed offer.
The risk depends model outputs with those of alternative models on customer behaviour as the option will not automatically independently developed by MRM.
The sensitivities derived from the pricing models are validated.
Due to the long-term nature of many non-trading book portfolios The conclusions of the review are used by MRM to inform and their varied interest rate repricing characteristics and risk limits and by Finance to inform model reserves.
maturities, it is likely that net interest income will vary from period to period, even if interest rates remain the same.
New business originated in any period will alter RBSs interest rate sensitivity if unaudited the resulting portfolio differs from portfolios originated in prior periods, depending on the extent to which exposure has been hedged.
268 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued In order to manage exposures within these limits, RBS Foreign exchange exposures arising from customer transactions aggregates its interest rate positions and hedges them externally are sold down by businesses on a regular basis in line with RBS using cash and derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps.
This task is primarily carried out by RBS Treasury, to which all Equity risk businesses except NatWest Markets transfer most of their Non-traded equity risk is the potential variation in the income and NTIRR.
The main exposures and limit utilisations are reported to reserves arising from changes in non-trading book equity the ALCo and the ERF monthly and to the Board Risk Committee valuations.
Any such risk is identified prior to any investments quarterly.
and then mitigated through a framework of controls.
Credit spread risk Investments, acquisitions or disposals of a strategic nature are The bond portfolios in the non-trading book are high-quality referred to RBSs Acquisitions and Disposals Committee ADCo.
securities that are primarily maintained as a liquidity buffer to Once approved by ADCo for execution, such transactions are ensure RBS can continue to meet its obligations in the event that referred for approval to the Board, the Executive Committee, the access to wholesale funding markets is restricted.
Additionally Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer or as otherwise other high-quality bond portfolios are held for collateral purposes required.
Decisions to acquire or hold equity positions in the nonand to support payment systems.
trading book that are not of a strategic nature, such as customer restructurings, are taken by authorised persons with delegated Credit spread risk is monitored daily through sensitivities and authority under the credit approval framework.
The dealing authorities in place for the bond portfolios further mitigate the risk by imposing constraints by Accounting volatility risk duration, asset class and credit rating.
Exposures and limit Accounting volatility can be mitigated through hedge accounting utilisations are reported to senior management on a daily basis whereby RBS can mitigate the profit and loss impact of the as well as to the Executive Risk Forum monthly and to the Board derivatives by marking the exposure to market.
volatility will remain in cases where accounting rules mean that hedge accounting is not an option.
Accounting volatility is Foreign exchange risk reported to the ALCo monthly and capitalised as part of the The only material non-traded open currency positions are the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
structural foreign exchange exposures arising from investments in foreign subsidiaries, branches and associates and their related currency funding.
These exposures are assessed and managed by RBS Treasury to predefined risk appetite levels under delegated authority from the ALCo.
Treasury seeks to limit the potential volatility impact on RBSs CET1 ratio from exchange rate movements by maintaining a structural open currency position.
Gains or losses arising from the retranslation of net investments in overseas operations are recognised in equity reserves and reduce the sensitivity of capital ratios to foreign exchange rate movements primarily arising from the retranslation of  RWAs.
Sensitivity is minimised where, for a given currency, the ratio of the structural open position to RWAs equals RBSs CET1 ratio.
The sensitivity of the CET1 capital ratio to exchange rates is monitored monthly and reported to the ALCo at least quarterly.
269 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Risk measurement The market risk exposures that arise as a result of RBSs retail and commercial banking activities are measured using a combination of value-based metrics VaR and sensitivities and earnings-based metrics, as explained in greater detail for each of the key non-traded risk exposure types disclosed in this section.
Following the approval of an enhanced non-traded market risk appetite framework in early 2016, VaR disclosures reflect a more complete economic risk measure for the banking book.
The following table presents 1-day internal banking book VaR at a 99% confidence level, analysed by type of risk.
2016 2015 1 Average Maximum Minimum Period end Period end m m m m m Interest rate 10 19 5 18 19 Euro 3 4 2 4 4 Sterling 10 24 5 21 14 US dollar 3 5 2 2 5 Other 2 2 1 1 2 Credit spread 57 67 42 63 31 Structural FX rate 13 20 10 10 11 Pipeline risk 1 1 1 Diversification 2 19 29 Total 57 72 41 72 33 Notes: 1 Certain 2015 year end numbers have been restated for comparison purposes in light of the enhancement of the risk appetite framework in 2016.
2 RBS benefits from diversification across various financial instrument types, currencies and markets.
Key points Interest rate risk mainly arises from the structural hedges Total internal non-traded VaR rose from 33 million to carried out by Treasury.
It rose towards the end of the 72 million on a period end basis, primarily driven by year as the equity structural hedging strategy was credit spread risk, which remains the largest contributor to adjusted in anticipation of future conduct fines.
The rise in credit spread VaR reflected the increase in the proportion of bonds held within Treasurys liquidity portfolio and the increased volatility in the market data captured in the VaR.
For more information on the liquidity bond portfolio, refer to the Liquidity and funding risk section.
unaudited 270 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Sensitivity of net interest income Interest rate risk Earnings sensitivity to rate movements is derived from a central NTIRR can be measured from either an economic value-based or forecast over a 12-month period.
A simplified scenario is shown earnings-based perspective, or a combination of the two.
Valuebased on the period-end balance sheet assuming that nonbased approaches measure the change in value of the balance interest rate variables remain constant.
Market implied forward sheet assets and liabilities over a longer timeframe, including all rates are used to generate a base case earnings forecast, which cash flows.
Earnings-based approaches measure the potential is then subjected to interest rate shocks.
The variance between short-term generally one-year impact on the income statement the central forecast and the shock gives an indication of of changes in interest rates.
underlying sensitivity to interest rate movements.
RBS uses both approaches to quantify its interest rate risk: VaR The following table shows the sensitivity of net interest income, as its value-based approach and sensitivity of net interest income over the next 12 months, to an immediate upward or downward NII as its earnings-based approach.
change of 25 and 100 basis points to all interest rates.
All yield curves are expected to move in parallel with the exception that These two approaches provide different yet complementary interest rates are assumed to floor at zero per cent or, for euro views of the impact of interest rate risk on the balance sheet at a rates, at the current negative rate.
The scenarios employed in the NII sensitivity approach incorporate business assumptions and simulated The main driver of earnings sensitivity relates to interest rate modifications in customer behaviour as interest rates change.
In pass-through assumptions on customer products.
The scenario contrast, the VaR approach assumes static underlying positions also captures the impact of the reinvestment of maturing and therefore does not provide a dynamic measurement of structural hedges at higher or lower rates than the base case interest rate risk.
In addition, while the NII sensitivity earnings sensitivity and mismatches in the repricing dates of calculations are measured to a 12-month horizon and thus loans and deposits.
provide a shorter-term view of the risks on the balance sheet, the VaR approach can identify risks not captured in the sensitivity Multi-year forward projections would increase the negative impact analysis, in particular the impact of duration and repricing risk on of a downward change in rates or, conversely, the benefit of an earnings beyond 12 months.
immediate upward change in interest rates to current market Value-at-risk rates.
This is because, over time a greater proportion of maturing RBSs standard VaR metrics - which assume a time horizon of structural hedges will be reinvested at prevailing rates which may one trading day and a confidence level of 99% - are based on be higher or lower.
Also, in the absence of dynamic assumptions interest rate repricing gaps at the reporting date.
Daily rate relating to further management actions, the variance to the base moves are modelled using observations over the last 500 case income forecast arising from margin compression or business days.
These incorporate customer products plus expansion on managed rate products will continue to accrue.
associated funding and hedging transactions as well as nonfinancial assets and liabilities such as property, plant and However, reported sensitivities should not be considered equipment, capital and reserves.
Behavioural assumptions are predictive of future performance.
They do not capture potential applied as appropriate.
management action in response to sudden changes in the interest rate environment.
Actions that could reduce the net The non-traded interest rate risk VaR metrics for RBSs retail and interest income sensitivity and mitigate adverse impacts are commercial banking activities are included within the non-traded changes in pricing strategies on both customer loans and VaR table above.
The VaR captures the risk resulting from deposits as well as hedging.
Management action may also be mismatches in the repricing dates of assets and liabilities.
It targeted at stabilising total income taking into account nonincludes any mismatch between structural hedges and stable non interest income in addition to net interest income.
and low interest-bearing liabilities such as equity and money transmission accounts as regards their interest rate repricing behavioural profile.
unaudited 271 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Euro Sterling US dollar Other Total 2016 m m m m m 25 basis point shift in yield curves 4 79 11 2 96 25 basis point shift in yield curves 1 222 11 2 236 100 basis point shift in yield curves 9 436 42 13 500 100 basis point shift in yield curves 2 337 30 9 378 2015 25 basis point shift in yield curves 6 48 25 1 68 25 basis point shift in yield curves 7 66 24 1 96 100 basis point shift in yield curves 17 385 94 7 469 100 basis point shift in yield curves 7 345 79 2 429 Key points Structural hedges reduce income sensitivity to interest rate Interest rate exposure remains asset-sensitive, so that rising shocks over a 12-month period because only a relatively interest rates will have a positive impact on net interest small amount of the hedge matures and rolls forward at the income.
For example, one-fifth of a five-year hedging The largest change in net interest income sensitivity in 2016 programme will mature over a 12-month period.
related to the negative impact of a 0.25% fall in interest Assumptions relating to customer pricing are kept under rates from the base case.
Sensitivity increased from 96 review and may vary at different levels of interest rates.
As a million to 236 million, primarily due to lower customer result, the increase in sensitivity between 25 basis points deposit interest rates.
When interest rates are already at and 100 basis points is not linear.
very low levels, it is assumed that further interest rate cuts Changes in pricing assumptions and increased hedging of will not be passed through to customer depositors and, customer deposits are the key actions in personal and therefore, net interest income falls.
commercial banking that may reduce interest rate sensitivity.
unaudited 272 Business review Capital and risk management Product structural hedging Market risk continued Product structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on Structural hedging RBS has the benefit of a significant pool of stable, non and low earnings related to specific products, primarily customer deposits.
interest bearing liabilities, principally comprising equity and The balances are primarily hedged with medium-term interest money transmission accounts.
These balances are usually rate swaps, so that reported income is less sensitive to hedged, either by investing directly in longer-term fixed rate movements in short-term interest rates.
The size and term of the assets or by the use of interest rate swaps, in order to provide a hedge are based on the stability of the underlying portfolio.
consistent and predictable revenue stream.
The table below shows the impact on net interest income After hedging the net interest rate exposure of the bank associated with product hedges managed by RBS Treasury.
externally, RBS Treasury allocates income to products or equity These relate to the main UK banking businesses except Private in structural hedges by reference to the relevant interest rate Banking and RBS International.
RBS Treasury allocates income swap curve.
Over time, the hedging programme has built up a to products or equity in structural hedges by reference to the portfolio that provides a basis for stable income attribution to the relevant interest rate swap curve after hedging the net interest product and equity structural hedges.
rate exposure of the bank externally.
This internal allocation has been developed over time alongside the banks external hedging programme and provides a basis for stable income attribution to the product and equity hedges.
2016 2015 Net interest income - impact of product structural hedging m m UK Personal & Business Banking 346 373 Commercial Banking 235 256 Capital Resolution 10 21 Williams & Glyn 44 45 Total 635 695 Key points At 31 December 2016, the 5-year swap rate was 0.74% The incremental impact of product hedges on net interest compared with 1.45% one year previously.
The market rate income above 3-month LIBOR remained positive in 2016. matching the amortising structure of the hedge was 0.60%.
The average size of the hedge increased from 72 billion in 2015 to 90 billion, split by business broadly in line with the proportion of income as shown above.
The increase largely reflected growth in hedged product balances and increased hedging of rate-on sensitive customer deposits.
During the year, interest rates remained at or close to historical low levels, as a result of which the average book yield including 3-month LIBOR fell from 1.48% to 1.20%.
This reflects the impact of maturing hedges being reinvested at lower rates and new hedges added during the year at lower market rates.
unaudited 273 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Equity structural hedging Sensitivity of available-for-sale and cashflow hedging reserves to Equity structural hedges are used to minimise the volatility on interest rate movements earnings arising from returns on equity.
The hedges managed by The table below shows the estimated sensitivity of equity Treasury relate mainly to the UK banking businesses PBB and reserves to interest rate movements, on a pre-tax basis.
The CPB and contributed 0.6 billion to these businesses in 2016 scenarios shown are simplified scenarios in which all rates 2015 - 0.7 billion, which is an incremental benefit relative to across the yield curve have been moved up or down short-term wholesale cash rates.
The average size of the hedge instantaneously by 25 basis points and 100 basis points and was 33 billion in 2016, lower than in 2015 41 billion, primarily taxation effects have not been estimated.
In this analysis, interest reflecting the payment of 4.2 billion into the pension fund, an rates have not been floored at zero.
Note that a movement in the additional 3.1 billion provision for various investigations and AFS reserve would have an impact on CET1 capital but a litigation matters relating to RBS's issuance and underwriting of movement in the cash flow hedge reserve would not be expected residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS and the 1.2 to do so.
Volatility in both reserves affects tangible net asset billion payment of the final Dividend Access Share DAS value.
The equity hedge also aims broadly to track a time series of  swap rates.
Other factors, such as the impact of the sale of fixed-rate securities or additional hedging activity, are not captured in the equity yield.
The average book yield including 3-month LIBOR rose from 2.3% to 2.4%.
At 31 December 2016, the 10-year swap rate was 1.1% compared with 1.9% one year previously.
The market rate matching the amortising structure of the equity hedge was 0.9%.
25 basis points -25 basis points 100 basis points -100 basis points 2016 m m m m Available-for-sale reserve 36 35 150 135 Cashflow hedge reserve 417 422 1,641 1,714 Total 453 457 1,791 1,849 2015 Available-for-sale reserve 63 63 255 255 Cashflow hedge reserve 462 467 1,817 1,896 Total 525 530 2,072 2,151 Key points The asymmetry in results between the upward and The reduction in the sensitivity of the available-for-sale downward interest rate shocks reflects the changing reserve primarily results from the reduction of Capital sensitivity of derivative valuations to the same interest Resolution exposures.
rate movement at different levels of interest rates i. e. convexity.
unaudited 274 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Foreign exchange risk The table below shows structural foreign currency exposures.
Net investments in Net Structural foreign Residual structural Net investments in Non-controlling foreign operations investment currency exposures Economic foreign currency foreign operations interests NCI excluding NCI 1 hedges pre-economic hedges hedges 2 exposures 2016 m m m m m m m US dollar 595 595 28 623 623 Euro 6,085 4 6,089 582 5,507 2,289 3,218 Other non-sterling 3,366 761 2,605 1,491 1,114 625 489 Total 8,856 757 8,099 2,101 5,998 2,914 3,084 2015 US dollar 1,172 1,172 134 1,038 1,038 Euro 6,562 127 6,435 573 5,862 1,963 3,899 Other non-sterling 3,599 524 3,075 2,364 711 711 Total 11,333 651 10,682 3,071 7,611 3,001 4,610 Notes: 1 Non-controlling interests NCI represents the structural foreign exchange exposure not attributable to owners equity.
2 Economic hedges mainly represent US dollar and euro preference shares in issue that are treated as equity under IFRS and do not qualify as hedges for accounting purposes.
They provide an offset to structural foreign exchange exposures to the extent that there are net assets in overseas operations available.
Key points Structural foreign currency exposure at 31 December 2016 Changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect equity in was 6 billion before and 3 billion after economic hedges, proportion to structural foreign currency exposure.
For respectively, 1.6 billion and 1.5 billion lower than at 31 example, a 5% strengthening in foreign currencies against December 2015. sterling would result in a gain of 0.3 billion in equity 2015 - The reduction in the residual structural foreign currency a 0.5 billion gain.
A 5% weakening in foreign currencies exposure was driven by provisions for RMBS and dividends against sterling would result in a loss of 0.3 billion in equity received from EU subsidiaries.
These reductions were partly 2015 - a 0.4 billion loss.
offset by appreciation of the US dollar and the euro against sterling in 2016.
Equity risk Equity positions are carried at fair value on the balance sheet based on available market prices where possible.
In the event that market prices are not available, fair value is based on appropriate valuation techniques or management estimates.
The table below shows the balance sheet carrying value of non-traded book equity positions.
2016 2015 m m Exchange-traded equity 33 25 Private equity 357 534 Other 146 136 536 695 The exposures may take the form of i equity shares listed on a recognised exchange, ii private equity shares defined as unlisted equity shares with no observable market parameters or iii other unlisted equity shares.
2016 2015 m m Net realised gains arising from disposals 295 60 Unrealised gains included in Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital 53 301 Note: 1 Includes gains or losses on available-for-sale instruments only.
275 Business review Capital and risk management Market risk continued Pillar 1 capital must be held for non-trading book foreign Structured credit portfolio exchange exposures, as outlined under CRR Articles 455 and The structured credit portfolio is no longer material.
92 3 c. Structural foreign exchange exposures are excluded from the calculations as outlined under CRR Article 352 2 : such Calculation of regulatory capital exposures are considered under Pillar 2A.
RBS capitalises non-traded market risk as part of the Pillar 2A Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Non-traded equity risk is captured in credit risk RWAs.
approach combines both earnings based and economic value based methodologies, in accordance with regulatory guidelines.
The capital calculations under ICAAP are also used for economic The calculation captures the principal sources of non-traded capital purposes.
market risk interest rate risk, credit spread risk, structural foreign exchange risk and accounting volatility risk.
Linkage to balance sheet The table below analyses RBSs balance sheet by trading and non-trading business.
2016 2015 Trading Non-trading Trading Non-trading Total business 1 business 2 Total business 1 business 2 bn bn bn bn bn bn Primary risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 74.3 0.1 74.2 79.9 79.9 Interest rate Net loans and advances to banks 17.3 6.9 10.4 19.0 11.2 7.8 Interest rate Net loans and advances to customers 323.0 18.1 304.9 308.0 17.4 290.6 Interest rate Reverse repos 41.8 37.7 4.1 39.9 38.6 1.3 Interest rate Debt securities 72.5 24.5 48.0 82.5 35.9 46.6 Interest rate, credit spreads Equity shares 0.7 0.2 0.5 1.4 0.7 0.7 Equities Derivatives 247.2 244.2 3.0 262.5 260.0 2.5 Interest rate, credit spreads Settlement balances 5.5 5.4 0.1 4.1 3.9 0.2 Settlement risk Other assets 16.4 16.4 18.1 18.1 Total assets 798.7 337.1 461.6 815.4 367.7 447.7 Liabilities Deposits by banks 33.3 20.7 12.6 28.1 20.0 8.1 Interest rate Customer deposits 353.9 13.2 340.7 346.0 11.4 334.6 Interest rate Repos 32.3 27.3 5.0 37.4 35.2 2.2 Interest rate Debt securities in issue 27.3 4.4 22.9 31.1 7.1 24.0 Interest rate Settlement balances 3.6 3.5 0.1 3.4 3.3 0.1 Settlement risk Short positions 22.1 22.1 20.8 20.8 Interest rate, credit spreads Derivatives 236.5 234.6 1.9 254.7 252.4 2.3 Interest rate, credit spreads Subordinated liabilities 19.4 19.4 19.8 19.8 Interest rate Other liabilities 20.9 20.9 20.0 20.0 Total liabilities 749.3 325.8 423.5 761.3 350.2 411.1 Notes: 1 Trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are classified as trading book under regulatory rules.
For these exposures, the main methods used by RBS to measure market risk are detailed under traded market risk measurement on page 263.
2 Non-trading businesses are entities that primarily have exposures that are not classified as trading book.
For these exposures, with the exception of pension-related activities, the main measurement methods are sensitivity analysis of net interest income, internal non-traded VaR and fair value calculations.
For more information refer to pages 270 to 275.
3 Foreign exchange risk affects all non-sterling denominated exposures on the balance sheet across trading and non-trading businesses, and therefore has not been listed in the above tables.
