Our operating environment Risk overview Effective risk management plays a central role in the successful development and execution of our strategy.
Our Risk appetite is set in line with In market risk, sustained effort has In the Bank of England 2016 stress test, been necessary to anticipate and RBS did not meet its common equity the overall strategy and approved by the board while the risk management respond to major developments in the Tier 1 CET1 capital or Tier 1 leverage wider environment.
Managing this has hurdle rates before additional Tier 1 framework identifies and manages current and emerging risks that could required close collaboration between AT1 conversion under the hypothetical our first and second lines of defence adverse scenario.
After AT1 conversion, materially affect the delivery of the RBS strategy.
but, in turn, has demonstrated RBSs it did not meet its CET1 systemic continued commitment to its wholesale reference point or Tier 1 leverage Progress in 2016 banking proposition.
Based on RBSs own assessment of its resilience identified RBS has continued to make progress against its strategic objectives of RWAs continued to decline 6%, ending during the stress-testing process, the year at 228 billion from 243 RBS has already updated its capital reducing risk and strengthening both the balance sheet and the billion in 2015.
The decline was driven plan to incorporate further capital by continued run down in Capital strengthening actions and this revised capital position.
Against a backdrop of uncertainty in the wider political Resolution, where RWAs fell by 14.5 plan has been accepted by the PRA billion during the year, offset in part Board.
The PRA will continue to monitor and economic environment, risk management played a key role in by an increase in RWAs in the core RBSs progress against its revised franchises.
positioning RBS to prepare for, and respond to developments.
The Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 RBS maintained a robust liquidity and In particular, there has been a focus on ratio decreased by 210 basis points to funding risk profile in 2016.
Its loan-to- 13.4% in 2016, reflecting lower CET1 deposit-ratio was 91% at 31 December enhancing our risk appetite framework and communicating and embedding capital partially offset by a reduction in 2016, compared with 89% in 2015. it across the bank.
Litigation and conduct charges The latest Internal Liquidity Adequacy material risks, significant emphasis of 5.9 billion in 2016 contributed to a Assessment Process ILAAP showed has been placed on reviewing current significant reduction in the CET1 capital.
that RBS is in a strong position to measures along with associated limits Management actions to normalise withstand liquidity stress scenarios.
It and triggers and also the way our the ownership structure and improve suggested that RBSs liquidity portfolio risk profile compared to risk appetite the long-term resilience of RBS also was large enough to cover more than is reported across RBS.
Risk culture contributed to the reduction.
These 139% of the expected outflows in the has continued to be at the forefront of actions included the final Dividend worst of three severe scenarios.
our work as RBS moves towards the Access Share payment of 1.2 billion achievement of its strategic objectives.
and the impact of the accelerated Litigation and conduct costs of5,868 To that end, the ambition is to make pension payment of 4.2 billion.
Tier 1 million included a 3,107 million risk management simply part of the capital benefitted from the successful provision in relation to various way colleagues across RBS work and issuance of 2 billion of Additional Tier 1 investigations and litigation matters think.
In support of this, during 2016 AT1 capital notes.
relating to RBSs issuance and the RBS-wide action plan focused on underwriting of residential mortgageassessment, identifying and taking The leverage ratio fell by 50bps to 5.1% backed securities RMBS, an additional actions to build clarity, develop during 2016.
This reflected the fall in charge in respect of the settlement capability and motivate staff.
the CET1 position, partly offset by the with the National Credit Union successful issuance of an additional 2 Administration Board to resolve two Similarly, activity has been underway billion equivalent of AT1 instruments as outstanding RMBS lawsuits, a provision to enhance our operational risk planned at the beginning of the year.
in respect of the UK 2008 rights issue management framework to help The Bank of England leverage ratio shareholder litigation, additional PPI ensure our businesses maintain a benefited from an additional 50bps provisions, a provision in respect of safe and secure environment for our uplift following the FPCs guidance on the FCA review of RBSs treatment of customers.
As part of this, during 2016 4 August that allowed banks, under SMEs and a charge in Ulster Bank RoI in there was a focus on risk and control certain conditions, to exclude central respect of an industry-wide examination assessment, particularly relating to our bank reserves from the leverage of tracker mortgages.
most material products, processes and exposure measure.
In addition, there continued to RBS also issued 4.2 billion of MRELbe an emphasis on understanding and eligible senior debt as part of the managing the risks relating to RBSs issuance plan to meet its steady-state transformation agenda.
38 Top and emerging risks RBS to increase its current and future plan, the restructuring of NatWest RBS employs a continuous process for cash contributions to the schemes.
Markets, meeting the final European identifying and managing its top and An acceleration of certain previouslyCommission State Aid requirements emerging risks.
These are defined as committed pension contributions relating to Williams & Glyn compliance scenarios that could have a significant was made in Q1 2016 to reduce this with structural reform requirements negative impact on RBSs ability to risk.
Depending on the economic and including the statutory ring-fencing operate or meet its strategic objectives.
monetary conditions and longevity of requirements implemented as a result A number of scenarios attracted scheme members prevailing at that of the Independent Commission on particular attention in 2016. time, the actuarial deficit may increase Banking: delivering a robust control at subsequent valuations and is environment and the embedding of Macro-economic and political risks: expected to be affected by ring-fencing.
a strong and pervasive, customer RBS remains vulnerable to changes and centred organisational and risk culture, uncertainty in the external economic Regulatory and legal risks are essential to meet RBSs strategic and political environment, which The impacts of past business conduct: objectives.
These projects cover have intensified in the past year.
To Future litigation and conduct charges organisational structure, business mitigate these risks, RBS has taken could be substantial.
RBS is involved strategy, information technology actions in 2016 with its capital, liquidity in a number of investigations, systems, operational processes and and leverage positions.
A number of including: ongoing class action product offerings.
RBS is working higher-risk portfolios have been exited litigation, securitisation and mortgageto implement change in line with its or reduced.
Stress testing and scenario backed securities related litigation, project plans while assessing the risks planning is used extensively to inform investigations into foreign exchange to implementation and is taking steps to strategic planning and risk mitigation trading and rate-setting activities, mitigate those risks where possible.
relating to a range of macro-economic continuing LIBOR-related litigation and political risks.
Scenarios identified and investigations, investigations into Impact of cyber attacks: as having a potentially material the treatment of small and mediumCyber attacks are increasing in negative impact on RBS include: the sized business customers in financial frequency and severity across the impact of the UKs exit from the EU: difficulty, anti-money laundering, industry.
RBS has participated in a second Scottish independence sanctions, mis-selling including industry-wide cyber attack simulations referendum: a UK recession including mis-selling of payment protection in order to help test and develop significant falls in house prices: global insurance products.
To mitigate the risks, financial market volatility linked to result in additional financial penalties, a large scale programme to continue to advanced economy interest rate non-monetary penalties or other improve controls, enhance protections increases or decreases: a protracted consequences, which may be material.
and educate staff on the threat is period of low interest rates in the UK: underway.
vulnerabilities in emerging market More detail on these issues can be economies resulting in contagion in found in the Litigation, Investigations Inability to recruit or retain RBSs core markets: a eurozone crisis: and Reviews and Risk Factors sections suitable staff: and major geopolitical instability.
of the 2016 Annual Report and There is a risk that RBS lacks sufficient Accounts.
To prevent future conduct capability or capacity at a senior level Risks related to the from resulting in similar impacts, RBS to deliver or to adapt to change.
competitive environment: continues to embed a strong and RBS monitors people risk closely and RBSs target markets are highly comprehensive risk and compliance has plans in place to support retention competitive, which poses challenges culture.
of key roles, with wider programmes in terms of achieving some strategic supporting engagement and training objectives.
Moreover, changes in Risks to income, costs and business for all staff.
technology, customer behaviour and models arising from regulatory business models in these markets requirements: Failure of information have accelerated.
RBS monitors RBS is exposed to the risk of further technology systems: the competitive environment and increases in regulatory capital RBSs information technology systems associated technological and customer requirements as well as risks related may be subject to failure.
As such developments as part of its strategy to new regulations that could systems are complex, recovering from development and makes adjustments affect its business models, such as failure is challenging.
To mitigate these as appropriate.
RBS considers and risks, a major investment programme incorporates the implications of has significantly improved the An increase in obligations to support proposed or potential regulatory resilience of the systems and further pension schemes: activities in its strategic and financial progress is expected.
Back-up system If economic growth stagnates and plans.
sustainability has improved, and a interest rates continue to remain low, mirror bank system, to provide basic the value of pension scheme assets Operational and execution risks services, if needed, has been created.
may not be adequate to fund pension Increased losses arising from a scheme liabilities.
The actuarial failure to execute major projects deficit in RBS pension schemes as successfully: Full risk factors are discussed determined by the most recent triennial The successful execution of major on pages 432 to 463 of the 2016 valuations has increased, requiring projects, including the transformation Annual Report and Accounts.
39 Making sense of money MoneySense is our flagship financial education programme for young people aged between 5 and 18.
It aims to help young people towards a better financial future.
Since we started providing financial education in schools over 22 years ago, weve helped an estimated 4.5 million young people understand all about money.
By the end of 2018, well have helped a further one million young people.
Our programme is used to deliver lessons in primary and secondary schools in the UK and Ireland, thanks to the support of registered teachers and our dedicated volunteer network of over 2,800 employees.
Were proud of the work MoneySense does in our communities.
By helping young people understand things like budgeting, saving and online security were supporting them to become financially independent and confident money managers.
