RPC Group Plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS The Group operates in markets and industries which by their nature are subject to a number of inherent gross risks.
The Group is able to mitigate those risks byadopting different strategies and by maintaining a strong system of internal control.
The Board has a risk reporting framework that ensures it has visibility of the Groups key risks, the potential impacts on the Group and how and to what extent those risks are mitigated.
As part of its risk management process, the principal risks stated in the Groups risk register are reviewed and updated by the Board and monitored throughout the year.
Each division within the Group maintains a separate risk register.
This risk register is used to determine strategies adopted by the Groups various businesses to mitigate the identified risks and are embedded in their operating plans.
Details of the Groups risk management processes are given inthe Audit Committee report on page 54.
A summary of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent to our business model and can directly impact the successful execution of the Groups strategy are shown below: ASSESSMENT AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION CHANGE MOVEMENT Polymer price Polymer resin, which is the key raw material used in the The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer price High Stable and availability manufacture of rigid plastic, represented c. 30% of the costs of increases to its customers through agreed contractual the business in 2015 16.
Polymer prices are subject to volatility terms, providing an effective hedge against polymer price and tend to follow the underlying price of oil as well as being changes albeit with a time lag.
impacted by changes in global supply and demand.
The Group has also reduced its dependence on individual In addition some sources of polymer supply are affected by suppliers by adapting its manufacturing sites to convert plant breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can a wider range of polymer grades, to mitigate against result in shortages.
Medium Reducing Dependence on The Group has long established relationships with a number There is a high degree of mutual dependency between key customers of key customers, with the top 10 accounting for over 20% of RPC and its customers and because of the Groups size, sales in 2015 16.
The loss of any one of these customers could product range, geographical reach and the joint investment adversely affect the Groups results in the short-term.
often required to develop a product, many customers have difficulty in moving their business to an alternative supplier in the short-term.
Customer retention is also strengthened by the Group remaining responsive to customer demands, by delivering high quality products, providing excellent customer service and developing innovative products that can generate new sales opportunities for our customers.
Pricing and The market for rigid plastic packaging and the other nonThe Group differentiates itself from its competitors by Medium Stable competitive packaging markets in which the Group operates, have become establishing long-term relationships with its customers pressures increasingly competitive, particularly where there has been through bespoke product development and through consolidation or overcapacity, exacerbated by the economic investing in new and innovative capabilities across a wide recession.
An increasing focus on pricing by customers puts range of conversion technologies.
In addition the Group pressure on margins and may lead to lost business where has improved its competitive position in the challenging customers have the capability to switch to other suppliers.
economic environment of the last few years by focusing on cost reduction, improving productivity and optimising its manufacturing footprint through its recent business optimisation programmes and business integration process.
Economic The continued impact of the challenging economic The Group operates in a number of different markets Medium Stable environment and environment in the UK and the Eurozone, as well as the recent product, geographical, end customer or niches, which cyclical patterns downturn in other markets such as China, has resulted in serves to dilute the effect of adversity of any one in the rigid reduced demand for some of our businesses.
plastic market such as changes in consumer preferences and packaging The Group actively monitors the economic environment and trends, also impact on demand.
patterns of demand, the impact this has on its businesses and responds by incremental and structural changes to its operations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 25 ASSESSMENT AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION CHANGE MOVEMENT Integration and Acquisitions require a focused business integration effort to The Group ensures appropriate resources are in place Low Increasing achievement of deliver planned synergies which if not properly managed or to manage the integration of each acquisition, with acquisition resourced could lead to a failure to deliver value for the Group regular executive and Board progress reviews of synergies from its Vision 2020 growth programme.
The recent increase restructuring activities and benefits arising there from.
in acquisition activity has increased this risk.
Integration programmes are developed and organisational changes made to existing Group or divisional management teams and infrastructures, as well as those of the acquired business, as appropriate.
Businesses face the potential risk of operations being affected The Group ensures that alternative sources of supply are Medium Stable Business interruption by disruption due to loss of supply, failures with technology, available where possible, and where a problem is localised and the loss of industrial disputes and physical damage arising from fire, flood in many cases it is possible to manufacture or supply the essential supplies or other catastrophe.
The loss of essential services or supplies product from another site within the Group.
In addition all could have a significant impact on the Groups ability to service businesses have established protocols and procedures to its customers.
ensure business continuity in the event of a major incident.
Supply of faulty The Groups reputation as a business partner relies heavily The Group employs strict control measures and externally Medium Stable or contaminated on its ability to supply quality products on time and in full.
accredited systems to ensure the safety and quality of products The supply of faulty or contaminated products, especially products that are manufactured.
The Group also has within the food sector, could have serious consequences.
appropriate insurance in place to cover product liability.
Safeguarding The risk of fire represents a significant physical risk to the Business sites have sprinkler and or smoke detection Medium Stable physical property Group and the impact of a major catastrophe of this nature systems in place together with other preventive measures.
andour employees could be considerable.
The health and safety of our employees Health and safety audits are regularly performed, in is the number one priority at all of our sites.
conjunction with internal and external specialists, to drive sites to best practice.
Funding and Risks relate to the cost and availability of funding for the The Groups treasury activities are governed by policies and Medium Reducing financial risks Groups businesses, movements in interest rates and foreign procedures approved and monitored by the Board.
The Group has a translation exposure The Group negotiates funding requirements in a timely to the euro, as the majority of the Groups earnings and net manner ensuring appropriate headroom and funding assets are reported in this currency.
tenure is obtained to mitigate availability risk.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates to give a degree of stability to the interest rate charged each year.
The Groups balance sheet translation exposure to foreign currencies are hedged by ensuring that borrowings are matched to the Groups net assets in foreign currencies, and any significant transactional exposures are managed using approved financial derivatives.
Evaluated in determining downside scenarios for Viability Statement on page 79.
