Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risks The Corporate Governance section describes in detail how the Group manages its risk from the Group Board level, its respective sub-committees and throughout the organisation.
Further details can be found on pages 42-84.
The table below details each principal business risk, those aspects that would be impacted were the risk to materialise, our assessment of the current status of the risk and how the Group mitigates it.
Key Relative severity Change during the year Speed at which the risk could impact High Increasing risk Fast: 6 months Included in Longer Term Viability Medium Decreasing risk Medium: 612 months assessment Low Stable Slow: 12 months Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Changes in market conditions and customer behaviour The industry sectors in which we operate remain highly competitive, with customers demanding more and our competitors responding quickly to these changingdemands.
Customer behaviour and Royal Mails responsiveness to market changes V Changes in customer behaviour, and changes to the The parcels sector is undergoing rapid and profound We use continuous indepth market monitoring and markets in which the Group sells its products and change.
Competition in the UK domestic and research to track how well we match our customers services, could impact our forecast rates of decline international markets continues to intensify, with needs, including relative to our competitors, and to and growth of letter and parcel volumes, respectively.
competitors offering innovative solutions that include predict volume trends.
convenient, reliable delivery and return options, and There is a risk that our product offerings and We are investing in introducing, at pace, new and improved tracking facilities.
Capacity expansion in customerexperience may not adequately meet improved products and services that: enhance the sector continues to exert downward pressure evolving customer needs, or that we are unable to customers online and delivery experience: expand our onprices.
innovate or adapt our commercial and operational core offering to small and mediumsized businesses and activities quickly enough to respond to changes in In the parcels business, disintermediation in the marketplace sellers: and extend our product coverage.
online marketplaces may divert our business to We target investments that will extend our value chain other carriers or collection providers.
offer and increase our presence in faster growing areas of the parcels sector.
We expect the letters sector to remain in structural decline, in the mediumterm, driven by the We promote the value of letters to customers through growth in mobile and online advertising, and our MAILMEN initiative for marketing mail, Keep Me esubstitution.
Posted and other campaigns, and innovations such asMailmark.
There is a continuing requirement to invest in growthand innovation to meet these challenges inthe marketplace.
Economic environment V Historically there has been a correlation between The outlook for economic conditions in the UK is We have a robust modelling and forecasting framework economic conditions and mail volumes.
Slowing broadly in line with our planning assumptions, but that uses a range of quantitative and qualitative economic growth could impact our ability to maintain uncertainty around the outlook has increased.
approaches to provide early warnings of changes to and grow revenue, either through reduced volumes or overall volumes and the profile of letter and parcel Economic growth in the Eurozone is more by encouraging customers to adopt alternative service business, and to assess the effect of our pricing moderate and recovery remains fragile.
Low options for sending letters and parcels.
We have a programme of regular reviews of growth or recession in Europe could impact our outcome data compared to forecast, and recalibration and international parcel volumes, including those upgrade of these models.
We have a challenging cost avoidance programme in place in response to revenue headwinds.
We are pursuing initiatives to find new areas of growth, such as fleet maintenance services and leveraging dataassets.
32 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Pension risk The Group continues to operate a defined benefit pension scheme, the Royal Mail Pension Plan, open to accrual for existing members.
Affordability of the defined benefit pension scheme V Our ongoing ability to maintain the Royal Mail As part of the Pension Reform in 2013, we The Plan is hedged against future interest rate and Pension Plan in its current form is subject to committed, subject to certain conditions, to keep inflation rate exposures, and we are confident that this financialmarket conditions.
the Plan open until at least March 2018. will enable us to meet our commitment to keep the Plan open to accrual up to March 2018.
Current financial market conditions suggest that keeping the Plan open to accrual in its current form We are in discussions with the unions, and are beyond 2018 will not be affordable.
developingproposals for sustainable postMarch 2018 pension arrangements.
Business transformation Royal Mail must continuously become more efficient and flexible in order to compete effectively in the letters and parcels sectors.
Efficiency The success of our strategy relies on the effective We continue to make efficiency improvements.
We have a strategic programme of cost avoidance, control of costs and the delivery of efficiency benefits.
Our  is within our target involving approximately 70 projects targeted to avoid range, and through our strategic focus on costs around 500 million of annualised costs by 201718. we have reduced our underlying UKPIL operating Our Agenda for Growth agreement with the CWU, costs, before transformation costs, by one per cent.
supported by the Together for Growth training programme, and a joint mediation process, which facilitates a collaborative approach to improving efficiency at a local and national level.
We have redefined and rolled out across the network core Operations Standards that are based on best observed practice.
A programme to enable better alignment of resourcing and workload is also being implemented across the Delivery Office network.
We are simplifying our operational management structure and have programmes of activity in hand to support operational managers in improving efficiency.
We continue to reduce levels of Lost Time Accidents and other sick absence through a positive focus on compliance with attendance management procedures, safety and wellbeing support.
Attracting and retaining senior management and key personnel Our performance, operating results and future growth Turnover in senior and key personnel has been at The Groups remuneration policy sets out that the overall depend on our ability to attract and retain talent with normal levels for the business during the year, but remuneration package should be sufficiently competitive the appropriate level of expertise.
this remains an inherent business risk.
to attract, retain and motivate executives with the commercial experience to run a large, complex business in a highly challenging context.
We operate a succession planning process and have in place talent identification and development programmes.
IT transformation The scale and complexity of our IT transformation We have made significant progress in delivering In view of the size and complexity of the transformation programme and the ongoing requirement for effective the IT transformation programme.
Infrastructure programme, we have, throughout its lifecycle, management of the transition are sources of risk to its changes and transition to new providers are close strengthened standard programme management and successful delivery.
governance disciplines to provide intensive focus on key aspects: completing residual elements of the transition is Failure to improve our IT systems or successfully This will provide us with an effective technical now the primary focus.
implement the IT transformation programme could infrastructure that, going forward, better increase the risk of: security breaches and attacks: a supports both routine functional activity and material adverse effect on the Groups operations: and business growth.
inability of IT systems to support the business plan.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 33 Royal Mail plc | Principal risks Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Regulatory and legislative environment The business operates in a regulated environment.
Changes in legal and regulatory requirements could impact our ability to meet our targets and goals.
Fundamental review of postal services regulation New In June 2015 Ofcom announced a fundamental review This is a new risk that has emerged during the year.
We have made comprehensive submissions to Ofcom of the regulation of Royal Mail.
The review, currently It was disclosed in our financial results for the half as part of its initial call for evidence and we have ongoing in progress, incorporates previously announced year ended 27 September 2015. engagement with Ofcom to build on the response to reviews into efficiency, parcels and access pricing.
Ofcom has stated that it expects to complete the It also examines: what changes to the overall postal process and have a regulatory framework in place Our response to the proposal will be shaped by the detail regulatory framework might be appropriate to secure in early2017.
of the proposal and any threat it may present to our ability the Universal Postal Service: Royal Mail's wholesale to compete effectively, and to the sustainability of the and retail pricing: and whether the current level of There is an ongoing Competition Act investigation Universal Service.
We will seek to work with Ofcom to commercial flexibility allowed to Royal Mail remains by Ofcom relating to certain of our access pricing protect the Universal Service.
appropriate, and, if not, whether additional wholesale proposals in January 2014, which we suspended or retail price controls should be introduced.
without implementing and subsequently withdrew.
We have a strategic focus on cost avoidance and We dispute the allegations and are robustly delivering efficiency improvements, as noted against A regulatory system or approach that applies defending the investigation.
the Efficiency risk in the Business transformation restraints to Royal Mails ability to compete for traffic sectionabove.
to support the costs of the Universal Service network, or imposes operational requirements not applied We have made a detailed submission to Ofcom in relation generally to the industry, may impact our revenues, to its Competition Act investigation.
our ability to compete in the highly competitive industry sectors in which we operate, and ultimately our ability to deliver the Universal Service on a sustainable basis.
VAT status The Value Added Tax VAT treatment of Royal Mails The proposed Vouchers Directive is We continue to liaise with HM Treasury and HMRC to services, including exemption applying to certain under discussion in Europe.
The outcome seek to minimise any adverse impact of the proposed products, is under threat in two areas: remainsuncertain.
The EU has published a proposal for a Vouchers The European Commission has published details We are monitoring and continue to feed into discussions Directive, which could adversely impact Royal of responses to its consultation about the future of with the European Commission on potential Mails VAT position, if as a result, postage VAT exemptions, but there has been no indication of developments in VAT legislation.
stamps were treated in the same way as other the likely outcome or timescale of the review.
vouchers:and The appeal against the decision that HMRC had The European Commission is reviewing a number correctly implemented VAT legislation in respect of VAT exemptions, including the exemption of exemption applying to mandated access applying to postal services.
Although Royal Mail services has been withdrawn and the matter is could benefit from greater recoverability of VAT nowconcluded.
on costs if the VAT exemption for postal services The improved risk trend reflects our was removed, the cost to customers who cannot reassessment of the potential impact of reclaim VAT would be likely to increase.
The VAT exemption applying to mandated access services has also been under threat, with HMRCs implementation of VAT legislation on these services subject to a judicial review.
Employment legislation and regulation Changes to laws and regulations relating to Recent case law has suggested that regular We continue to monitor developments in case law relating employment including the interpretation and overtime and commission payments should form to the application of the Working Time Directive in respect enforcement of those laws and regulations could, part of holiday pay calculations.
The legal position of holiday pay calculations.
Based on our estimates of directly or indirectly, increase the Groups labour remains unclear as case law is still evolving in the potential financial impact, we believe that we have costs, which, given the size of the Groups workforce, thisarea.
made sufficient provision for any historic liabilities that could have an adverse effect on the Group.
Other risks to our cost base associated with employment legislation have emerged and were We liaise with the CBI, HMRC and HM Treasury to influence disclosed in our financial results for the half year employment tax developments and minimise the impacts ended 27 September 2015.
These are: for Royal Mail as far as possible.
Proposal for an Apprenticeship Levy.
Draft legislation sets the levy at 0.5 per cent of payroll costs, applicable from April 2017.
Proposed changes to National Insurance NI on termination of employment have been announced, which will increase employers NI costs from April 2018.
The Government has consulted on how pensions tax relief is provided, but has not proposed changes at this time.
If changes are proposed in the future, they could have a significant impact on the cost of providing pensions.
34 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Principal risk Status How we are mitigating the risk Cyber security New We are subject to a range of regulations and While no material losses related to cyber security As external threats become more sophisticated, contractual compliance obligations around the breaches have been suffered, given the increasing andthepotential impact of service disruption increases, governance and protection of various classes of sophistication and evolving nature of this threat and we continue to address our ongoing investment in cyber data, and are susceptible to cyber attacks that could our reliance on technology and data for operational security.
We take a comprehensive view of cyber security threaten the confidentiality, integrity and availability of and strategic purposes, we now consider it is and continually review our resilience in light of the data in our systems.
appropriate to include this as a principal risk.
changes and threats we face.
A cyber security incident could also trigger material service interruption.
Either of these outcomes could result in financial and reputation damage, including loss of customerconfidence.
Industrial relations There is extensive trade union recognition in respect of our workforce in the UK, with a strong and active trade union which, historically, has used industrial action to lever benefits for their members.
Industrial action V There is a risk that one or more material The Agenda for Growth agreement developed jointly Our Agenda for Growth agreement with the CWU provides disagreements or disputes between the Group and its with the CWU represents a fundamental change a joint commitment to improved industrial relations, and trade unions could result in widespread localised or in our relationship with the CWU, and promotes to resolving disputes at pace and in a way that is beneficial national industrial action.
to both employees and Royal Mail.
Widespread localised or national industrial action However, industrial relations is an inherent risk As part of our collaborative approach with the CWU, would cause material disruption to our business in within our business: we are negotiating a new pay the Agenda for Growth is supported by our Together for the UK and would be likely to result in an immediate deal for 201617, the Pension Plan affordability is Growth programme, an industrial relations and business and potentially ongoing significant loss of revenue for under discussion, and the increasingly competitive skills package for managers and CWU representatives the Group.
It may also cause Royal Mail to fail to meet environment and other sources of pressure on costs designed jointly to improve the way that managers and the Quality of Service targets prescribed by Ofcom, and efficiency may put the stability of our industrial unions work together.
A resolution process for local leading to enforcement action and fines.
disputes uses trained mediators nominated by and representing both the CWU and the business.
The Agenda for Growth agreement has legally binding protections for the workforce in respect of future job security and our employment model, but which can be rescinded in the event of national industrial action.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the The Directors considered all principal risks large fixed cost base required to deliver the Group as part of their ongoing risk management set out in the Principal risks section on Universal Service Obligation in its current form.
pages3235 but focused on those that could Thedownside scenario was tested to determine have a plausible and severe financial impact over whether the Group would remainsolvent.
While the Directors have no reason to believe the plan horizon.
In particular they considered that the Group will not be viable over the longer The Directors have made the assumption that the potential impact of industrial action and term, they consider the three financial years to the RMPP funding rate remains unchanged deteriorating economic and market conditions.
March 2019 to be an appropriate planning time from201516.
horizon to assess Royal Mails viability and to The risks were quantified to create a downside Based on the results of their analysis, the determine the probability and impact of our scenario that took into account the levels Directors have a reasonable expectation that the risks.
This is the same time frame of our existing of committed investment and expenditure, Group will be able to continue in operation and mediumterm planningcycle.
as well as other shortterm cost and cash meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period actions which could mitigate the impact of to March 2019. the risks.
Consideration was also given to the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16 | 35 Royal Mail plc | Corporate responsibility Responsibility st FTSE4Good 1 leader Dow Jones Sustainability Royal Mail constituent of Indexglobal leader two years FTSE4Good, ranking in the th in a row in the Transportation percentile 96 and Transportation Infrastructuresector Our st 1 85% performance Delivery business retained Adults surveyed in the triple certification to the UK think Royal Mail is Carbon Trust Standard for animportant part of carbon, water and waste localcommunities 30% Winner In partnership with Missing Reduction in our Lost time People, Royal Mail won Accident Frequency Rate Business Charity Awards and since2014-15 Charity Times Award in 2015 36 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015-16
