Strategic report Risk management Promoting a risk culture which protects the customer and maximises shareholder risk-adjusted returns.
Risk management approach that protect them effectively against Our risk management and controls As a 300-yearold insurance group we the uncertainty of future loss events frameworks have been created to ensure have developed considerable expertise whilst ensuring that the risks we accept that we are able to identify, measure in how to manage risk, which allows us are collectively managed to maximise and effectively manage these risks in all to be selective in retaining risks within risk-adjusted returns to our investors.
parts of the group before they adversely our core expertise whilst ensuring that impact the business.
This information, All insurance groups are faced with we manage, mitigate and avoid risks together with the strength of the Groups a number of different risks which where we are not adequately rewarded.
capital position, allows the Board to for example can range from adverse As a pure play general insurer our key set a risk strategy and appetite which movements in asset prices, external area of expertise is underwriting sets out the level of risk the Board is cyber-attacks and significant increases property and casualty insurance risks, prepared to take in the delivery of its in claim trends to large catastrophic which means we are able to provide our strategic objectives.
events details of all the key risk customers with competitive products categories are set out on page 40.
Board sets risk reported business strategy strategy & to Board appetite 3.
Policies guide Risk Management System 7.
Model on managing outputs used underpins the Operational risks within in ORSA Planning Cycle appetite 6.
Monitor checked and used & update appetite & in business internal model action tracking decisions 1.
Board sets the business strategy 4.
Output from the model is sense 8.
Output from the model which is incorporated in the Committees track actions for checked against non-modelled is reported to the Board, three-year operational plan.
risks outside of appetite, and stress and scenario events to so that changes can be made Risk provide robust challenge of escalate to Local & Group Boards.
ensure it provides a reliable basis to the three-year operational validity and achievability of plan.
for making business decisions, plan to ensure the Group 5.
Significant changes in risk including capital planning, remains in Appetite.
Risk Strategy creates the assessments are considered by reinsurance purchase, will continue until the Board is overarching principles for the Internal Model Governance performance analysis and pricing.
satisfied with the future plan.
establishing a set of indicators Committee and where appropriate, Risk Appetite.
The internal model is run is updated.
regularly throughout the year in 3.
Comprehensive policy suite sets order to assess the risks impacting the required business processes the Group and determines how and controls to deliver the much capital the Group needs to operational plan within appetite.
hold to remain solvent even after Robust control testing used to a major stress event s, which identify risks out of appetite.
forms part of the ORSA process.
38 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report The risk appetite is refreshed at least Keeping our focus on the road ahead Committee for consideration and a annually to adapt to the evolving risk, One of the key roles of the risk team is decision on which risks should be subject regulatory and economic environment, to ensure that we support the business to further deep-dive reviews including with an increased focus on ensuring that by keeping abreast of the demands performance of appropriate scenario the Group is adequately prepared for from a dynamic and ever-changing risk analysis.
The results from these reviews evolving IT risks including cyber-attack.
At RSA we perform an satisfied the Board Risk Committee Once set, the business regularly monitors annual deep-dive assessment of the that the Groups risks and controls compliance with the appetite, both at emerging risks facing the business, which frameworks were overall effective at a regional and group level, to ensure is informed through the use of subject managing future threats to the business actions can be rapidly taken to manage matter experts, thematic brainstorming although it did highlight areas where any risks considered to be outside of workshops, consulting a wide range further refinements could be made, the risk appetite tolerance levels.
of key external documentation as well including expanding the scope of as participating in the CRO Forums our horizon scanning to keep abreast emerging risks working group.
The of new entrant and technological emerging risks set out in the diagram advancements.
below were presented to the Board Risk Emerging risk analysis Board Risk Committee April 2016 Political Economic 17 19 1 18 2 3 16 11 4 15 5 13 6 7 12 8 9 14 Social Technological Environmental 10 Risk impact Risk emergence Economic Technological Social Environmental Political assessments proximity 1.
Brexit Very high Emerged risk weather patterns impact 2.
Social legislation Near term & liquidity shortage changes underwriting 12.
Supply chain changes, including risk 2yrs vulnerability tariff pricing High 3.
Attack on critical Medium-term impact slowdown infrastructure 13.
Single digital risk 2-5yrs Medium market impact Long-term 7.
Low risk society risk 5-10yrs advances alters relationship 19.
Emerging stringent with insurers capital standards Far-term 8.
New entrants risk 10yrs use of technology 15.
Legislative change for competitive removes ability to advantage apply risk based pricing 9.
Scarcity of technical skills and capabilities 10.
Technological advancement robotics and articulated intelligence RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Strategic report Risk management continued Key risks and mitigants Key risk and exposures SII SCR % Key mitigants and controls Commentary Catastrophe risk 16 Our reinsurance programme significantly Consistent with our strategy and Arises from the risk of large reduces our exposure to catastrophe risks appetite of retaining risks that natural disasters with our main with losses arising from the 2016 Canadian reside within our core expertise, exposure being to European wildfires being well covered by our where we are able to maximise windstorms and Canadian programme.
Programme is designed risk-adjusted returns, our earthquakes.
to cover at least 1 in 200 year events.
Solvency II Capital Requirement SCR is primarily comprised Reserving risk 16 Reserves are reviewed and challenged of insurance-related risks, Is the risk that the Groups at the Group Reserving Committee which including higher than anticipated estimate of future claims is is attended by the Group Chief Actuary, underwriting losses, large insufficient.
Longer tail line the CRO, CFO and CEO.
retained catastrophe losses of business present more Group has implemented a comprehensive and deterioration in our stock uncertainty on the size and timing reserve assurance programme which has of reserves for future claims.
of payments, with our key independently verified 90 percent of the Whilst our investment exposure being the Swedish Groups net reserves by value over a three strategy remains deliberately personal accident lines.
conservative we continue to Economic transfer of the UK legacy look for opportunities to insurance liabilities, effective at increase returns through the 31 December 2016. purchase of less liquid highUnderwriting and claims risk 14 Controlled through well-defined risk quality assets as we are able This is the risk that underwritten appetite statements which are rigorously to match the cashflow profile business is less profitable than monitored at quarterly portfolio reviews, against that of our liabilities.
planned due to insufficient with remediation actions taken where Another key SCR risk arises pricing and setting of claims deemed necessary.
from the Groups defined benefit case reserves.
Key exposures Claims case reserves are prudently set pension schemes.
Although arise from large portfolios these schemes are well funded and reviewed at quarterly case reserving where claims trends are committees.
95 percent per latest triennial slow to emerge such as UK review.
Under the Solvency II Extensive control validation and assurance Commercial and Marine.
rules we are required to hold activities performed with over 100 sufficient capital to withstand separate assurance reviews having a 1 in 200 year event.
information on the pension Market, credit and currency risk 18 RSA adopts a prudent investment strategy schemes see note 37 of Is the risk to our insurance with the investment portfolio favouring the financial statements.
funds arising from movements high-quality fixed income bonds, which in macroeconomic variables are closely duration and currency matched including widening credit spreads, with insurance liabilities to hedge volatility.
declining bond yields or currency Investment positions are regularly fluctuations, the latter having monitored to ensure limits remain been significantly impacted within appetite.
Pension risk 26 Funding assets are well matched We face longevity and in particular to liabilities in the pension schemes, market related risks which arise including the use of swap arrangements.
from our defined benefit pension Reduced more volatile growth assets schemes.
The largest exposures exposures from c. 25 percent to arise from credit spread and c. 15 percent in the year.
equity movements, although Reaching a concluding agreement to these are partly hedged by close the UK schemes to further offsetting movements in the accrual from 31March 2017.
RSA continues to work with the Trustees in order to further explore options to fide-risk the pension funds.
Operational risk 10 Extensive Line 1,2 & 3 challenge over the These risks relate to customer progress made in executing the Groups and or reputational damage transformation programme.
arising from operational failures Significant progress in clearly articulating IT such as IT system failure.
risk appetite and getting remediation plans and enhanced control testing under way.
Extensive control review and testing with 500 control gaps closed in the year.
40 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Risk culture Risk developments in 2016 UK Legacy disposal as described In our view the most important Transformation risks the risk teams on page 33, the Group materially component to effectively embedding the have supported the business to reduced long-tail reserve risk through Groups risk management framework is ensure appropriate level of control and the economic transfer of 834m of ensuring that senior management set governance over the transformational undiscounted UK legacy liabilities the right tone from the top.
At RSA the changes being implemented by the net of reinsurance.
senior management team have remained Group.
This includes ensuring there is committed to instilling a culture which appropriate control over the planning, Solvency II and Solvency Capital promotes openness, honesty, integrity Requirement SCR testing and implementation stages of the and ethical behaviour, which is further programme as well as taking an active Solvency II is the new EU-wide insurance underpinned by the Groups continued regulatory regime that became effective role in providing high levels of scrutiny focus on our quarterly cultural and challenge at the regional and group on 1 January 2016. health check.
One of the key aims of Solvency II A key part of our culture is ensuring is to introduce a harmonised prudential Delivery of the operating plan The that our customers are at the heart of Groups operating plan provides the framework for insurers promoting all we do, and our staff are passionate transparency, comparability platform for ensuring the business about providing brilliant service to our remains focused on achieving its key and competitiveness amongst customers.
For example, in our UK European insurers.
operational and strategic goals, including business we have embedded a Conduct delivery of profitable growth whilst The Directive has three pillars that Framework which identifies and maintaining a robust capital base.
It is have impacted how RSA manages risk addresses conduct risks appropriately, therefore essential the plan meets the and how it reports to both regulators considers the customer impact of right balance of achievable stretch and shareholders: Pillar one relates decisions we take, and ensures that targets with realistic assumptions and to the quantitative requirements and our customers receive good outcomes.
strategic actions for how this can be introduces a risk-based methodology to achieved.
Risk take an active role in calculating the Groups Solvency Capital Risk management in action challenging the plan, including ensuring Requirement SCR.
Insurers are required As the business has continued to the validity of assumptions when to calculate the level of capital required leverage technology to deliver a more compared to economic projections, peer based on their unique risk profile.
For efficient customer offering the risk team reviews, past experience and current risk RSA this is calculated using our own have provided significant support to the assessments, which delivery of planned Internal Model that was approved business to ensure risks arising through transformation activity.
by the regulator in December 2015. the increased automation and Pension fide-risking The Group has digitalisation of processes remain Pillar two incorporates qualitative continued to explore opportunities for transparent and controllable throughout governance requirements, including further reducing the volatility created by transformation.
the way the risk management function our pension scheme exposures, including operates within the business and The first step to implementing an reducing our more volatile growth asset how key systems and controls are appropriate risk and control exposures from c. 25 percent to documented and reviewed.
framework is to identify the key IT risks c. 15 percent in the year and reaching which can arise with the key focus a concluding agreement to close the Pillar three relates to enhanced and being on the risks that have the highest UK schemes to further accrual from standardised disclosure requirements, impact and likelihood of occurrence.
31 March 2017. including increased transparency of the The risk team supported the business risk strategy and risk appetite of the Management of peripheral businesses in evaluating the risks arising and business.
In 2017, RSA will publish its first There has been an increased focus in helped prioritise resolution plans which Solvency & Financial Condition Report: strengthening the control frameworks focused on the most significant risks, these will contain extensive information of the Groups peripheral businesses, including ensuring that resourcing on how RSA manages its risks and with all businesses having been needs had been appropriately allowed exposures and report on the financial subjected to a detailed assessment.
for in the Groups operating plan.
position of the company using Solvency II IT risk monitoring framework valuation principles.
All risk assessments together with The Group has developed an IT risk resolution plans were presented to monitoring framework which links key IT Brexit the Board Risk Committee for approval RSA has been actively monitoring the risks to a set of key risk indicators.
This to ensure remediation plans were provides management with feedback impact of the referendum result and the considered sufficient to bring risks potential impact on RSAs business.
The on the effectiveness of the IT control within appetite.
framework, which has been strengthened vast majority of business written within Monitoring of these risks will be the 27 remaining countries of the EU is through the appointment of Regional performed through both a set of key Chief Information Security Officers CISO, written by subsidiaries domiciled in these risk indicators which are linked to the countries.
Plans are being evaluated enhancing their teams and developing risks and provide an early warning if robust control frameworks and for creating an appropriate structure risks have moved outside of appetite for the remaining business written remediation plans which are in progress.
as well as the development of line through branches of our main UK entity.
1 and line 2 control testing frameworks which focus on testing the key controls.
RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41
