STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks Focused on managing our risks The principal risks facing the group and considered by the board and the executive committee are detailed below.
The groups risk management process is described in the corporate governance section while financial risks are discussed in the finance review on page 47 and in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
Principal risk Context Specic risks we face Possible impact We believe that our people are our enduring Failing to identify, develop and retain an Failure to deliver the groups Management advantage and it is essential that we develop and appropriate pipeline of talented managers for strategic and financial ambitions.
capability maintain global management capability.
the present and future needs of the group.
Lower long-term profitable growth Potential disruption to management and staff Loss of competitive advantage.
Our people are a source of competitive arising from uncertainty during the AB InBev advantage and will continue to be in the new offer period and exacerbated by the enlarged organisation or in a standalone business complexity of potential disposals to facilitate if the ABInBev transaction does not complete.
With an increasingly high prole debate over Regulation places increasing restrictions Lower growth, profitability and Regulatory alcohol consumption in many markets, the on the availability and marketing of beer.
reduced contribution to local changes alcohol industry is coming under more pressure Tax and excise changes cause pressure communities in some countries.
from national and international regulators, NGOs on pricing.
Loss of consumer goodwill and and local governments.
Anti-alcohol advocates erode industry public sentiment.
This risk has broadened as compared with the previous year due to possible increased regulatory scrutiny arising from the AB InBev offer.
Consumer tastes and behaviours are constantly Failing to develop and ensure the strength Topline growth progression does Consistent evolving, and at an increasingly rapid rate.
and relevance of our brands with consumers, not meet internal and external sustainable shoppers and customers.
Competition in the beverage industry is revenue Failing to continue to improve our commercial Market positions come under more expanding and becoming more fragmented, capabilities to deliver brand propositions which pressure and market opportunities growth complex and sophisticated.
respond appropriately to changing consumer are missed, leading to lower Potential actions of our competitors and preferences.
stakeholders during the offer period could impact the competitive environment and our commercial performance.
There is increasing sophistication of cyber-attack Disruption of information technology systems Loss of competitive advantage and Information capabilities.
Businesss increasing demand for and a loss of valuable and sensitive information reputational damage through the and cyber consumers and customers personal data means and assets.
publicised loss of key operating security legislators rightly continue to impose tighter data significant business disruption.
Failing to comply with tightening legislation Adverse effect on profitability, poses a threat of significant financial penalties cash ows or financial position.
There is a heightened risk of information loss, or restrictions.
cyber security attacks and deliberate, harmful acts as a result of possible disruption and business distraction during the AB InBev offer period.
The businesss support for the AB InBev offer Failure to comply with anti-trust legislation Loss of competitive advantage Confidentiality and the post-transaction convergence planning and information security protocols results in and reputational damage.
and anti-trust process through to change of control requires negative reputational impact, commercial Adverse effect on profitability, compliance clear and consistent compliance with anti-trust implications, and significant financial penalties.
cash ows or financial position.
legislation and information security protocols with respect to provision of information to AB InBev and other parties.
The AB InBev offer is subject to multiple Transaction failure impacts the organisation Loss of value.
Transaction approvals from regulatory bodies and resulting in loss of momentum and short Loss of short-term competitive fails to shareholders.
and medium-term disruption to business advantage.
Failure to deliver the groups Unsettled management and staff.
short and medium-term strategic Transaction failure poses threat to relationships and financial ambitions.
with external stakeholders including shareholders, customers, suppliers, and joint venture and associate partners.
16 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Key Associated strategic priorities Comparison to previous year Drive superior topline growth.
Build a globally integrated organisation Actively shape our global mix to New risk due to the Risk broadened to optimise resources, win in market drive a superior growth profile.
AB InBev offer due to the and reduce costs.
AB InBev offer Mitigation Associated strategic Comparison to priorities previous year Building the groups leadership talent pipeline through our Global Talent Management model, strategic people resourcing and long-term talent pipeline.
Sustaining a strong culture of accountability, empowerment, and personal development.
Continuous employee engagement and communication to promote retention of key talent and use of incentive programmes that support motivation and retention.
Aligned goal setting focused on current priorities.
Rigorous adherence to the principle of self-regulation backed by appropriate policies and management review.
Building licence to trade capabilities across the group to facilitate sound risk analysis and mitigation plan development.
Constructive engagement with government and all external stakeholders on alcohol-related issues.
Investment to enhance the positive economic and social impact of our businesses in local communities and working in partnership with local governments and local and global NGOs.
Driving our Prosper shared imperatives to make a sustainable and measurable difference to the communities and ecosystems in which we operate.
Pursuing a beer category structure that enables us to grow both the value of the beer category, and our share of it.
Ensuring we have a deep understanding of changing consumer and industry dynamics in key markets, enabling us to respond appropriately to opportunities and issues which may impact our business performance.
Ongoing evaluation of our brand portfolios in every market to ensure that they target current and future opportunities for profitable growth.
Building our brand equities through innovation and compelling marketing programmes: creating a pipeline of opportunities to support our premium offering.
Focus on monitoring and benchmarking commercial performance and developing the critical commercial capabilities that are required in order to win in local markets.
Active management of key relationships in local markets to minimise any potential disruption arising during the ABInBev offer period.
Continued development and implementation of information security policies.
Increased investment to improve information security awareness, intelligence and implementation of sound security processes.
Building and enhancing processes to accelerate detection of, and deal with, IT security incidents.
Group-wide communications and protocols developed and disseminated throughout the organisation.
Engagement of external anti-trust counsel engaged at global and local levels to ensure SABMillers interests are protected.
Use of clean teams and associated protocols to manage necessary information sharing as part of the regulatory, disposals and convergence planning processes.
Engagement with AB InBev to support timely transaction completion including support for disposal processes and convergence planning assistance.
US$3 billion break fee in place should the AB InBev offer fail to complete.
Strong continued focus on delivery of strategy and financial performance, cost control and budget discipline in place across the organisation.
Management response plans in place should the AB InBev offer fail to complete.
