Our strategy continued Capacity for growth Transform Digital Marketing Increasing Were reallocating resources to invest in e ciencies ascalable and e cient digital marketing platform to generate demand for our sales teams.
Building a single, united operating Throughout FY16 we procured and implemented 12 digital model, increasing e ciencies and marketing systems to provide a new digital platform to leapfrog our competitors.
This involved: synergy to drive superiorgrowth.
P People Appointing the best leadership and digitalprofessionals P Platform For instance, on a Sage Live quali ed lead, the CBC team takes on all Our priorities Creating a perpetual demand engine, across web contact from product demos, to post implementation success coaches, Throughout our transformation we are focused on progressing towards to lead, delivering 5,000 leads per week ensuring that new users gain maximum value from the product from a single, united operating model to provide consistently excellent dayone.
support to both colleagues and customers.
We have realigned key functions such as Marketing, Product Delivery and Technology, whilst P The digital marketing and CBC formula can be repeated in other regions ensuring the function remains strongly connected to the country and from the existing hubs in Dublin and Atlanta, utilising the same best in Programs the customer.
We ensure the responsibility for the customer remains breed applications and generating standardised management Moving marketing from product to under the remit of that country, with sales and service provided locally, information to aid comparability of performance.
solution-based campaigns in local language, by Sage experts.
This united model drives e ciencies and creates synergy across The risks that could impact our success P countries.
The savings in formerly decentralised back o ce functions Business Model transition has been identi ed as a principal risk, this is are being reinvested into the business to drive growth.
Process Creating a united media strategy, saving 1m per year We are continuing to improve our always-on digital marketing platform.
in agency fees and a 37% reduction in cost per lead Our customer business centres CBCs deploy this platform, sta ed 24 How we will measure our progress hours a day with solutions experts who can nurture the incoming leads Our KPI linked to capacity for growth is the ratio of general and to identify which product will best suit the customers needs, rather than administration spending as a percentage of revenue G&A%.
marketing a product and identifying suitable customers.
Read more about our KPIs on page 33 and see more about our progress in the CEO report on page 31.
24 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 25 Our strategy continued One Sage Working collaboratively Our people and our culture, working collaboratively with pace and agility toput our customers first.
This means keeping customers at the heart of everything we do and focusing on their success, always striving to over-achieve.
Our priorities The risks that could impact our success Our brand story provides us with a uni ed culture that will unlock the As we introduce new ways of working and increase the pace of power of people.
Providing our colleagues with an emotive purpose and execution, there is increased stress on our operating cadence which a set of goals and principles allows us to realise our ambition e ciently may impact certain aspects of our principalrisks.
For example, our the Sage way.
Its a privilege to serve so many business builders and control environment, business processes and technology infrastructure our one Sage culture enables us to delight them all.
must continue to support the e cient and e ective operation of thebusiness.
We continue to align the values of our colleagues with engagement throughAll Hands meetings, Sage TV, broadcasting live to all colleagues, Read more about our supporting control environmentprincipal risk and Sage FY17 Kick-O s, where each major Sage o ce around the world atpage 39. was visited by management meeting approximately 10,000 colleagues as well as customers, partners and accountants.
How we will measure our progress Doing business the right way and giving back to the community is Doing business the right way through one Sage also extends to our incredibly important to us.
Our Foundation Days KPI measures how communities.
Sage Foundation has been highly instrumental in much time Sage colleagues have spent volunteering at charitable achieving this see page 60, and enables us to support our communities, causes throughout the year.
Read more about our KPIs on page 33. all the while improving colleague job satisfaction, sta retention and att racting newtalent.
26 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Perform We strive towards excellence in governance with our refreshed suite of 56 internalpolicies.
We implemented these policies throughout FY16 with communication and training to support all colleagues toensure we remain fully committ ed togood governance throughout the transformation and beyond.
Doing the right thing The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 See overleaf 27 Our strategy continued One Sage Transform Working together to achieve Working our vision.
collaboratively In order to support this we have launched our new Our people and our culture, working goal-sett ing process, VSGM.
collaboratively with pace and agility toput our customers first.
This means V keeping customers at the heart of Vision The aspirational primary objectives everything we do and focusing on of the organisation their success, always striving to S over-achieve.
Strategy The approach employed to achieve the vision Our priorities The risks that could impact our success Our brand story provides us with a uni ed culture that will unlock the As we introduce new ways of working and increase the pace of power of people.
Providing our colleagues with an emotive purpose and execution, there is increased stress on our operating cadence which G a set of goals and principles allows us to realise our ambition e ciently may impact certain aspects of our principalrisks.
Its a privilege to serve so many business builders and control environment, business processes and technology infrastructure Goals our one Sage culture enables us to delight them all.
must continue to support the e Personal objectiv cient and e es set in support of a ective operation of chieving thebusiness.
the strategy and vision We continue to align the values of our colleagues with engagement throughAll Hands meetings, Sage TV, broadcasting live to all colleagues, Read more about our supporting control environmentprincipal risk and Sage FY17 Kick-O s, where each major Sage o ce around the world atpage 39.
M was visited by management meeting approximately 10,000 colleagues Measures as well as customers, partners and accountants.
How we will measure our progress Speci c targets to determine whether goals Doing business the right way and giving back to the community is Doing business the right way through one Sage also extends to our have been achieved incredibly important to us.
Goal-sett ing begins with the CEO and cascadesdown through leadership.
Senior management goals are aligned to strategic pillars and shared throughoutSage.
This transparent approach aligns colleagues to the SageWay to embed our collaborative culture across theorganisation.
It also enables our people and managers to have straight-forward conversations about how they are progressing towards their goals and supporting our overall strategy throughout theyear.
26 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 27 Chief Executives review When business builders do well, we all do FY16 saw Sage continue to deliver on the commitment made at our June 2015 Capital Markets Day to perform and transform.
Stephen Kelly Chief Executive O cer @SKellyCEO guidance provided last year.
I am particularly As part of the C4L strategy, within recurring Performance pleased to note that higher quality recurring revenue, soft ware subscription revenue grew I am pleased that we have made good revenue was double digit the first time for by 32% and the number of soft ware subscription progress in performance and transformation, adecade.
The strategy for Business Builders contracts grew by 46% to just over one million.
consistent with our presentations made at isdelivering in line with our expectations and Our contract renewal rates grew by 2 percentage theCapital Markets Day CMD back in supports the Sage business model of quality points from 84% to 86% for the year coupled June2015.
At CMD, we shared with investors organic growth: superior operating margins: with continuing improvement in our Net the growth strategy underpinned by the five strong free cash generation enabling a Promoter Scores NPS.
strategic pillars of Winning in the Market progressive dividend combined with selective NewCustomer Acquisition : Customer for Organic processing revenue grew by 6% in the acquisitions to accelerate the strategy.
Life C4L : Revolutionise Business: Capacity year re ecting strong growth in Europe of 12% forGrowth and One Sage.
FY16 has been a Strong revenue growth of 7% in Europe driven by Sage Pay in the UKI, and International pivotal year in our transformation programme 10%recurring revenue and 8% 16% recurring of 50%, driven by payroll processing, balanced and, most importantly, the business continues revenue in International has been balanced by slower growth in North America of 3% that to perform.
As we have highlighted to investors, by 4% revenue growth 9% recurring revenue delivered strong payroll processing growth and FY16 was one of the years of highest potential in North America, due mainly to challenges in a at year-on-year in payments.
risk in the transition of the business.
At CMD, the Payments business.
Growth in Europe and we clearly outlined our strategy and continue Organic SSRS revenue declined by 8% in the North America has been led through strong to achieve pro table growth, providing year re ecting the planned transition to a performance in our Customer for Life C4L, best-in-class support for the Business Builder subscription model as explained at our 2015 whilst growth in the International region has entrepreneur.
We delivered revenue growth Capital Markets Day.
been driven by Winning in the Market new of6% with 27% operating margins in line with customer acquisition.
28 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Business Transformation We achieved an operating margin of 27% in Perform and Transform FY16 in line with guidance, whilst transforming The organic revenue growth of 6% is driven by higher quality recurring revenue, which our business by reducing cost from our back grewat the fastest rate in a decade.
The strategy is working with customers embracing o ce to reinvest in sales and marketing to closer relationships with Sage, evidenced by a 46% increase in the number of subscription support Winning in the Market.
contracts and a contract retention rate of 86%.
We have reorganised the go-to-market Phase one of the transformation programme has been successfully delivered.
For phase two functions and hired a proven leader, Blair we have ensured that we have the core management team, processes and culture to deliver Crump, the recently appointed Sage President, the best technology ecosystem for our customers those business builders that drive the to ensure that in FY17 we will see a laser focus worlds economy, creating jobs, growth and prosperity.
Phase two of the transformation will on new customer acquisition.
continue to be non-linear and focus on driving more technology innovation with increasing During the year we reduced the general and focus on new customer acqusition as well as continuing to improve execution against the strategy for Business Builders.
We are already starting to see Sage drive faster innovation, administrative G&A expense as a proportion of revenue to 16% FY15: 19%.
We have secured amore customer-obsessed DNA and colleagues making a di erence in all of our communities through the Sage Foundation.
annualised savings of 51m from G&A and have incurred an exceptional charge of 110m, For FY17, the second full scal year of our transformation, our full year guidance for FY17 76m of which relates to G&A, therefore giving is for at least 6% organic revenue growth and at least 27% organic operating margin.
an associated payback period of under two We will continue to front-load investment in growth in H117, consistent with our execution years, in line with our guidance.
Consequently, we anticipate stronger H2 growth and accelerating momentum The extent of the transformation is substantial.
Of our top leadership, 72% has changed in the last two years and half of the new leaders are internal promotions.
The overall headcount remained stable during the year and yet 3,000 Developer Community innovation award numbers grew by 41%.
We are con dent of new colleagues have joined Sage.
32% of the and has now left incubation, gaining continued growth of X3 and further progress Senior Management Team is now female, up momentum as a powerful mobile first, inthe Enterprise segment.
We will continue to real-time accounting engine.
We now have hire people to support our growth plans whilst over 600 Sage Live customers, with over Small and Medium Businesses at the same time driving for productivity, 400 added in the past 90 days.
North America e ciency, high performance and inclusion.
Sage 50 Accounts remains a popular Revenue has grown by 4% for the full year in choicewith our installed base, with this segment, compared with 4% in the In FY16 as we communicated, there was an functionality continually increasing as the prioryear.
exceptional charge of 110m, incurred as product enhances its cloud functionality partof phase one of the transformation.
In This segment continues to be a focus: some through Sage Drive and Sage 50C.
In the FY17 we have identi ed additional cost saving progress is notable with Sage 100 Cloud and year Sage 50 Accounts delivered triple digit opportunities of at least 50m which we will Sage 300 Cloud products starting to gain subscription revenue growth in the UKI, US reinvest in our go-to-market functions in momentum with soft ware subscription revenue and Canada.
The overall Sage 50 family of orderto accelerate our ability to acquire growing by 60% and 63% respectively.
Sage payroll and accounting solutions now newcustomers.
This will create a further Construction and Real Estate has also been accounts for 29% of all revenue.
exceptional charge, with a targeted payback asuccess, growing by 7% in the year and ofunder two years.
adding over 1,000 customers a record for Progress in areas targeted to improve thispart of the business.
performance Success in our technology strategy As a management team focused on Our suite of cloud accounting solutions Payments North America improvements throughout the business, continues to drive the Winning in the Market Payments North America has remained at weshare our watch list regularly.
During strategy to generate revenue and increase year-on-year.
Challenges in this segment FY15we highlighted areas of the business market share: re ect margin compression in line with thatwere underperforming relative to Sages industry trends and new account shortfall Sage One paying subscriptions increased by overall performance, being Enterprise Europe, dueto slower progress in marketing and the 81% to 313,000 during the year and revenue Small and Medium Business North America partner channel.
In order to drive growth in increased by 54%.
The majority of the increase and Payments North America.
We continue FY17 we are now o ering the power of the in customers was driven by Europe and in tobelieve that progress will be non-linear and combination of Payments, Accounting and International, which delivered a triple digit that we expect the watch list to vary over time.
Payroll and therefore di erentiating our value increase in paying customer numbers: proposition by bundling these solutions, and X3 revenue grew by 18%, with particular Enterprise Europe o ering new and updated product and process success in the International region which Enterprise Europe delivered full year growth functionality.
Payments marketing now has a achieved revenue growth of 74%.
Customer of5% compared to a decline in the prior year.
separately dedicated team and is expected numbers in X3 have increased by 25%: The strategic product within this portfolio, X3, tosigni cantly improve lead generation Sage Live, launched in USA and UK in grew by 12%, with particular success in the UKI andreferrals.
February 2016 was awarded Best Salesforce where revenue grew by 17% and customer The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 29 Chief Executives review continued Winning in the Market Revolutionise Business Progress of execution Throughout FY16 we have executed Progress Progress onour transformation by driving Our suite of cloud accounting products We launched Pegg, the worlds first improvements through each of our designed to win in the market is showing accounting Chatbot at Sage Summit in strategic pillars.
There is strong evidence progress.
X3 revenue grew by 18% in the year July 2016 gaining over 9,000 new users that our strategy is working, with with 74% growth in the International region.
to Sage in 125 di erent countries.
Sage One paying subscriptions grew by 81% We continued to build our ecosystem to 313,000, of which 61,000 were added in through Sage Marketplace, an online the UKI and 23,000 each in both Brazil and hub to access complementary partner South Africa, representing evidence of applications.
215 ISV apps have been Sagesinternational strength.
Customers for Life signed to Sage Marketplace during the Products continue to develop at pace.
Sage year, of which 86 have been fully integrated.
Progress One updates are available every two weeks, We are building higher quality relationships We have launched the Sage One mobile app leading to over 1,500 design improvements with our customers through subscription.
and new versions of Sage One for Partners and over 150 new or improved features in FY16.
Soft ware subscription revenue has increased andAccountants as we continue to move by 32% and the number of soft ware In July 2016 we hosted Sage Summit, the ourSage One solutions on to our Global subscriptions has increased by 46% to worlds largest gathering of entrepreneurs.
We had 15,000 registered att endees, Sage Live was developed in 26 weeks generated one billion social impressions By providing excellent levels of customer with early adopter customers contributing and over 3,000 media articles were writt en service and the latest technology we continue to the build of the product.
Product updates from the conference.
to build up our contract renewal rates.
The are released on a bi-monthly basis and we contract renewal rate has grown to 86% in the Our digital marketing strategy is starting now have over 600 customers, many of year, compared to 84% in FY15, with the best to deliver: we increased our social media whom are live following a rapid period renewal rates in North America and Europe following by 220%, leapfrogging our of implementation.
competitors, and tripled engagement with In Spain, a country that has not launched any our content on social channels, as well as Cross-sell campaigns are starting to gain new products since 2010, we are launching five increasing our lead to conversion rate in traction: in the UKI 37% of Sage 50 Accounts major products in six months Sage One GAC, Q4 a trend we will continue to build upon.
customers also have Sage 50 Payroll.
Sage Live, Sage 50C and Sage 200C, all in We have made signi cant progress local language and locally compliant based Our NPS score measures customer implementing our web domain consolidation onthe new, agile model of development.
satisfaction and has increased by 61% strategy seeing 14% growth in web tra c on the prior year.
to all Sage properties and 77% growth in Focus organic tra c to Sage.
During FY16 we continued to develop our Focus Sage ecosystem with further expansion We will continue to focus on the move to Focus to be sustained throughout FY17.
Partnersubscription, scaling up cross-sell in FY17 to FY17 will be a year of focus on execution of driven solutions will be available on Sage improve the average number of products held the Winning in the Market cloud accounting Marketplace for six of our growth products by our customers and implementation of our product roadmaps in each country, for Sage andthe suite of ISV apps will continue to customer journey maps, which highlight how One, Sage Live and X3 Cloud with signi cant increase.
Further innovation is planned for customers from start-up to scale-up to upgrades and distribution planned for the Chatbots, arti cial intelligence, machine enterprise can choose Sage as their cloud products.
Product roadmaps are now learning and data sciences.
updated monthly, outlining country roll-out plans, major releases and key feature updates.
In addition, we will scale up the Customer Business Centres CBCs : take Sage Summit on the road around major cities: and elevate Sages brand as the popular cloud accounting choice for Business Builders.
During FY17, Sage is planning 27 major cloud product launches across our geographies.
30 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Capacity for growth One Sage Outlook FY17 signals the start of phase two of our Progress Progress transformation to execute the strategy for We are measuring the return on our investment We have reduced fragmentation and Business Builders.
We will build on the strong in go-to-market functions.
Within the marketing misalignment within our business: foundations built during phase one in FY16 department, the people cost to marketing asfollows: We have continued to consolidate the expense ratio has decreased from 46:54 to Sage One towards a single code base: Rigour in implementation of the country 39:61, moving in line with IDC benchmarking.
The new Operating Design has been customer journey maps for C4L and Winning We have created greater capacity to reach in the Market.
rolled out around the world and provides prospects through the consolidation of our a consistent operating model.
Increased focus on new customer acquisition digital media strategy and a single worldwide with our award winning cloud accounting Colleague engagement has increased with media agency.
This has enabled a more products.
This includes launching Sage All Hands meetings and Sage TV broadcasting consistent approach to media, faster time Livein a further five countries with user live to all colleagues, and Sage FY17 Kick-O s, tomarket and a 25% reduction in agency fees.
experience improvements and new services where each major Sage o ce around the The first year of implementation achieved a for Sage Live for Accountants with Practice world was visited by management meeting signi cant increase in the performance of Management: increasing functionality in approximately 10,000 colleagues as well as demand related media investment, re ected Sage One with improvements to banking, customers, partners and accountants.
in a 37% decrease in cost per enquiry.
user experience, reporting and partnering We have increased our colleague engagement with Accountants and shift ing the product We have made some early changes in other through Sage Foundation.
13,000 days were focus on X3 towards cloudfirst development areas of the go-to-market functions as we donated by Sage colleagues to volunteer and subscription pricing.
Sage One and start to integrate areas of sales and marketing through Sage Foundation in the year and SageLive are both now sold and supported operations and reduce non-quota carrying 110 charities and non-pro t partners through CBCs.
globally bene ted from grants awarded We will continue e cient investment in the We have streamlined our property portfolio by the Foundation.
marketing function to increase the number from 139 to 78 premises.
Core Sage properties To strive towards Excellence in Governance, and conversion rate on marketing quali ed have been upgraded to provide an outstanding we have introduced a suite of 56 refreshed leads and improve return on investment.
workplace for colleagues in Atlanta, policies to ensure our business remains fully Continuing the Capacity for Growth Lawrenceville, London and Dublin.
committ ed to good governance throughout initiative, we will drive further opportunities We are establishing the critical platforms the transformation and beyond.
In FY16 Sage for cost saving identi ed to be achieved in for growth with our CBCs, digital marketing was recognised in the top four of the FTSE 100 FY17 of at least 50m with an associated platforms, Sage partnership programme and for governance in a study by the Institute exceptional cost and payback of less than our updated brand.
Goal sett ing has been aligned throughout Cost savings to be further reinvested into Focus Sage by Vision, Strategy, Goals, Measures sales and marketing and product innovation During FY17 we will continue our focus VSGM, with the CEOs FY17 objectives now to continue to drive new customer onexpanding the platform for sales and cascaded down through the organisation, acquisition.
marketing to drive new customer acquisition.
aligning colleague objectives to both As we progress into Phase two of the We will further leverage the power of our CBCs, leadership and the strategic pillars.
transformation programme, our guidance for which provide one touchpoint for the customer full-year FY17 is at least 6% revenue growth and so we can coordinate leads from initial contact, Focus at least 27% operating margin.
Consistent with selecting a product, through to aft ersales Further focus on the next phase of Excellence FY16 there is a planned strategic investment success coaching.
Our CBCs are currently in Governance with the Sage Excellence in bias towards the first half of the year and located in Dublin and Atlanta and the same Controls programme and integrated business therefore we expect margins to be lower than formula will be applied to other locations as planning for FY17 and cultural change to 27% in H117 and higher margin in H2 to achieve wecontinue to roll-out this approach.
the blended 27% margin for the full year.
With the front-load investment in growth in H117, weanticipate stronger H2 growth and accelerating momentum as we exit FY17.
Stephen Kelly Chief Executive O cer The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2016 31
