Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risks and uncertainties facing the business Identifying and managing our risks The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk The Groups Risk team facilitates the risk assessment and evaluation process with Group and business unit management on management and internal control.
Risk management is recognised as an integral part of the Groups activities.
The Board determines behalf of the Board and challenges risk findings and the internal control framework to ensure that these are effective.
Group the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by the Group and its operating policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to the companies.
Savills businesses worldwide are responsible for executing their activities in accordance with the risk appetite set by appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for review and confirmation.
the Board, complemented by the Code of Conduct, Group policies and delegated authority limits.
We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, Risk is assessed across the Group using a systematic risk both at an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification and mitigation processes have been designed to be appropriate management model covering both external and internal factors and the potential impact and likelihood of those risks occurring.
to the ever-changing environments in which we operate.
Risk assessments are incorporated into risk registers at Group and business level, which evolve to reflect the reduction increase in identified risks and the emergence of new risks.
Where it is considered that a risk can be mitigated further to the benefit of the business, responsibilities are assigned and action plans are agreed.
The following chart summarises our business risk management structure.
plc BOARD Review and confirmation Review and confirmation by the Board plc AUDIT COMMITTEE Process Risks and mitigation reviewed by Audit Committee aftervalidation by the Group Risk Committee and GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD ExecutiveBoards GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Ongoing review and control There is ongoing review of the risks and the controls inplace to mitigate these risks EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES GROUP RISK Review and assessment Group Director of Risk & Assurance consolidates the HEADS OF GROUP HEADS OF OPERATING operating companies functional and Group risks to FUNCTIONS COMPANIES compile the Groups key risks Key risks: Key risks: Heads of Group functions Heads of operating identify the key risks and companies create a register develop mitigation actions of their top risks and mitigation actions Savills plc 25 Report and Accounts 2016 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Roles and responsibilities 3.
Subsidiary Executive Committees The Board regularly reviews the Groups key risks and is supported Responsibilities in the discharge of this responsibility by various committees, Responsible for risk management and internal control systems specifically the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
within their regions businesses The risk management roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and business management are set out below, and all Monitoring the discharge of their responsibilities by operating of these responsibilities have been met during the year.
Board Actions Responsibilities Review key risks and mitigation plans Approve the Groups strategy Review results of assurance activities Determine Group appetite for risk in achieving its strategic Escalate key risks to Group management and Group Executive objectives or plc Boards Establish the Groups systems of risk management and internal control 4.
Heads of the Group functions and operating companies Responsibilities The Audit Committee supports the Board by monitoring risk and Maintain an effective system of risk management and internal reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, including systems control within their function operating company to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks.
Actions Actions Regularly review operational, project, functional and strategic Receive regular reports on Internal and External Audit and risks other assurance activities Review mitigation plans Receive regular risk updates from the businesses Plan, execute and report on assurance activities as required by Determine the nature and extent of the principal Group risks region or Group and assess the effectiveness of mitigating actions Annually review the effectiveness of risk management and Savills regularly reviews and enhances its risk management process internal control systems and seeks advice from independent advisers where applicable.
Approve the Group risk management policy Principal risks 2.
Group Executive Board The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Responsibilities risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its Strategic leadership of the Groups operations business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Our Ensure that the Groups risk management and other policies consideration of the key risks and uncertainties relating to the are implemented and embedded Groups operations, along with their potential impact and the Monitor that appropriate actions are taken to manage strategic mitigations in place, is set out below.
There may be other risks and risks and key risks arising within the risk appetite of the Board uncertainties besides those listed below which may also adversely Consider emerging risks in the context of the Groups strategic affect the Group and its performance.
More detail can be found in objectives the Audit Committee Report on pages 52 to 56.
Approve Group Policies Monthly quarterly finance and performance reviews In summary, our principal risks are: 1.
Economic country risks, particularly the impact of a global Group Risk Committee economic downturn Monitor the application of risk appetite and the effectiveness of 2.
Achieving the right market positioning in response to the risk management processes.
The Group Risk Committee and needs of our clients Board also considers the Groups overall risk appetite in the 3.
Recruitment and retention of high-calibre staff context of the negative impact that the Group can sustain 4.
Reputational and brand risk before it risks the Groups continued ability to trade 5.
Failure or significant interruption to IT systems causing Actions disruption to client service Review of risk management and assurance activities and 7. Business conduct processes 8.
Changes in the regulatory environment 9.
Acquisition integration risk Savills plc 26 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Description Mitigation Global market conditions are currently volatile, with The strength of Savills' business and brand and economic uncertainty in some sectors and markets, the focus on client service.
1 particularly the UK after Brexit.
Group earnings and Our strategy of diversifying our service offering or our financial condition could be adversely affected and geographic spread mitigates the impact on Economic country risks, by these and other macro-economic uncertainties.
the business of economic downturns and weak Savills operates in a number of countries where the particularly the impact of a market conditions in specific geographies, but transactional business is the largest component and these factors cannot entirely mitigate the overall thereby increases the level of economic risk.
global economic downturn risk to earnings.
To manage these risks, we There is a currency risk from operating in a large continually focus on our cost base and seek to Change from 2015 number of countries.
Increase Contingency plans are in place to enable us to respond quickly to market information and Strategic objective: economic trends.
Continual monitoring of market Geographic diversification Financial strength conditions and market changes against our Group strategy, supported by the reforecasting and reporting in all of our businesses, are key to our ability to respond rapidly to changes in our operating environment.
The actual impacts of Brexit are still unclear, but we are monitoring developments closely.
Our exposure to countries with economies which are currently weak is balanced by our business in more stable markets.
When considering new market entry we undertake due diligence including the impact assessment of political and economic issues in that particular country.
We manage currency risk in local operations through natural hedging and matching revenue and costs in the same currency.
The markets in which we operate are highly To remain competitive in all markets, we continue competitive.
Competition could lead to a reduction in to promote and differentiate our strengths whilst 2 market share and or a decline in revenue.
Our focus focusing on providing the quality of service that is on retaining existing clients as well as engaging our clients require.
Achieving the right market with new clients.
Our service offering continuously We continue to invest in the development of client evolves and improves to meet the changing needs of positioning in response to relationships globally and associated systems our clients.
digital technology to support our client service the needs of our clients offering.
Change from 2015 No change Strategic objective: Business diversification Strength in Residential and Commercial markets Geographical diversification Commitment to clients We recognise that the future success of We continue to invest in the development of our our business is dependent on attracting, people and our training and development 3 developing, motivating and retaining people programmes across the businesses.
Our partnership style culture and profit-sharing Recruitment and retention approach to remuneration is combined with of high-calibre staff selective use of share-based and other rewards to incentivise and retain our best people for the long-term benefit of the Group.
Change from 2015 No change Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients Savills plc 27 Report and Accounts 2016 Risks and uncertainties facing the business continued Risk Description Mitigation Savills is a strong brand with an excellent reputation We recognise that our brand strength is vital to in the markets in which we operate.
The Groups maintaining market share in established and new 4 reputation could be damaged as a result of negative markets.
A brand management programme is in media coverage.
We recognise the need to maintain place to ensure the brands positioning and Reputational and brand risk this reputation by ensuring the quality of the service identity is clearly and consistently promoted.
social media policy is supported by guidance and training as well as ongoing monitoring.
All Change from 2015 external statements have to be appropriately No change approved.
Strategic objective: We recognise that the quality of the service we Strength in Residential and Commercial markets offer is vital to maintaining the brand and we have Commitment to clients in place policies, controls and processes to monitor the quality of our client service to support our programme of continuous improvement.
The Group has established corporate social responsibility programmes.
Failure to fulfil our legal or contractual obligations to The Group has a range of policies in place clients could subject the Group to action and or including client acceptance, legal and regulatory 5 claims from clients.
The adverse outcome of such compliance, procurement, contractor actions claims could negatively impact our management and valuation.
Legal risk reputation, financial condition and or the results of We have Best Practice groups policies, our businesses.
For example: procedures and training which are designed to Change from 2015 in accepting client engagements, Group mitigate against the risk of such actions claims No change companies may be subject to duty of care being made and where such claims occur, to limit obligations.
Failure to satisfy these obligations liability, particularly in relation to consultancy Strategic objective: could result in claims being made against the services such as valuations.
Such policies are Financial strength Commitment to clients relevant operating Company: regularly reviewed.
in our Property Management business, we may The Group maintains professional indemnity be responsible for appointing third party insurance to respond to and mitigate the Groups contractors that provide construction and financial exposure to such claims.
Failure to discharge these As described below, our strong emphasis on responsibilities in accordance with our appropriate business conduct by all our obligations could result in claims being made employees, contractors and associates further against the operating companies: mitigates this risk.
in our valuation consultancy businesses, we can be subject to claims alleging the over-valuation of properties.
Major failures in our IT systems may result in client Specific back-up and resilience requirements are service being interrupted or data being lost built into our systems.
Our critical infrastructure is 6 corrupted causing damage to our reputation and set up so far as is reasonably practical to prevent consequential client and or revenue loss.
unauthorised access and reduce the likelihood Failure or significant and impact of a successful attack.
There is a risk that an attack on our infrastructure by interruption to our a malicious individual or group could be successful Our data centres are accredited to international and impact the availability of critical systems.
IT systems causing Business continuity and disaster recovery plans disruption to client service are in place to cover the residual risks that cannot be mitigated.
Change from 2015 We are constantly reviewing our resilience to cyber Increase security attacks due to the increasing threat.
Strategic objective: Financial strength Commitment to clients We operate in international markets that may present We have programmes to promote compliance business conduct-related risks involving, for with our Code of Conduct, particularly in areas of 7 example, fraud, bribery or corruption.
higher risk such as procurement.
Failure by the Group and its employees to observe We have a zero tolerance approach to breaches Business conduct the highest standards of integrity and conduct in of our Code of Conduct.
dealing with clients, suppliers and other Change from 2015 stakeholders could result in civil and or criminal No change penalties, regulatory sanction, debarring and or reputational damage.
Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Commitment to clients Savills plc 28 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Risk Description Mitigation We are required to meet a broad range of regulatory Our Group Policy Framework, which sets out our compliance requirements in each of the markets in standards for professional, regulatory, statutory 8 which we operate.
For example: compliance and business conduct, is reviewed regularly.
some of our operations have regulatory licences: Changes in the To support this Framework each business has its in the UK, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA regulatory environment own regulatory and statutory compliance regulates the conduct of Savills Capital Advisors resources who monitor regulatory developments and, both generally and in relation to the and maintain the internal processes and controls Change from 2015 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, required to fulfil our compliance obligations.
No change Savills Investment Management, and the insurance intermediary services provided to Our compliance environment, at all levels, is Strategic objective: clients by Savills UK: our businesses are subject to regular review by Internal Audit and Commitment to clients regulated by The Royal Institution of Chartered external assurance providers.
Surveyors RICS : Savills Investment Management entities are variously regulated by the Bank of Italy, FCA in Japan, BaFin in Germany and CSSF in Luxembourg: various countries, corporate entities and individuals are subject to financial sanctions, which require continuous monitoring in response to global events.
Failure to satisfy regulatory compliance requirements may result in fines being imposed, adverse publicity, brand reputation damage and ultimately the withdrawal of regulatory approvals.
We also have a number of key statutory obligations including the protection of the health, safety and welfare of our staff and others affected by our activities.
Environmental reporting requirements place data-gathering responsibilities on our business in common with other listed companies.
The structuring and integration of acquisitions is We apply the Group acquisitions policy and critical to realising the benefits sought.
People, procedures and use professional advisers in the 9 systems and processes are key components due diligence process, and allocate responsibility and accountability to individuals for integration.
Acquisition integration risk Post-acquisition reporting keeps the Board aware of progress against plan.
Change NEW Strategic objective: Business diversification Geographical diversification Strength in Residential and Commercial markets Financial strength Viability Statement As set out in last years Annual Report and Accounts, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires the Company to issue a viability statement stating whether the Board believes that the Group is able to continue to operate and meet its liabilities, taking into account its current position and principal risks.
In accordance with provision C2.2 of the Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period to 31 December 2019, taking account of the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
The Directors have concluded that the three-year period is appropriate for this assessment being consistent with the period covered by the Groups strategic plan and the inherent volatility of property markets.
In making this viability statement the Directors have considered the resilience of the Group, taking account of its current position and prospects, the Groups strategic plan, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the Boards risk appetite as detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
The strategy and associated principal risks which underpin the Groups three-year plan, are reviewed by the Directors at least annually.
Sensitivity analysis was undertaken on the three year plan, including financing projections, to flex the financial forecasts under a variety of scenarios, which involve applying different assumptions to the underlying forecast both individually and in aggregate, including assessing the potential impact of a severe economic downturn analogous to that experienced during the Global Financial Crisis in 2008 09.
The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that the Group would be able to withstand the impact of such scenarios over the period of the financial forecast.
Performance against the three year plan is monitored on an ongoing basis, including regular Board briefings provided by the Heads of the Principal Businesses on the progress made by those businesses.
These reviews consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks.
These risks are considered within the Boards risk appetite framework.
Based on the results of their analysis, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period ending 31 December 2019.
The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis as explained in Note 2.1 to the accounts.
Savills plc 29 Report and Accounts 2016 Sp tlight on Asia Pacific Net flows of real estate capital are now firmly outbound from China proved to be the most Asia Pacific.
During 2016 around US$57 billion left the region, fully two-thirds of it heading for the Americas while the rest active investment market in Asia in went to EMEA.
Mainland and Hong Kong capital accounted for 2016, overtaking Japan for the first over half US$29.4 billion of the US$57 billion as Chinese firms continued to source business opportunities overseas, looking time in a clear sign of the maturity for the benefits of portfolio diversification and respite from a and depth which the Mainland weakening RMB.
Intra-Asian Most active Asia Pacific markets 2016 capital flows continued to account Metro Sales volume $m for a greater share of capital Tokyo 16,334 Shanghai 14,675 Hong Kong 13,497 within the region in 2016, a trend Seoul 9,922 Sydney 9,036 which we expect to see continuing Singapore 7,964 Beijing 6,226 into 2017.
Melbourne 5,483 Brisbane 2,918 Osaka 2,913 2016 Asia Pacific investment volumes fell 14% year-on-year.
Shenzhen 2,591 Despite this, yields in core markets continued to compress and Nanjing 1,987 we noted a rise in the volume of large-scale deals above US$1 Mumbai 1,687 billion, particularly for development sites, as well as far higher Fukuoka 1,314 Taipei 1,264 levels of cross-border activity across the region.
China was the Chongqing 1,139 most active market in the region in 2016 overtaking Japan for Perth 1,124 the first time and the foremost destination of cross-border Chiba 957 Chengdu 911 capital in APAC.
Hangzhou 849 Nagoya 849 Auckland 814 Tianjin 813 Kawasaki 778 Adelaide 773 Savills plc 30 Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Case study Suntec City Tower One Savills represents this large global corporate as exclusive advisor in the disposal of five floors at Suntec City Tower One, which amounts to approx 55,000 sq ft of office space at circa S$130 million.
This represents the largest transaction of strata-titled office space in Suntec City World office Asian CBD grade A effective yield Office Towers and in Singapore.
change % Jun-16 to Dec-16 1.0 0.5 0.0 -0.5 -1.0 -1.5 Case study Hong Kong One HarbourGate A new Wheelock development comprising two office towers and a retail villa, was sold to two PRC firms for HK$10.35 billion in a landmark deal by Savills.
Totalling 675,000 sq ft, the flagship HQs for China Life Insurance and Cheung Kei Group now take pride of place on the Hung Hompromenade.
Savills plc 31 Report and Accounts 2016 Beijing -0.05 Chengdu -0.01 Guangzhou 0.01 Hanoi -0.27 HCMC 0.00 Hong Kong -0.16 Jakarta -0.05 Manila -0.32 Seoul -0.32 Shanghai -0.05 Shenzhen -0.02 Singapore -0.36 Taipei 0.00 Tokyo -0.18
