Strategic report Strategy and business review The Group is exposed to a variety of risks The Chief Financial Officer chairs the Group Key risks and as a result of its business activities.
As such, Risk Committee GRC.
The GRC meets ten active and effective risk management is a times a year and is attended by the heads of core competence and we actively monitor the control functions: Group Risk, Compliance, mitigations the potential impact of current and emerging Legal and Internal Audit.
The Group places significant focus on Officers from across the business, senior Integrity and good conduct the integrity and good conduct of employees managers from Distribution and Wealth and the risk management framework is Management and other GMC members are central to our culture underpinned by a strong ethical culture.
The GRC supports the Chief and approach to risk section explains how we control and manage Financial Officer and the GMC in discharging management.
the risks in our business.
It outlines key risks, their risk management responsibilities.
The how we mitigate them and our assessment GRC reviews and monitors the adequacy and of their potential impact on our business effectiveness of the Groups risk management in the context of the current environment.
framework, including relevant policies and limits.
It also reviews trends and exceptions Managing risk in the most significant risk exposures.
The The Board is accountable for risk and GRC and the Wealth Management Audit and oversight of the risk management process.
Risk Committee WMARC receive reports It considers the most significant risks in respect of risk for Wealth Management.
facing the Group and also uses quantitative exposure measures, such as stress tests, Lines of defence where appropriate.
Non-executive oversight The first line of defence against undesirable of the risk management process with respect outcomes is the business operations to standards of integrity, risk management themselves and respective line managers and internal control is exercised through the across Investment, Product, Distribution, Audit and Risk Committee see page 58.
Business heads take the lead role with respect It is the responsibility of all employees to to identifying potential risks and implementing uphold the control culture of Schroders and and maintaining appropriate controls.
we therefore embed risk management within all areas of the business.
Members of the GMC Line management is supplemented by the have risk management responsibility for their control and oversight functions including: respective business areas and we expect Group Risk, Compliance, Legal and individual behaviours to mirror the culture Governance, Finance, Tax and Human and core values of the Group.
Resources which form the second line of defence.
This is supplemented by The Group Chief Executive and the GMC, the compliance monitoring programme, as the principal executive committee which reviews the effective operation of our with responsibility for the monitoring and processes in meeting regulatory requirements.
reporting of risk and controls, regularly review the key risks facing the Group.
Group Internal Audit provides retrospective, independent assurance over the operation of The executive oversight of risk is delegated controls and forms the third line of defence.
by the Group Chief Executive to the Chief The internal audit programme includes Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer reviews of risk management processes and has responsibility for the risk and control recommendations to improve the control framework of the Group and independent environment: supplemented by external monitoring and reporting of risks and controls assurance from the Groups auditors.
is supported by the Group Head of Risk.
Schroders also maintains insurance cover with a broad range of policies covering a number of insurable events.
Lines of defence Overview External independent assurance Three lines of defence rd 3 Line: Internal independent assurance Group Group Audit nd Risk Management and Risk 2 Line: Control and oversight functions Committee Committee Committee st 1 Line: Business operations and support 36 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 d ?
a s l l o y r e t k n r o u c o & e Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations 2016 developments The Information Security Risk Oversight Via bility statement We have continued to develop our UK Conduct Committee, Technology Risk Committee and In accordance with the UK Corporate framework and strengthen our management Group Pricing Committee have been added Governance Code, the Directors have carried information and reporting in this key area.
We as sub-committees of the GRC.
Cyber-crime out a robust assessment of the key risks facing have further enhanced our global oversight of continues to be at the forefront of industry the Group and expect Schroders plc will financial crime risk management, our market concerns so we continue to make progress continue to be viable for the next five years.
abuse surveillance tools and a number of our in this area.
The Information Security Risk compliance policies in the context of the ever Oversight Committee has set out its strategic This assessment has been made in tougher regulatory environment.
aims for 2017, which include: increasing the consideration of the business model, level of protection across the business: better expected future performance, solvency The Group Risk operating model has been agility to detect cyber risks: and improved and liquidity.
Our prospects have been reviewed and we have strengthened our risk response and recovery to cyber crisis.
assessed in line with the strategic business capabilities through the following: planning and forecasting period which Further developments have also been made to has a five-year horizon.
Recruitment of regional heads of risk in the Risk and Control Assessment RCA process the US, continental Europe and Asia Pacific to embed this in the business amongst the The Directors review financial forecasts and and particular focus on strengthening our first line of defence.
RCAs are prepared by key risks regularly.
Key risks, together with operational risk capability outside the UK line management to identify and assess key the mitigation of these risks, are detailed The development of a Group Risk hub operational risks at least annually and when in this Key risks and mitigations section.
in Hong Kong significant changes occur.
Associated controls Within this section, we have outlined the Enhancement of the Group Policy are assessed with regard to their design and Strategic risks facing the Group.
The Board Framework which has been aligned to our performance and line management are considers the options available to us to material risks and supplemented with policy required to enhance controls where risks mitigate these risks when executing the summaries to increase business awareness exceed appetite.
Group strategy to ensure our ongoing and engagement viability is sustained.
The business strategy Formalisation of our risk appetite statement The ongoing RCA process is integral to our is outlined on pages 14 and 15. with supporting measures and metrics.
The RCA cycle is detailed in the diagram below.
Stress testing from a capital and liquidity perspective has been performed on the Groups business plan and is integral to the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process Risk Control Assessment process ILAAP.
Our stress testing considers a number of scenarios which include a range of factors that would lead to either outflows of our AUM or deterioration in the value of assets as a result of a market downturn.
The Group also considers the impact of fee attrition where our margins may be compressed, all of which would negatively impact our revenues.
Our scenarios take into account material operational risk events that may occur, such as compliance failings, regulatory fines or sanctions or technology failures which would Risk & impact our operations.
We recognise that Control such events would lead to reputational Assessment damage which could result in net outflows of assets, which are also factored into our testing.
Having reviewed the results of the above, we have concluded that we are appropriately capitalised should any of the above scenarios be realised and that our ongoing viability would be sustained.
The Directors current, reasonable expectation is that Schroders plc will be able to continue in operation, meeting its liabilities as they fall due, over a viability horizon of five years.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 r s a e t s a s h i W e n W c h p o a l r t a p c c e o t n o t r m o i l t s i g d a o t e w t h e e h r i a ?
i e r h t e r h u t f e e t w a g n i a t i C m Strategic report Strategy and business review Key risks Reputational risk previously a standalone Key risks and We have identified the following as the key risk category has been moved to the risks to Schroders.
Business Risk category Removal of the Global Business risk mitigations Assessment of key risks from our Business risks category as we The key risks outlined on pages 39 to 43 have consider an emergence of this risk will be continued been assessed in the light of the current captured in an Operational Risk failing.
environment, as summarised in the diagram below.
The horizontal axis shows the impact of a key risk if it were to materialise.
The vertical This year we have made the following changes axis shows the likelihood of this occurring.
Key threats to our risk profile to the presentation of our key risks: The scales of each axis are set on a relative Threats with uncertain impact, probability basis between each risk and are based on and timeframe could impact the Group.
Addition of a Strategic Risk category, the residual risks.
The Group undertakes We continuously monitor internal and recognising the external risks facing the additional work to address those risks that it external environments to identify new group, comprising Changing investor considers to be potentially heightened, more and emerging risks.
We then analyse requirements, Low investment return costly or in excess of our risk appetite.
In some each risk and, if needed, develop and environment, Fee attrition, Regulatory areas we have seen increased levels of risk, apply mitigation and management plans.
landscape and Business model disruption which we continue to actively manage.
The external threats that are currently the focus of attention are largely covered under our key risks including the Strategic risk summary which has been included in 2016.
The most material threats to our risk profile A 4 in addition to these are: 3 5 the UKs exit from the European Union 1 the impact of global terrorism.
2 21 We have had a significant presence in the 16 EU outside the UK for many years, including 19 a substantial operation in Luxembourg from 17 where we manage our global fund range 14 which is sold across the continent.
Although we continue to review our legal and regulatory 11 20 structure across continental Europe, Brexit is 15 18 6 not expected to have a material impact on 8 our business or the service we provide to our clients and investors.
10 7 9 12 13 B Low Medium High Impact Strategic risks Market, credit, liquidity and capital risks 1.
Low investment return environment 11. Credit risk 3.
Risk of insufficient capital 5. Business model disruption Operational risks Business risks 14.
Process and change risk 9. Business concentration risk 18.
Technology risk and information security 20.
People and employment practices risk 21.
Third-party service provider risk Key threats to risk profile A. Brexit B.
38 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Likelihood Low Medium High Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations Strategic risks The risk of our strategy failing to deliver the expected outcomes, earnings, and profitability can be influenced by internal or external factors that fall into the categories detailed below.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 1.
Changing investor Growth in demand for investment solutions that are not currently We have created a Product function, distinct from Investment offered by the Group.
This may include passive strategies such as and Distribution, to focus on product strategy, innovation, client requirements ETFsor certain outcome-oriented products where Schroders does engagement and managing our diverse product range to face not currently have the investment capability.
the challenges posed by changing investor requirements and increased regulatory expectations.
Regulated clients fide-risking due to the impact of regulatory capital changes, where clients reallocate investments to classes that are We continue to focus on developing our investment capability, not currently offered by the Group or at a lower margin.
expanding into new asset classes and specific areas of expertise.
Movement from defined benefit to defined contribution plans We have enhanced our structured product and LDI product in a number of countries such as the UK, Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
offering for outcome-oriented and fide-risking solutions and developed a fiduciary management offering.
We seek to ensure Consolidation of local authority pensions in the UK, reducing the our funds are included as part of third party DC offerings.
We adapt our business structure and cost base to manage the An increase in demand for liability-driven investment LDI solutions, changing asset allocation requirements of our clients and the reducing the level of active risk management.
impact on our business model.
L ow investment A lower investment return environment due to: Products that see demand in a low interest rate environment are income funds, absolute return funds and multi-asset funds.
return environment Lower interest rates resulting in a potentially lower income AUM and profits on a constant currency basis We have increased our focus on operational efficiency through Lower corporate revenue growth globally, impacting equities returns.
automation and the use of technology.
Both risks could impact upon investor demand, which is considered in changing investor requirements above.
Fee attrition A lower fee environment and the impact on our business model of Where we can offer a competitive advantage, our business margin attrition due to: is increasing its focus on solutions and outcome-orientated strategies which diversifies our fee income.
Changes in investor demand, driven by fide-risking, a focus on lower fee margin products, or a transfer of AUM into products that are Diversifying the product offering to address investor needs not offered by Schroders which supports overall profitability in the long term.
Compressed investment returns leading to tighter fee rates for new and existing institutional mandates We have increased our access to private and alternative assets Move towards vertical integration advice, platform and investment and strategies through acquisitions and strategic relationships management services within the industry, increasing competition and e. g. infrastructure debt and asset-backed securities.
pressure on fee revenue as active managers may be disintermediated Rising costs within the industry driven by changing and increasing We have made a strategic investment in Benchmark Capital regulatory requirements and technological advancement which which provides the opportunity for vertical integration.
Re gulatory Regulators are moving their post-crisis focus from the prudential and Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance, misconduct issues affecting investment and retail banks to other parts Legal and Public Policy teams.
We engage with our regulators landscape of the financial system including asset managers.
in relation to potential and planned changes in regulation.
There is an increased regulatory focus on transparency of pricing, fees Our increasingly diverse product offering enables us to meet and other indirect costs borne by clients and the associated operating the changing needs of clients driven by evolving regulation.
costs of compliance, reducing net profits, e. g. MIFID II, the potential introduction of minimum levels of fund liquidity and the outcomes of other regulatory reviews, such as the UK FCAs asset management market study.
Changes to intermediary commission and incentive structures and obligations are changing intermediaries product selection processes.
Regulation of distribution through digital channels and robo-advice may also change.
5. Business model The rise of technology solutions from competitors that disrupt our We are driving increased efficiencies and insights through value chain including competition from quantitative investment technology, including investment in data science to obtain disruption technologies that have the potential to assimilate more data and investment insights from non-traditional data sources and make investment decisions, and that may be perceived to realise upgrade of front office systems.
alpha more efficiently than active managers.
Digital initiatives are in progress to improve client Increased investment and asset allocation through robo-advice experience, engagement, and servicing through our services, displacing active management and an increased asset web and mobile platforms.
We are undertaking significant investment in our technology Inability to meet demand for products and solution-based offerings platform to support scalability, agility in product offerings, due to our capabilities being inadequate relative to requirements.
and the expanding alternatives business offerings.
Centralisation of providers including swaps and other clearing houses, We monitor the performance of key counterparties on a custodians and transfer agents creates systemic IT based risk with regular basis, as well as establishing processes for regularly market infrastructure throughout our business chain, coupled with a assessing alternatives.
consolidation of key counterparties that support our business operations.
We are reviewing our operating model to ensure that post-Brexit Challenges arising from Brexit resulting from disruption to and we can continue to service our clients and investors.
uncertainty in respect of current law and regulation.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Strategic report Strategy and business review Key risks and mitigations continued Business risks Business risk can be influenced by both internal and external factors.
A risk can materialise due to poor business execution or a failure to respond appropriately to internal or external factors.
Business risk can impact our earnings.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 6.
Reputational risk The reputation of Schroders is of paramount importance High standards of conduct and a commitment to regulatory compliance are as this can be impacted by any of our key risks.
integral to our culture and values.
We consider key reputational risks when initiating changes in strategy or our operating model.
Reputational risk impacts Schroders brand, reliability, and relationships with clients, regulators and shareholders.
We have a number of controls and frameworks to address other risks that This may arise from poor conduct or judgements or risk could affect our reputation including: financial crime, investment risk and events due to weaknesses in systems or controls.
client take-on and product development.
Ineffective branding and marketing may impact our ability We are currently re-branding to ensure our marketing remains relevant and to grow our business.
effective and supports our strategic objectives and product offerings.
A key part of the governance process when considering our re-branding was to Reputational risk may also arise from inappropriate client assess the likely impact on how Schroders is perceived by our clients and relationships or mandates which have adverse implications investors and the market generally.
Investment The management of investment performance risk is We have clearly defined investment processes designed to meet investment a core skill of the Group.
This is the risk that portfolios targets within stated risk parameters.
performance risk will not meet their investment objectives or that there is a failure to deliver consistent and The Groups Investment Risk Framework provides review and challenge of above-average performance.
investment risks, independent of our fund managers, across all asset classes.
Investment monitoring is performed by fund managers and asset class heads on a regular basis, as well as by Pricing and Valuation Committees, Asset Class Risk Committees, the GMC and the relevant legal entity Boards.
Recognising that products may not outperform all of the time, we offer clients a diversified product set.
Key to investment performance is our ability to attract and retain talented people see people and employment practices risk for further information.
Product risk Product risk can arise if our product range is not The Groups new Product function will focus on strategy, innovation and suitably diversified or does not provide access changing investor requirements.
to strategies sought by investors.
We conduct quantitative analysis on a product by product basis to confirm Product risk also arises from: that products are performing to the expectation of our clients in accordance with our mandate.
product or service viability and the risk that products or services do not meet their objectives Risk Dashboards, at product level, are presented for discussion at regular capacity constraints where the size of AUM in a Asset Class Risk Committees.
These show key performance and risk metrics particular asset class or strategy makes it more and facilitate identification of outlier products for further analysis.
difficult to trade efficiently in the market.
All new fund proposals are assessed by the Product Development Products containing assets outside of public markets Committee for commercial viability and distribution channels.
New investment may be more difficult to manufacture and maintain, propositions and strategies are reviewed by the Product Strategy Committee.
particularly, those requiring longer-term management such as infrastructure or debt.
We monitor potential capacity constraints in funds on a regular basis and the Product Development Committee also considers the interests and needs of potential investors in them.
9. Business Business concentration risk arises from concentration The broad range and scale of products, distribution and investment channels in a small number of distribution channels or products that we have established, mitigates our concentration risk and dependency concentration risk or when a small number of clients are concentrated in on any single sales channel.
Business concentration risk also arises from insufficient diversification of existing We aim to avoid client concentrations in any particular market or channel income streams.
A decline in fees due to changes in investor demands as We have further diversification of income streams through the ongoing set out under Strategic Risk where Schroders does not development of strategic relationships, acquisitions and identifying alternative or is not able to respond, resulting in the concentration growth strategies.
of business into a smaller grouping of clients.
We continue to offer competitive solutions for clients.
We consider the While we strive to ensure our business is broadly scalability of our business and continue to invest in infrastructure.
diversified by region and this mitigates our aggregate risk profile it introduces additional risks in terms of operating cross-border and in multiple environments as a result of business practices, customs and traditions.
40 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations Market, credit, liquidity and capital risks We face market, credit, liquidity and capital risks from movements in the financial markets in which we operate, arising from holding investments both as principal and agent.
Notes 19 and 20 to the accounts on pages 129 to 135 set out the Groups approach to the management of financial instrument risk, where we act as principal, together with the Groups approach to hedging.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 10.
Market risk Market risk arises from market Our , broad product range helps to mitigate market risk in a variety movements, which can cause a fall of market conditions and serves to diversify individual market dependencies.
The Groups in the value of principal investments Investment Risk Framework also provides review and challenge of market risks.
and a decline in the value of AUM.
The Group Capital Committee, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, regularly reviews all Operating capital, fee income and principal assets held for investment or seed capital purposes.
The Groups seed capital expenses related to the Groups overseas investments are hedged in respect of market risk and currency risk, where practical.
subsidiaries are denominated in a range of currencies and, therefore, subject to We use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate transactional and investment exchange rate risk.
The Wealth Management Executive Committee monitors and manages market risk in the Groups banking businesses, which is primarily interest rate risk in the banking book.
11. Credit risk We face credit risk as a result of We assess counterparty creditworthiness and set limits for both our principal and agency counterparty exposure arising from counterparties.
client and principal investment holdings, including derivative exposures.
The We seek to diversify our exposure across different counterparties.
The creditworthiness assets we manage are also exposed of counterparties and borrowers is monitored, as is usage against relevant credit limits.
In Wealth Management, we seek to mitigate credit risk within lending activities, as We also face credit risk through Wealth appropriate, through collateralisation in the form of cash, portfolio investments or real Management lending activities, in estate.
Credit risk is monitored and managed against approved limits and collateral.
addition to client transactional counterparty risk.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group The Group Capital Committee reviews the Groups liquidity needs, considering the current or any of its subsidiaries cannot meet liquidity position, future cash flows, regulatory requirements and potential stress scenarios.
its contractual or payment obligations in a timely manner.
Liquidity is also considered at a legal entity level based on the specific circumstances and regulatory requirements of each company.
The Wealth Management Executive Committee Liquidity risk in relation to client portfolios monitors and manages liquidity risk in the Groups banking businesses.
may arise in difficult market conditions from the inability to sell the portfolios We seek to match liquidity of underlying investments with the anticipated redemption underlying investments for full value, requirements in client portfolios.
We have an established process to assess and monitor or at all.
This could affect performance the liquidity risk profile of funds on an on-going basis.
and also prevent cash or other assets from being readily available to meet We also review products and portfolios on a regular basis to identify and manage possible redemptions or other obligations.
Risk of insufficient The risk of insufficient capital would arise Maintaining a strong capital base is important to our business and is a core part of our if the Group was unable to support its strategy.
We ensure each of our regulated subsidiaries, and the Group as a whole, meet their capital strategic business objectives beyond its minimum regulatory capital requirements.
The Group maintains a prudent level of capital, minimum regulatory capital requirements.
including a significant buffer over the minimum regulatory capital requirement, which allows us to conduct our business and invest in new business opportunities that may arise.
The Group Capital Committee supports the Chief Financial Officer in exercising responsibility for the management of the Groups capital.
The Group performs a thorough assessment of the adequacy of its capital through the ICAAP.
In addition, Wealth Management in London and the Channel Islands also perform an ICAAP.
Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Strategic report Strategy and business review Key risks and mitigations continued Operational risks Operational risks are inherent globally in all activities and processes we perform within the Group.
To manage and mitigate these risks, the second line of defence provides oversight and challenge to the business through an operational risk framework.
Tools to manage this include RCAs, risk event management processes and new product approval processes.
We manage risk events through identification, reporting and resolution in order to prevent risk events from recurring.
Key risk Description How we manage risk 14.
C onduct and The risks of client detriment arising from We promote a strong compliance culture and we promote good relationships with inappropriate conduct, conflicts, management, our regulators.
Our Compliance function supports management in identifying regulatory risk practice or behaviour or failing to meet client our regulatory obligations and enabling these to be met through relevant training needs, interests or expected outcomes.
Compliance with relevant regulatory requirements is monitored in accordance with a risk-based programme.
The risks of money laundering, bribery or market abuse shortcomings on the part of fund investors, Our approach to encouraging appropriate conduct and minimising the risk of clients or our employees.
client detriment is set out in our conduct risk framework, and is built on our culture and values, supported by appropriate governance and reporting.
The risk of fines, penalties, censure or other sanctions arising from failure to identify or Risk based client take-on and review processes are among our key controls to meet regulatory requirements.
address the risks of money laundering.
Trading is subject to clear policies and to transaction surveillance processes, which are being enhanced.
Financial The risk that new regulations or changes to existing crime oversight is provided by the Financial Crime Committee.
interpretations of them, can have a material effect on the Groups operations, risk profile or cost base and Regulatory and legal change is monitored by the Compliance, Legal and Public be complex to implement and difficult to manage.
We engage with our regulators where appropriate in relation to potential and planned changes.
Legal risk The risk that Schroders or its counterparties, clients We rely on our employees, with support from our Legal function, to consider or suppliers with whom we contract fail to meet their the obligations we assume across the Group and our compliance with them.
legal obligations, that Schroders takes on obligations Our policies and procedures across the Group are developed having regard that it did not intend to assume and the risk of legal to recognised legal risks.
Confirmations are obtained from representatives around the Group that actual The risk that client expectations and obligations with or potential disputes or claims have been brought promptly to the attention of respect to our own and third-party responsibilities the General Counsel.
under investment management and other agreements will not be met, with a revenue We have an escalation process for areas of identified material risk.
Tax risk The Group and its managed funds are exposed to: Our approach to managing our tax affairs and tax risk is set out in our tax strategy.
This is reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee annually.
It is supported by a compliance and reporting risks, which would tax governance framework, which aligns to the Groups wider risk and control include the submission of late or inaccurate framework.
Independent monitoring and reporting of tax risks and controls is tax returns supported by Group Risk and key risks and issues related to tax are escalated to, transactional risks, which would include actions and considered by, the Group Risk Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee, being taken without appropriate consideration on at least an annual basis.
of the potential tax consequences reputational risks, which cover the wider impact In accordance with the tax governance framework, the Tax function works that our conduct in relation to our tax affairs can with management and advisers to monitor the tax position of the Group.
Local have on our relationships with our stakeholders.
management, with oversight from our Tax function, is generally responsible for identifying and managing the tax position of our managed funds, with the assistance of third party service providers.
Developments in taxation are monitored by the Tax function and local management.
We engage with representative industry organisations and advisers to ensure we are kept abreast of relevant tax changes impacting the Group and its clients.
Process and The risk of failure of significant business processes, Our key business processes have been identified and the risks assessed by first such as mandate compliance, client suitability checks line of defence owners through the RCA process.
change risk and asset pricing.
This is used to determine the adequacy and effectiveness of key controls: with Poor execution of acquisitions or management of second line providing oversight and challenge.
Associated controls are assessed strategic relationships which fail to deliver intended with regard to their design and performance.
Output from the RCA process is benefits in terms of revenue or costs.
As part of our due diligence process when we consider an acquisition or strategic partnership we identify areas that will need to be remediated after a transaction is completed.
Subject matter experts will be involved throughout the transition.
42 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Group Chief Executives statement Key performance indicators Our people Market trends Business and financial review Our impact Strategy Business model Key risks and mitigations Key risk Description How we manage risk 18.
Fraud risk Fraud could arise from either internal or external Policies and procedures are in place to manage fraud risk.
Controls in place parties who attempt to defraud the firm or our to manage fraud risk are assessed as part of the RCA process.
Attempted or clients by circumventing either our processes successful frauds are investigated by the Financial Crime team, with oversight and controls, or the controls operated by our third from Group Risk.
party providers e. g. within our outsourced transfer agency activities.
The Financial Crime Committee provides oversight of the management of Fraud risk and is a sub-committee of the Group Risk Committee.
Technology risk Technology and information security risk relates to Formal governance over information risks has been established across the three the risk that: lines of defence through the Information Security Risk Oversight committee.
and information The Group holds insurance to cover cyber risks.
security our technology systems and support are inadequate or fail to adapt to changing A number of policies and technical standards, including security awareness requirements training, have been deployed across the Group.
our systems are penetrated by third parties data is held insecurely.
Robust project management of a new front office technology platform and assessment of business requirements, implementation risks and scalability.
P eople and Talented employees may be targeted by competitors We have competitive remuneration and retention plans, with appropriate seeking to build their businesses.
This is particularly deferred benefits targeted at key employees.
We keep our remuneration employment important for key revenue generators in Investment structures under review to ensure that they are appropriate as the firm practices risk given the potential impact their departure could have develops new business areas.
The Remuneration Committee has oversight on the Groups financial position.
of compensation arrangements that deviate from our existing compensation approach to ensure that they are appropriate and in line with the firms The risk that we are unable to retain key employees strategic priorities.
across the firm in a situation where revenue and profitability are deteriorating and variable We seek to build strength and depth through sustainable succession and compensation is reduced.
This includes identifying new skills that the business will require in the future, for which we can recruit selectively either through The need to attract new employees for new business our entry-level or experienced hire programmes.
activities or strategic initiatives that require different skills to those that currently exist within the business.
We operate a global model, which reduces our reliance on single pools of talent.
Clear objectives are set for employees and success is measured in an annual People and employment practices risk incorporates review process, allowing us to manage under performance, identify motivational the risk that our employment practices do not comply development initiatives and take disciplinary action if required.
with local legislation, such as equal opportunities, human rights or the safety and wellbeing of We have policies and procedures in place to encourage diversity, provide for the employees when at work.
safety and wellbeing of staff and to manage employment issues appropriately, handling them consistently, fairly and in compliance with local legislation.
The risk that employees do not adequately fulfil their role.
We continue to monitor Brexit developments closely and their implications for employment practices.
The impact on staff mobility in and out of the EU as a result of Brexit.
Third-party Third-party service provider risk relates to the risk The Audit and Risk Committee reviews all material outsourced relationships, that suppliers may not be able to meet their agreed focusing on significant aspects such as service quality and risk management.
provider risk Policies are in place that govern our approach to appointing, managing and We have a number of outsourced supplier performing relevant due diligence of third-party service providers including regular relationships as part of our business model, reviews of performance against agreed service levels.
In addition, for service particularly in respect of: information technology, providers not covered under the outsourcing policy, minimum requirements are fund administration, custody and transfer established for overseeing service provider risk and performance, as well as the agency services.
requirement to perform risk assessments on service providers deemed critical to business operations.
Exit plans are considered prior to appointment and provide a framework for transitioning business from one service provider to another should the quality fall below the agreed service level.
The Strategic report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Harrison Group Chief Executive Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Pension schemes We work with trustees of over 1,600 schemes globally to provide investment solutions through every stage of a schemes life cycle.
44 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance Board of Directors 46 and Company Secretary Group Management Committee 48 Corporate governance report 50 Directors report 66 Remuneration report 68 Statement of Directors 97 responsibilities Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
