STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Details of the electronic poll voting for the AGM 2016 are set out in the table below: The Nominations Committee and the Board necessary skills and experience to deliver have been taking due regard of Lord Davies continued strong results, both financially For & Discretion Against Abstentions Total Resolution votes votes votes votes review into Women on Boards February 2011 and operationally, in order to develop and 1 To Receive Report and Financial Statements 337,181,485 1,662,160 107,847 338,843,645 and the Hampton-Alexander Review: FTSE oversee the future progression of the Group.
As a A comprehensive recruitment process was 3 To Declare a Final Dividend 338,950,959 100 433 338,951,059 member of the steering group of the Hamptonundertaken with the support of Korn Ferry.
Alexander Review, I am pleased to report that 4 To Elect David Squires 338,715,875 218,263 17,354 338,934,138 The Committee, after taking into account all the Board is supportive of the aim to increase 5 To Elect Susan Brennan 338,815,668 8,177 127,647 338,823,845 relevant factors, recommended to the Board the level of female representation in Board 6 To Re-elect Charles Berry 334,110,386 4,825,606 15,500 338,935,992 that Susan Brennan, the Chief Operating and senior leadership positions.
Following the 7 To Re-elect Celia Baxter 337,679,979 1,145,287 126,226 338,825,266 Officer of Bloom Energy Corporation in the appointment of Susan Brennan, a US citizen, 8 To Re-elect Derek Harding 337,858,265 1,077,727 15,500 338,935,992 USA, be appointed as a non-executive Director.
to the Board in January 2016, two of the seven 9 To Re-elect Giles Kerr 336,912,539 2,008,160 30,793 338,920,699 The Board agreed with the Committees Directors are female 29%.
Following the 10 To Re-elect Mark E. Vernon 338,735,536 200,023 15,933 338,935,559 recommendation and Susan Brennan accepted appointment of Jane Johnston as Group HR 11 To Re-appoint Deloitte LLP 338,339,844 508,751 102,897 338,848,595 the appointment in December 2015, Director in May 2016, two of the nine members OVERVIEW 12 To Determine Auditor's Remuneration 338,819,776 128,416 3,300 338,948,192 commencing on 1 January 2016. of the Executive Committee are female 22%.
13 To Update Rules of Sharesave Scheme 338,437,534 380,919 133,039 338,818,453 The Nominations Committee is chaired by The Board remains committed to further myself, and comprises all non-executive 14 General Power to Allot Shares 331,577,721 7,354,468 19,303 338,932,189 RETIREMENT OF NON-EXECUTIVE promoting diversity and equality of all kinds Directors.
The Group Company Secretary acts 15 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights 333,299,185 5,643,788 8,519 338,942,973 DIRECTOR throughout the Group, regardless of geography as Secretary to the Committee.
Senior members 16 Authority to Purchase Own Shares 334,501,359 4,448,813 1,320 338,950,172 or position, notwithstanding engineering At the conclusion of the Annual General of management and advisers are invited to employers have traditionally employed a larger 17 To Retain 14-Day Notice Period 331,177,168 7,758,124 16,200 338,935,292 Meeting held on 22 April 2016, Andy Hamment attend meetings when deemed appropriate.
The Committee retired as a non-executive Director of the There were two scheduled meetings of the regularly discusses the benefits of diversity Company and Senior Independent Director.
During 2016, the Companys represented approximately 80.78% 2015 Committee in 2016.
Two members constitute with regard to the Board and its Committees.
Mark E. Vernon, appointed to the Board in April In 2017, an advanced ethics training course non-executive Chairman also attended the 77.36% of the issued share capital of the a quorum for the Nominations Committee.
2011 became the Senior Independent Director will be rolled out to all employees of the Group.
full-year and interim results announcements Company.
All resolutions put to shareholders There was full attendance at both of the After the year had ended, the Board announced upon Andy Hamments retirement.
The Board made to analysts, in February and July at the 2016 AGM were passed on a poll.
meetings of the Nominations Committee held that Derek Harding, Group Finance Director, Section D: Remuneration considers that Marks industry and Board respectively.
The Committees attendance records would be moving on to perform the role of The Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 70 Details of the electronic poll voting received experience makes him a suitably skilled Senior are shown on page 37.
Group Finance Director of Shop Direct.
I would by the Company for the 2016 AGM resolutions describes the Boards approach to remuneration During 2016, the Chairman met with five Independent Director.
like to wish him well in his new role and thank matters.
The Directors Remuneration Policy shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director are set out in the table below.
The Committee is tasked with administering I would like to take this opportunity to thank him for his strong leadership contribution over was approved by shareholders at the is also available to attend meetings with major the process for appointments, considering Details of the votes to be received by the Andy for his guidance and strong contribution the past four years.
The process to recruit and Companys AGM in 2014.
The Directors shareholders upon request, so providing an succession planning, regularly reviewing such Company for the 2017 AGM resolutions will to the Groups success during his time as a select his replacement has commenced and have proposed a small number of amendments alternative channel of communication between processes and overseeing the composition be made available on the Companys website Director of Senior.
Derek will remain in post until his successor is to the Policy and the updated Directors the Company and its shareholders.
The Nominations Committees following the close of the meeting.
appointed, which the Board expects to be later Remuneration Policy is to be put to shareholder Terms of Reference can be found on the The Company makes constructive use of INDEPENDENCE this year.
its AGMs to communicate with its private Charles Berry The Nominations Committee and the Board still Section E: Relations with shareholders shareholders.
A presentation on the Companys SUCCESSION PLANNING consider all of the non-executive Directors to Chairman The Nominations Committee enlists external The Company maintains regular contact with annual performance was given following 24 February 2017 be fully independent and free from conflicting The Committee regularly considers the issue of consultancy firms to assist in the appointment its institutional shareholders and continued to completion of the formal business at the 2016 interests which may cause difficulties whilst succession planning for the various Board-level of Directors to the Board.
The Company consult with its major shareholders during AGM, and a copy of the presentation, together carrying out their duties.
The Group increased its focus on provides the appointed firm with a role 2016.
Twice a year, the Group Chief Executive, with other investor relations material, is non-executive Directors to be proactive in maximising the potential of its employees and description, together with the required skills Group Finance Director and Director of Investor available on the Companys website.
contributing their respective experiences improving succession planning.
The Executive and personal attributes to be considered.
Relations & Corporate Communications and skills gained from various industries.
Committee, supported by the Group HR The total issued share capital of the Company The firm filters a list of candidates down to undertake a series of meetings with the Director, conducted an extensive review of as at 1 March 2016 the date of the Notice of a number of those that it feels meet the skills Conflicts of interests are fully disclosed by Companys major shareholders, following senior executive succession planning.
The Meeting for the 2016 AGM, was 419.4 million and attributes required, then conducts Directors upon appointment and are reviewed the announcement of the full-year and interim review identified key employees who were ordinary shares of 10p each.
The total number preliminary interviews with the selected on an annual basis.
results, to discuss both the Boards strategic considered to be, or could be developed into of proxy votes received for the 2016 AGM candidates.
The candidates are then referred objectives and the detailed performance of Following the changes made in 2016, I am becoming, critical to the success of the Group, to Senior for interview, together with a written so that appropriate plans are in place to ensure confident that we have the desired diversity analysis on each candidate, with each of skills, people, experience and a positive there was an appropriate mix of employees candidate being interviewed by a number of within the Group who could fill key roles in attitude that will guide us in delivering members of the Board.
The final recruitment shareholder value and forging a positive the short and longer term.
decision is taken by the Board as a whole.
direction for the year ahead.
Following the appointment of a Director, a APPOINTMENT OF NON-EXECUTIVE This Report was reviewed and approved by full and comprehensive induction programme DIRECTOR the Nominations Committee and signed on is provided by the Company.
Within the The Nominations Committee continues to look its behalf by: induction process, areas such as financial at bringing additional skills and experience to forecasts, Group strategy and philosophy are the Board through the recruitment of new explained, together with other relevant topics.
When recruiting Chairman of the Nominations Committee Visits to the Groups operations are also the most recently appointed non-executive undertaken, involving the new Director meeting 24 February 2017 Director, the Committee was keen to ensure local management teams and learning about that the chosen candidate would have the right the key issues faced by each operation.
personality to fit the Groups culture and the 44 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 45 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT reviewing the effectiveness of the internal COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT ACTIVITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE audit function: considering the major COMMITTEE The Audit Committee met on 22 February 2016 to consider the 2015 year-end report and during the subsequent 12 months conducted the findings of internal audit activities and Member Appointment date following business on the meeting dates indicated below: managements response: ensuring coGiles Kerr 2 September 2013 Meeting date26 May 2016 26 July 2016 27 October 2016 22 February 2017 ordination between the internal audit Committee Chair Discussed and approved Reviewed and accepted the Items Considered audit tender Considered the external function and the external Auditor and Celia Baxter 2 September 2013 proposals from the shortlisted Auditors Interim Review the external Auditors audit Report to the Audit Committee ensuring that the former is adequately Susan Brennan 1 January 2016 planning report, including the on the 2016 audit made by the firms seeking to provide for the half-year ended resourced and has appropriate standing Mark E. Vernon 22 April 2016 external audit services 30 June 2016. scope of work, audit approach external Auditor.
within the Group: Andy Hamment 8 April 2011 to and fees for the 2016 audit.
Reviewed key accounting to the Company.
Reviewed and approved the reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups 22 April 2016 Agreed to recommend to the terms of the management Considered potential areas judgements, including internal controls and risk management requiring key accounting consideration of those Board that KPMG LLP be the representation letter addressed systems ensuring that the process is active There was full attendance at each of the four Groups proposed external to the external Auditor.
significant risks outlined and dynamic: meetings of the Audit Committee held in 2016.
Considered the appropriate on page 48.
Auditor for the financial year, Reviewed key accounting understanding the strategy at both Group commencing 1January 2017. judgements.
level of materiality and noted Reviewed and discussed Two members constitute a quorum for DEAR SHAREHOLDER and operational levels to ensure that the implication of applying the Groups Preliminary Discussed the Groups the Audit Committee.
The Group Company business risks and other relevant issues The Audit Committee has been established by Announcement of the 2016 different levels of materiality: Announcement and the Annual Secretary acts as Secretary to the the Board and consists entirely of independent are effectively identified and communicated the Audit Committee agreed Report & Accounts 2016.
Interim Results together with Audit Committee.
to the Board: non-executive Directors.
The primary role of the slides for the analysts to reduce the level to 5% of Reviewed the longer-term Collectively, the members of the Audit the Audit Committee is to maintain the integrity profit before tax excluding viability of the Group and ensuring the Companys corporate ethics, presentation.
Committee have significant commercial and of the financial reporting of the Group and to anti-bribery and compliance procedures Reviewed and agreed the amortisation of acquired agreed the viability statement financial experience at a senior management ensure appropriate risk management and intangibles.
on page 23. are up to date in terms of addressing the basis for going concern to level.
Giles Kerr has the recent and relevant internal control procedures.
To enable the potential risks of fraud and misconduct: be adopted for the 2016 Received an update from the Reviewed and agreed financial experience required by the UK Audit Committee to fulfil this role, its main external Auditor on accounting, the going concern basis Interim Results.
assessing the Audit Committees capabilities Corporate Governance Code to chair the Audit responsibilities include: Reviewed and agreed the reporting and corporate to be adopted for the in relation to diversity, risk experience and Committee.
For details of the qualifications of governance developments.
change in allocation of goodwill considering and making recommendations the financial expertise of its members: members of the Audit Committee, please refer to cash-generating units.
Considered the Groups Risk Approved the Audit Committee to the Board, and ultimately shareholders for understanding the implications of to the Board of Directors biographies shown & Assurance Strategic Plan Report for 2016.
Received and considered Risk approval, of the appointment of the external forthcoming changes to accounting on pages 36 and 37.
& Assurance and Mapping and a preliminary view of the Reviewed the effectiveness Auditor, the audit fee, initiating tender standards, including the new revenue 2017 assurance activity.
of the Groups risk reports presented by the processes in accordance with regulatory and financial instrument standards, to Groups Head of Risk Received and considered management and internal requirements, and any questions relating be implemented from 2018, and the AUDIT COMMITTEES TERMS assurance reports on visits control systems and & Assurance.
to the resignation or dismissal of the new leasing standard to be implemented OF REFERENCE Received and considered made to Senior Aerospace disclosures made in the Annual external Auditor: no later than 2019: Ketema and Senior Report & Accounts 2016. an Internal Audit Report The Board expects the Audit Committee assessing annually the independence assessing potential IT, cyber security and submitted by PwC.
Reviewed the Notice of to have an understanding of: and objectivity of the external Auditor, its social media issues in order to manage the Noted the external Meeting for the 2017 AGM Received and discussed compliance with regulatory requirements Companys reputational and business the principles, contents and a report on cyber security performance evaluation of and the Proxy Form for the and authorising the provision, if any, of continuity risks: developments in financial reporting, the Audit Committee which 2017 AGM.
within the Group and the non-audit services: including the applicable accounting measures available to further was being undertaken by Received and considered reviewing the Groups Whistle-blowing monitoring the integrity of the half-year standards and statements of Independent Audit Limited.
a report presented by the enhance security.
Policy, to ensure that appropriate procedures and annual Accounts and related formal recommended practice: Held a private meeting with Discussed the progress of the Group Finance Director, are in place for employees to raise, in Company announcements, and reviewing the external Auditor, without external Audit transition from which included the proposed confidence, any concerns that they may the key aspects of the Groups significant financial reporting judgements executive management Deloitte to KPMG LLP.
2017 internal audit plan, and have relating to suspected malpractice, operations, including corporate policies, contained within them, before their being present.
Agreed the Audit Committee approved the Group Internal illegal acts, omissions or other unethical its products and services, Group submission to the Board: Terms of Reference to Audit Charter.
corporate conduct, regarding financial or financing, and systems of remain appropriate.
Held a separate private reviewing the Company's statement on other matters: and ensuring that internal control: Reviewed the Group Whistlemeeting with the external the Annual Report prior to endorsement by arrangements are in place for investigation the matters that could influence or blowing Policy and agreed no Auditor, without executive the Board, that taken as a whole the Annual of such matters and follow-up action: and distort the presentation of accounts changes were required.
Report is fair, balanced and understandable considering any other topics specifically and key figures: Received a tax update on the Reviewed the implications and provides the information necessary delegated to the Committee by the Board the principles of, and developments impact of UK reforms and of forthcoming changes to assess the business model, strategy from time to time.
in, company law, sector-specific laws possible implications for the to accounting standards.
and performance: and other relevant corporate legislation: The Audit Committee is required to report its Group on its future Effective discussing with the external Auditor issues findings to the Board, identifying any matters the roles of internal and external Tax Rate.
and reservations, if any, arising from the where it considers that action or improvement auditing and risk management: and interim review and final audit and any other is needed, and to make recommendations as The Audit Committee normally invites The Audit Committee also holds separate Periodically, the Audit Committees Terms of the regulatory framework for the matters the external Auditor may raise: 1 to the steps taken.
the non-executive Chairman, Group Chief discussions with the Head of Risk & Assurance Reference are reviewed to take into account Groups businesses.
reviewing and approving the terms of Executive, Group Finance Director, Group and the external Auditor without executive current views on good practice and any recent the management representation letter The full Terms of Reference of the Audit Financial Controller and senior representatives management being present.
In addition, the amendments to the UK Corporate Governance addressed to the external Auditor: Committee may be found on the 1 of the internal audit function and the external Chairman of the Audit Committee holds Code.
In October 2015, the Audit Committee Companys website.
reviewing the longer term viability audit firm to attend its meetings, although separate meetings with the internal and external adopted its Terms of Reference, following their of the Group: it reserves the right to request any of these Auditors during the course of the year to discuss approval by the Board of Directors.
individuals to withdraw from any meeting.
both routine and business-relevant matters.
1 The Group engaged the services of PwC to perform certain internal audit procedures during 2016.
46 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 47 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In 2016, the Audit Committee considered Assessment of external audit SIGNIFICANT RISKS CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDIT that it was beneficial for the Company to retain effectiveness Independence of the external Auditor Significant risks considered by the Committee How the risk was addressed by the Committee Deloitte for this non-audit work because of As in prior years, the Audit Committee and policy on non-audit services Goodwill impairment The Audit Committee recognises the carrying value of goodwill the firms expertise in this area and knowledge reviewed the effectiveness of the external To fulfil its responsibility regarding the of the Group.
The Audit Committee continues Auditor process, by assessing a range of The carrying value of goodwill relies on assumptions and judgements as a key area of judgement and as such closely reviews executive independence of the external Auditor, made by executive management.
managements assumptions relating to the achievability of the longto closely monitor the nature and level of such key areas.
In 2016, the Secretary presented the Audit Committee reviewed: non-audit work, in order to balance objectivity the Audit Committee with a framework of term business plans and the macroeconomic and related modelling Management performed an annual impairment assessment at a report from the external Auditor describing assumptions underlying the valuation process for each group of cash and value for money.
questions to facilitate a debate and to assist 31December 2016 for all groups of cash generating units to which the arrangements that had been made to the Audit Committee in assessing the level generating units.
Policy on tendering identify, report and manage any conflicts of of Auditor effectiveness.
The framework These were further discussed with the external Auditor.
As set out in the Annual Report & Accounts interest and to maintain its independence: required Audit Committee members to 2015, the Group undertook a formal tender of Following the annual impairment assessment of all groups of cash consider which areas of performance needed the overall extent of non-audit services its external audit during the first half of 2016, generating units, the Audit Committee was satisfied that no charge future focus by the Auditor, the areas where provided by the external Auditor: and led by the Audit Committee.
The process for impairment of goodwill was required.
the Auditor was meeting expectations and the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit public began in March 2016 with a selected number Inventory net realisable value The Audit Committee recognises the risk that the Group may not those where the Auditor was considered report on Deloitte LLP.
of audit firms receiving an invitation to tender: Inventory held covers a wide range of products in both the Aerospace recover the full cost of inventory via future sales, and may not hold to have a special strength.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups current external and Flexonics Divisions.
The ability of the Group to sell this inventory appropriate provisions against obsolete and slow moving inventory.
The Audit Committees policy in respect Auditor, was not invited to tender due to the The Audit Committee discussed: the audit at a value above its carrying value in the future can be adversely of services provided by the external Auditor In addition, a significant change in production costs or in the execution longevity of its appointment.
The process partner and the team as a whole: the audit affected by many factors.
is as follows: to deliver planned cost savings in relation to specific work packages involved access to a data room, detailed planning approach and its execution: the role could result in unavoidable costs associated with one or more work the external Auditor is invited to provide meetings with management, selected site of executive management in the audit process: packages to exceed the economic benefits expected to be achieved.
services which, in its position as Auditor, visits and a final presentation to the Audit and communications by the Auditor to the Audit This is a key area of judgement and as such the Audit Committee it must or is best placed to undertake.
This Committee by each shortlisted firm.
Following Committee and how it supported the work of carefully considers executive managements assumptions relating includes formalities relating to borrowings, its conclusion, the Board has proposed the the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee to the achievability of these plans.
shareholder and other circulars, various other appointment of KPMG LLP as the Group also discussed what insights the Auditor These were further discussed with the external Auditor.
regulatory reports and certain work in external Auditor for the financial year had provided and where it had added value respect of larger acquisitions and disposals: commencing 1 January 2017, subject to to the overall audit process.
The Committee The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising approval by shareholders at the Annual General concluded that the Auditor had challenged from this significant area.
the Auditor may provide tax compliance and Meeting to be held in April 2017.
Deloitte has the thinking of the Company and the Audit advice where it is best suited.
In all material Other provisions The Audit Committee considered the basis upon which management completed the external audit for the year ended Committee on a number of significant issues cases, such work is put out to tender: and Provisions or accruals are held where management considers there had made its accounting judgements to determine the level of other 31 December 2016 and a hand over process and maintained its independence.
other services may not be provided where is an obligation, payment is probable and the amount payable can provisions.
These were further discussed with the external Auditor.
precluded by ethical standards or where Following completion of the assessment be reliably estimated.
The Audit Committee believes there are no reportable issues arising the Audit Committee believes that it would The Board extends its appreciation to Deloitte process, the Audit Committee concluded Provisions held by the Group include but are not limited to: from these significant areas.
compromise audit independence for its contribution over many years.
that it was satisfied with the effectiveness those held against legal claims or product warranties: and and objectivity.
of the external Auditor for 2016.
As discussed, central UK and US tax provisions.
the Board has proposed that KPMG LLP be All proposed contracts for services to be appointed external Auditor for the financial provided by the Auditor in excess of 25,000 year commencing 1 January 2017, in order require the Audit Committees approval.
to maintain auditor independence and comply with FRC and EU guidance on audit tendering.
Fees for each category of non-audit work undertaken in the year are shown in the table below: Fees m Other tax advisory services 0.3 Total non-audit fees 0.3 Non-audit fees as a % of total audit fees 33% 48 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL STATEMENT Notwithstanding these challenges, the Key Committee activities during the year INTERNAL AUDIT CONCLUSION fundamentals of the business remain strong In addition to the responsibilities of the The Audit Committee is required to assist the As a result of its work during the year, and the Company continues to make progress: Committee which are described in summary Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to the Audit Committee has concluded that on page 61, the Committee spent time on the effectiveness, resourcing and plans of the it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Aerospace production programmes are the following matters during the year: Group internal audit function.
At its meeting held on 22 February continuing to ramp up, and two of the 2017, the Audit Committee considered each previously reported price increase Review of the performance conditions During 2016, a new role, of Head of Risk & section of the Annual Report & Accounts 2016, negotiations have concluded satisfactorily of the Long-Term Incentive Plan: Assurance, was created reporting to the Group and the document as a whole, as proposed by and many new business opportunities are In December 2016, the Committee reviewed Finance Director with a dotted line to the Chair the Company: it reached a conclusion and in discussion with key customers: and the performance conditions for shares to be of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Risk & advised the Board that it considered the Annual granted in 2017 under the LTIP, details of In Flexonics, good progress has been made Assurance joined the Group in April 2016.
Report & Accounts 2016 to be fair, balanced which can be seen on page 70, and agreed to transfer production to new facilities in She is responsible for overseeing the risk and understandable and that it provided the that the EPS condition should remain cost competitive countries and we have management activities of the Group and its information necessary for shareholders to unchanged from 2016.
However, with regard continued to secure positions on new internal audit function.
assess the Companys business model and to the TSR performance condition, the programmes and platforms, and therefore DEAR SHAREHOLDER strategy.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee The Groups 2016 Risk and Assurance Plan Committee agreed that, taking into account are well positioned to resume growth will be available at the 2017 AGM to answer any was delivered utilising a co-source partner, the current market conditions, the maximum As Chair of the Remuneration Committee when markets recover.
questions about the work of the Committee.
PwC, and with internal resources.
In the first I am pleased to present our Remuneration vesting of awards granted in 2017 should Incentive outcomes for the year half of 2016, PwC completed the work be at upper quartile TSR performance rather Report for the financial year ended APPROVAL As set out in the Annual Report of commenced in 2015 by conducting a number 31December 2016.
This statement provides than upper quintile performance.
In making Remuneration, remuneration outcomes of internal audits and recommending updates these amendments, the Committee This Report was reviewed and approved by the context to the Committees decision-making for the year were as follows: to the Groups Minimum Financial Controls.
during the year, summarises key points considered the new targets were no Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: In the second half, Internal Audits were less challenging in the light of current from the Report including those relating to Annual Bonus Plan: Awards for the year at conducted by the Head Risk & Assurance performance and incentive plan outcomes, circumstances and within the approved 31.0% of maximum reflect the continued Giles Kerr supported by internal resources from across Remuneration Policy.
and outlines the activities of the Committee.
ability of the Group to generate free cash Chairman of the Audit Committee the Group.
During the year, the Head of Risk whilst significantly increasing investment in Business performance context Review of the performance conditions 24 February 2017 & Assurance developed a Group Risk & the Group.
The Group generated 48.5m of Seniors primary strategic objective of creating of the Annual Bonus Plan: Assurance Strategic Plan, which is designed free cash after funding 52.8m of capital long-term sustainable growth in shareholder The Committee reviewed the key to evolve and build on the foundations of the investment for future growth of the Group.
value has remained constant during 2016. performance indicators KPIs for the 2016 Groups existing risk and assurance plan.
In Net cash from operating activities increased Seniors culture of empowerment of annual bonus and it was agreed that the 2016, as set out on pages 24 to 29, the Group to 100.3m in the year as detailed on page 35 autonomous, but collaborative, operations adjusted earnings per share and free cash further strengthened its risk management of the annual report.
However, due to the working within a well-defined control flow conditions were still appropriate and procedures and these have been reviewed challenging business environment, the framework is a key element to realising that the target levels were stretching by the Audit Committee.
Companys Adjusted Earnings per share its strategic goals.
without encouraging inappropriate levels targets have not been achieved.
The non-executive Directors are actively of risk.
The Committee had planned to The year under review has been challenging, encouraged to visit the Groups operating Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP : Awards review the structure of the incentive with financial performance held back by some businesses unaccompanied by executive arrangements during 2016 to ensure that the made in 2014 reached the end of their threekey factors which are discussed in the Directors.
This enables them to meet the year performance period.
The threshold performance indicators remain appropriate.
Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives local management teams and employees However, a full review was delayed due to performance targets relating to Adjusted Review, primarily: and also undertake site tours to review matters EPS and Total Shareholder Returns TSR the recruitment of a Group HR Director and including production methods, health and a review of the performance management Aerospace performance was impacted by have not been achieved and therefore none safety and the status of internal audit findings.
system prior to considering any changes volume reductions on mature programmes, In 2016, a total of 33 site visits were undertaken to incentives across the Company.
It is the ramp-up of new aircraft production Total remuneration outcomes are below by the Chairman and non-executive Directors.
now planned that any potential changes programmes and certain supplier issues: and target: On the basis of these variable pay These visits by the non-executive Directors would be proposed, consulted on as Flexonics performance continued to reflect outcomes, total actual remuneration for are viewed by the Audit Committee as appropriate in 2017 and implemented the challenging market conditions in truck the year for the Group Chief Executive making a positive contribution to the in 2018. and off-highway and oil and gas markets.
and the Group Finance Director will be internal control framework.
at the lower end of the remuneration It was agreed that in 2017, the bonus ranges as illustrated in the Application performance condition should be amended of Remuneration Policy chart on to provide more weighting of the Adjusted page 53 overleaf.
EPS target relative to the free cash flow target and that the free cash flow target The Committee considered that the outcome should be only an annual measure.
of the incentive plans as a whole appropriately reflected the challenging year that had been faced by the Company and is satisfied that the remuneration framework reinforces the link between pay and performance and therefore rewards senior executives appropriately.
50 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 51 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT: ANNUAL STATEMENT CONTINUED 2016 REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE Review of the Remuneration Policy Shareholder consultation OVERVIEW OF OUR REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK The current Remuneration Policy has been As detailed in my statement last year, I wrote Element of remuneration Key features in place since 2014.
The Committee, with to our largest shareholders in December 2015 Salary and employment benefits Market competitive to attract and retain high-quality executives including fully expensed car, input from our external adviser, considered with regard to the changes to some elements private medical insurance, life insurance and defined contribution retirement benefits whether the current arrangements were still of the Group Finance Directors remuneration Annual bonus: Rewards achievement against annual performance objectives: appropriate and effective and whether any which were within Policy, namely the quantum Adjusted EPS Maximum bonus is 105% of salary changes were appropriate for the future.
As of his LTIP award and pension allowance.
The 1 Free cash flow 3 of any award is paid in shares, deferred for three years a consequence, the Committee agreed that: Remuneration Report gained 98.58% approval Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director target: 50% of salary at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Long-Term Incentive Plan: Supports the Companys longer-term strategic aims to create sustainable growth in shareholder Overall the current Remuneration Policy remains appropriate, providing alignment In December 2016, I wrote again to our largest Adjusted EPS 50% value and to incentivise, motivate and retain senior talent: TSR 50% Max award is 200% of salary but normal awards are 150% of salary between Group performance and shareholders to advise them of the limited Directors remuneration.
number of small amendments to technical 25% vesting at threshold administrative matters contained in the Shareholding requirements Equivalent to 100% of Executive Directors salary The Remuneration Policy includes proposed updated Remuneration Policy.
Clawback and malus provisions Unvested Deferred Bonus Award subject to clawback many good practice expectations To date, most shareholders were supportive Long-Term Incentive Plan subject to clawback and malus during the period of three years and is supported by most shareholders.
following the date of vesting The Committee is aware of the momentum to require executive Any proposals resulting from the 2017 incentive Directors to hold 150% to 200% PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AND INCENTIVE OUTCOMES review would be the subject of in-depth of salary in Company shares.
We shall Achieved consultation with major shareholders during consider this matter during the 2017 % of 2017 and if appropriate would once again Annual bonus Target Actual maximum review of the incentive arrangements be subject to shareholder vote.
Performance condition as discussed above.
Implementation of policy Free cash flow However, it was agreed that a small for the year ahead Interim 2.73m 17.3m 100% number of minor amendments to Full year 41.06m 48.5m 78.0% Due to the performance of the Company in technical administrative matters 2016, the Group Chief Executive and Group Adjusted EPS contained in the Remuneration Policy, Internal target 17.89p 14.37p 0% Finance Director did not feel it appropriate for as described below, should be clarified: their salaries to be increased at the present Year-on-year growth 18.98p 14.37p 0% Benefits non-executive Directors time.
The Chairman and the non-executive Bonus award to Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: 31.0% of maximum and executive Directors : Ability to Directors also requested that their fees remain reimburse the tax payable grossed up Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014 award Targets threshold stretch Actual unchanged.
The Remuneration Committee business expenses captured as taxable Adjusted EPS 50% 4% 10% compound annual average growth above RPI -9.9% below threshold acknowledged their request but intends to benefits due to HMRC challenge over three years review the salaries of the Group Chief Executive i. e. travel to main place of work.
Total Shareholder Return 50% TSR ranking: 6.5 maximum threshold 25 ranking below threshold and Group Finance Director later in 2017.
Other 1 5.5 minimum threshold Long-Term Incentive Plan: Facility Company employees have not been affected No awards vesting to grant or settle an LTIP in cash by this decision.
The Board will also review if the Company is, for example, the fees of the Chairman and non-executive in a prolonged close period.
APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The chart below shows how the composition of each of the executive Directors packages varies at different levels of performance under the Shareholders will be asked to approve the Remuneration Policy and also includes the value of remuneration actually delivered for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The assumptions noted updated Remuneration Policy and the Annual for target performance in the graph below are provided for illustration purposes only.
Report on Remuneration, in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and This chart is based on the following assumptions Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment 1,609 1,600 Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations, Threshold Target Maximum at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Fixed pay Salary is the basic salary as at 1 January 2017 29.5% The value of Benefits and Pension is taken from 1,200 Celia Baxter 1,069 the single total figure of remuneration for 2016 Chair of the Remuneration Committee 1,003 Annual Nil Approximately 50% 100% of the 12% 31% bonus of the maximum maximum payout 30.5% 790 800 payout 25% 20% 655 635 Long-term Nil 25% vesting under 100% vesting 13% 32% 509 25% 16% 10% 20% share the LTIP i. e. 25% under the LTIP 26% 21% 403 awards of 2017 basic i. e. 100% of 2017 400 19% 11% 7% 15% salary and set basic salary and set out at face value, out at face value, 75% 47% 29.5% 60% 81% 50% 30.5% 64% with no share price with no share price 0 growth or dividend growth or dividend 1 Below Target Max.
Actual assumptions assumptions Target Target 1 Group Chief Executive Finance Director For valid comparison, Derek Hardings Long-Term Share Awards figure excludes vested shares from his Sign-on Award.
Salary Annual Bonus Benets and Pension Long-Term Share Awards 52 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 53 000s STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE 2016 REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE CONTINUED REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY In determining remuneration for the executive Directors and other senior managers, the Remuneration Committee seeks to maintain PROPOSED CHANGES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD a competitive programme which enables the Company to attract and retain the highest calibre of executive.
A small number of technical administrative amendments to the Remuneration Policy are to be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2017AGM: Performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of each executive Director, details of which are set out below.
These performance-related elements, which take into account the Companys risk policies and systems, are designed Benefits non-executive Directors and executive Directors Provide the Company with the ability to reimburse the tax payable grossed up to align the Directors interests with those of shareholders and to reward executive Directors for performance at the highest levels.
for any business expenses deemed to be a taxable benefit due to HMRC challenge i. e. travel to main place of work.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Amend the Policy to provide the Company with the flexibility to grant or settle an LTIP in cash if the Company POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS is, for example, in a prolonged close period.
The table below summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of executive Directors which was approved by shareholders at the Following the recruitment of a Group HR Director in 2016, a review of the performance management system for senior executives was undertaken.
2014 AGM and became binding from that date, except for those matters highlighted in bold which are to be added to the policy in 2017.
The updated policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM on 21 April 2017 and, subject to shareholder approval, the updated During 2017, the Groups incentives structure is also to be reviewed, with shareholders being consulted on any proposed changes.
Subject to shareholder support, any changes to the incentives structure would be implemented in 2018. policy will come into effect.
Purpose and link About this Report Element to strategy Operation Maximum Performance assessment The Report on Remuneration on pages 61 to 70 is produced in accordance with the 2013 Regulations and the relevant provisions of the Listing Salary Reflects the Will normally be reviewed annually Other than to reflect Individual performance in the role Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are subject to audit, these provide details of the Directors performance of with effect from 1 January change in the size and Group performance are among emoluments, shareholdings, Long-Term Incentive Plan awards and pension benefits for the year ended 31 December 2016 and the Committees the individual, Benchmarked periodically and complexity of the the factors taken into consideration intentions for 2017. his or her skills against companies with similar role Company, the when awarding increases We have structured the rest of the Report as follows: and experience characteristics and sector companies Committee will have over time and the Normally positioned within a range regard to the basic Remuneration Policy: responsibilities around the mid-market level taking salary percentage Policy for executive Directors of the role into account the experience and increases taking place Policy for non-executive Directors Provides an performance in the role of the across the Company appropriate level individual, complexity of the role, more generally when How shareholder views are taken into account of basic fixed pay market competitiveness and the determining salary Legacy arrangements avoiding excessive impact of salary increases on total increases for the Discretions of the Remuneration Committee.
risk arising from remuneration executive Directors Annual Report on Remuneration over-reliance on No maximum salary cap variable income Bonus Incentivises annual Up to 70% of salary paid in cash Overall maximum of The Committee determines delivery of corporate with up to a further 35% of salary 105% of salary performance conditions and financial and nonpaid as a conditional award of weightings at the start of each year financial goals deferred shares For 2016, the financial metrics included Delivery of a Maximum bonus only payable free cash flow first half and full-year proportion of bonus for achieving demanding targets performance against budget and in deferred shares Deferred shares are released three adjusted earnings per share yearprovides alignment years after award but are subject on-year growth and performance with shareholders to forfeiture by a bad leaver compared to budget measured and assists with Executives are entitled to receive over a year retention the value of dividend payments that The Committee may include nonwould have otherwise been paid in financial metrics up to 25% of the respect of vested deferred shares overall award All bonus payments are at the Performance below threshold results discretion of the Committee in zero payment.
Payment rises Different performance conditions from 0% to 100% of the maximum may be set when recruiting an opportunity for levels of performance executive Director between the threshold and The Committee may review the maximum targets performance conditions from time Typically, threshold is around 90% to time of target, and on-target performance The Committee has the discretion delivers approximately 50% of the in certain circumstances to grant maximum opportunity and or settle an award in cash.
Subject to clawback at the Committees In practice, this will only be used discretion over unvested deferred in exceptional circumstances for shares in the event of material misstatement or gross misconduct executive Directors and, if required, over any unvested LTIP awards 54 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 SENIOR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 55
