Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Risk management approach Risks are reported both 'bottom-up', whereby business and operational risks are communicated upwards to Serco faces many risks and uncertainties which we the Divisional CEOs and the Executive Committee, and mitigate and manage through our risk management top down, whereby an assessment of the principal risks policy, standard, and risk management lifecycle by the Executive Committee is cascaded downward processes: these align to the guidance contained within via the Divisional Risk Directors to ensure Divisional the UK Corporate Governance Code and form part risk registers are focusing on key risk drivers that are of the Serco Management System SMS.
They seek considered most important to the organisation from to ensure that we identify, review and report risks at a strategic perspective.
all levels of our business, reflecting the nature of the activities being undertaken at that level, the inherent The Group Risk Register sets out the principal risks business and operational risks, and the level of control facing the Group and is reported to the Board on a considered necessary to protect our interests and those quarterly basis via the newly formed Risk Committee.
This focuses on risk related matters across the Group, reflecting the maturity and changing focus of the Board The risk management lifecycle includes six key Committees to embed policies and procedures put in processes that aim to manage the key risks of our place as part of the Corporate Renewal Programme operations.
They ensure we have a consistent approach see page 80. to identifying, analysing, monitoring and reporting risks and a mechanism for providing assurance that the risk mitigation in place is effective.
Risk Management Lifecycle Processes RISK PLANNING Assigning responsibility for risk management implementation, planning the approach and capturing this information in a Risk Management Plan RMP RISK REPORTING RISK IDENTIFICATION Reporting of the status Identifying risks associated of material risks up through the with achievement of our business management chain to the next objectives.
Includes potential risks organisational level, to provide from external factors arising from assurance that business risks are the environment within which we being appropriately managed operate, and internal risks arising and controls in place are from the nature of our business effective Risk Management Lifecycle RISK Processes MONITORING RISK ANALYSIS Monitoring mitigation Assessing the level actions and their impact so as to of inherent and residual risk improve the effectiveness of controls exposure, based on an assessment and improve the residual risk rating of the probability of an identified risk materialising and the impact if it Monitoring changes to our does using a standard risk scoring business and the external system, taking into account environment, to ensure we RISK MITIGATION effectiveness of current have sight of and respond controls appropriately to Identifying controls that emerging risks will reduce material risks to a target risk rating aligned with our risk appetite, and implementing cost-effective mitigation and contingency actions that improve the effectiveness of controls 16 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Principal risks The risks are considered within the timeframe of three years which is the same time period that has been used On an annual basis the Executive Committee reviews in the Viability Statement see page 24.
The Viability the principal risks facing the Group to ensure they Statement takes into account the principal risks remain current, taking into consideration the various in its assessment.
Divisional risk registers and any emerging risks that would threaten the execution of Sercos strategy, Risk appetite business model, future performance, solvency In 2016, the Executive Committee undertook an exercise andliquidity.
to assess the risk appetite for each of the principal risks.
The resulting principal risks are reviewed and The risk appetite represents the nature and amount of endorsed by the Risk Committee, and each risk is risk that the Group is willing to accept and facilitates classified as strategic, financial, operational, people, decision-making as to the level of resource that should hazard, legal and compliance.
They are described be expended to mitigate the principal risks.
on the following pages, together with the relevant Risk appetite statements were developed which were strategic business objectives, key risk drivers, the reviewed and endorsed by the Risk Committee.
During Group-wide material controls which have been put in 2017, these statements will be used to define the risk place to mitigate the principal risks, and the mitigation tolerance levels throughout the business, and along and contingency actions to improve the effectiveness with our Values, Code of Conduct and mandatory of the controls.
ethics training will provide clarity on the risk culture of the Group.
A place people Winning good business Executing brilliantly Profitable and sustainable are proud to work STRATEGIC RISKS Failure to grow profitably Failure to win material bids or renew material contracts profitably, or a lack of opportunities in our chosen markets, will restrict growth and may have an adverse impact on Sercos long-term financial viability.
Our business is linked to changes in the economy, fiscal and monetary policy, political stability and leadership, budget priorities, and the perception and attitude of governments and the wider public to outsourcing, which could result in decisions not to outsource services or lead to delays in placing work.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Future actions: Lack of opportunities in chosen markets Material controls: Additional changes to Group and market sectors do not have a favourable policy of Divisional overhead and shared Serco Group Strategy private sector provision of public services, reducing service structures implemented as Serco Management System SMS pipeline opportunities.
part of transformation programmes Business Lifecycle Review Team External factors reducing the pipeline of Review of BLRT process to ensure BLRT Process opportunities changes such as the Brexit lessons learned and price-to-win decision may make it more difficult for us to Sector-specific Centres of Excellence competitive analysis are formally win EU government contracts.
CoEs and Value Propositions embedded Not accessing opportunities due to inability to Serco Operating Model Review of CoE business model qualify lack of critical skills and references, and Annual Talent Review and to assess requirement for crossa value proposition for the markets in which we Succession Planning process divisional bid teams compete, may put Serco at a disadvantage with Standardised Divisional Performance our competitors.
Reporting DPR process Inability to meet customer and solution requirements during design, implementation Current mitigation actions: and delivery executing our bids in an unsatisfactory Ongoing Group Strategy reviews by manner by not understanding the strategic needs Executive Committee and Board of the customer, mispricing bids, developing unworkable solutions, and misunderstanding risks, Ongoing delivery of Group may prevent us from achieving our growth ambitions.
and Divisional transformation programmes Embedding of DPR process with Divisional monthly reviews of KPIs 17 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED Failure to build our reputation or act with integrity Failure to build our reputation or act with integrity will mean that customers will be less likely to give us new business or renew existing business.
It will also impact our ability to attract and retain high-quality people.
Operating effectively but without integrity will generate mistrust and scrutiny: conversely, acting with integrity but operating ineffectively will raise uncertainty in our ability to sustain and grow our business.
Both are key to building our reputation.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Development of Gifts and Hospitality tool and Conflict Stakeholders perception of Serco a poor Material controls: of Interest tool perception of Serco may result in an inability Our Values and Code of Conduct to build relationships.
Values Gate in Personal External stakeholder engagement Development Review PDR Stakeholders' expectations are not understood Serco Management System SMS an inability to identify changes in stakeholder Update of 3rd party ethical due Business conduct and ethics tools expectations may result in the failure of key diligence procedure relationships.
Serco Essentials training Due diligence checks on customers Our ways of working do not align with our Values Third party ethical due diligence and suppliers staff or third parties being unaware of and or not procedure Development of Anti-Bribery and reflecting our Values may result in unacceptable Speak Up process Corruption ABC Framework and business conduct, and unethical or illegal behaviour.
Performance incentive schemes ABC risk checklist tool Deliberate breach of law and or regulations staff and third parties inappropriately incentivised Current mitigation actions: Future actions: to behave in a certain manner may result in a breach Refresh of Our Values Embedding of Serco Values of laws and regulations.
Refresh of Incident Management Embedding of ABC Framework Direct or indirect contribution to human rights Procedure and checklist tool abuse staff either directly or indirectly contributing to human rights abuses may result in a breach of Review of Crisis Communication Development of stakeholder laws regulations.
Manual relationships in key markets Inappropriate response to an incident if we Media training for key spokespeople do not respond in an honest and collaborative way Development of Human Rights with key stakeholders, then we may fail to protect policy, standard and procedures our reputation.
Failure to transform and deliver the Group strategy We aim to transform the business so as to become the best-managed business in each of our chosen sectors.
If due to a number of internal and external factors, we fail to successfully implement the Group-wide transformation programmes, we may fail to deliver our strategy to become a sufficiently profitable and growing business.
We have put in place transformation programmes to achieve lasting change in the way Serco operates across Finance, IT, and the Corporate Shared Services CSS.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Group and Programme Workstream and Communication Failure to implement on time either as a Material controls: Plans developed result of financial pressures or poor programme Group Transformation Programme management, we do not implement the Group Management Office PMO and Future actions: transformation programmes on time.
Programme Governance Boards Ongoing review and updates Non-delivery of required benefits we fail Standardised Divisional Performance to Group Strategy to achieve the expected benefits due to poor Reporting DPR process programme management and or solution design.
Review benchmark cost of CSS Business Planning Cycle Reviews services Severe disruption to the business we fail to coordinate and prioritise the various programme Group and Programme Workstream activities due to poor integration across activities Communication Plans and inadequate programme management, and we Current mitigation actions: negatively impact on Business As Usual activities.
Group Programme Management Lack of staff engagement due to ineffective communication or the setting of unrealistic or unclear Office PMO and Programme expectations, we fail to gain staff buy-in.
Governance Boards in place Failure to effect merger and acquisition activities Business cases developed and and disposals we do not identify and effect M&A signed off, and benefits tracking activities or effect the intended disposals, and fail to monitored by Group Finance and achieve the anticipated portfolio and capital position.
Group Transformation PMO, and reported through the DPR process 18 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements FINANCIAL RISKS Financial control failure and Finance IT system failure Financial control failure or prolonged loss of financial IT systems may result in the failure to create a suitable capital structure, an inability to make critical financial transactions, accurately report timely financial results and meet contractual financial reporting obligations and a heightened risk of error and fraud.
In addition, poor quality data will lead to an inability to forecast accurately and may lead to poor business decisions: therefore, leading to financial instability, potential business losses and negative reputational impact.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Cyber Defence and Cyber Hardening Programme delivering enhanced Material controls: Not setting the right tone from the top if we core IT security infrastructure, do not set the right tone from the top, we may fail to Group Finance Strategy embed the finance policy, processes and controls.
processes and controls Serco Management System SMS Group IT Transformation Programme Poor financial processes if processes are poorly finance processes and controls designed, then inaccuracies and fraud may occur.
Business impact assessments for Shared Service Centre SSC Inadequate financial controls within the business finance function and systems and Customer Boards if controls are inadequate we may fail to provide updates to BCPs and Disaster Process Improvement Forums adequate protection from sabotage of systems, Recovery DR plans fraud and error.
Financial Assurance Programme Creation of Corporate Shared Inadequate financial controls within Treasury Finance Academy Service CSS Crisis Management a lack of a control framework for treasury-related Standardised financial platform Team activities may result in insufficient liquidity.
i. e. SAP Future actions: Loss of finance IT systems and critical financial Testing of Business Continuity roles if finance IT systems and roles become Review of BCP contractual Plans BCPs and back-up systems unavailable, we will not make financial transactions, compliance, and customer approval Global Finance Transformation and meet contractual and reporting obligations.
of updated BCPs and testing Programme Management Office Impact of Transformation Programme activities schedules PMO and Programme Governance programme activities may lead to an unstable Global Finance Transformation Boards financial control environment due to an increased Programme continues to improve workload on the finance community.
Current mitigation actions: effectiveness of CSS Failure of Finance Transformation Programme Embedding of Group Finance Backfill resourcing pool to be we do not transform the finance processes and strategy, policy and standards established to cover finance controls, and fail to deliver expected benefits.
Global Finance Transformation transformational activity Programme workstreams OPERATIONAL RISKS Major information security breach A major information security breach resulting in the loss or compromise of sensitive information including personal or customer or wilful damage resulting in the loss of service, causing significant reputational damage, financial penalties and loss of customer confidence.
Due to the nature of the services we provide, our technology and operational systems will be subject to threats from both internal and external breaches.
We implement effective controls proportionate to the level of sensitivity of the information we are protecting, and where 'things go wrong', we act swiftly to minimise the impact of any breach and carry out remedial actions to prevent further breaches immediately.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Current mitigation actions: Non-compliant systems if our systems are nonMaterial controls: Embedding of Information compliant with regulatory requirements for sensitive Security policies and standards Serco Management System SMS information, we are susceptible to breaches and Cyber Defence and Hardening Global Information Assurance Board penalties.
Programme delivering enhanced and Enterprise Architecture Boards Non-compliance with policies and standards core IT security infrastructure Enhanced IT security infrastructure, if staff do not comply with Serco policies and processes and controls and Global standards, then they may accidentally release sensitive process and controls Security Operations Centre information to third parties.
Global Security Operations Centre Roll out of PUM process in Americas Inadequate protection of sensitive information and Computer Security Incident Enhancement of the information if we do not identify sensitive information and protect Response Teams and test the vulnerability of the systems, then we are security on-boarding process for Serco Essentials training potentially exposed to a breach.
new IT suppliers as part of refreshed Cyber security awareness training supplier risk management Inadequate incident monitoring and response My HR standardised HR processes if we do not monitor our systems and remediate and Future actions: and corporate HR system repel attacks, then we may fail to minimise the impact of any breach.
Third party due diligence checks Improvements to IT asset registers Unauthorised use of systems if we do not Privilege User Management PUM Feedback and monitoring of implement effective personnel vetting and access process activities to drive user awareness restriction processes and controls, then unauthorised and behaviour Cyber Essentials Plus CES use of our systems may occur.
certificate successfully renewed Poor perception of Serco's capabilities if we are January 2017 perceived to be vulnerable to cyber attack, we may lose customer confidence.
19 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued OPERATIONAL RISKS CONTINUED Misreporting of performance Misreporting operational, regulatory and financial performance, both internally and externally particularly deliberate misreporting will result in loss of confidence from our stakeholders and put at risk our long-term viability.
If the misreporting is deliberate, it may constitute fraud, and the Group may be subject to litigation, inquiries or investigations that could divert management time and resources, and result in penalties, sanctions, variation or revocation of permissions and authorisations, suspension or debarment from doing business with government customers.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Current mitigation actions: Poor culture if staff do not align with our Values, Material controls: Refresh of Serco Values and and are inappropriately incentivised due to communication to business Our Values and Code of Conduct operational targets and or performance incentives, Roll out of Contract Management Serco Management System SMS then deliberate misreporting may occur.
Application CMA across material Serco Essentials training Lack of compliance with processes and controls contracts if staff do not comply with finance processes and Leadership Development Reinforce messaging around use of financial controls, then deliberate or unintentional Programme the Speak Up process misreporting may occur.
Contract Manager training Widespread adoption and training Lack of clarity on contract performance Business Lifecycle Review Team of financial processes and controls obligations if there is lack of clarity between BLRT process Serco and the customer on contract performance as part of the Global Finance Contract Management Application obligations, then accidental misreporting may occur.
Transformation Programme CMA Misunderstanding of performance reporting Values Gate included In Personal Speak Up process requirements if staff are not aware of reporting Development Review PDR requirements and are not trained to use systems, Governance of JVs and minority Future actions: then accidental misreporting may occur.
consortiums Poor oversight of Joint Venture JV systems if Embedding of Serco Values we have insufficient oversight of JV partner systems, Further roll out of CMA globally and insufficient assurance provided to the JV Board, Analyse, review and benchmarking then we may be unaware of deliberate or accidental of Speak Up results misreporting of performance.
PEOPLE RISKS Failure to attract and retain key resources and skills fit for the future If our current leaders are not able to meet the needs of the business either due to lack of capability or skills, or there are not enough qualified leaders, this may result in the business not being able to deliver the strategy and impacts on the long-term viability of the business.
A robust framework of people, processes, systems and controls to enable attraction, selection, recruitment and retention of leaders is required in order to meet our business objectives.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Functional Talent Boards Material controls: Implementation of resourcing talent Ineffective planning inadequate planning for management succession may result in a failure to partnerships in Sector CoEs Serco Management System SMS provide sufficient leaders.
to support annual Talent Reviews Centres of Excellence CoEs and Inability to attract people uncompetitive and Succession Planning Functional Talent Boards reward packages may result in failure to attract Delivery of UK HR Shared Service Annual Talent Review and Succession suitable leaders.
Centre on-boarding transformation Planning process Inability to select people inadequate selection workstream My HR system standardised HR processes may result in failure to select the right Implementation of Global candidate.
processes and corporate HR system On-boarding Virtual Team Serco Leadership Model Ineffective on-boarding inadequate on-boarding, Future actions: in a timely fashion may result in failure to recruit the Personal Development Review PDR right candidate.
process Leadership Levelling Review to Inability to retain leaders inadequate reward determine the right size and shape Performance incentive schemes reviews and incentives structure may result in failure of the leadership population Viewpoint Serco's employee to motivate our leaders.
Market competitiveness review engagement survey Insufficient talent pipeline if we do not identify of reward packages skillsets and potential successors, then we may fail Current mitigation actions: Embedding of refreshed to build a talent pipeline.
Embedding of Serco Leadership Serco Values Lack of leadership capability if we do not develop Model including library of Continuous improvement and leadership capability, then our leaders may not be fit Success Profiles and Leadership quality control for Divisional and for the future.
Development Programme functional Executive Management Lack of leadership engagement if we do not Piloting of Employee Profile tool Team succession plans effectively engage with our leaders, then we may to support delivery of CoE and not retain them.
20 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements HAZARD RISKS Catastrophic event An event as a result of Sercos actions or Sercos failure to effectively respond to an event that results in loss of life and or significant serious injuries and or material property or asset damage and or Serco not being able to bid or operate in a strategic market and or geography.
This may also result in reputation damage, financial impact fines by regulators, suspension of operating licences, compensation etc.
and criminal and civil action against the Company or individuals.
Mitigation: Current mitigation actions: Key risk drivers: Lack of capability and experience if our chosen Material controls: Review definition and scope of market sectors are not aligned to our capability and catastrophic event and implement Serco Group Strategy experience, then a failure to operate optimally may continuous improvement of Serco HSE Strategy result in an event.
mitigating controls within the SMS Serco Management System SMS Lack of safety cultural alignment a safety culture Ethical due diligence checks on our Business Lifecycle Review Team which does not reflect our Values and fails to engage existing customers and suppliers our staff may result in an event.
BLRT process Improvements to compliance checks Inadequate policies, standards and procedures Third party ethical due diligence for third parties if procedures systems are not aligned with industry procedure Update to the Serco Incident standard or customer expectations, an unacceptable Serco Essentials training Reporting Scale SIRS level of safety management may occur.
Assure Serco's incident and Review of business continuity and Insufficient safety management oversight compliance reporting system devolved compliance of regulations to sector-specific crisis management plans to establish Standardised Divisional Performance SMEs without appropriate safety management consistent approach Reporting DPR process oversight may result in safety management systems Future actions: which are not fit for purpose.
Adequate insurance policies Validation and alignment of External factors resulting in changes in the contract operational environment a lack of understanding of catastrophic identification and assessment of external risks event risks across the business may result in poor mitigation of and or response Assess current adequacy of to an event.
insurance cover for identified Inadequate response to a catastrophic event if catastrophic event risks our contingency plans do not provide an adequate response to an event then escalation of an event or prolonged disruption may occur.
21 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Contract non-compliance and contract non-performance Not meeting our contractual obligations through either non-compliance with contractual requirements and or failure to meet agreed service levels due to non-performance may result in significant performance penalties, onerous contract provisions, loss of potential new bids re-bids and early termination of contracts.
If we fail to negotiate contracts that can be delivered at the right price, or we do not put in place solutions that deliver our contractual obligations, we are more likely to suffer from poor performance and compliance challenges and potential loss-making contracts.
Key risk drivers: Mitigation: Future actions: Ineffective and inconsistent bid and contract Material controls: Review and update of BLRT governance may result in a lack of understanding process to address gaps identified Serco Management System SMS of accountabilities and responsibilities.
in lessons learned Investment Committee Non-compliance with Policies and Standards Continued roll-out of CMA and Business Lifecycle Review Team staff failing to follow required processes, controls online documentation storage BLRT process and governance may result in contract nonacross contracts globally compliance and non-performance.
Contract Manager training Review of processes in place for Lack of visibility of contract compliance and Sector-specific Centres of targeted contract reviews and performance may result in an inability to predict Excellence CoEs management interventions contract non-performance and make timely Contract Management interventions.
Review and update of Contract Application CMA Manager Training Poor understanding of contract obligations Contract Performance may result in staff failing to acknowledge and act Measurement Tool on obligations.
Standardised Divisional Performance Lack of service definition and capability to Reporting DPR process deliver may result in an inability to deliver contractual obligations.
Targeted contract reviews and management interventions Contract requirements and pricing too onerous severe to perform may result in an inability to Current mitigation actions: meet our contractual obligations.
Embedding of new SMS standards Set up for failure as contract assets not as and procedures within contracts expected lack of due diligence of assets may Setting up of process for CoEs to result in higher than anticipated ongoing costs.
collate lessons learned and establish Not learning from prior contract issues may knowledge bank result in an inability to learn from our failures and successes.
Transfer of Contract Performance Unforeseen changes in contract assumptions Measurement Tool into CMA may result in a misunderstanding misalignment of Roll-out of CMA across all material our contractual obligations with the customer.
contracts Changes in law regulations see Material Legal and Regulatory Failure risk on following page.
22 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Material legal and regulatory compliance failure The complexity and constantly changing legal and regulatory environment we operate in across our sectors and geographies creates challenges to ensuring that we are compliant at all times to all laws and regulations.
Failure to comply materially with these laws and regulations may cause significant loss and damage to the Group including reputational damage, potential loss of licences and authorisations, as well as prejudicing future bids.
Legal proceedings may be costly and if they are not determined in the Groups favour may divert management attention away from the running of the business for a prolonged period.
Uninsured losses or financial penalties resulting from any current or threatened legal actions may have a material adverse effect on the Group.
Key risk drivers: impact on existing contracts and Serco Mitigation: being subject to a period of discretionary Lack of policy and guidance may result in Material controls: debarment from future contracts with UK a failure to manage Group-wide material legal Serco Management System SMS Government entities: or and regulatory requirements.
Serco Essentials training ii that the SFO and the relevant Serco Staff non-compliance with policies and entities enter into a deferred prosecution Third party ethical due diligence standards may result in compliance failures agreement DPA which may result in procedure for Group-wide material legal and regulatory significant financial penalties and a period requirements.
External monitoring automatic of discretionary debarment from future alerts on material enterprise-wide Failure to identify and keep up to date contracts with UK Government entities.
with all material legal and regulatory legal and regulatory requirements Such debarment would be discretionary in requirements may result in key subject the sense that a contracting authority may Legal case tracker matter experts within the business not consider it not to be relevant to a given Compliance Assurance Programme remaining up to date and we then fail to bid or re-bid, or that Serco has provided CAP reviews comply with material legal and regulatory sufficient evidence that it has addressed any obligations.
Business Lifecycle Review Team issues identified in a DPA, or be limited in BLRT process Inadequate assurance processes may result time under the terms of the Public Contract in an inability to confirm compliance with legal Regulations 2015.
Current mitigation actions: and regulatory requirements.
Upon any such conviction or DPA, the amount Updates to SMS including: Human Lack of legal and regulatory expertise of additional work given to the Group may Rights Policy, Modern Slavery Act within the business may result in lack be reduced, and the Group may be subject 2015, Use of Force and Firearms, of identification and support of legal and to enhanced scrutiny with respect to its other Market Abuse Regulations MAR, regulatory risks.
contracts and further actions beyond those being implemented under the Corporate and third party ethical due diligence, Inadequate provision for material legal and Renewal Programme may need to be taken.
and BLRT process regulatory risks in contracts may result in the failure to provide adequate legal support If the Group faces any criminal convictions, Development of Global Data for material legal and regulatory risks.
debarment consequences or enters into Protection Regulations Programme a DPA, any such outcome could result in Contract exit legal regulatory Identification of SMS policy owners significant fines and have a material adverse requirements not being met may result and subject matter experts impact on the Groups ability to contract with in possible legal action and diversion of Due diligence checks on our existing the UK Government and on its reputation, management attention.
which would, in turn, materially adversely customers and suppliers SFO investigation we remain under affect its business, financial condition, Development of new Anti-Bribery investigation by the UK Serious Fraud Office operations and prospects.
and Corruption ABC Frameworks SFO.
In November 2013, the SFO opened In addition, a criminal conviction of a Serco an investigation into our Groups Electronic Development of Dawn Raid procedure entity or of one or more of the Groups Monitoring Contract.
We are cooperating current or former employees would in certain Future actions: fully with the SFO's investigation but it is not circumstances allow the Ministry of Justice possible to predict the outcome.
However, in Development of master list of to re-open the 64.3m settlement agreed the event that the SFO decides to prosecute, material legal and regulatory and paid in 2013 in respect of certain issues the range of possible adverse outcomes is any requirements by SMS policy owners arising under the Electronic Monitoring one or a combination of the following: Gap analysis of subject matter Contract.
In those limited circumstances, the i that the SFO prosecutes the individuals UK Government may seek additional payments expert capability within the Divisions and or the Serco Group companies from Serco.
for contract-specific legal and involved, who may defend the action We will continue to cooperate with the SFO's regulatory requirements successfully or be convicted.
result in significant financial penalties, an Process to ensure dissemination of automated alerts to the business 23
