48 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
These have been categorised across: customer perception: legal and regulatory environment: operations, assets and people: and financial risks.
For each risk we state what it means for us and what we are doing to manage it.
Customer perception What is the risk?
1 We are a regulated utility providing essential services to our customers.
We recognise that our customers We may be unable to improve increasingly expect more from us and demand an improved and more consistent experience.
Asother and maintain our levels of industries improve their levels of service, the bar continuesto be raised.
FXVWRPHU VHUYLFH VXFLHQWO Failure to deliver the service that customers expect will lead to customer dissatisfaction.
This may result innancial penalties under Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism and associated ODI outturn.
to deliver what our customers tell us they want.
What are we doing to manage the risk?
We have continued to focus on driving change to embed customers at the heart of what we do.
We have Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
developed six core household customer journeys so we understand customer needs and expectations.
We have delivered some quick wins to augment our existing offering: Track MyJob, In My Street, In My Area Group-wide andSMS appointment reminders.
Providing the high quality service that our customers demand means we need the right processes, systems Link to how were achieving our strategy and resources.
As part of becoming a digitally savvy organisation we are improving our web offering and page20 digital self-service channels.
We are also giving customers more choice in the way that they interact with us by introducing new contact channels such as Facebook, and ensuring our current channels are efficient and Embed customers at the heart of all we do effective, for example we have invested in a strategic webchat capability to ensure we can offer this service toreach a broader audience.
Link to our values page 12 We know that providing great customer service needs the right resource so we have introduced a new performance and quality framework for our contact centre staff and undertaken capability assessments to We put our customers first identify and close any training gaps.
We are passionate about what we do To help make sure we continue to improve our service in line with our customers expectations, we survey We act with integrity thousands of customers each month through our Rant & Rave tool.
This gives us direct feedback on their experience of contacting us, and enables us to improve our service, spot trends and react to our customers Performance commitments needs.
We are continuing to extend our voice of the customer approach to capture feedback from more interactions across more of our business.
We have used this feedback to develop a SIM forecast tool so we ODIs 24-27 canpredict our ODI performance for our qualitative element.
Movement in net risk exposure Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 49 What is the risk?
2 Competition will give non-household customers increased choice and will encourage companies to provide We may be unable to take full a better service.
If we fail to keep pace with change or fail to recognise the needs of our business customers, advantage of the opportunities we may lose customers to our competitors.
We may fail to successfully grow our business by being unable todevelop sufciently attractive services to win new customers.
presented by the opening up of the non-household retail market What are we doing to manage the risk?
We are positioning our business to succeed in this market and are actively preparing for the introduction of competition to non-household retail in England.
The change programmes to govern and manage the adaption of our wholesale and retail businesses are well underway and on track for Shadow Operation Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
whichcommences in October 2016, and acts as a dress rehearsal for full market opening in April 2017.
In February 2016, the Board signed the first of three Letters of Assurance conrming to the Secretary Group-wide ofState for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs that we are on track for market opening.
Link to how were achieving our strategy In March 2016, we announced a proposed joint venture with United Utilities to form a combined nonpage20 household retail business.
The joint venture will combine the complementary skills and capabilities of Severn Trent andUnited Utilities to improve our competitive offering for customers, increase efficiency and enhance Change the market for the better value.
The introduction of competition into the non-household retail market presents us with an exciting opportunityto combine our expertise for the benefit of customers and shareholders.
Link to our values page 12 We are developing a control framework to establish the protocols, policies, systems, guidance and training necessary for the operation of separate wholesale and retail business units and to ensure ongoing We are passionate about what we do compliance with the relevant legislation, including competition law.
Performance commitments Movement in net risk exposure N A Legal and regulatory environment What is the risk?
3 Severn Trent Water Limited operates in a highly regulated environment.
Whilst we are broadly content with :H PD EH XQDEOH WR HHFWLYHO the direction of changes proposed for our industry, there remains a risk that future changes could have a DQWLFLSDWH DQG RU LQXHQFH IXWXUH significant impact on Severn Trent Water Limited.
developments in the UK water What are we doing to manage the risk?
industry resulting in our business Severn Trent has always contributed to the debate about our industrys future, including through our series of plans becoming unsustainable.
We will continue to be an active participant in these conversations, so we can help shape thinking about how to best serve our customers in the future.
Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
We have contributed to the establishment of Market Operator Services Limited, the body which will help to facilitate competition in the non-household retail market.
Severn Trent Water Limited We continue to actively participate in discussions with Ofwat regarding the development of the regulatory environment and our response to the Water 2020 consultation was submitted in February 2016.
Link to how were achieving our strategy Engagement with our peers, other regulators, UK Government departments and other stakeholders, page20 including the Welsh Government, helps us to inuence the direction of regulatory policy where possible and put forward our own case for change in a constructive way.
Change the market for the better Investing responsibly for sustainable growth Movement in net risk exposure Link to our values page 12 N A Performance commitments N A 50 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks What is the risk?
4 Our policies and processes must reect the current legal and regulatory environment and all relevant The regulatory landscape is complex employees must be kept aware of new requirements.
Due to the spread of our operations, and changes and subject to ongoing change.
in activity and organisational structure, this is not always straightforward.
The Group as a whole may face censure for non-compliance in an individual group company or a specic region in which we operate.
There is a risk that processes may fail or that our processes may not What are we doing to manage the risk?
HHFWLYHO NHHS SDFH ZLWK FKDQJHV Our governance framework and related policies and internal controls ensure our ongoing compliance with in legislation leading to the risk allapplicable laws and regulations.
The forthcoming introduction of non-household retail competition means we need to refresh our policy framework.
We are developing a control framework to establish the protocols, policies, systems, guidance and training necessary for the operation of separate wholesale and retail business units and to ensure Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
ongoing compliance with the relevant legislation including competition law.
Changes to the legal and regulatory environment are captured as emerging risks through our ERM process Group-wide with the necessary owners and actions identied to ensure compliance when the changes come into effect.
Link to how were achieving our strategy Movement in net risk exposure page20 Drive operational excellence and continuous innovation Change the market for the better Investing responsibly for sustainable growth Link to our values page 12 We act with integrity We protect our environment Performance commitments ODIs 1-4, 19-23, 30-43 Operations, assets and people What is the risk?
5 The risks arising from loss of one or more of our major systems or corruption of data held in those systems We may experience loss of data or could have far reaching effects on our business.
We have recognised the increasing threats posed by the interruptions to our key business possibility of cyber attacks on our systems and data.
Whilst this threat can never be eliminated and will continue to evolve, we are focused on the need to maintain effective mitigation.
systems as a result of cyber threats.
We recognise that the cyber threat to the business is constantly evolving and one which we need to monitor and act on in a timely manner.
Group-wide Using guidance from the Centre for Protection of Critical National Infrastructure CPNI we have improved Link to how were achieving our strategy both our technology controls security event alerting, enhanced email and web ltering, vulnerability management and advanced threat management solutions all installed in the last 12 months and training page20 and awareness cyber security incorporated into security and awareness training, cyber roadshows to raiseawareness and online training.
Embed customers at the heart of all we do Drive operational excellence and We have also participated in a Government led cyber exercise for the water industry and recently delivered continuous innovation a company-wide exercise simulating a cyber attack and subsequent widespread power loss incident.
Regular penetration testing of our corporate and customer websites is completed by cyber security specialists to identify any vulnerabilities and the resilience of our systems through regularly tested disaster Link to our values page 12 recovery plans are in place.
We put our customers first Whilst progress has been made during the year to ensure we are better prepared, due to the rapidly evolving nature and complexity of the threat, this work will continue.
Ongoing monitoring and reviews will ensure that Performance commitments our mitigating controls and plans continue to protect us and our customers.
ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23, 24-37 Movement in net risk exposure Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 51 Legal and regulatory environment What is the risk?
6 If we are unable to meet operational performance targets, we may be subjected to significant regulatory We may fail to meet our regulatory penalties, either within the current price review period or applied to the next price review.
targets including targets from Regulatory targets apply to all of our water treatment, distribution, sewerage and sewage treatment assets.
Ofwat in relation to operational Measures are in place in relation to water quality, continuous supplies, sewer ooding, sewer collapses andpollution events.
performance of our assets resulting We need to ensure that our customers can trust and place confidence in the operational performance data we in regulatory penalties.
Our data assurance needs to be robust to confirm the accuracy and integrity of this information.
Our business plan for 2015-2020 includes considerable investment in our assets to improve the resilience of Severn Trent Water Limited our networks, reduce interruptions and improve the service that our customers receive.
We recognise areas where our performance is not as consistent as we would like and are committed to improving these areas.
Link to how were achieving our strategy Under our Cleanest Water Plan we have undertaken a significant amount of work at our water treatment page20 works, boreholes and reservoirs, inspecting the sites and increasing our maintenance and capital Embed customers at the heart of all we do replacement as well as formalising our processes, standards and operating procedures involved in deliveringclean water.
Drive operational excellence and We remain committed to investing in continuous improvement activities such as our Value Every Drop continuous innovation programme, which has reduced our time to process and react to leaks.
We have also reduced total leakage Investing responsibly for sustainable growth and have achieved our regulatory commitment for the fifth year running.
We continued to work to reduce the impact on our customers when things unfortunately do go wrong, Link to our values page 12 for example by faster despatch of emergency tankers and providing our employees with a refresh of incidentmanagement training.
We put our customers first To improve our waste water performance we have trialled different ways of engaging with customers to We are passionate about what we do raiseawareness of the problems caused by putting the wrong things down our sewers.
We are also investing We protect our environment in capital solutions to enable us to protect properties at risk of sewer ooding.
Performance commitments Movement in net risk exposure ODIs 1-45 What is the risk?
7 Some of our assets are critical to the provision of water to large populations for which we require alternative Failure of certain key assets or means of supply.
processes may result in inability to Examples include failure of one of our reservoirs or water treatment works.
These assets are regularly provide a continuous supply of clean inspected and maintained and our assessment of the overall condition of these assets is good.
water and safely take waste water Another example is our IT and telephony systems which are critical to our operations and failure of these systems, for example our remote monitoring system, could have a significant effect.
During the year, a total of 72 million was devoted to reducing water quality complaints, achieving compliance with water quality standards and reducing coliforms.
Under our Cleanest Water Plan we have undertaken a Group-wide significant amount of work at our water treatment works, boreholes and reservoirs, inspecting the sites and increasing our maintenance and capital replacement as well as formalising our processes, standards and Link to how were achieving our strategy operating procedures involved in delivering clean water.
page20 Weve launched our Operational Effectiveness Programme to ensure maximum asset performance.
Wereontrack to create a suite of 18 major water treatment works that are uniformed and systematic in how Embed customers at the heart of all we do theyre run.
Consistent, undeviating processes that define how we work, will help us to produce a high quality Drive operational excellence and product, regardless of which site it comes from.
It will also help us to shave off unnecessary costs.
continuous innovation Our Proactive Asset Management programme has begun to look into how we can better use information Investing responsibly for sustainable growth about our network and assets to prevent failures in the first place, reducing impacts on service levels but also being more cost-effective rather than carrying out reactive repairs.
Our 2015-2020 business plan includes Link to our values page 12 substantial investment in some of our largest strategic assets such as the Elan Valley and Derwent Valley Aqueducts, oneof the major elements of which is the 300 million investment in one of our largest ever capital We put our customers first schemes to improve the resilience of our water supply to Birmingham.
We are passionate about what we do We continue to maintain and test our Being prepared framework to ensure our business continuity arrangements are t for purpose and the Group can react quickly to safeguard our critical operations.
Performance commitments In addition to investing in resilience improvements to our network we also have assurance plans in place to monitor, inspect and maintain our most critical assets and to ensure clean water is always available to our ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23 customers and we will always be able to safely take their waste water away.
We will continue to make significant investment into our network and processes but we accept there is always a risk of unexpected failures, the recent Castle Donington incident being a prime example see page 17.
How we respond to these and learn from them is vital in keeping the likelihood of unexpected failures as low as possible.
Movement in net risk exposure 52 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal risks What is the risk?
8 The nature of our assets, operations and business are such that threats to the safety of our employees, Due to the nature of our operations contractors, customers and the wider public exist.
Operational failures or negligence could result in damage we could endanger the health and to the environment.
safety of our people, contractors We are responsible for a large estate of assets and have to secure these from unauthorised access to ensure our operations are not impacted nor the safety of the public compromised.
and members of the public as well as negatively impact our local and What are we doing to manage the risk?
Our 20152020 business plan includes substantial investment in community schemes to ensure the risk of failure at key points along our Elan Valley Aqueduct, that could cause substantial damage and endanger the safety of the public, is further reduced.
We have a well established Health, Safety and Wellbeing framework to ensure all of our operations and Group-wide processes are conducted in compliance with health and safety legislation and in the interests of the safety of our people and contractors.
Our Goal Zero initiative clearly establishes our target that no one should be Link to how were achieving our strategy injured or made unwell as a result of what we do.
page20 There are a number of performance commitments we have made to protect our local environment, including river water quality, pollution incidents, biodiversity improvements and environmental compliance.
During the Drive operational excellence and year, we invested 91 million towards our targets on pollution, environmental compliance, biodiversity continuous innovation and sustainable sewage treatment.
Continuing our strong track record of delivery from last year, we have Investing responsibly for sustainable growth provisionally been rated 4 by the Environment Agency.
Create an awesome place to work We recognise the impact our operations have on the wider environment and we want to reduce our carbon footprint by seeking lower carbon ways of operating our business and generating renewable energy.
Our target is to increase the amount of renewable energy we generate and to invest in ways to Link to our values page 12 make our processes more energy efficient, such that by 2020, 50% of the energy we use will be from We protect our environment renewable sources.
We act with integrity Movement in net risk exposure Performance commitments ODIs 30-41, 42 & 43 What is the risk?
9 Climate change hotter and drier summers, wetter winters and increased storminess could result in an We are unable to deal with the inability to meet customer demand, lower river levels, decreased raw water quality, ooding of our water or impact of extreme and unpredictable waste water works, sewer capacity being exceeded and increased land movement.
Climate change could also be acontributing factor for principal risks 1, 6, 7 and 8 detailed above.
weather events on our assets and There are also some potential opportunities that climate change presents for us, including reduced leakage, infrastructure and or are unable to aquifer recharge and increased biological treatment.
It is important that we understand these opportunities successfully plan for future water tomaximise the benets.
resource supply and demand due to What are we doing to manage the risk?
Our climate change adaption report sets out our strategy for coping with future changes to our climate.
Its important to note that we dont consider climate change risks in isolation and we view them alongside Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
all the challenges we face.
To that effect a large number of our current objectives and targets agreed as part of our performance commitments will increase our resilience against climate change, including Group-wide reducing leakage, improving water efficiency, reducing properties prone to low pressure, protecting prone properties areas from sewer ooding and increasing the resilience of our water supply and water and waste Link to how were achieving our strategy water works.
page20 We are also adapting to climate change through innovation, with 21 catchment management projects and Drive operational excellence and adoubling of our sustainable urban drainage SUDs projects planned for this AMP.
continuous innovation Our own impact and contribution to climate change cannot be ignored and, as outlined in principal risk 8 Investing responsibly for sustainable growth above, there are a number of ways in which we are addressing our impact on the environment.
Link to our values page 12 Movement in net risk exposure We protect our environment Performance commitments ODIs 1-4, 5-18, 19-23, 42-43 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 53 Financial risks What is the risk?
10 We already provide significant funding but could be called upon to provide more money to reduce pension RZHU LQWHUHVW UDWHV KLJKHU LQDWLRQ deficits in our dened benefit schemes.
or underperforming equity markets What are we doing to manage the risk?
may require us to provide more funding for our pension schemes.
We regularly revalue our schemes and monitor our investment performance and will continue to work closely with our third party advisers to ensure that the schemes are managed effectively.
During the year the Risk Monitoring and Assessment Committee RMAC was formed, comprising Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
representation from the Company and Trustees.
The Committee focuses on monitoring investment performance, reviewing scheme risks and operates as a forum for the Company and Trustees to collaborate Group-wide in taking action to minimise the scheme deficit.
Link to how were achieving our strategy Closure during the year of the main dened benefit scheme to future contributions by members was a major milestone and will help to cap future growth of the deficit dened benefit schemes having been closed to new page20 members in 2006.
Investing responsibly for sustainable growth Movement in net risk exposure Link to our values page 12 N A Performance commitments N A What is the risk?
11 We must ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet our near term financial commitments.
We have a We are unable to fund the business significant funding requirement in AMP6, to fund our investment programme and renance maturing debt.
VXFLHQWO LQ RUGHU WR PHHW RXU This is a well-controlled risk, but it is important that we maintain these high standards to mitigate this risk.
liabilities as they fall due.
The risk is managed by our Treasury Committee and their associated policies and procedures through Which part of Severn Trent is affected?
detailed cash ow forecasting, access to committed banking facilities, use of diverse lending sources including bonds, US Private Placement, European Investment Bank and other bank loans to spread risk, Group-wide early renancing of bonds and other maturing debt to manage renancing risk, interest rate monitoring and analysis of the impact interest rates could have on credit metrics and loan covenants.
Link to how were achieving our strategy The Treasury Committee regularly reports to the Board to enable us to respond quickly to changes in our page20 ability to secure nancing.
Investing responsibly for sustainable growth See our Viability Statement on page 47.
Link to our values page 12 Movement in net risk exposure N A Performance commitments N A For full list of all ODIs and the details of each see www.
