46 | Severn Trent Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk management The ERM process Our approach to risk Managing risk is all about understanding the uncertainties surrounding the achievement of our aims and objectives.
Therefore, risk management describes the activities performed The Board within our organisation to identify, assess e Sets strategy and and control events which may impact on determines regulatory outcomes our aims and objectives.
We also appreciate e Sets business that uncertainty can manifest itself as both plan objectives negative and positive impacts, hence our goal e defines risk appetite is to minimise these threats and maximise the opportunities for the benefit of our customers, people, contractors and key stakeholders.
The Board has overall accountability for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the ERM team Operational teams Group.
The Boards mandate includes dening e Monitors performance e Identify and assess risks risk appetite and monitoring risk exposure to e Assesses ERM maturity across e Set risk target position ensure significant risks are aligned with the the Group e Identify risk improvement e Provides challenge and insight actions overall strategy of the Group.
The management e Reports to Executive Committee, of risk is embedded in our everyday business Audit Committee and Board activities, with employees encouraged to play their part.
In our non-regulated businesses we take a more commercial approach to risk.
However, On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee we recognise that we provide products and assesses the effectiveness of the Groups services for clients who operate in regulated Enterprise Risk Management ERM process environments.
As a result, for risks that could and Internal Controls to identify, assess, impact on our clients regulated services, we mitigate and manage risk.
Internal Audit take a similar approach to risk as in our own supports the Audit Committee in evaluating the regulated business.
The risks inherent in our design and effectiveness of internal controls non-regulated business are illustrated on and risk mitigation strategies implemented pages48 to 53. by management.
Our Enterprise Risk Management process The Executive Committee reviews strategic We use an established ERM process across the objectives and assesses the levels of risk in Group to assess and manage our significant achieving these objectives.
This top down risks, which are linked to our corporate risk process helps to ensure the bottom up objectives, core processes, key dependencies, ERM process is aligned to current strategy stakeholder expectations and legal and and objectives.
The process is controlled Across the Group, we manage risks within the by the central ERM team and underpinned by overall governance framework which includes standardised tools and methodology to ensure clear accountabilities, delegated authority consistency.
ERM Champions and Co-ordinators limits and reward policies.
These are designed operate throughout the business, with support to provide employees with a holistic view of and challenge from the ERM team, to identify effective risk management.
and assess risks in their business units quarterly against a dened set of criteria considering Within Severn Trent Water Limited, our approach the likelihood of occurrence and potential reects our status as a regulated utility providing financial and reputational impacts.
The potential essential services and operating as part of causes and subsequent impact of the risks the Critical National Infrastructure for the UK.
are documented to enable the corresponding The nature of our Severn Trent Water Limited mitigating controls to reduce the likelihood and business is such that there are some significant impact to be assessed.
This assessment allows inherent risks, as illustrated on pages 48 to 53. us to put in place effective mitigation strategies We aim to have a strong control framework in to remediate defective controls or implement place to enable us to understand and manage additional controls.
these risks in accordance with our risk tolerance and appetite.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Annual Report and Accounts 2016 | Severn Trent Plc | 47 This information is combined to form a Risk management in practice consolidated view of risk across the Group and allows the risks to be prioritised.
Our significant Every day we collect, treat and safely return to the environment, 1.4 billion litres of risks, in terms of likelihood and impact, form waste water.
We use the remaining sludge from the treatment process to generate our Group risk prole which is reported to the energy by using anaerobic digesters see pages 39 and 40 and once this has been Executive Committee for review and challenge completed we safely dispose of the biosolids, a by-product of the process, by selling ahead of final review and approval by the Audit them for use by the agricultural industry as natural fertiliser.
In addition, If there was ever an issue concerning the quality or safety of the biosolids, and we individual risks or specic risk topics are also could no longer dispose of them in this way, we would have to use alternatives such as discussed by the Board during the year.
landll and or reopen the Severn Trent Water incinerators that are not currently in use.
Not only are these alternatives costly for us, but they are less environmentally sound On a quarterly basis, the status of open risk and fail to utilise the nutrients still present in the biosolids.
mitigation actions across the Group risk prole and level of ERM maturity in each business Thats why, in order to reduce the likelihood of this happening, we have successfully unit is reported into the Executive Committee achieved Biosolids Assurance Scheme BAS accreditation to ensure the quality by the central ERM team.
Where necessary and viability of our biosolids product for use in agriculture.
BAS combines legislative improvement plans are agreed to ensure ERM is and non-legislative requirements, along with best practice, to ensure operational fully embedded and effective.
consistency and hence demonstrate transparency in the delivery of nutrients to agriculture.
The investment in Thermal Hydrolosis Process THP technology will An overview of accountability for our ERM helpto generate more energy from the sewage treatment process but also reduce process is illustrated in the diagram opposite.
thequality of the bio solids by-product we have to dispose of, further reducing our exposure to this risk.
Risk appetite The Board keeps under ongoing review the relationship between our strategic ambitions and Long Term Viability Statement the management of risk.
The Directors assessment of the Groups current financial position is set out in the Financial review on pages 41 to 45 and their assessment of the Groups principal risks is set out in the Principal risks section The ERM process establishes target risk onpages 48 to 53. positions for each of our significant risks.
The Companys principal operating subsidiary is Severn Trent Water Limited, which is a regulated long term The Board formally discusses the progress business characterised by multi-year investment programmes and stable revenues.
The water industry in England and Wales is currently subject to economic regulation rather than market competition and Ofwat, towards this position and the mitigating actions the economic regulator, has a statutory obligation to secure that water companies are able to finance their being undertaken every six months.
Ofwat meets this obligation by setting price controls for five year Asset Management Periods AMPs.
This mechanism reduces the potential for variability in revenues from the regulated Financial risks business.
The current AMP runs until March 2020.
Like all businesses, we need to plan future The Group has an established process to assess its prospects.
The Board undertakes a detailed funding in line with business needs.
This is assessment of the Groups strategy on an annual basis and the output from this assessment sets the framework for the Groups medium term plan which is updated annually.
part of our normal business planning process The plan assessed the Groups prospects and considered the potential impacts of the principal risks and seePrincipal Risk 3. uncertainties.
Stress tests were performed to assess the potential impacts of combinations of those risks and uncertainties.
The plan also considered the mitigating actions that might be taken to reduce the impact The Board receives regular updates relating to of such risks and uncertainties and their likely effectiveness.
funding, solvency and liquidity matters via the The Groups investment programmes are largely funded through access to debt markets.
The Groups Treasury Committee so we can respond quickly strategic funding objectives reect the long term nature of the Severn Trent Water Limited business and to any changes in our ability to secure nancing the Group seeks to obtain a balance of long term funding at the best possible economic cost.
The Groups Treasury Policy requires that it maintains sufficient liquidity to cover cash ow requirements for a rolling see Principal Risk 11.
The pension fund Trustees period of 18 months in order to mitigate the risk of restricted access to capital markets.
The Groups debt and the Company regularly monitor our pension maturity prole is actively managed by the Group Treasury department to spread the timing of renancing requirements and to enable such requirements to be met under most market conditions.
The weighted deficit, with advice from investment managers average maturity of debt at the balance sheet date was 15 years.
An annual pension fund review Bearing in mind the long term nature of the Groups business: the enduring demand for its services: the paper is produced for the Board to apprise them nature of the Groups established planning process and the changing nature of the regulation of the water of fund performance and proposed initiatives industry in England and Wales, the Directors have determined that three years is an appropriate period over which to assess the Groups prospects and make its Viability Statement.
to manage down pension liabilities and further In making its assessment the Board has made the following key assumptions: improve investment returns see Principal Any period in which the Group is unable to access capital markets to raise finance during the period Risk 10. under review will be shorter than 18 months.
There will not be a catastrophic disruption to our drinking water supplies arising from external factors The ERM process and relevant risk during any such period of market disruption.
assessments are factored into the stress The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a three year period to 31 March 2019, taking testingto assess the Groups prospects as into account the Companys current position and principal risks.
Based on that assessment, the Directors partof our Viability Statement.
have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2019.
Going Concern Statement In preparing the financial statements the Directors considered the Companys ability to meet its debts as they fall due for a period of one year from the date of this report.
This was carried out in conjunction with the consideration of the Viability Statement above.
On this basis the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the Going Concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
