38 Personal Loans Consumer GOOD SENSE IS SEEING PEOPLE AS INDIvIDUALS At Shawbrook we take a refreshingly different approach to personal loans.
We make sure that our customers have complete clarity and certainty from the outset to help them balance their budgets.
Clear and simple, with great service to match.
Shawbrook story When you compare deals for a loan, Where a loan advertises a representative carrying out a full application, without APR, the lender must give that rate it having an impact on their credit it seems obvious that the thing to do to just 51% of applicants who are rating.
The challenge for Shawbrook is to apply for the product with the accepted often with the remaining is in educating customers on how the lowest interest rate.
Unfortunately, 49% getting a much higher rate.
At market works and what they need after youve applied and been told Shawbrook, we want to turn the to do in order to find the best option the good news that youve been market on its head and provide for them.
Partnering with ClearScore accepted, sometimes theres a nasty transparent solutions to everyone allows customers to see exactly how shock when you find out the APR applying.
We will offer customers the the industry views them from a risk youll have to pay is actually far higher ability to check their eligibility for a perspective and provides them with a than the rate you saw advertised.
loan, along with an exact rate, before true view of the rate available to them.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 39 Partner story ClearScore exists to make finances Having access to soft search criteria simple, and to get people to the right with businesses such as Shawbrook financial products.
Giving people allows ClearScore to show people the access to their credit score and report best rates available to them.
for free allows them, no matter what their circumstances, to understand more about how they are viewed in the financial industry.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 40 Risk management report The Group seeks to manage the risks The strategic risk management objectives are to: inherent in its business activities and Identify material risks arising in the day-to-day operations through close and disciplined activities and operations of the Group risk management which quantifies the risks taken, manages and mitigates them Quantify the risks attaching to the execution as far as possible and prices appropriately of the Groups business plans for the residual level of risk carried in Set an appropriate risk appetite with calibrated order to produce an appropriate measures and tolerance levels commercial return through the cycle.
The Groups approach to risk management continues to evolve and Optimise the risk reward characteristics of has benefited from further investment during 2016 to ensure that it business written remains comprehensive, consistent and scalable to accommodate the Groups growth plans.
The embedding of the new Risk Set minimum standards in relation to the Management Framework was substantively completed in 2016 with further enhancement of testing and quality assurance planned acquisition, incurring and management of risk for completion during 2017.
Secure and organise the required level and This enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework is underpinned by the following key elements: capability of risk infrastructure and resources Risk strategy Undertake remedial action where any The risk strategy sets out the risk management objectives which weaknesses are identified support the achievement of the Groups commercial goals and the operation of business activities which seek to deliver those objectives.
The risk strategy sets out which risks are to be acquired or Scan the external horizon for emerging risks incurred and how they will be managed by the organisation.
Risk appetite The level of risk that the Group is willing to tolerate in operating the various elements of its business is defined in the risk appetite Risk Management Framework statement, which is agreed by the Board and reviewed on a regular All the Groups business and support service activities, including basis.
This articulates qualitative and quantitative measures of risk those outsourced to third-party providers or originated via which are cascaded down through various areas of the Groups brokers and other business intermediaries, are executed within operations, calibrated by reference to the Groups absolute capacity the parameters of a single comprehensive Risk Management for risk absorption, limit of appetite and target thresholds.
This sets out minimum requirements and ensures 2016 the Group completed a full annual review of the Group Risk consistent standards and processes are set across the organisation.
Appetite Framework incorporating enhancements in the assessment Risks are identified, measured, managed, monitored, reported and of concentration risk, information security and the development controlled using the Risk Management Framework.
The design and of divisional risk appetite statements.
effectiveness of the framework is overseen and reviewed by the Board Risk Committee.
The key elements of the framework are set out later in this report.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 41 Governance Risk appetite statement All the Groups risk activities are subject to detailed and The risk appetite statement RAS is a detailed and granular comprehensive governance arrangements which set out how expression of the level of risk the Group is willing to accept in relation risk-based authority is delegated from the Board to executive to the pursuit of its business strategy.
The RAS is not static and will management and the various risk committees and individuals.
evolve to both reflect and support the Groups business objectives, These bodies and senior officers are accountable and responsible the operating environment and risk outlook.
for ensuring that day-to-day risks are appropriately managed within the agreed risk appetite and in accordance with the requirements Whilst the RAS provides an aggregated measure of risk temperature of the Risk Management Framework.
Escalation and reporting and performance, it is not just a reporting tool.
Just as importantly, requirements are set out in risk policies and by the risk appetite it also provides a framework which is used dynamically to inform thresholds.
strategic and operational management decisions, as well as supporting the business planning process.
Culture The Group is led by an experienced senior team with a combination The RAS is reviewed periodically by the Board Risk Committee of significant underwriting expertise and institutional and regulatory and agreed with the Board on an annual basis as a minimum.
banking experience at various major financial institutions and A dashboard with the status of each metric is monitored monthly.
This heritage provides the platform for a set Management and the Board exercise their judgement as to the of values and behaviours where the client is at the heart of appropriate action required in relation to any threshold trigger the decision-making process and business areas are held fully breach, dependent on the scenario at the time.
At the individual level this process begins with job descriptions and the induction program and job The RAS identifies four groups of risk appetite objectives which descriptions: it is carried through into the setting of individual are further subdivided into 21 appetite dimensions as set out objectives and performance reviews, and ultimately is reflected diagrammatically below.
A suite of qualitative statements and in the compensation and reward structure.
quantitative measures have been set for each dimension, with hard risk limits calibrated by reference to absolute capacity, maximum risk tolerance and a threshold trigger level.
Risk appetite objectives and dimensions Risk appetite Business performance Infrastructure Conduct Reputation objectives Profit volatility Systems Product design Customers Financial strength People Sales Regulators Risk appetite dimensions Growth and Shareholders and Data quality Post-sales service concentration market Funding and liquidity Processes Culture People Transformation projects Intermediaries Outsourcing Third parties Information security Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 42 Risk management report continued The Groups Risk Management Framework describes the various Risk Management Framework activities, techniques and tools which are mandated to support the Responsibility for risk management sits at all levels, both across the identification, measurement, control, management, monitoring, Group and from the Board and Executive Committee down through reporting and challenge of risk across the Group.
It is designed to the central functions, and in turn to each divisional head and their provide an integrated, comprehensive, consistent and scalable business managers and risk officers.
structure which is capable of being communicated to and clearly understood by all our employees, and is shown diagrammatically In 2016 the Group continued to invest in enhancing the design and below.
build of its integrated Risk Management Framework to support its strategic and commercial objectives.
This activity will continue The Risk Management Framework also incorporates the into 2017 as the framework is further embedded across the Group organisational arrangements for managing risk, with specific and supported by further enhancements to testing and quality responsibilities distributed to certain functions.
there is clear accountability, responsibility and engagement at appropriate levels within the organisation which can provide robust review and challenge as well as be challenged.
Operationally, the Risk Management Framework is organised around the key risk categories.
Risk strategy Risk Management Framework Principles Risk appetite Key Risk Categories Conduct, Credit & Market & Operational Systems & Legal & Concentration Liquidity Strategic Risk Risk Change Risk Compliance Risk Risk Risk Policies Process & Procedures Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 43 These bodies and senior officers are accountable and responsible Risk governance for ensuring that the risks are appropriately managed within the Risk governance describes the architecture through which the Board agreed risk appetite and in accordance with the requirements of the allocates and delegates primary accountability, responsibility and Risk Management Framework.
Individuals are encouraged to adopt authority for risk management across the organisation.
an open and independent culture of challenge which is essential to ensuring risk issues are fully surfaced and debated with views and Responsibility for risk oversight is delegated from the Board to the decisions recorded.
Risk governance and culture is reinforced by the Board Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee.
The ultimate provisions of the FCAs Senior Managers Regime.
responsibility for risk remains with the Board.
Formal risk escalation and reporting requirements are set out in risk Accountability, responsibility and authority for risk management are policies, individual committee terms of reference and the approved delegated to the Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief Risk Officer risk appetite thresholds and limits.
CRO, who in turn allocate responsibility for oversight and certain approvals across a number of management committees.
Authority and responsibility for material operational risk management, decision-making and risk assurance is vested in the CRO and the Group Risk function.
Lesser levels of authority are cascaded to senior management within the support functions and divisions.
Board Board Risk Committee Oversight Board Audit Committee Risk Category First Line Second Line Third Line Credit Management Enterprise Risk Credit Risk in Business Areas Credit Risk Management and Treasury Committee Liquidity and Market and Liquidity Asset & Liability Treasury Market Risk Risk and Finance Committee Enterprise Risk All divisions and Operational Risk Operational Risk Management functional areas Committee Internal Audit Enterprise Risk Conduct, Legal and All Business divisions Compliance Management Compliance Risk and functional areas Committee Executive Directors and Executive Strategic Risk Finance Senior Management Committee Enterprise Risk Systems and IT Change Operational Risk Management Change Risk Management Committee Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 44 Risk management report continued Committee structure and risk responsibilities An abbreviated Board and management committee structure is set out below, highlighting those Risk Committees with primary risk-related duties: Board Board Nomination Board Remuneration Disclosure Board Risk Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee NomCo RemCo DisCo BRC BAC Executive Committee ExCo Enterprise Risk Operations Asset & Liability Group Product Management Committee Committee Committee Committee OpCo ALCo GPC ERMC Credit Approval Model Management Impairment Policy Review Committee Group Committee Group CAC MMG ImpCo PRG The monitoring and controlling of risk is a fundamental part of the During 2016 the Group made a number of changes to enhance its management process within the Group.
The Board oversees the risk governance.
These included the launch of its Enterprise Risk management of the key risk categories across the organisation.
Management Committee ERMC, which takes an enterprise-wide view of the risk profile of the Group and is the senior risk committee The Board delegates specific powers for some matters to committees, within the Group.
The ERMC replaced the Group Credit Committee details of which are set out in the Corporate Governance section GCC and the Conduct and Operational Risk Committee CORC.
of our website at investors.
To support the ERMC in embedding the Risk Management Framework and to reflect the Groups development of credit grading, the ERMC implemented two new groups.
The Model Management Group MMG oversees the development, approval and monitoring of the Groups models and the Policy Review Group PRG oversees the consistent development, approval and Read more about our 69 Leadership structure monitoring of the Groups policies.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Regulator External Audit Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 45 Three lines of defence model The Groups approach to risk management is underpinned by the three lines of defence model, which is summarised in the diagram below.
Board Board establishes risk appetite and risk strategy Approves frameworks, methodologies, policies and roles and responsibilities Senior Management Board Risk Committee Board Audit Committee Business divisions Internal Audit Group Risk Performed by Led by the CRO Deloitte LLP CFO COO HR First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Owns the risk management Designs, interprets and develops Independently tests and verifies process and regulatory overall Risk Management the Groups business model, compliance Framework, and monitors policies, processes and business business as usual adherence line compliance Identifies, measures, manages, monitors and reports on risks Maintains overview of and Provides independent assurance monitors top risks to the Board and regulator that the risk management process is Develops compliance policies, functioning as designed leads on requirements for regulatory change and monitors horizon for risks and regulatory issues First line of defence Each division and functional area operates to set risk policies to Responsibility for risk management resides in the front-line ensure that activities remain within the Boards stated risk appetite business divisions and functions, and line managers are directly for that area of the Group.
The risk policies are approved by the accountable for identifying and managing the risks that arise in their appropriate Committee in accordance with its terms of reference business or functional area.
They are required to establish effective and reviewed annually, with any material changes requiring approval controls in line with the Group risk policy and act within the risk at Committee level.
appetite parameters set and approved by the Board.
The first line of defence comprises each of the three lending divisions.
The first The first line of defence has its own operational process and line of defence also includes the Finance function led by the Chief procedures manuals to demonstrate and document how it Financial Officer CFO, Operations led by the Chief Operating Officer conforms to the approved policies and controls.
Likewise, it develops COO and Human Resources HR led by the Group HR Director as, quality control programmes to monitor and measure adherence to although they are not customer-facing themselves, they provide and effectiveness of procedures.
All employees within a customersupport and back-up to the customer-facing divisions and have facing unit are considered to be part of the first line of defence.
Each insight into many operational factors that could ultimately impact employee is aware of the risks to the Group of their particular activity on the Groups exposure to market, liquidity, credit, regulatory, legal, and the divisional and function heads are responsible for ensuring conduct, compliance and operational risk.
there is a riskaware culture within the first line of defence.
For certain key policies, divisional staff complete regular online training programmes to ensure knowledge is refreshed and current.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 46 Risk management report continued Second line of defence Committee and to the CEO.
It also includes the General Counsel & The second line of defence comprises the Groups central and Company Secretary who is also the Money Laundering Reporting independent risk management and compliance function led by Officer, who reports to the CEO.
The high-level risk structure is the Chief Risk Officer, who reports to the Chairman of the Board Risk shown below: Board Risk Committee Chairman Chief Executive Officer General Counsel Chief Risk Officer & Company Secretary Conduct & Group Portfolio Market & Legal Enterprise Risk Credit Risk Compliance Risk Risk Analytics Liquidity Risk Department Operational Risk The second line of defence is necessarily and deliberately not Third line of defence customer-facing and has no responsibility for any business targets The third line of defence Internal Audit currently outsourced to or performance.
It is primarily responsible for: Deloitte LLP provides independent assurance on the activities of the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups Risk Management the design and build of the various components of the Framework and controls directly to the Board and Board Audit Groups Risk Management Framework and embedding these, Committee.
Internal Audit reports directly to the non-executive together with the risk strategy and risk appetite, throughout Chairman of the Board Audit Committee as well as the CEO and the organisation: is independent of the first and second lines of defence.
independent monitoring of the Groups activities against the Boards risk appetite and limits, and provision of monthly analysis The third line of defence has access to the activities and records of and reporting on the risk portfolio to the ExCo and the Board: both the first and second lines of defence.
It can inspect and review issuing and maintaining the suite of Group risk policies: adherence to policy and controls in the first line, the monitoring of undertaking physical reviews of risk management, controls and activity in the second line and the setting of policy and controls in capability in the first-line units and providing risk assurance reports the second line.
The third line of defence does not independently to the ExCo and the Board on all aspects of risk performance and establish policy or controls itself, beyond those necessary to compliance with the Risk Management Framework: implement its recommendations with respect to the other two lines providing advice and support to the first line of defence in relation of defence.
The third line may in some cases use as a starting point to risk management activities: the reports and reviews compiled by the second line, but is not credit approvals between divisional and the threshold for Credit restricted to them or necessarily influenced by their findings.
Approval Committee: and undertaking stress testing exercises and working with Finance and Treasury on the production of the ICAAP, ILAAP, Recovery Plan and Resolution Pack.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 47 The third line of defences scope of work is agreed with the Board The effectiveness of and compliance with the risk policy Audit Committee to provide an independent assessment of the framework is evaluated on a continuous basis through the governance, risk management and internal control frameworks monthly reporting requirements including risk policy exceptions operated by the Group and to note the extent to which the Group reporting.
Additionally a quarterly control self-certification process, is operating within its risk appetite.
It does this by reviewing aspects supplemented by a programme of audits, thematic risk assurance of the control environment, key processes and specific risks and reviews and quality control testing, is undertaken by each of the includes review of the operation of the second line of defence.
The Groups engagement of Deloitte LLP to carry out the functions The Group set up a Policy Review Group PRG in 2016 to assist the of the third line of defence provides the Group with access to ERMC in the oversight of the Groups policy inventory, the review specialist capabilities beyond its current scale and provides insight and challenge of the waiver and dispensation process, and the into best practice.
The performance of Deloitte in this role is tracking of actions to deliver compliance.
reviewed by the Board Audit Committee.
The Group is considering transitioning to an in-house model in 2017, when the current Asset class policies arrangements will be up for review.
The Groups lending policies are contained in 16 asset class policies.
These have been arranged to operate on a Group-wide basis rather than based upon divisional products.
This is considered to provide a Risk policies and controls more stable, consistent risk standard and control across the Groups The Risk Management Framework is enacted through a portfolio of loan assets.
Asset classes can also be aligned more comprehensive suite of control documents and risk policies, readily with risk weightings, probability of default, loss given default setting out minimum requirements and standards in relation to the and expected loss metrics, which facilitates risk reporting, riskacquisition and management of risk assets as well as the control of adjusted profitability analysis and modelling for stress testing and risks embedded in the Groups operations, activities and markets.
The Groups high-level control documents and risk policies are Asset class policies are structured on the basis of policy rules, which owned and managed by the Group Risk function, headed by must be adhered to, and guidelines, where an element of controlled the Chief Risk Officer CRO and approved by the Board or, where discretion is permitted.
All planned exceptions to policy rules require delegated, the appropriate Risk Committee.
The suite of policies approval at the Group Risk function level and both planned and is grouped according to importance and key risk categories.
unplanned exceptions to policy rules are reported monthly to the relevant Risk Committee.
Group-level risk policies are supplemented as required by divisional risk processes and procedures, where more specific and tailored criteria are detailed.
Divisional processes and procedures are required to be compliant with Group policy and dispensations or waivers are required where gaps are identified.
These process and procedures manuals provide staff at all levels with day-to-day direction and guidance in the execution of their duties.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 48 Risk management report continued Key risk categories The key risk categories faced by the Group are as follows: Risk Category Definition Credit Risk is the risk that a borrowing client or treasury counterparty fails to repay Credit Risk including concentration some or all of the capital or interest advanced to them.
This category also includes and single name risk Credit Concentration risk.
Liquidity Risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its current and future Liquidity and Market Risk financial obligations as they fall due, or is only able to do so at excessive cost.
Market Risk is the risk of financial loss through unhedged or mismatched asset and liability positions that are sensitive to changes in interest rates or currencies.
Operational Risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal Operational Risk processes, people and system failures, or from external events including strategy and reputational risks.
Conduct, Legal and Conduct Risk is the risk that the Groups behaviour will result in poor customer outcomes and or that our people fail to behave with integrity.
Compliance Risk Legal and Compliance Risk is the risk of regulatory enforcement and sanction, material financial loss, or loss to reputation the Group may suffer as a result of its failure to identify and comply with applicable laws, regulations, codes of conduct and standards of good practice.
Strategic Risk Strategic Risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its objectives through the inappropriate selection or implementation of strategic plans.
This includes the ability to generate lending volumes inside risk appetite.
Systems and Change Risk Systems and Change Risk is the risk that transition changes in the business will be improperly implemented.
A more detailed summary of each principal risk is contained in the Credit risk approval process following sections.
The Group operates a hierarchy of lending authorities based principally upon the size of the aggregated credit risk exposure Credit risk to counterparties, group of connected counterparties or, where This risk has two main components: applicable, a portfolio of lending assets that are subject to a single transaction.
In addition to maximum amounts of credit exposure, customer risk from core lending activity : and sole lending mandates may stipulate sub-limits and or further treasury credit risk from treasury activity.
The Groups treasury credit risk exposure is limited to short-term During 2016, the Group implemented as part of its improving Risk deposits placed with leading UK banks.
Management Framework a number of changes to its hierarchy of lending mandates.
Each division has a maximum authority level allocated, with exposures above these levels requiring approval from an approver in the second line of defence or the Credit Approval Committee CAC.
In each lending division, at least one signatory to the loan must be a segregated first line of defence credit approver who has no responsibility for, or remuneration arrangements linked to, sales targets, or ongoing sales origination or relationship responsibility with the borrower.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 49 The maximum divisional mandate for the Regional Business Centres, Credit monitoring Specialist Sectors and Commercial sub-divisions is 1.25 million.
Approval and ongoing monitoring control is exercised both within The maximum divisional mandate for residential lending in the the businesses and through oversight by the Group Credit Risk Property Finance Division is 300,000 and in the Consumer function.
This applies to individual transactions as well as at the Division 75,000.
Exposures beyond these limits up to 5 million portfolio level by way of monthly credit information reporting, may be approved by an approver in the second line of defence, measurement against risk appetite limits and testing via risk quality and exposures above this figure, up to the Group single name assurance reviews.
concentration limit of 25 million, must be approved by the CAC.
In addition, where transactions involve financing portfolios The divisions operate timely collections and arrears management of lending assets in excess of 15 million Board approval is processes.
It is recognised that the credit environment is currently also required.
benign and we plan in 2017 to develop our operational arrangements and capabilities for non-performing loan management to ensure Lending is advanced subject to Group lending approval policy that the Group is capable of operating in a more challenging and specific credit criteria.
When evaluating the credit quality environment where interest rates are rising and there is lower and covenant of the borrower, significant emphasis is placed on demand and liquidity in property markets.
the nature of the underlying collateral.
This process also includes a review of the Boards appetite for concentration risk.
Liquidity and Market Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its current Controls breach in the Business Finance Division and future financial obligations as they fall due, or is only able to Throughout 2015 and 2016, the Group implemented upgrades to do so at excessive cost.
its risk management systems and controls that included, amongst other things, improvements in quality assurance activity.
Following Market risk is the risk associated with adverse changes in the fair this implementation, irregularities were identified in relation to value of positions held by the Group as a result of movement a number of asset finance facilities originated from one of the in market factors such as interest rates, currencies, volatility and Groups offices.
The irregularities related to a controls breach in credit spreads.
the underwriting process for these facilities that did not meet the Groups strict lending criteria and were originated over a period The Group has, therefore, developed comprehensive funding and of several years, particularly between 2012 and 2015.
The Group liquidity policies to ensure that it maintains sufficient liquid assets engaged external forensic accountants to undertake an investigation to be able to meet all its financial obligations and maintain public to provide assurance on both the scale of the impacted facilities and confidence.
an assessment of the adequacy of the revised control framework.
Following this external investigation, the Group announced that The Groups Treasury function is responsible for the day-to-day it would be recognising a charge of c. 9 million on a 14.7 million management of the Groups liquidity and wholesale funding.
The Group has continued to monitor The Board sets limits over the level, composition, and maturity of and assess the collateral supporting the impacted facilities and, liquidity and deposit funding balances, reviewing these at least as a result, has increased the impairment charge to 11.2 million.
Compliance with these limits is monitored daily by Finance Associated costs amounted to 0.8 million.
The Group has simplified and Risk function personnel independent of the Treasury function.
its business model into three divisions with clear management lines Additionally, a series of liquidity stress tests are performed weekly and has continued to implement and embed its upgraded Risk by the Risk function and formally reported to ALCo and the Board Management Framework into the divisions.
The Group believes that to ensure that the Group maintains adequate liquidity for business the steps taken to strengthen risk controls, including the removal purposes even under stressed conditions.
of certain delegated authorities and appropriate segregation of origination and operations, should minimise the risk of a further The Group reports its liquidity position against its liquidity coverage breach.
In addition, the results of the external forensic investigation ratio, net stable funding ratio and other key regulatory ratios for and the ongoing stability of the 14.7 million impaired portfolio give regulatory purposes.
confidence that the entirety of the affected portfolio has been fully identified and that the contagion risk is limited.
A liquid asset buffer of government Treasury Bills acquired under the FLS, and reserves with the Bank of England, are maintained as a source of high-quality liquid assets that can be called upon to create sufficient liquidity in order to meet liabilities on demand.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 50 Risk management report continued Operational Risk Strategic Risk The Board Risk Committee receives regular reports across the Strategic Risk focuses on large, long-term risks that could become spectrum of operational risks and information security.
These a material issue for the delivery of the Groups goals and objectives.
reports cover incidents that have arisen to allow the Committee Management of Strategic Risk is primarily the responsibility of the to assess managements response and proposed remedial actions.
The management of Strategic Risk is intrinsically linked Although a number of incidents were raised during the course of to the corporate planning and stress testing processes and is 2016, none of these were material in nature and the Committee further supported by the regular provision of consolidated business was satisfied that the actions taken were appropriate and that the performance and risk reporting to the ExCo and the Board.
The control of operational incidents continued to improve.
In response Board received and approved a number of reports during 2016 to the growing threat posed to information security, a full review including the Strategy Update and the Groups annual review of of information security risk appetite was undertaken, in addition to risk appetite.
It has also been engaged actively in the formation a cyber crime risk assessment.
A test of the Groups Cyber Incident of the Groups ICAAP and ILAAP, which are critical tools for the Response Plan was also undertaken to assess the adequacy of management of Strategic Risk.
the Groups internal control framework to respond to this threat, and a review of the Groups strategy to manage increasing levels Systems and Change Risk of cyber risk in the marketplace.
The operational risk reports were Customer expectations for service availability are rising, with the also developed throughout 2016 to include more focus on forwardrapid evolution of new technologies leading to a significantly looking risks, which permits a more strategic discussion at Board lower tolerance for service disruption.
The Group recognises that in Risk Committee level.
order to continue to be recognised for very high levels of customer satisfaction it needs to continually monitor systems risk and ensure Conduct, Legal and Compliance Risk that change is delivered with minimum disruption to customers.
The Group continually reviews its risk management approach During 2016 the Group reviewed its approach to managing change, to reflect the regulatory and legal environment in which the and plans in 2017 to review and further enhance its business Group operates.
continuity and disaster recovery capability in line with its Target Operating Model and, in particular, its location requirements, to The Group has no appetite for knowingly behaving inappropriately, deliver its commitments as outlined in the Strategy Update.
resulting in unfair outcomes for its customers.
During 2016 the Group further reviewed its risk appetite for conduct risk to Top and emerging risks introduce measures across the conduct risk lifecycle, which includes The Groups top and emerging risks are identified through the product design, sales or aftersales processes, and culture.
It also process outlined in the Risk Management Framework section and added new measures to support annual product reviews and risk are considered regularly by management and subsequently by the appetite to support the management of brokers, intermediaries Board Risk Committee.
The Group sees six themes as its top and and outsource partners.
These measures are reported to the Board emerging risks: monthly and provide the basis for demonstrating that the Group is operating within its risk appetite.
Where the Group identifies 1 Economic and competitive environment: potential unintended outcomes for customers the Group uses its 2 Pace of regulatory change: risk management process to proactively escalate the issue, agreeing 3 Intermediary and outsourcing: appropriate actions and communicating clearly with its customers to ensure a fair outcome is achieved.
4 Pace, scale of change and management stretch: 5 Credit impairment: and 6 Information security.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 51 Risk Mitigation Change The Group uses its expertise and deep The UK economy remains resilient with 1 Economic and understanding of its customers needs near-term momentum slightly to the competitive environment to drive customer service and long-term upside of immediate post-referendum relationships with its customers through expectations.
However, the Board expects A reversal in UK economic conditions, the cycle.
there to be a period of uncertainty particularly in England where the following the UK government formally majority of the Groups operations The Group monitors its chosen markets on triggering Article 50 expected to be by are based, could affect the Groups a regular basis and regularly reviews the end of Q1 2017. performance in a number of ways adjacent markets where it has expertise, including: and also reviews opportunities for lower demand for the Groups inorganic growth.
The Group operates in products and services: specialist areas where management and staff have significant expertise and a deep changes in funding costs resulting understanding of customer needs that from ongoing political uncertainty delivers superior service.
As a result all loans accompanied by a loss of confidence: are written only after thorough, bespoke rising competition compressing underwriting to SMEs and consumers with Group margins below sustainable a proven ability to repay and, in the main, levels: and sufficient security.
higher impairments through The Group undertakes a comprehensive increased defaults and or reductions assessment of its risk appetite to ensure in collateral values.
that it can meet its objectives in severe but plausible economic conditions.
The Group completes comprehensive stress testing of its lending and deposit portfolios to test resilience to severe but plausible Read more about 16 Our strategy economic conditions.
The Group also establishes a prudent balance sheet strategy with robust levels of capital and liquidity and a prudent funding structure.
The Group maintains risk appetite and pricing discipline.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 52 Risk management report continued Risk Mitigation Change The regulatory environment continues UK financial services businesses remain 2 Pace of regulatory change to evolve and change.
The Group actively subject to significant scrutiny and the The prudential and conduct regulatory engages with regulators, industry bodies current level of risk remains stable regimes are subject to change and and advisors in consultation processes.
could lead to increases in the level and quality of capital that the Group The Group adopts the Standardised needs to hold to meet regulatory Approach to its assessment of credit risk requirements.
The Group remains exposed to any potential future changes to the risk weightings under the Standardised Approach that could lead to an increase in capital requirements.
Read more about The Group remains on track to deliver its 16 Our strategy IFRS 9 programme during 2017 in time to support a period of parallel run by Q3 2017 and adoption from 1 January 2018.
The Group works with carefully selected The Group implemented a new policy and 3 Intermediary and intermediary and broker partners who take suite of monitoring controls to manage outsourcing on the role of advising SMEs and consumers.
its exposure to intermediaries, brokers The Group recognises that it is ultimately and outsource partners during 2016 and The Group is a specialist lending and accountable for the lending it originates believes that it has improved its risk profile.
savings bank for SMEs and consumers.
through its partners and continually The specialist nature of some of undertakes reviews of their performance.
The Group saw one of its strategic its lending through intermediaries outsourcing partners, Target Group, and brokers could mean that some In addition, experienced underwriters acquired by Tech Mahindra, a global customers find themselves with an perform thorough checks on each specialist in digital transformation, in increased risk of an unfavourable application.
The global support and outcome.
For the Group this could reviews its risk management approach resources provided by Tech Mahindra also lead to increased conduct-related redress, additional fraud or credit to intermediaries, brokers and outsource combined with the Groups continued risk impairments.
partners to reflect the regulatory investment in its strategic relationship environment in which the Group operates.
is expected to further improve its outsourcing risk profile.
Read more about 16 Our strategy Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 53 Risk Mitigation Change The Group understands the need to The Group continues to invest in its 4 Pace, scale of change manage change without disrupting change management processes to and management stretch the Groups operating environment increase the pace and scale of change The scale and pace of change could and impacting customer service.
These without impacting on the Groups create delivery challenges and could operational risks are managed through a operations and customer service.
lead to disruption of the Groups plans strong focus on change governance and However, the Group has a strong appetite and in the delivery of its objectives.
programme management disciplines for change and the risk of an impact and are led by a dedicated Executive on its operations remains.
The risks are further mitigated by the Groups strengthening of the senior management team.
The Group has a formal Operations Read more about 16 Our strategy Committee that was set-up to prioritise change and provide effective oversight of the change portfolio to ensure that requirements are delivered within budget and on time.
The Group recognises that it will experience Underlying Group credit impairment 5 Credit impairment credit impairment in connection with has remained low, reflecting favourable At 31 December 2016 the Group had its lending activities, but manages its market conditions in the UK and the customer loans including operating exposure by: Groups approach to lending.
leases and net of provisions of undertaking a prudent assessment of 4.1 billion, and is exposed to credit The Groups counterparty exposure has through-the-cycle losses in pricing, impairment if customers are unable remained broadly unchanged with the forecasting and stress testing: to repay loans and any outstanding majority of surplus funding placed with maintaining consistent and conservative interest and fees.
the Bank of England and balances with loan-to-value ratios and avoiding material UK clearing banks.
weakening of credit quality to drive In addition the Group has exposure to volumes: a small number of counterparties with The Group believes that the potential which it places surplus funding.
for additional credit impairment has lending predominantly on a secured basis increased with uncertainty following the against identifiable and accessible assets: referendum vote and the decision to operating strong controls and governance trigger Article 50 no later than Q1 2017. with effective oversight by a centralised The Group also believes that accounting Group credit team: and developments, with the parallel run of IFRS 9 in 2017, will to lead to an increase Read more about 16 maintaining a prudent Treasury Our strategy in the Groups credit impairment counterparty policy with surplus funding requirement.
placed with the Bank of England and UK clearing banks.
Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 54 Risk management report continued Risk Mitigation Change The Group continually reviews its control The Group continues to invest in its 6 Information security environment for information security to capabilities to reduce its exposure to a The pace of technological development reflect the evolving nature of the threats cyber attack and has further developed is changing the way in which SMEs and to which the Group is exposed.
its risk appetite and controls with respect consumers want to engage with the to information security.
However, the risk Group, leading to a number of risks: The Groups strategy for mitigating of information security breaches, threats information security risk is comprehensive, from cyber crime and the impact of new increasing customer demand could including: a documented cyber-strategy, technology on the Groups businesses exceed the Groups ability to provide ongoing threat assessments, regular remains.
highly reliable and widely available penetration testing, the wide deployment systems and services: of detective controls and a programme the evolving nature and scale of of education and training.
criminal activity could increase the likelihood and severity of attacks on the Groups systems: and franchise value and customer trust could be significantly eroded by a sustained hack of the Groups systems leading to a diversion of funds or the theft of customer data.
Read more about 16 Our strategy Shawbrook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
