Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Shires risk management strategy is to identify, assess and mitigate any significant risks that it faces.
Despite this, no risk management strategy can provide absolute assurance against loss.
Risk management framework Board of Directors As a highly regulated biotechnology company focused on serving people Ensures the maintenance of sound riskmanagement and internal withrare diseases, Shire has implemented controlprograms.
Determines the Companys risk appetite and policies, procedures and processes intended to reduce risk and ensure reviewsits principalrisks.
appropriate and lawful conduct within the increasing number of countries in which theCompanyoperates.
Success in these areasis of benefit to shareholders and Audit, Compliance & Risk Executive Committee other stakeholders alike.
Shires risk Committee management strategy is to identify, assess Oversees the implementation and and mitigate any significant risks that it Monitors and reviews the risk operation of the risk management and faces.
Despite this, it should be noted that management and internal control internal control programs.
Monitors and no risk management strategy can provide programs and principal risks to reviews the Companys principal risks.
Board of Directors The Board is responsible ensuring the ERM Core Team maintenance of sound systems of risk management and internal control and Facilitates the Enterprise Risk Global Compliance and Risk determining the Companys risk appetite.
Management program and Enterprise Management Department Infulfilling this responsibility, the Board sets Risk Assessment on a biannual basis.
Shires risk culture and ensures it is Supports the development, embedded throughout the organization.
implementation and maintenance Chief Compliance and The Board interacts with key executive risk ofeffective compliance and risk RiskOfficer and internal controls stakeholders on a management programs.
periodic and ad-hoc basis, enabling it Responsible for the Global Compliance tomonitor and review the Companys and Risk Management Department principal risks and the effectiveness of Business units and corporate andcoordinating risk management itsrisk management and internal control functions andcompliance programs.
During the year the Board undertook a robust assessment of the Implement risk management processes, principal risks facing theCompany, establish internal controls and manage Internal Audit including those that would threaten its risk remediation and reporting within Provides independent assurance of business model, future performance, their respective organizations.
controls effectiveness to the Audit, solvency or liquidity.
Stakeholders to the Compliance & Risk Committee.
risk management framework, which is overseen by the Board and designed to enable the identification, assessment and mitigation of the Groups risks, are detailed below.
Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee supports the Board by monitoring and reviewing risk management and internal control programs, maintaining oversight through its interaction with key stakeholders and its evaluation of periodic updates from management.
On a biannual basis the Committee reviews the principal risks faced by the Company, with each risk assessed on likelihood of materialization and potential financial and non-financial impact.
54 Shire Annual Report 2016 Executive Committee Global Compliance and Risk Principal risks and uncertainties The Executive Committee ensures the Management Department The Companys business and assets are implementation of the Companys risk The Department, led by the Chief subject to varying degrees of risk and management and internal control Compliance and Risk Officer, is made uncertainty.
Set out below are the principal programs, overseeing their effective upofcompliance, privacy and risk risks and uncertainties associated with the operation.
On a biannual basis the management capability.
It is responsible business that have been identified through Committee reviews and validates principal forsupporting the development, the Companys risk management and risks identified during the Enterprise Risk implementation and maintenance of internal control programs.
The Company Assessment before they are presented to effective risk management and compliance believes that these risks and uncertainties the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee programs and systems.
This isachieved apply equally and therefore all should be for consideration.
Executive Committee through governance, policy, capability and carefully considered before any investment members also receive regular updates from process development, the implementation is made in Shire.
functional and business unit stakeholders of awareness and training programs as well Additional risks and uncertainties not and, along with the Chief Compliance and as communications, audits and presently known to the Company or that investigations.
Such activity provides for Risk Officer and the Head of Internal Audit, itcurrently deems immaterial may also thetimely undertaking of mitigation and are responsible for escalating matters of adversely affect its business.
If any of remediation actions, as well for the risk, risk management and internal control theseevents or circumstances occur, the escalation of matters to the Executive to the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee business, financial condition, results of Committee and Audit, Compliance & Risk and or the Board, as required.
operations, or prospects of the Company Committee as appropriate.
ERM Core Team could be materially harmed.
In such The ERM Core Team is led by the Chief Chief Compliance and Risk Officer circumstances, the value of the Companys Compliance and Risk Officer, includes the The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer securities could decline and an investor Head of Monitoring and Risk Management isresponsible for the global compliance could lose part or all of his or her and the Head of Risk Management and and risk management programs, providing investment.
In addition, forward-looking Business Continuity Management and the Executive Committee and the Audit, statements that are contained in this isadvised by external consultants as Compliance & Risk Committee with Annual Report or in the Companys other required.
The ERM Core Team is charged biannual updates on risk and risk mitigation, reports, filings or statements may be with implementing and operating the as well as more regular updates on subject to the principal risks and Enterprise Risk Management program.
uncertainties described below as well Thisconsists of maintaining the enterprise asother risks and uncertainties.
Internal Audit risk universe and risk assessment The Internal Audit function provides Risks Related to the Business methodology, facilitating the biannual independent assurance to the Audit, The Companys products may not be Enterprise Risk Assessment, providing risk Compliance & Risk Committee on the acommercial success training and awareness to stakeholders effectiveness and operation of internal The commercial success of the Companys across the Group and providing support controls, risk mitigation and risk marketed products and other new products tothe Executive Committee and Audit, management programs.
that the Company may launch in the future, Compliance & Risk Committee.
The ERM will depend on their approval and Core Team also identifies executive and Business units and corporate functions acceptance by physicians, patients and functional risk owners for each key risk Thebusiness units and corporate other key decision-makers, as well as the and, as part of the biannual Enterprise functionsparticipate in the biannual receipt of marketing approvals in different RiskAssessment process, facilitates the Enterprise Risk Assessment and broader countries, the time taken to obtain such assessment of Shires enterprise risk Enterprise Risk Management program and approvals, the scope of marketing universe, conducted in conjunction with are responsible for implementing relevant approvals as reflected in the product labels, individual business units and corporate risk management processes, including approval of reimbursement at commercially functions.
Following completion of the identification, monitoring, escalation sustainable prices in those countries where Enterprise Risk Assessment, a principal andreporting controls, within their price and reimbursement is negotiated, and riskreporting package is prepared for respective organizations.
safety, efficacy, convenience and costreview and validation by the Executive effectiveness of the product as compared Committee prior to the Chief Compliance to competitive products.
and Risk Officers presentation to the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
Shire Annual Report 2016 55 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Additional factors affecting the Companys The Companys revenues, financial Increased pricing pressures and ability to obtain and maintain adequate condition or results of operations may be limitson patient access as a result of prices and levels of reimbursement for its adversely affected if any or all of the governmental regulations and market products include: following occur: developments may affect the Companys future revenues, financial condition if the Companys products, or higher levels of controls on the use of the andresults of operations competitive products, are genericized: Companys products and or requirements if the prices of the Companys products The Companys product revenues are for further price concessions mandated suffer forced reductions or if prices of subject to increasing pressures from or negotiated by managed healthcare competitor products are reduced governmental initiatives to regulate or organizations or government authorities: significantly: influence prices and access to customers.
legislative proposals to reform health care if launches of new products or launch of Regulations in the U. S. the European and government insurance programs in the Companys products in new markets Union and other jurisdictions mandating many of the Companys markets: and are not successful: price controls or imposing constraints on price controls, unsuccessful government if there are unanticipated adverse events patients ability to purchase Shires tenders, or non-reimbursement of new experienced with the Companys products products significantly impact its business.
or those of a competitor not seen in clinical In the U. S. the new administration has Moreover, the cost of treatment for some trials that impact physicians willingness made public and social media statements ofthe Companys products is high, to prescribe the Companys products: regarding proposed changes to existing particularly those which are used for the if issues arise from clinical trials being government initiatives, like the Patient treatment of rare diseases.
The Company conducted for post-marketing purposes Protection and Affordable Care Act ACA, may encounter difficulty in obtaining or or for registration in another country which has created significant uncertainty maintaining satisfactory pricing and which raise questions or concerns about for the future of federal government policies reimbursement for such products.
The a product: that regulate or influence prices and access failure to obtain and maintain pricing and if the regulatory agencies in one country to customers.
Any future changes in such reimbursement at satisfactory levels for act in a way that raises concerns for laws, regulations, practices or policies may itsproducts may adversely affect the regulatory agencies or for prescribers adversely affect the Companys financial Companys revenues, financial condition orpatients in another country: condition and results of operations.
if there is a reduction in the use of the Regulatory measures that could have a Companys products by patients, payers The Company depends on third-parties material adverse effect on the Company or physicians due to the development to supply certain inputs and services include the imposition of governmentofor preferences for alternative critical to its operations including approved drug pricing schedules, the use technologies or treatments: certain inputs, services and ingredients of drug formularies, prohibitions on if the Companys products are subject critical to its manufacturing processes direct-to-consumer advertising or drug tomore stringent government regulation The Company relies on third-party suppliers, marketing practices, new regulations or than competitor products: vendors and outsourcing partners to, new interpretations of existing or historical if patent protection or other forms of among other things, research, develop, regulations relating to governmental drug exclusivity are lost or curtailed, or if manufacture and commercialize its discount or rebate programs that increase competitors are able to successfully products, to provide certain key ingredients the Companys drug discount or rebate challenge or circumvent the Companys and manufacturing inputs and to manage liability, and caps or limits on the level of patents or other forms of exclusivity see certain sales, distribution, marketing, reimbursement provided to the Company Note 26, Legal and Other Proceedings, information technology, accounting, by governmental reimbursement schemes to the Consolidated Financial Statements  and other business for its products.
for details of current litigation : services.
While the Company depends on if the sizes of the patient populations for These pressures have also resulted in these third-parties for multiple aspects of the Companys products are less than market developments, such as the itsproduct development, manufacturing, expected: or consolidation of managed healthcare commercialization and business activities, it if there are lawsuits filed or government organizations and private health insurers does not control these third-parties directly.
investigations initiated against Shire, that have increased the relative bargaining As a result, there is a possibility these including but not limited to, product power of institutional drug purchasers and third-parties may not complete activities on liability claims, consumer law claims, enhanced their ability to negotiate schedule or in accordance with the payer or reimbursement litigation and discounts and extract other concessions in Companys expectations, and their failure prior sales or marketing practices: or exchange for purchasing Shires products.
to meet certain contractual, regulatory or if there are adverse developments in Such regulatory and market developments other obligations to Shire, or any disruption investigations or government proceedings.
create downward pressures on the prices of Shires relationship with these thirdIf the Company is unable to commercialize at which the Company can offer its parties could delay or prevent the its products successfully, there may be products and on the level of reimbursement development, approval, manufacture or amaterial adverse effect on the its treatments receive from healthcare commercialization of the Companys Companysrevenues, financial condition providers, private health insurers and products, result in non-compliance with orresults of operations.
otherorganizations, such as health applicable laws and regulations, disrupt maintenance organizations and managed Shires operations, or result in reputational care organizations.
or other harm to the Company.
56 Shire Annual Report 2016 similar agencies in other countries.
Active This outsourcing risk is of particular regulatory or enforcement actions ingredients, excipients and packaging concern with respect to third-party thatresult in shut-downs, delays in materials used in the manufacturing suppliers of key manufacturing inputs of orwithdrawal of regulatory approvals necessary to carry on manufacturing process must be obtained from sources certain of Shires drug products, including, activities, product recalls and penalties approved by regulatory agencies.
but not limited to, ADVATE, ADYNOVATE, orfines resulting in unanticipated costs HYQVIA, ELAPRASE, FIRAZYR, REPLAGAL The development, approval and inproduction, whether imposed directly and GATTEX REVESTIVE where the manufacturing of the Companys products on the Company or imposed indirectly Company currently relies on a single active depend on the ability to procure ingredients through one or more of its third-party ingredient source for each.
Shire also relies and packaging materials from approved suppliers: on limited third-party sources to provide sources and for the manufacturing process the inability of the Company to increase thedonated plasma necessary for the to be conducted at approved sites.
its production capacity for certain drugs manufacture of CINRYZE.
In addition, Changes of manufacturer or changes commensurate with market demand: although the Company dual-sources ofsource of ingredients or packaging the possibility that the supply of incoming certainkey products and or active materials must generally be approved by materials may be delayed or become ingredients, the Company currently relies the regulatory agencies, which will involve unavailable and that the quality of on a single source for production of the testing and additional inspections to ensure incoming materials may be substandard final drug product for certain of its compliance with the applicable regulatory and not detected: products, including, but not limited to, agencys regulations and standards.
The the possibility that the Company may fail ADDERALL XR, CINRYZE, CUVITRU, need to qualify a new manufacturer or to maintain appropriate quality standards FIRAZYR, LIALDA and PENTASA.
source of ingredients or packaging throughout its internal and third-party For many of those components and materials can take a significant amount supply network, or to comply with materials for which a sole supplier is used, oftime.
Should it become necessary to current manufacturing best practices, the Company seeks to address potential change a manufacturer or supplier of rules or other applicable regulations: supply disruption by, among other things, ingredients or packaging materials, or to disruptions to supply chain continuity regularly evaluating such risk and, if qualify an additional supplier, the Company asa result of natural or man-made appropriate, holding strategic inventory in may not be able do so quickly, or at all, disasters at the Companys facilities or the case of such potential supply disruptions.
which could delay or disrupt the atone or more of its third-party suppliers If such efforts prove unsuccessful, it could manufacturing process.
facilities: and have a material adverse effect on the failure to maintain the integrity of the U. S. -based manufacturers must be registered Companys revenues, financial condition Companys supply chains against with the DEA and similar regulatory orresults of operations.
fraudulent and criminal acts, such as authorities in other countries if they handle intentional product adulteration, diversion, controlled substances.
Certain of the Any failure by a single-source supplier to theft, or counterfeiting activities.
Companys products, including ADDERALL provide the Company with the required XR and VYVANSE, contain ingredients volumes on time or at all, or to provide Also, as noted above, the Company has which are controlled substances subject to products that do not meet regulatory also entered into many agreements with quotas managed by the DEA.
As a result, requirements, could lead to significant third-parties for the provision of goods and the Companys procurement and delays in the production of Shires services to enable it to manufacture its production quotas may not be sufficient products, increases in operating costs, lost products.
If these third-parties are unable tomeet commercial demand.
product sales, an interruption of research to manufacture products, or provide these activities, or the delay of new product goods and services, in each case in Certain of the Companys products, launches, all of which could have a material accordance with its respective contractual including but not limited to CINRYZE, adverse effect on the Companys revenues, obligations, the Companys ability to ELAPRASE, REPLAGAL, FEIBA, HYQVIA financial condition or results of operations.
manage its manufacturing processes or to and GAMMAGARD LIQUID and VPRIV are operate its business, including to continue manufactured using highly complex Any disruption to the supply chain for the development or commercialization of its biological processes.
The complexity of the any of the Companys products, or any products as planned or on a commercial manufacturing results in a number of risks, difficulties or delays in the manufacturing, basis, may be adversely impacted.
including the risk of microbial contamination.
distribution and sale of its products Additionally, some of the Companys may result in the Company being unable The manufacture of the Companys therapies, including CINRYZE, FEIBA, to continue marketing or developing a products is subject to extensive HYQVIA and GAMMAGARD LIQUID are product, or may result in the Company oversight by various regulatory derived from human plasma, and are being unable to do so on a commercially agencies.
Regulatory approvals or therefore subject to the risk of biological viable basis for some period of time interventions associated with changes contamination inherent in plasmaA disruption, delay or other difficulties in the to manufacturing sites, ingredients or derivedproducts.
manufacturing, distribution and sale of manufacturing processes could lead Shires products, or in the supply chain of tosignificant delays, an increase in The failure to obtain regulatory approvals any of its products, may have a material operating costs, lost product sales, promptly or at all and or regulatory adverse effect on the Company and its aninterruption of research activities interventions associated with changes revenues, financial condition and results orthe delay of new product launches tomanufacturing sites, ingredients or ofoperations.
Examples of such Pharmaceutical and device manufacturing manufacturing processes could lead to manufacturing and supply chain difficulties sites must be inspected and approved by significant delays, an increase in operating include, but are not limited to: regulatory agencies such as the FDA and costs, lost product sales, an interruption Shire Annual Report 2016 57 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued late-stage clinical development, including, ofresearch activities, the delay of new The Company has a portfolio of but not limited to SHP643 for the treatment product launches or constraints on products in various stages of research of HAE, which is in Phase 3 clinical trials, manufacturing output, all of which could and development.
The successful SHP465 for the treatment of ADHD, which have a material adverse effect on the development of these products is is currently in registration, SHP621 for the Companys revenues, financial condition highlyuncertain and requires significant treatment of EOE, which is in Phase 3 and results of operations.
expenditures and time, and there is noguarantee that these products clinical trials, and SHP647 for the treatment The nature of producing plasma-based willreceive regulatory approval of IBD, which is in Phase 2.
If the therapies may prevent Shire from Products that initially appear promising in Companys large-scale or late-stage clinical timelyresponding to market forces research or development may be delayed or trials for a product are not successful, the andeffectively managing its fail to reach later stages of development as: Company will not recover its substantial productioncapacity investments in that product.
The production of plasma-based therapies preclinical or clinical tests may show the is a lengthy and complex process, and product to lack safety or efficacy: In addition, even if the products receive Shire sources its plasma both internally delays may be caused by: slow regulatory approval, they remain subject to andexternally through suppliers.
Efforts enrollment in clinical studies: regulatory ongoing regulatory requirements, including, toincrease the collection of plasma or the requirements for clinical trial drug for example, obligations to conduct production of plasma-based therapies may supplies: extended length of time to additional clinical trials or other non-clinical include the construction and regulatory achieve study endpoints: additional time testing, changes to the product label which approval of additional plasma collection requirements for data analysis or dossier could impact its marketability and facilities and plasma fractionation facilities.
preparation: time required for discussions prospects for commercial success, new or In connection with the combination with with regulatory agencies, including revised requirements for manufacturing, Baxalta, the Company acquired a yet to be regulatory agency requests for additional written notifications to physicians, or completed state-of-the-art manufacturing preclinical or clinical data: regulatory product recalls or withdrawals.
facility near Covington, Georgia to support agencies due to staffing or resource The actions of certain customers could growth of its plasma-based treatments.
limitations: analysis of or changes to affect the Companys ability to sell or TheCompany has completed construction study design: unexpected safety, market products profitably.
Fluctuations of all buildings associated with the efficacy, or manufacturing issues: shared inbuying or distribution patterns by Covington facility and is going through control with collaborative partners in the such customers can adversely affect arigorous commissioning and testing planning and execution of the product the Companys revenues, financial process to receive licensing from the FDA development, scaling of the conditions or results of operations and international regulatory agencies.
manufacturing process, or obtaining A considerable portion of the Companys Commercial production at the facility approval for manufacturing: product sales are made to major remains scheduled to begin in 2018.
The manufacturing issues, pricing or pharmaceutical wholesale distributors, as development of such facilities involves a reimbursement issues, or other factors well as to large pharmacies, in both the lengthy regulatory process and is highly may render the product economically U. S. and Europe.
For the year ended capital intensive.
In addition, access to unviable: December 31, 2016, 38percent of the andtransport and use of plasma may be the proprietary rights of others and their Companys product sales were attributable subject to restrictions by governmental competing products and technologies to three customers in the United States: agencies both inside and outside the may prevent the product from being AmerisourceBergen Drug Corp, McKesson United States.
As a result, the Companys developed or commercialized: or Corp. and Cardinal Health, Inc.
In the event ability to match its collection and submission of an application for of financial failure of any of these customers production of plasma-based therapies to regulatory approval of any of the there could be a material adverse effect market demand is imprecise and may result Companys product candidates may onthe Companys revenues, financial in a failure to meet market demand for its besubjected to lengthy review and condition or results of operations.
The plasma-based therapies or, alternatively, ultimately rejected.
Companys revenues, financial condition or anoversupply of inventory.
Failure to meet results of operations may also be affected Success in preclinical and early clinical market demand for Shires plasma-based by fluctuations in customer buying or trials does not ensure that late-stage therapies may result in customers distribution patterns.
These fluctuations clinical trials will be successful.
Clinical transitioning to available competitive may result from seasonality, pricing, results are frequently susceptible to varying products resulting in a loss of market share wholesaler inventory objectives, or other interpretations that may delay, limit, or or customer confidence.
In the event of an factors.
A significant portion of the prevent regulatory approvals.
The length of oversupply, Shire may be forced to lower Companys revenues for certain products time necessary to complete clinical trials the prices it charges for some of its for treatment of rare diseases are also and to submit an application for marketing plasma-based therapies, close collection concentrated within a small number of approval for a final decision by a regulatory and processing facilities, record asset customers.
Changes in the buying patterns authority varies significantly and may be impairment charges or take other action of those customers may have an adverse difficult to predict.
Moreover, once an which could have a material adverse effect effect on the Companys revenues, financial application is submitted, additional data on the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of operations.
may be sought by regulators or an condition and results of operations.
The Company has a range of programs in its product pipeline that are in registration or entering 58 Shire Annual Report 2016 the loss or earlier than expected expiration Failure to comply with laws and The Companys products and of intellectual property rights or regulatory regulations governing the sales and productcandidates face substantial exclusivity periods with respect to the marketing of its products could materially competitionin the product markets inwhich it operates Companys branded products: impact Shires revenues and profitability Shire faces substantial competition generic or authorized generic versions of The Company engages in various throughout its business from international these products capturing more of Shires marketing, promotional and educational and domestic biopharmaceutical companies branded market share than expected: activities pertaining to, as well as the sale of all sizes.
Competition is primarily focused lower prices and the actual or perceived of, pharmaceutical products and medical on cost-effectiveness, price, service, greater effectiveness or safety of generic devices in a number of jurisdictions around product effectiveness and quality, patient drug products relative to Shires branded the world.
The promotion, marketing and convenience and technological innovation.
products: sale of pharmaceutical products and the FDA approving additional ANDAs for medical devices is highly regulated and the Competition may increase further as existing these products or additional ANDAs for sales and marketing practices of market competitors enhance their offerings or generic versions of these products which, participants, such as the Company, have additional companies enter Shires markets if launched, would further reduce branded been subject to increasing supervision by or modify their existing products to compete market share or impact the amount of governmental authorities, and Shire directly with Shires products.
If Shires Shires authorized generic product sales: believes that this trend will continue.
competitors respond more quickly to new changes in reimbursement policies of In the United States, the Companys sales or emerging technologies and changes in third-party payers: or and marketing activities are monitored by a customer requirements, the Companys changes to the level of sales deductions number of regulatory authorities and law products may be rendered obsolete or for branded Shire products for private or enforcement agencies, including the U. S. non-competitive.
If Shires competitors public payers.
Department of HHS, the FDA, the U. S. develop more effective or affordable products, Department of Justice, the SEC and the or achieve earlier patent protection or product Should any of the above developments DEA.
These authorities and agencies and commercialization than the Company does, occur, the resulting generic competition their equivalents in countries outside the its operations willlikely be negatively could reduce sales and market share of United States have broad authority to affected.
If Shire is forced to reduce its Shires branded products and have a material investigate market participants for potential prices due to increased competition, Shires adverse effect on the Companys revenues, violations of laws relating to the sale, business could become less profitable.
The financial condition or results of operations.
marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical Companys sales could be adversely affected Adverse outcomes in legal matters and products and medical devices, including if any of its contracts with customers other disputes, including the Companys the False Claims Act, the Anti-Kickback including with hospitals, treatment centers ability to enforce and defend patents Statute, the UK Bribery Act of 2010 and the and other healthcare providers, distributors, and other intellectual property rights Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, among group purchasing organizations and required for its business, could have others, for alleged improper conduct, integrated delivery networks are terminated amaterial adverse effect on the including corrupt payments to government due to increased competition or otherwise.
Companys revenues, financial officials, improper payments to medical condition or results of operations The Companys patented products professionals, off-label marketing of During the ordinary course of its business the aresubject to significant competition pharmaceutical products and medical Company may be involved in claims, disputes from generics devices, and the submission of false claims and litigation with third-parties, employees, In addition to the competition referred to for reimbursement by the federal regulatory agencies, governmental above, Shire faces significant competition government.
Healthcare companies may authorities and other parties.
The range of from the manufacturers of generic drug also be subject to enforcement actions or matters of a legal nature that might arise is products in all of its major markets and prosecution for such improper conduct.
extremely broad but could include, without inthe future may face competition with Any inquiries or investigations into the limitation, intellectual property claims and respect to its biologic and biosimilar operations of, or enforcement or other disputes, product liability claims and products.
The introduction of lower-priced regulatory action against, the Company by disputes, regulatory litigation, contract generics by the Companys competitors such authorities could result in significant claims and disputes, employment ortheir successful efforts in aggressively defense costs, fines, penalties and claimsand disputes, and tax or other commercializing and marketing their injunctive or administrative remedies, governmental agency audits and disputes.
alternative drug products pose significant distract management to the detriment of challenges to maintaining Shires market the business, result in the exclusion of Any unfavorable outcome in such matters share, revenues and sales growth.
certain products, or the Company, from could adversely impact the Companys government reimbursement programs or For example, since 2009, generic versions ability to develop or commercialize its subject the Company to regulatory controls of ADDERALL XR have been marketed products, adversely affect the product or government monitoring of its activities in and, since 2014, generic versions of sales and profitability of existing products, the future.
The Company is also subject to INTUNIV have been marketed in the subject the Company to significant defense certain ongoing investigations by UnitedStates.
As a result, product sales costs, fines, penalties, audit findings and governmental agencies.
For further ofADDERALL XR and INTUNIV declined.
injunctive or administrative remedies, information, see Note 26, Legal and distract management to the detriment of Factors which could cause further or OtherProceedings, to the Consolidated the business, result in the exclusion of morerapid declines in Shires product Financial Statements.
certain products, or the Company, from salesinclude: government reimbursement programs or subject the Company to regulatory controls Shire Annual Report 2016 59 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued terminated acquisition by AbbVie, Inc. or government monitoring of its activities in obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all.
AbbVie as well as internal reorganizations the future.
Any such outcomes could have and transitions of our offices in Pennsylvania, a material adverse effect on the Companys The Company also relies on trade secrets the United Kingdom and other locations, revenue, financial condition or results of and other unpatented proprietary may increase the Companys difficulty in operations.
For further information, see information, which it generally seeks to recruiting and retaining employees.
Note 26, Legal and Other Proceedings, to protect by confidentiality and nondisclosure the Consolidated Financial Statements.
agreements with its employees, consultants, Failure to successfully execute or attain The Company may fail to obtain, advisors and partners.
These agreements strategic objectives from the Companys maintain, enforce or defend the may not effectively prevent disclosure of acquisitions and growth strategy may intellectual property rights required confidential information and may not adversely affect the Companys financial toconduct its business provide the Company with an adequate condition and results of operations The Companys success depends upon remedy in the event of unauthorized The Companys business depends to a itsability and the ability of its partners disclosure.
In addition, if the Companys significant extent on its ability to improve andlicensors to protect their intellectual employees, scientific consultants or partners and expand its product pipeline through property rights.
Where possible, the develop inventions or processes that may strategic acquisitions.
Such improvements Companys strategy is to register intellectual be applicable to the Companys products and expansions, however, are subject to property rights, such as patents and under development, such inventions and the ability of the Companys management trademarks.
The Company also relies on processes will not necessarily become the to effectively identify appropriate strategic various trade secrets, unpatented knowCompanys property, but may remain the targets and effectuate the contemplated how and technological innovations and property of those persons or their employers.
transactions, the availability and relative contractual arrangements with third-parties cost of acquisition opportunities as well The Company has filed applications to to maintain its competitive position.
The ascompetition from other pharmaceutical register various trademarks for use in failure to obtain, maintain, enforce or defend companies seeking similar opportunities.
connection with its products in various such intellectual property rights, for any countries and also, with respect to certain Moreover, even when such transactions are reason, could allow third-parties to make successfully executed, the Company may products, relies on the trademarks of competing products or impact the face subsequent difficulties in integrating third-parties.
These trademarks may not Companys ability to develop, manufacture the operations, infrastructure and personnel afford adequate protection or the Company and market its own products on a of acquired businesses and may experience or thethird-parties may not have the commercially viable basis, or at all, which unanticipated risks or liabilities that were financial resources to enforce their rights could have a material adverse effect on not discovered, accurately disclosed or under these trademarks which may enable theCompanys revenues, financial sufficiently assessed during the transactions others to use the trademarks and dilute condition or results of operations.
successfully acquired and integrated The Company intends to enforce its patent In the regular course of business, the businesses may ultimately fail or fall short rights vigorously and believes that its Company is party to litigation or other ofachieving the Companys strategic commercial partners, licensors and proceedings relating to intellectual property objectives for the transaction over the third-party manufacturers intend to enforce rights.
For details of current intellectual longterm.
vigorously those patent rights they have property litigation, see Note 26, Legal and licensed to the Company.
However, the Other Proceedings, to the Consolidated Any failures in the execution of a Companys patent rights, and patent rights Financial Statements.
transaction, in the integration of an that the Company has licensed, may not acquired business or in achieving the provide valid patent protection sufficiently The Company faces intense competition Companys strategic objectives, including broad to prevent any third-party from for highly qualified personnel from other expected synergies, with respect to such developing, using or commercializing companies and organizations transactions could result in slower growth, products that are similar or functionally The Company relies on recruiting and higher than expected costs, the recording equivalent to the Companys products or retaining highly skilled employees to meet of asset impairment charges and other technologies.
These patent rights may be its strategic objectives.
The Company faces actions which could adversely affect the challenged, revoked, invalidated, infringed intense competition for highly qualified Companys business, financial condition or circumvented by third-parties.
Laws personnel and the supply of people with and results of operations.
relating to such rights may in the future the requisite skills may be limited, generally alsobe changed or withdrawn.
The range of skills The Company has recently completed a required and the geographies in which they number of strategic acquisitions, including Additionally, the Companys products, or are required by the Company may also Dyax in January 2016 and Baxalta in the technologies or processes used to change over time as Shires business June2016.
Furthermore, the Company formulate or manufacture those products evolves.
If the Company is unable to retain iscurrently exploring, and expects to may now, or in the future, infringe the key personnel or attract new personnel continue to explore, opportunities for patent rights of third-parties.
It is also with the requisite skills and experience, it additional strategic acquisitions or possible that third-parties will obtain patent could adversely affect the implementation combinations in the future.
Proposed and or other proprietary rights that might be of the Companys strategic objectives and completed acquisitions, as well as any necessary or useful for the development, ultimately adversely impact the Companys future acquisitions, each entail various manufacture or sale of the Companys revenues, financial condition or results of risks, which include but are not limited to: products.
The Company may need to operations.
Recent acquisitions by the obtain licenses for intellectual property a proposed acquisition may not be Company, including without limitation, the rights from others and may not be able to consummated due to the occurrence Dyax and Baxalta acquisitions, and the 60 Shire Annual Report 2016 undiscovered or unanticipated risks and These types of technology transfers and ofan event, change or other liabilities, including legal and compliance similar arrangements could have a material circumstances that gives rise to the related liabilities, may emerge in adverse effect on the Companys results of termination of the applicable agreement: connection with an acquisition, or operations as a result of lost exclusivity with a governmental, regulatory, board, maybe higher than anticipated: and respect to certain manufacturing and shareholder or other approval required even after successfully completing an technical capabilities, particularly if this for a proposed acquisition may not be acquisition and integrating the acquired model becomes widely used.
Public-private obtained, or may be obtained subject to companys businesses into Shire, the partnerships are also subject to risks of conditions that are not anticipated, or anticipated benefits of the combinations, doing business with governments and another condition to the closing of a including expected synergies, may government agencies, including risks proposed acquisition may not be satisfied, ultimately prove less than anticipated.
related to sovereign immunity, shifts in the resulting in delays or ultimate failure of political environment, changing economic consummating a proposed acquisition: Shires growth strategy depends in and legal conditions and social dynamics.
shareholders may initiate legal action to partupon its ability to expand its prevent or delay consummation of a product portfolio through external A slowdown of global economic growth, proposed acquisition or to seek judicial collaborations, which, if unsuccessful, or economic instability of countries in reevaluation of a proposed acquisitions may adversely affect the development which the Company does business, consideration: and sale of its products could have negative consequences for a lengthy, uncertain process when Shire intends to continue to explore the Companys business and increase pursuing a potential combination could opportunities to enter into collaboration the risk of non-payment by the disrupt relationships between Shire and agreements and external alliances with Companys customers atarget companys customers, suppliers other parties.
These third-party Growth of the global pharmaceutical and employees, distract Shires or a collaborators may include other market has become increasingly tied to target companys management from biopharmaceutical companies, academic global economic growth.
Accordingly, a operating its business, and could lead and research institutions, governments and substantial and lasting slowdown of the toadditional and unanticipated costs: government agencies and other public and global economy, or major national a target company may be unable to private research organizations.
economies, could negatively affect growth retain and hire key personnel and or in the markets in which the Company maintain its relationships with customers, These third-party collaborators are often operates.
Such a slowdown, or any suppliers and other business partners directly responsible for clinical development resultant austerity measures adopted by pending the consummation of the under these types of arrangements, and governments in response to a slowdown, proposed acquisition by Shire: the Company does not have the same level could result in national governments making after the consummation of an acquisition, of decision-making capabilities for the significant cuts to their public spending, the Company may be unable to retain prioritization and management of including national healthcare budgets, or theacquired companys key personnel, development-related activities as it does reducing the level of reimbursement they existing customers, suppliers and forits internal research and development are willing and able to provide to the otherbusiness partners or attract activities.
Failures by these partners to Company for its products and, as a result, newcustomers: meet their contractual, regulatory, or other adversely affect the Companys revenues, the businesses of an acquired company obligations to the Company, or any financial condition or results of operations.
may be otherwise disrupted by the disruption in the relationships between the acquisition, including increased costs A slowdown of a nations economy could Company and these partners, could have a and diversion of its managements time also lead to financial difficulties for some material adverse effect on the Companys and resources: ofthe Companys significant customers, pipeline and business.
In addition, the failure to achieve the targeted growth including national governments, and result Companys collaborative relationships for and expected benefits of the acquisition in a greater risk of delayed orders or research and development extend for many if sales of an acquired companys payments, defaults or non-payments of years and may give rise to disputes products are lower than anticipated, or outstanding payment obligations by the regarding the relative rights, obligations and these products cannot be successfully Companys customers in that country, revenues of Shire and its partners, including commercialized or cannot obtain which could adversely affect the the ownership of intellectual property and necessary regulatory approvals: Companys revenues, financial condition associated rights and obligations.
These any integration of an acquired company orresults of operations.
could result in the loss of intellectual into Shire could be complex and property rights or other intellectual property Changes in foreign currency exchange time-consuming, and difficulties in protections, delay the development and rates and interest rates could have a effectuating these integrations may lead sale of potential pharmaceutical products, material adverse effect on Shires to the combined companies not being and lead to lengthy and expensive litigation operating results and liquidity able to realize the expected operating or arbitration.
Shire reports its financial results in U. S. efficiencies, cost savings, revenue Long-term public-private partnerships with Dollars, but generates a substantial portion enhancements, synergies or other benefits governments and government agencies, of its revenue approximately 33percent of in the timeframe anticipated, or at all: including in certain emerging markets, may its total revenue in 2016 outside the United failure to successfully obtain regulatory include technology transfers to support States.
As a result, Shires financial results approval of an acquired companys local manufacturing capacity and technical may be adversely affected by fluctuations late-stage pipeline assets in a timely expertise.
Shire cannot predict whether inforeign currency exchange rates.
Shire manner or at all, or to successfully these types of transfers and arrangements cannot predict with any certainty changes commercialize such products after will become more common in the future.
in foreign currency exchange rates or the regulatory approval has been obtained: Shire Annual Report 2016 61 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued cloud-based computing, creates ability of the Company to mitigate these of product liability claims, product recalls, opportunities for the unintentional risks.
Shire may experience additional litigation and associated adverse publicity.
dissemination or intentional destruction volatility as a result of inflationary pressures The cost of defending against such claims is expensive even when the claims are not ofconfidential information stored in the and other macroeconomic factors in merited.
A successful product liability claim Companys systems.
The Company and certain emerging market countries.
Shire is against the Company could require the itsvendors could also be susceptible to also exposed to changes in interest rates, Company to pay a substantial monetary third-party attacks on their information and Shires ability to access the money award.
The Company does not carry security systems, which attacks are of markets and capital markets could be product liability insurance for its products ever-increasing levels of sophistication and impeded if adverse liquidity market due to the Companys analysis of the risk, are made by groups and individuals with a conditions occur.
frequency and severity of a loss and the wide range of motives and expertise, For discussion of the financial impact of cost of insurance for the risk.
Accordingly, including criminal groups, hackers and foreign exchange rate and interest rate ifthe Company does not have sufficient others.
While the Company has taken steps fluctuations, and the ways and extent to financial resources to satisfy a liability to protect such information and invested which Shire attempts to mitigate such resulting from such a claim or to fund the heavily in information technology, there can impact.
For details see note 16, Financial legal defense of such a claim, it could be no assurance that these efforts will Instruments, to the Consolidated become insolvent.
Moreover, an adverse prevent service interruptions or security FinancialStatements.
judgment in a product liability suit could breaches in its systems, the loss of data or generate substantial negative publicity other confidential information due to a lack The Company is subject to evolving and about the Companys products and of redundant backup systems, or the complex tax laws, which may result in business and inhibit or prevent unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use additional liabilities that may adversely commercialization of otherproducts.
ordisclosure of confidential information affect the Companys financial thatcould adversely affect the Companys condition or results of operations The Company is dependent on business operations or result in the loss, The Company is subject to evolving and information technology and its systems dissemination, or misuse of critical or complex tax laws in the jurisdictions in and infrastructure face certain risks, sensitive information.
A breach of the which it operates, and routinely obtains including from service disruptions, Companys security measures or the advice on matters, including the tax theloss of sensitive or confidential accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, treatment of the break fee received in information, cyber-attacks and other unapproved dissemination, connection with the terminated offer for security breaches or data leakages that misappropriation or misuse of trade Shire by AbbVie in 2014.
Significant could have a material adverse effect secrets, proprietary information, orother judgment is required in determining the onthe Companys revenues, financial confidential information, whether as a result Companys tax liabilities, and the condition or results of operations of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other Companys tax returns are periodically The Company relies to a large extent upon forms of deception, or for any other cause, examined by various tax authorities.
The sophisticated information technology could enable others to produce competing Company regularly assesses the likelihood systems to operate its businesses.
In the products, use the Companys proprietary of outcomes resulting from these ordinary course of business, the Company technology or information, and or adversely examinations to determine the adequacy of collects, stores and transmits large amounts affect the Companys business position.
its accrual for tax contingencies: however, of confidential information including, but Further, any such interruption, security due to the complexity of tax matters, the not limited to, personal information and breach, loss or disclosure of confidential ultimate resolution of any tax matters may intellectual property, and it is critical that information, could result in financial, legal, result in payments greater or less than the Company does so in a secure manner business, and reputational harm to the amounts accrued.
In addition, the to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of Company and could have a material Company may be affected by changes in such confidential information.
The size and adverse effect on the Companys revenues, tax laws, including tax rate changes, new complexity of the Companys information financial condition or results ofoperations.
tax laws, and revised tax law interpretations technology and information security systems, in domestic and foreign jurisdictions and and those of third-party vendors with In addition, legislators and or regulators in between jurisdictions, including by the EU.
whom the Company contracts and the countries in which the Company operates large amounts of confidential information are increasingly adopting or revising If a marketed product fails to work that is stored on them, make such privacy, information security and data effectively or causes adverse side systemspotentially vulnerable to service protection laws, as well as focusing on effects, this could result in damage interruptions or to security breaches from increased privacy-related enforcement tothe Companys reputation, the inadvertent or intentional actions by the activity, that potentially could have a withdrawal of the product and legal Companys employees or vendors, or significant impact on the Companys action against the Company fromattacks by malicious third-parties.
current and planned privacy, data protection Unanticipated side effects or unfavorable and information security-related practices, publicity from complaints concerning any The Company and its vendors its collection, use, sharing, retention and ofthe Companys products, or those of its sophisticated information technology safeguarding of consumer and or competitors, could have an adverse effect operations are spread across multiple, employeeinformation, and some of its on the Companys ability to obtain or maintain sometimes inconsistent platforms, which current or planned business activities.
regulatory approvals or successfully market pose difficulties in maintaining data integrity its products.
The testing, manufacturing, across systems.
The ever-increasing use marketing and sales of pharmaceutical and evolution of technology, including products and medical devices entail a risk 62 Shire Annual Report 2016 Moreover, the Company may be required to Shire faces risks relating to the and to deliver a consistent message regarding diseases treated by the raise additional financing.
The Companys expected exit of the United Kingdom Company: ability to arrange additional financing and from the European Union.
retaining existing customers and the costs of that financing will depend on, On June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom attracting new customers: among other factors, the Companys held a remain-or-leave referendum on the retaining existing employees and financial position and performance, as well United Kingdoms membership within the attracting new employees: as prevailing market conditions and other European Union, the result of which favored maintaining business relationships: and factors beyond Shires control.
the exit of the United Kingdom from the inefficiencies associated with the European Union Brexit.
A process of In any liquidation, dissolution or winding integration and management of the negotiation will likely determine the future upof Shire, the Companys Ordinary operations of the two companies.
terms of the United Kingdoms relationship Shares and ADSs would rank below all with the European Union, as well as whether In addition, there have been, and will debt claims against Shire or any of its the United Kingdom will be able tocontinue continue to be, integration costs and subsidiaries.
As aresult, holders of the to benefit from the European Unions free non-recurring transaction costs such as Companys Ordinary Shares and ADSs will trade and similar agreements.
The timing of fees paid to legal, financial, accounting not be entitled to receive any payment or the Brexit and potential impact of Brexit on andother advisors and other fees paid in other distribution ofassets upon any Shires market share, sales, profitability and connection with the combination associated liquidation or dissolution until after Shires results of operations is unclear.
Depending with the combination, including costs obligations to its debt holders, which rank on the terms of Brexit, economic conditions associated with combining operations senior to the Companys Ordinary Shares in the United Kingdom, the European Union andachieving the expected synergies as and ADSs, have been satisfied.
and global markets may be adversely planned, and such costs may be significant.
affected by reduced growth and volatility.
Uncertainties associated with the The uncertainty before, during and after the An inability to realize the full extent of the combination may cause a loss of period of negotiation is also expected to anticipated benefits of the combination of employees and may otherwise affect have a negative economic impact and Shire and Baxalta, including estimated cost the future business and operations of increase volatility in the markets, particularly synergies, as well as any delays encountered Shire and the combined company in the eurozone.
Such volatility and negative in the integration process and realizing Uncertainty about the effect of the economic impact could, in turn, adversely combination on employees and customers such benefits, could have an adverse effect affect the Companys revenues, financial may have an adverse effect on the upon the revenues, level of expenses and condition or results of operations.
These operating results of the Company, which consequent uncertainties may impair the may materially adversely affect the value Risks Related to the Combination Companys ability to retain and motivate ofthe Companys Ordinary Shares and withBaxalta Incorporated key personnel and could also cause American Depository Shares ADSs.
The Company may not successfully customers, suppliers, licensees, partners integrate the businesses of Shire Shire has incurred significant additional and other business partners to defer andBaxalta indebtedness in connection with the entering into contracts with, making other Achieving the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, which has decreased the decisions concerning, or seeking to change combination of Shire and Baxalta will Companys business flexibility and existing business relationships with the depend in part upon whether the two increased its interest expense.
Because the Company depends companies integrate their businesses in an theCompanys debt obligations have on the experience and industry knowledge effective and efficient manner.
The Company priority over the Companys Ordinary of their executives and other key personnel may not be able to accomplish this Shares and ADSs with respect to to execute their business plans, the integration process successfully or realize payment in the event of a liquidation, Company may be unable to meet its the expected synergies as planned.
The dissolution or winding up strategic objectives.
integration of businesses is complex and As of December 31, 2016, Shire had time-consuming.
The difficulties that could grossdebt of approximately $23 billion be encountered include the following: comprising $12.1 billion of Senior Notes issued in September 2016, $5 billion of integrating personnel, operations and Baxalta notes acquired with the acquisition systems, while maintaining focus on of Baxalta, $5 billion outstanding borrowing selling and promoting existing and newly under the term loan facility, $450 million acquired or produced products: outstanding borrowing under the $2.1 coordinating geographically dispersed billion Revolving Credit Facility and certain organizations: capital lease and other debt obligations.
distraction of management and employees from operations: The Companys aggregate indebtedness changes or conflicts in corporate culture: could have the effect, among other things, managements inability to manage a of reducing the Companys flexibility to substantial increase in the number of respond to changing business and employees: economic conditions.
The Company is managements inability to train and required to abide by certain covenants integrate personnel, who may have within the various financing arrangements, limited experience with the respective which if not adhered to, would require companies business lines and products, immediate repayment of the indebtedness.
Shire Annual Report 2016 63 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued liabilities.
Under the tax matters agreement, Baxalta only operated as an independent companies following the separation for those respective areas and provide for and the Letter Agreement, Baxalta and the company from July 1, 2015 until the indemnifications related to liabilities and Company may be required to indemnify consummation of its merger with Shire.
The transition services Baxter for any such tax liabilities.
Baxters on June 3, 2016, and Baxaltas historical agreement sets forth certain services to be waiver of the provisions under the tax financial information is not necessarily performed by each company for the benefit matters agreement restricting Baxaltas representative of the results that Baxalta of the other for a period of time after the ability to enter into and consummate the would have achieved as a separate, separation.
Baxalta and now Shire will rely merger will not relieve Baxalta or the publicly traded company, and may not on Baxter to satisfy its performance and Company of its obligation to indemnify be a reliable indicator of future results payment obligations under these Baxter if the merger causes any of the of Baxalta.
Moreover, any pro forma agreements.
If Baxter does not satisfy Baxter Transactions to be taxable.
financial information published by itsobligations under these agreements, theCompany is not necessarily In connection with the signing and closing including its indemnification obligations, representative of the results that the of the merger agreement, the Company Shire may not be able to meet its financial Company would have achieved, and received an opinion from Cravath, Swaine reporting requirements and or could incur may not be a reliable indicator of &Moore LLP Cravath, tax counsel to the operational difficulties or losses as they futureresults.
Company, to the effect that the merger will relate to Baxaltas businesses.
If Shire is Any historical financial information about not cause the Baxter Transactions to fail unable to successfully integrate the Baxalta Baxalta prior to July 1, 2015 refers to toqualify as tax-free to Baxter and its businesses into Shires systems and Baxaltas business as operated by and shareholders under Sections 355, 361 services, or if Shire does not have integrated with Baxter.
Baxaltas historical and368 a 1 D of the Internal Revenue agreements with other providers of and pro forma financial information for such Code of1986, as amended.
theseservices once certain transaction periods was derived from the Consolidated agreements expire, Shire may not be able Financial Statements and accounting The tax opinions referred to in the to operate the Baxalta businesses effectively records of Baxter.
In addition, certain pro immediately preceding paragraph are and Shires profitability may decline.
forma financial information for the Company based upon various factual representations has incorporated Baxaltas historical and assumptions, as well as certain The acquisition of Baxalta could result financial information for such periods.
undertakings made by the Shire, Baxter in significant liability to the Company if Accordingly, such historical and pro forma and Baxalta.
If any of the factual the combination causes the spin-off financial information of Baxalta or the representations or the assumptions in the ofBaxalta from Baxter or a Later Company does not necessarily reflect the tax opinions are untrue or incomplete in any Distribution, as defined below, financial condition, results of operations material respect, an undertaking is not tobetaxable orcash flows that Baxalta would have complied with or the facts upon which the In connection with the signing of the achieved as a separate, publicly traded tax opinions are based are materially merger agreement, Baxter, Shire and company during the periods presented, or different from the facts at the time of the Baxalta entered into the Letter Agreement, those that Shire would have achieved had merger, the opinions may not be valid.
which, among other things, supplements the combination occurred as assumed for Moreover, opinions of counsel are not certain aspects of the tax matters the preparation of the pro forma financial binding on the Internal Revenue Service agreement referenced above.
As a result, the Companys the IRS.
As a result, the conclusions Letter Agreement, from and after the proforma financial information is not expressed in the tax opinions could be closing of the merger, Baxalta agreed to necessarily representative of the results challenged by the IRS.
None of Shire, indemnify, and the Company agreed to that the Company will achieve after the Baxalta or Baxter has requested a ruling guarantee such indemnity to, Baxter and merger with Baxalta, and may not be a from the IRS regarding the impact of the each of its affiliates and each of their reliable indicator of future results.
merger on the tax treatment of the Baxter respective officers, directors and employees Transactions, since such rulings are not Baxter may not satisfy its obligations against certain tax-related losses attributable made by the IRS.
Further, the tax opinions under various transaction agreements to, or resulting from, in whole or in part, the do not address all tax aspects of the that have been executed as part of the merger.
If the contribution of property by spin-off, a Later Distribution and other separation or Shire may fail to have Baxter in one or more transfers to Baxalta related transactions and it is possible the necessary systems and services in in exchange for shares of Baxalta common Company may be obligated to indemnify place when certain of the transaction stock, cash, and the assumption of certain Baxter despite the continuing validity of agreements expire liabilities, together with the distribution by thetax opinions.
In connection with Baxaltas separation Baxter on July 1, 2015 of approximately from Baxter, the parties entered into 80.5percent of the shares of Baxalta The Companys indemnification obligations various agreements, including a separation common stock to shareholders of Baxter to Baxter and its affiliates, officers, directors and distribution agreement, a transition the spin-off, Baxters distribution of cash and employees under the tax matters services agreement, a tax matters received from Baxalta to its creditors and agreement and Letter Agreement are not agreement, a manufacturing and supply or a Later Distribution, collectively, the limited in amount or subject to any cap.
agreement, an employee matters Baxter Transactions, are determined to IfBaxalta or the Company is required to agreement, license agreements and betaxable as a result, in whole or in part, indemnify Baxter and its affiliates and their commercial agreements.
The separation ofthe merger for example, if the merger respective officers, directors and employees and distribution agreement, the tax isdeemed to be part of a plan, or series under the circumstances set forth in the tax mattersagreement and employee matters ofrelated transactions, that includes matters agreement, as supplemented by agreement determined the allocation of theBaxter Transactions, Baxter and its the Letter Agreement, itcould have a assets and liabilities between the shareholders could incur significant tax material adverse effect on the Company.
64 Shire Annual Report 2016 New regulations issued by the U. S. References to the Later Distributions based are materially different from the actual facts relating to the Baxter Department of Treasury may impact includes the following transactions that Transactions, the opinion or IRS private theCompany following the merger were undertaken by Baxter prior to the letter ruling may not be valid.
closing of the merger: i two debt-foropinions of a tax advisor are not binding On April 4, 2016, the U. S. Department of equityexchanges and related underwritten onthe IRS.
As a result, the conclusions Treasury issued new regulations applicable offerings with respect to Baxalta shares, expressed in the opinion of a tax advisor to acquisitions of U. S. companies by ii an offer to exchange Baxter shares for could be successfully challenged by non-U.
These regulations, Baxalta shares, and iii a contribution of theIRS.
among other things, change the manner Baxalta shares to Baxters U. S. pension inwhich thresholds contained within the fund, which, in each case, were undertaken If the Baxter Transactions are determined so-called anti-inversion rules that govern prior to the earlier of any Baxalta or to be taxable, Baxter and its stockholders how the combined company will be taxed Company stockholder vote with respect to could incur significant tax liabilities, and are calculated.
These calculations are the merger and that were intended to be under the tax matters agreement and the affected by the merger and could impact part of a plan that includes the spin-off.
letter agreement which were assumed by any future acquisitions of U. S. companies In connection with the merger with Shire following the merger, the Company funded in whole or in part by Shire securities.
Baxalta, the separation and the Later may be required to indemnify Baxter for These calculations are complicated and Distributions could result in significant any liabilities incurred by Baxter if the depend on several factors.
Moreover, the liability to the Company due to liabilities are caused by any action or U. S. Department of Treasury also Baxaltas spin-off from Baxter inaction undertaken by Baxalta following introduced proposed earnings stripping The Baxter Transactions are intended to the separation including as a result of regulations as revised on October 13, 2016 qualify for tax-free treatment to Baxter and themerger.
that may, among other things, cause its stockholders under Sections 355, 361, certain related-party debt instruments Certain Baxalta agreements may and 368 a 1 D of the Code.
Completion of issued by a U. S. corporation to be treated contain change of control provisions the separation was conditioned upon, as equity, resulting in the loss of deductible that may have been triggered by the among other things, the receipt of a private interest payments for U. S. federal income merger that, if acted upon or not letter ruling from the IRS regarding certain tax purposes.
waived, could cause the Company to issues relating to the tax-free treatment of lose the benefit of such agreement and the Baxter Transactions.
Although the IRS These regulations are newly issued and incur liabilities or replacement costs, private letter ruling is generally binding on complex, and as such their application to which could have a material adverse the IRS, the continuing validity of such any particular set of facts is uncertain.
Shire effect on the Company ruling is subject to the accuracy of factual believes that the regulations are not likely Prior to and following the merger, Baxalta representations and assumptions made in toaffect the expected tax position of the and its affiliates are each party to various the ruling.
Completion of the initial Company following the acquisition of agreements with third-parties, including distribution of Baxalta shares on July 1, Baxalta, which belief is based on, among certain license agreements, business 2015 was also conditioned upon Baxters other things, facts that may change or development-related agreements, production receipt of a tax opinion from KPMG LLP, judgments that may prove to be incorrect and distribution related agreements, orKPMG regarding certain aspects of the and, if incorrect, could have an adverse bonding financing facilities, contracts for separation not covered by the IRS private impact on the expected tax position of the performance of services material to the letter ruling.
The opinion was based upon theCompany.
operations of Baxalta and or its affiliates, various factual representations and Furthermore, the U. S. tax authorities ITcontracts, technology licenses and assumptions, as well as certain couldissue additional guidance as to the employment agreements that may contain undertakings made by Baxter and Baxalta.
application of these regulations or issue change of control provisions that may have If any of the factual representations or new regulations that could have an been triggered upon the closing of the assumptions in the IRS private letter ruling adverseeffect on the expected tax merger.
Agreements with change of control or tax opinion are untrue or incomplete in positionof the Company.
provisions typically provide for or permit any material respect, an undertaking is not thetermination of the agreement upon the complied with, or the facts upon which the occurrence of a change of control of one Strategic Report IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are ofthe parties which can be waived by the The Strategic Report comprises pages 2 based are materially different from the relevant counterparties.
In the event that to65 of this Annual Report.
actual facts relating to the Baxter there is such a contract or arrangement Transactions, the opinion or IRS private Approved by the Board of Directors and requiring a consent or waiver in relation letter ruling may not be valid.
Moreover, signed on its behalf by: tothe merger for which such consent or opinions of a tax advisor are not binding on waiver was not obtained, the Company the IRS.
As a result, the conclusions could lose the benefit of the underlying expressed in the opinion of a tax advisor agreement and incur liabilities or could be successfully challenged by the replacement costs, which could have IRS.
If any of the factual representations or anadverse effect on the Company.
assumptions in the IRS private letter ruling Bill Mordan or tax opinion are untrue or incomplete in General Counsel and Company Secretary any material respect, an undertaking is not February 22, 2017 complied with, or the facts upon which the IRS private letter ruling or tax opinion are Shire Annual Report 2016 65 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
