Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for determining the nature and extent Detailed controls and any relevant action plans are monitored by the of the principal risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives, as Group Risk team on an ongoing basis.
well as establishing and maintaining the Groups systems of internal control There is, in addition to the twice-yearly review, an ongoing monitoring and risk management and reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
process which is operated by the Group Risk team and supported by Additional information on the Groups internal control and risk management senior management across the Group, to identify and report to the processes is set out in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Audit Audit Committee on significant changes or new risks.
The outcome of the recent UK referendum has caused uncertainty in both the political and economic environments in which we operate.
Although For more on the Corporate Governance Report the large majority of our revenue is from subscriptions, we are not immune see pages 3848 from the impact of any economic uncertainty.
We do, however, believe that our business model means that we are comparatively well-placed to The Group has a formal risk management framework embedded within the manage the consequences of the result and of its effect on the economic business to support the identification and effective management of risk environment.
Our operations are conducted mainly on a territorial basis across the Group.
The divisions within the Group are each responsible for and our business involves limited movement of goods and services between managing and reporting risk in accordance with the Groups risk management the UK and the rest of the EU and, to the extent that it does, we can adapt policy and standards that have been approved by the Audit Committee.
our business processes as necessary.
Like all companies, we will need The risks are then consolidated into a Group risk register which provides to monitor and manage the practical implications as they occur.
Where an overview of the Group risk profile.
appropriate we have also outlined in the table below the impact of the The Board, through the Audit Committee, conducts a robust assessment of result on our principal risk and uncertainties.
the Groups principal risks, including those that would threaten its business This section describes the current principal risks and uncertainties facing model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, and their mitigation.
In addition to summarising the material risks and uncertainties, The Group risk register is reported formally to the Audit Committee the table below gives examples of how we mitigate those risks.
Description of risk Mitigation Market and competition: The Group operates in a highly competitive environment and faces The Group continues to make significant investments in innovation.
competition from a broad range of organisations.
Technological The Groups product development strategic aim is to be at the forefront developments also have the ability to create new forms of quickly of progressive technology.
Please see the Innovation section on page 8 of the Group Chief Executives A failure to develop the Groups product proposition in line with Statement for further details of these products.
changing market dynamics and expectations could erode the Groups The Group regularly reviews its pricing and packaging structures to ensure competitive position.
that its product proposition is appropriately placed within the market.
Great content is central to Skys product proposition and increased The Group works closely with its marketing partners to ensure that competition could impact the Groups ability to acquire content that the value of its offering is understood and communicated effectively our customers want on commercially attractive terms.
Economic conditions have been challenging in recent years across the The Group makes significant investment in the origination of content territories in which the Group operates and the outcome of the UK as well as in acquisition from across the world.
referendum has caused further economic uncertainty.
A significant economic decline in any of those territories could impact the Groups The Group also works to develop and maintain the brand value associated ability to continue to attract and retain customers in that territory.
Regulatory breach and change: The Groups ability to operate or compete effectively could be adversely The Group manages these risks through active engagement in the affected by the outcome of investigations or by the introduction of new regulatory processes that affect the Groups business.
laws, policies or regulations, changes in the interpretation or application The Group actively seeks to identify and meet its regulatory obligations of existing laws, policies and regulations, or failure to obtain required and to respond to emerging requirements.
This includes, for example: regulatory approvals or licences.
Please see page 32 of the Regulatory Broadcasting compliance controls and processes are in place in the Matters section for further details.
Interaction with the relevant regulatory The Group is subject to regulation primarily under Austrian, German, Irish, authorities is co-ordinated between the relevant local Compliance, Italian, UK and European Union legislation.
Regulatory and Legal departments: The regimes which apply to the Groups business include, but are not Technical services with respect to the provision of certain technical limited to: services in the UK and Germany, processes are in place to monitor Broadcasting as a provider of audiovisual media services, the Group third-party broadcaster access to the relevant broadcast is subject to Austrian, German, Italian and UK licensing regimes under platforms and to ensure that this is provided on fair, reasonable the applicable broadcasting and communications legislation.
These and non-discriminatory terms: obligations include requirements to comply with relevant codes and directions issued by the relevant regulatory authorities, including for example, in the UK, Ofcoms Broadcasting Code, Code on the Scheduling of Television Advertising and Cross-Promotion Code: Sky plc 28 Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Technical services as a provider of certain technical services in Telecommunications compliance controls and processes are in the UK and Germany, Sky UK and Sky Deutschland are subject to place in the UK and Ireland, overseen by the Customer Compliance regulation in their respective countries: and Committee, to monitor compliance and performance against the General Conditions of Entitlement and the Conditions for the Telecommunications Sky UK is subject to the General Conditions provision of Electronic Communications Networks and Services.
of Entitlement adopted under the Communications Act 2003 UK and the Conditions for the provision of Electronic Communications The Group maintains appropriate oversight and reporting, supported Networks and Services under the Communications Regulation Act by training, to provide assurance that it is compliant with regulatory 2002 Ireland, which impose detailed requirements on providers requirements.
of communications networks and services.
The Group will monitor carefully future developments that arise out of The Group is also subject to generally applicable legislation including, the result of the recent UK referendum and will engage in any relevant but not limited to, competition antitrust, anti-bribery, consumer regulatory processes.
protection, data protection and taxation.
The Group is currently, and may be in the future, subject to proceedings, and or investigation and enquiries from regulatory and antitrust authorities.
The telecommunications and media regulatory framework applying to the Group in the UK and the EU may be subject to greater uncertainty in the event that the UK leaves the EU.
Potential changes to the regulatory framework could include divergence in the long term between the UK and EU regulation of telecommunications and media, and changes to certain mutual recognition arrangements for media and broadcasting.
Sky does not currently foresee any regulatory changes as a result of a UK exit that would have a material impact on its business.
Please see page 32 of the Regulatory Matters section for further details.
Customer service: A significant part of the Groups business is based on a subscription The Group strives consistently to exceed its customers expectations, to model and its future success relies on building long-term relationships put its customers first, to understand what they want and to be responsive with its customers.
A failure to meet its customers expectations with to what they say.
regard to service could negatively impact the Groups brand and The Group makes significant investments in order to deliver continuous competitive position.
development and improvement to its customer service capabilities, including investment in its contact centres across the UK and Ireland, insourcing of service centres in Germany and implementing ongoing training and development plans.
The Group tracks its customer service performance, benchmarks its customer service experience and strives to be best in class.
Technology and business interruption: The products and services that the Group provides to its customers The Group makes significant investment in technology infrastructure are reliant on complex technical infrastructure.
to ensure that it continues to support the growth of the business and has a robust selection and monitoring process of third-party providers.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure, such as the broadcast platform, customer management systems, OTT The Group is committed to achieve best in class business continuity platforms or the telecommunications networks on which the Group relies, standards and makes significant investments in the resilience and could cause a failure of service to our customers and negatively impact robustness of its business infrastructure.
The Group also organises regular scenario-based group-wide business continuity exercises to ensure ongoing readiness of key staff, systems and sites.
Suppliers: The Group relies on a number of third parties and outsourced suppliers The Group continues to invest in its supply chain infrastructure to support operating across the globe to support its business.
A significant failure of a supplier or a discontinuation of supply could A robust supplier selection process is in place with appropriate ongoing adversely affect the Groups ability to deliver operationally.
management and monitoring of key partners and suppliers.
The Group performs regular audits of key suppliers and of their installations and, wherever possible, has dual supply capability.
Annual Report 2016 29 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Mitigation Financial: The effective management of its financial exposures is central to The Groups finance teams are embedded within the business to provide preserving the Groups profitability.
support to management and to ensure accurate financial reporting and tracking of our business performance.
Reporting on financial performance The Group is exposed to financial market risks and may be impacted is provided on a monthly basis to senior management and the Board.
negatively by fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates, including as a result of the recent UK referendum, which create volatility in the The Group continually invests in the improvement of its systems and Groups results to the extent that they are not effectively hedged.
processes in order to ensure sound financial management and reporting.
Any increase in the financial leverage of the Group may limit the Groups The Group has a formal Treasury Policy which is reviewed and approved financial flexibility.
by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
In addition, the Group COO and CFO monitors the Treasury Policy on an ongoing basis to ensure its The Group may also be affected adversely by liquidity and continuing appropriateness.
The Treasury Policy covers all areas of treasury counterparty risks.
risk including foreign exchange, interest rate, counterparty and liquidity.
A review of the Groups Treasury Policy in the light of the result in the recent UK referendum confirmed its continuing appropriateness.
The Group manages treasury risk by minimising risk to capital and uses appropriate hedging instruments and strategies to provide protection against adverse foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Trading transactional currency risk is hedged up to five years in advance.
Interest rate risk protection is in place using interest rate swaps and an appropriate currency mix of debt is maintained using cross-currency swaps.
Cash investment is made in line with the Treasury Policy which sets limits on deposits based on counterparty credit ratings.
No more than 10% of cash deposits are held with a single bank counterparty, with the exception of overnight deposits which are invested in a spread of AAAf-rated liquidity funds.
The Group maintains headroom within our banking covenants to allow for unforeseen adverse impacts on our leverage ratio as a result of either economic decline or extreme currency movements.
The Group maintains strong liquidity as part of its core strategy, with high cash balances and a 1 billion fully undrawn revolving credit facility.
The Group manages its tax risk by ensuring that risks are identified and understood at an early stage and that effective compliance and reporting processes are in place.
The Group continues to maintain an open and proactive relationship with the regulating tax authorities, primarily HM Revenue & Customs.
The Group aims to deal with taxation issues, wherever possible, as they arise in order to avoid unnecessary disputes.
Security: The Group must protect its customer and corporate data and the safety The Group takes measures ranging from physical and logical access controls of its people and infrastructure as well as needing to have in place fraud to encryption, or equivalent technologies, raising employee awareness prevention and detection measures.
and monitoring of key partners to manage its security risks.
The Group is responsible to third-party intellectual property owners The Group continues to invest in new technological controls and in for the security of the content that it distributes on various platforms improving broader business process and works closely with law Skys own and third-party platforms.
enforcement agencies and policy makers in order to protect its assets and to comply with its contractual obligations to third parties.
A significant breach of security could impact the Groups ability to operate and deliver against its business objectives.
Projects: The Group invests in, and delivers, significant capital expenditure projects A common project management methodology is used to enable the Group in order to continually drive the business forward.
The level of the Groups to manage, monitor and control its major capital expenditure projects and capital expenditure has increased as a result of the increased size strategic programmes.
This includes detailed reporting and regular reviews of the Groups business following completion of the acquisitions of by senior management as well as cross-functional executive steering Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
The failure to deliver key projects effectively and efficiently could result Third-party partners will, where appropriate, be engaged to provide support in significantly increased project costs and impede our ability to execute and expertise in our large strategic programmes, complex initiatives and for our strategic plans.
Sky plc 30 Strategic report Description of risk Mitigation Intellectual property protection: The Group, in common with other service providers, relies on intellectual We maintain an ongoing programme to support appropriate protections of property and other proprietary rights, including in respect of programming our intellectual property and other rights.
This includes, for example, the content, which may not be adequately protected under current laws or use of automated online monitoring tools, the implementation of on-screen which may be subject to unauthorised use.
imprinting of content together with an active programme to protect our intellectual property rights.
People: People at Sky are critical to the Groups ability to meet the needs of Making Sky a great place to work is central to the Groups strategy.
its customers and achieve its goals as a business.
The Group champions diversity and develops talent through a number of activities, including the Graduate programme, Development Studio, Failure to attract or retain suitable employees across the business an apprenticeship scheme and a leadership programme.
The Group could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
invests in the working environment to make Sky an even more appealing place to work.
The Group has well established channels and procedures to recruit and retain its employees, and to ensure that an adequate number of suitable employees work within its customer service teams and across all its operations.
Further details on our people is set out in the Employees section of the Directors Report on pages 65.
Viability statement Going concern In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its 2014, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over the three future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic years to 30 June 2019.
The assessment has taken account of the current Report on pages 2 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows position of the Group and the potential impact of the principal risks and liquidity position are described in the Financial Review on pages 24 outlined above.
In addition, notes 1 to 32 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups treasury activities, long-term funding The Directors believe that an assessment period of three years is arrangements, financial instruments and hedging activities and exposure appropriate based on managements reasonable expectations of the to financial risk and above in financial risks.
position and performance of the Group over this period, taking account of its strategic plans.
The Directors assessment included a review of the As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, financial impact of the most severe principal risks that could threaten the together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide viability of the Group.
The financial impact was tested taking account of sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its currency risk and the likely effectiveness of the potential mitigations that contractual and commercial commitments as set out in note 28 on page 117, management reasonably believes would be available to the Group over this its approved future capital expenditure plans and any proposed dividends, period, enabling the net financial effect of each scenario to be calculated.
and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed the process undertaken despite the current economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement, at Based on the results of the assessment, the Directors confirm that they the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that there have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
In assessing the prospects of the Group, the Directors noted that such assessment is subject to a degree of uncertainty that can be expected to increase looking out over time and accordingly, that future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
