RISK SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 42 RISK REPORT Our approach to risk OUR RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The following chart shows how our risk management process is an integral part of our business.
Individual risk owners within the business areas carry out day-to-day risk management activities within the framework established by the Group Risk Office, including the identification of risks, undertaking risk assessments and treating them.
These activities are reviewed by Internal Audit and other control functions, which provide assurance to the Group Risk Committee chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and then to the Board and its committees.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND BOARD COMMITTEES Responsible for regular oversight of risk Monitors risks through Board processes Audit Committee reviews effectiveness with management and for annual strategic Strategy Review, Disclosures, M&A, support from Internal Audit risk review Investments, Disposals and Committees Audit and Ethics & Compliance, management reports DQG GHHS GLYHV RIVHOHFWHG ULVN DUHDV GROUP RISK COMMITTEE Reviews external internal environment Reviews risk register updates from Identifies significant risks and assess IRUHPHUJLQJ ULVNV Business Areas effectiveness of mitigating actions BUSINESS AREA GROUP RISK OFFICE INTERNAL AUDIT AND CONTROL FUNCTIONS Carries out day-to-day risk Establishes risk management framework Reviews risk management management activities Facilitates implementation and process periodically, GHQWLHV DQG DVVHVVHV ULVN coordination through Risk Champions All Control Functions Legal, Compliance, Implements strategy and actions Provides resources and training to HSE, Quality & Regulatory provide WRWUHDWULVN ZLWKLQ EXVLQHVV DUHD support process independent assurance to management Assigns Risk Owners to lead Prepares Board and Group Risk and Board on assertions of risk exposure WUHDWPHQWDFWLRQV Committee reports based on %XVLQHVV$UHD DQG RWKHU XSGDWHV Assigns Risk Champions to support regular risk register updates Assessment of effectiveness of the risk management process OUR RISK APPETITE The Group operates in global markets with long-term growth potential.
We are pursuing ambitious growth targets and are prepared to accept a certain level of risk to remain competitive and to continue operating in an ever-changing world.
We are very clear about the specific risks our businesses face and the level of risk that we are prepared to accept in each part of our business.
We have put in place robust plans for managing those risks, through elimination, avoidance, sharing or mitigation.
Our approach to each risk varies depending on the circumstances and we accept that, over time, our approach towards each risk might change as our business or the external environment evolves.
During the year, the Board undertook an exercise to evaluate its tolerance for risk, recognising that our appetite for risk varies depending on the category of commercial risk.
Even within categories of risk, our tolerance for risk may vary from one to another.
Our tolerance for each risk is set out opposite in our table of Principal Risks.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 RISK REPORT Our Principal Risks Our risk management programme has identified a broad range of risks which we believe could seriously impact the profitability or future prospects of the Company.
We define our Principal Risks as those risks which could threaten our business model or the future long-term performance, solvency or liquidity of the Company.
These are listed below and each is linked to one or more of our Strategic Priorities as detailed below.
PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT Our success depends on governments providing adequate funding to meet increasing demands arising from demographic trends.
The prices we charge are therefore impacted by budgetary constraints and our ability to persuade governments of the economic value of our products, based on clinical data, cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
In implementing innovative pricing strategies, we have a moderate to high tolerance for risk and are willing to accept certain risks in pursuit of new business opportunities.
Link to strategy Actions taken by management Our Strategic Priorities to Build a Strong Position in Established Markets and to Developing innovative economic product and service solutions for both Established and Emerging Markets, Focus on Emerging Markets depends on our ability to sell our products profitably VXFKDV 6 QFHUD in spite of increased pricing pressures from governments.
Maintaining an appropriate breadth of portfolio and geographic spread to mitigate exposure to localised risks.
Examples of risks Incorporating health economic components into the Reduced reimbursement levels and increasing pricing pressures.
design and development of new products.
Emphasising YDOXH SURSRVLWLRQV WDLORUHG WR VSHFLF VWDNHKROGHUV Reduced demand for elective surgery.
and geographies through strategic investment and Lack of compelling health economics data to support marketing programmes.
Holding prices within acceptable ranges through global Trading margin will be impacted when the currencies in our main pricing corridors.
manufacturing countries US, UK, Costa Rica and China move against WKHFXUUHQFLHV LQ WKH UHVW RI WKH ZRUOG ZKHUH RXU SURGXFWV DUH VROG PRODUCT INNOVATION, DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT The medical devices industry has a history of rapid new product innovation.
The sustainability of our business depends on finding and developing suitable products and solutions to meet the needs of our customers and patients to support long-term growth.
In acquiring and developing new technologies and products, we have a moderate to high tolerance for risk and are willing to accept certain risks in pursuit of innovation, whilst having a very low tolerance for product safety risk.
Link to strategy Actions taken by management Our Strategic Priority to Innovate for Value depends heavily on our ability to R&D processes focused on identifying new products and potentially disruptive technologies and solutions.
continue to develop new innovative products and bring them to market.
Increasing prioritisation and allocation of funds for R&D.
Examples of risks Pursuing business development opportunities, which augment our portfolio.
QVXIFLHQW LQQRYDWLRQ GXH WR ORZ 5 ' LQYHVWPHQW 5 ' VNLOOV JDS RU SRRU, PSOHPHQWLQJ HIFLHQW SURFHVVHV WR UROO RXW QHZ SURGXFWV product development execution.
Competitors introduce disruptive technologies or business models.
Monitoring of external market trends and collation of Inability to prioritise and focus on key projects, investments and customer insights to develop product strategies.
Ensuring that design for manufacture is embedded into product development.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 44 RISK REPORT OPERATIONAL RISKS QUALITY AND BUSINESS CONTINUITY The Company faces a number of operational risks.
Many of our products are implanted or used within the human body.
Product safety and quality is therefore of critical importance.
Our business also depends on smart procurement of materials, efficient manufacturing, controlled inventory management and the timely supply of our products to our customers.
Some of our key products are reliant on one production facility or one supplier for raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
In operating our business, managing our suppliers, and managing our facilities, we have a very low tolerance for risk.
We aim to be as efficient as possible and adopt a cautious approach, but recognise that we need to accept certain risks in order to take full advantage of the opportunities open to us.
The Company implements and certifies its Quality Management Systems to accepted national and international standards in order to assure the quality of our products.
To manage our exposure to disruptive incidents that could threaten business continuity, we operate a comprehensive framework of emergency management, incident management and business continuity management.
Link to strategy Actions taken by management Our Strategic Priority to Simplify and Improve our Business Model requires us to Ensuring that we have comprehensive product quality processes and controls from design to customer supply.
operate effectively and efficiently, to produce products of quality and to ensure continuity of supply of products and services to customers.
Ensuring emergency and incident management and business recovery plans are in place at major facilities and for key products and key suppliers.
Examples of risks Validating second sources for critical components Defects in design or manufacturing of products supplied to, and sold or products.
by, the Company could lead to product recalls or product removal or Undertaking risk based review programmes for UHVXOW LQ ORVV RI OLIH RU PDMRU LQMXU DQG DOVR FDXVH QHJDWLYH QDQFLDO critical suppliers.
DQGUHSXWDWLRQDO LPSDFWV Enhancing travel security and protection programme.
Failure or performance issues at a critical single source facility or supplier RI NH SURGXFWV RU VHUYLFHV PD LPSDFW UHYHQXHV RU SURWV If a key facility were rendered unusable by a catastrophe, or we lost a number of leaders or employees in a catastrophe, business plans and targets may not be met.
MERGERS AND ACQUISITIONS As the Company grows to meet the needs of our customers and patients, we recognise that we are not able to develop all the products and services required using internal resources and therefore need to undertake mergers and acquisitions in order to expand our offering and to complement our existing business.
In other areas, we may divest businesses which are no longer core to our activities.
It is crucial for our long term success that we make the right choices around acquisitions and divestments.
In acquiring new businesses and business models, we have a moderate to high tolerance for commercial risk and are willing to accept certain risks in pursuit of new business.
However, we have an extremely low tolerance for regulatory or compliance risk.
We have a well-defined cross-functional process for managing risks associated with mergers and acquisitions that is subject to scrutiny from executive management and the Board of Directors.
Link to strategy Actions taken by management Our Strategic Priority to Supplement Organic Growth with Acquisitions depends Acquisition activity is aligned with corporate strategy and prioritised towards products, franchises and markets on our ability to identify the right acquisitions, to conduct thorough due diligence LGHQWLHG WR KDYH WKH JUHDWHVW ORQJ WHUP SRWHQWLDO and to integrate acquisitions effectively.
&OHDUO GHQHG LQYHVWPHQW DSSUDLVDO SURFHVV EDVHG on return on capital, in accordance with Capital Examples of risks Allocation Framework.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisitions or to conduct effective Undertaking detailed and comprehensive cross-functional acquisition due diligence.
due diligence prior to acquisitions.
Failure to integrate newly acquired businesses effectively.
Implementing consistent integration processes designed to identify and mitigate risks in the early stages Inheriting regulatory or compliance risks from previous owners.
DLOXUH WR HPEHG &RPSDQ VWDQGDUGV SROLFLHV DQG QDQFLDO FRQWUROV Early embedding of our desired standards of compliance quickly enough following acquisition.
with laws, internal policies and controls.
Failure to allocate capital resources effectively.
Proactively clearing new products from competitive patents and monitoring.
Compliance risks included as part of due diligence reviews, integration plans and reporting for acquisitions.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 RISK REPORT LEGAL, REGULATORY AND COMPLIANCE RISKS The Company operates in an industry which is subject to heavy regulation in multiple jurisdictions.
There is increasing public scrutiny of ethics in business and doing the right thing has become part of our licence to operate.
We also seek to secure appropriate protection for our intellectual property and defend against claims of infringement by others.
National regulatory authorities enforce a complex pattern of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products and may inspect them for compliance with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality Management Systems or Good Manufacturing Practice regulations.
In complying with laws and regulations, including those relating to bribery and corruption, product safety and patient and employee safety, we have an extremely low tolerance for risk.
Despite our efforts, we recognise that, as in any human system, compliance mistakes may occur.
We respond to issues as they arise and revise our programme as appropriate.
Link to strategy Actions taken by management Compliance with applicable laws and regulations and doing the right thing is part of our Leadership from the top with Ethics & Compliance Committees at Board and executive level licence to operate and underlies all our Strategic Priorities.
overseeing our ethical and compliance practices.
All employees are required to certify compliance Examples of risks on an annual basis with our Code of Conduct and Business Principles.
Failure to act in an ethical manner consistent with our Code of Conduct.
Training programmes are in place for all Violation of anti-corruption or healthcare laws, breach by employee or third employees, and third parties with ethical and party representative.
compliance responsibilities: plus monitoring and Competitors may assert patents or other intellectual property rights against the auditing programmes to verify implementation.
Company, or fail to respect the Companys intellectual property rights.
&RQGHQWLDO LQGHSHQGHQW UHSRUWLQJ FKDQQHOV IRU 6LJQLFDQW QRQ FRPSOLDQFH ZLWK SROLF UHJXODWLRQV RU VWDQGDUGV JRYHUQLQJ employees and third parties to report concerns.
products and operations regarding registration, manufacturing, distribution, sales Careful attention to intellectual or marketing.
Failure to obtain proper approvals for new or changed technologies, products Standardising and monitoring compliance with or processes.
quality management and practices through Failure to implement programmes and supporting resources to ensure product Global Quality Assurance and Regulatory quality and regulatory compliance, including analysis of customer complaints and Affairs organisation.
Incident management teams in place to respond in the event of an incident relating to patient safety.
Reviewing product safety and complaint data.
OTHER RISKS Other risks, foreseen or unforeseen, may also threaten the profitability or future prospects of the Company, either in the short-term or like the risks set forth above more profoundly.
Following, are examples of other such risks.
Risk Response Cyber security We have analysed the possible impact of a cyber security attack on the Company and recognise that this could cause significant disruption and reputational damage.
Political and We have analysed the implications of Brexit, the changing political landscape in the US and political and economic economic forces conditions in a number of other countries.
Whilst the changing environment in some of these countries could be expected to impact our revenues and profits, we believe that our business is sufficiently geographically diverse.
Talent management We recognise that people management, effective succession planning and the ability to attract and retain talent is of great importance to the success of our Company.
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 46 RISK REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES IN 2016 The Board and its Committees undertook a number of risk management activities throughout the year as follows: IDENTIFICATION OF RISKS ASSESSMENT OF MANAGEMENT ACTIONS We review risk through two processes: The effectiveness of actions undertaken by management to address the key risks identified is assessed in a number of ways: The bottom-up process undertaken by the Risk Champions in the business areas and functions across the Group to identify The Risk Champions in the business areas and functions across and manage the risks in their areas: and the Group assess the effectiveness of mitigating actions being undertaken locally and regionally: The top-down process undertaken by the members of the executive committee to identify the key risks to the strategic All control functions provide independent assurance to priorities, top products and product platforms.
management, the Audit Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of management actions and the Internal Audit During the year, the key risks identified through these two processes function periodically reviews the risk management process: and were mapped against each other and regrouped to produce a revised We have undertaken a number of deep dives at Board and schedule of Significant Risks, which were discussed at the Strategy Committee level into the management of the risks being Review in September.
Each Board member was then interviewed to examined see below.
ascertain tolerance for each principal risk.
DEEP DIVES INTO RISKS We have reviewed at the Board and its Committees a number of different topics during the year relating to risk, including the following areas: Strategic: R&D presentation to the Board, hands on demonstrations of innovative products at site visits, presentations to the Board DQGWKH $XGLW&RPPLWWHH RQ &KLQD DQG WKH XOI Operational: Presentations to the Board on inventory and the supply chain, the manufacturing network and dependency on single manufacturing sites, regular reports on quality issues, and complaints to the Ethics & Compliance Committee, pricing and commercial excellence presentation to the Board Financial: Presentations to the Audit Committee on the tax and treasury functions IT cyber: Report to the Audit Committee on IT and cyber security Compliance and legal: Regular reports on compliance matters and risks to the Ethics & Compliance Committee, covering M&A FRPSOLDQFH ULVN DQGWKLUG SDUW GLVWULEXWRUV UHJXODU OHJDO UHSRUWV WR WKH %RDUG LQFOXGLQJ XSGDWHV RQ LQWHOOHFWXDO SURSHUW DQG OLWLJDWLRQ Talent management: Annual discussion on succession planning at the Board, presentation on culture and values at the Strategy Review.
SINCE THE YEAR END In February 2017, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management process, considering the Principal Risks, actions taken by management to manage those risks and the Boards risk appetite in respect of each risk.
The Board considered that the risk management process was effective.
We recognise that this is an ongoing process and work will continue in 2017 and beyond to ensure that this remains the case.
RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR 2017 In 2017, we shall be further developing our approach of looking at risk management through a product focused lens.
We have identified the key products which will drive our multi-year strategic plan and have formed cross functional risk working groups for each of these products and product platforms.
Each risk working group consists of members from the commercial, operational, R&D and risk functions and is headed by a senior product risk leader.
The risk working groups will evaluate all the risks which could impact the product or product platform through its life from design and development, sourcing of raw materials, the manufacturing process, product launch, marketing, commercialisation, regulatory, legal and compliance risks.
The risk working groups will also ensure that appropriate treatment actions are in place.
The Risk Champions will continue their work to ensure that any non-product related risks continue to be appropriately identified and managed.
Further work will also be undertaken in reviewing the effectiveness RI WKH ULVNPDQDJHPHQW SURJUDPPH SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 RISK REPORT Our Viability Statement During the year, the Board has carried out VLJQLFDQW ULVNV ZKLFK WKH EHOLHYHG We have carried out a scenario analysis a robust assessment of the Principal Risks FRXOG VHULRXVO LPSDFW WKH SURWDELOLW RI WKHVH SULQFLSDO DQG VLJQLFDQW ULVNV affecting the Company, particularly those and future prospects of the Company to evaluate the impact of a severe which could threaten the business model.
and the principal risks that would but plausible combination of these These risks and the actions being taken to threaten its business model, future risks actually occurring over the three manage or mitigate them are explained in performance, solvency or liquidity.
detail on pages 43 to 46 of this Annual Report.
For the purpose of stress testing the We have considered and discussed a viability of the Company, we have report setting out the terms of our current Having assessed the principal risks, the Board undertaken a robust assessment of the QDQFLQJ DUUDQJHPHQWV DQG SRWHQWLDO has determined that we have a reasonable principal risks and some other risks, FDSDFLW IRU DGGLWLRQDO QDQFLQJ VKRXOG expectation that the Company will be able to which could threaten the viability or this be required in the event of one of the continue in operation and meet its liabilities as existence of the Company.
The principal scenarios modelled occurring.
they fall due over a period of three years from DQG RWKHU ULVNV ZH KDYH LGHQWLHG LQ 1 January 2017.
In our long term planning we :H DUH VDWLVHG WKDW ZH KDYH UREXVW WKLVSURFHVV DUH consider horizons of both five and ten years.
mitigating actions in place as detailed on However, as most of our efforts are focused Pricing and reimbursement pressures pages 43-46 of this Annual Report.
on the coming three years, we have chosen or currency exchange volatility We recognise, however, that the longthis period when considering our viability.
Principal Risk leading to a major term viability of the Company could ORVV RI UHYHQXHV DQG SURWV also be impacted by other, as yet In reaching this conclusion, we have Operational risk Principal Risk : unforeseen, risks or that the mitigating undertaken the following process: actions we have put in place could turn Execution risk meaning that we The Audit Committee reviewed the risk out to be less effective than intended.
were unable to launch new products management process at their meetings Based on this analysis, the Directors DQG ORVH VLJQLFDQW PDUNHW VKDUH WR in February, July and November, have a reasonable expectation that the the competition: receiving presentations from the Company will be able to continue in Group Risk function, explaining the Product liability claims giving rise operation and meet its liabilities as they processes followed by management in WR VLJQLFDQW FODLPV DQG OHJDO IHHV fall due over the three-year period of identifying and managing risk throughout or their assessment.
Temporary loss of key production Our conclusion is based on our current capability meaning that we were As part of the annual Strategy Review in Strategic Plan approved by the Board in unable to manufacture a key product September, the Board considered and September 2016, having regard to longer-term for a period of time: discussed the principal risks which could strategic intentions, yet to be formulated in impact the business model over the Legal regulatory and compliance risks detail.
However, we operate in a changing next three years and discussed with the Principal Risk : marketplace, which might cause us to adapt management team how these risks were Regulatory measures impacting our Strategic Plans.
In responding to changing being managed and mitigated.
our ability to continue to sell a external conditions, we will continue to Throughout the year, a number of deep key product: evaluate any additional risks involved which dives into different risks were conducted might impact the business model.
Bribery and corruption claims by the Board, the Audit Committee and JLYLQJ ULVH WR D VLJQLFDQW QH By order of the Board, 22 February 2017 the Ethics & Compliance Committee Other risks: looking into the nature of the risks and Cyber security for example how they were mitigated, as detailed on meaning that we were unable to page 46 of this Annual Report.
issue invoices or collect money for a Towards the end of the year, a series of Susan Swabey period of time: detailed one-to one discussions were Company Secretary Political and economic forces for held with each member of the Board and example political upheaval, which the Company Secretary and the Group could cause us to withdraw from a Risk Director.
In these discussions, the major market for a period of time: Directors were asked to consider the
