Principal risks and uncertainties Smiths Group is exposed to a wide range of risks in running its businesses.
We regularly review these risks and ensure we have theappropriate processes and policies in place tomanagethem.
Viability statement In accordance with the requirements In making this viability assessment, on the Groups future performance and ofthe 2014 revision of the UK Corporate thedirectors have considered the current liquidity.
The assessment included stress Governance Code, the directors have financial position and prospects of the testing of the Groups financial capacity to assessed the longer-term prospects of Group, including the current year business absorb the impact of such adverse events, the Group, taking into account the current performance, the detailed budget for 2017 either individually or in combination, and position of the Group and a range of and the Strategic Plan.
Against these what mitigating actions the Group could internal and external factors, including the financial projections the directors took into take to respond to them in order to protect principal risks detailed on pages 55 to 60 account the principal risks as outlined on its business.
The directors also considered theviability assessment.
pages 55 to 60 to develop a set of plausible the Groups ability to raise additional scenarios with potentially high-impact liquidity.
In performing this assessment The directors have determined that a outcomes including: the directors have taken comfort from the three-year period to 31 July 2019 is an diversity of the Groups businesses across appropriate time frame for the viability Product liability and litigation: different markets, industries, geographies, assessment.
The selected period is Product liability and programme delivery: products and customers.
considered to be appropriate as, based on the historic performance of the Group, Supply chain disruption and business Based on the robust assessment, a three-year outlook represents an continuity: the directors confirm that they have a optimum balance of long-term projection reasonable expectation the Group will Fraud and corruption: and acceptable forecasting accuracy.
remain viable for the period being assessed This time period also takes into account Compliance with laws and regulations.
and will continue to operate and meet its considerations such as the maturity of liabilities as they fall due.
The directors Consideration was then given to the the Groups borrowing facilities and the have no reason to doubt that the Group will magnitude of the gross risks and their cyclicality of the performance of the Groups continue in business beyond the period potential impact, directly or indirectly, underlying markets.
Introduction Risk governance risk management processes, assesses The Group operates in global markets.
The Board and its committees set the tone the effectiveness of internal controls and In pursuing growth targets and strategic at the top and approve the strategy of the identifies areas for improvement.
objectives we are prepared to accept business.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit The Executive Committee is responsible certain levels of risk.
We are very clear Committee is responsible for reviewing for designing the system of internal control about the specific risks faced by our and assessing the effectiveness of the and risk management, and ensuring it is in businesses and have robust actions Groups risk management policies and place and effectively deployed throughout inplace to manage them.
Our approach processes, and the effectiveness of internal the business.
It is responsible for ensuring to each risk will vary over time and will controls.
The review covers all material the risk appetite of the Board is understood depend on changing circumstances controls, including financial, operational by risk owners and decision makers in .
and compliance controls, as well as the the business.
It is also responsible for Groupsprincipal risks.
conducting an annual assessment of The Board ensures appropriate oversight strategic risk.
and monitoring through a number of Board Divisional and functional teams are processes strategy reviews, disclosures, responsible for the day-to-day management Committee meetings, management reports and reporting of risks.
They will identify and deep dives of selected risk areas.
new and emerging risks, ensure they are The Board is supported with input from escalated where appropriate and take action a number of functions.
Internal Audit is to manage risks as required.
one of them and facilitates the Groups Tone at the top Design the system Complete risk reviews Set the strategy Board and Executive Divisional and Audit Committee Committee Functional Teams Review and assess risk Identify and assess Management of risk management processes strategic and risk registers operationalrisks 52 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Regulators How we manage risks Running any business involves constant risk management.
It is an integral and often implicit part of day-to-day operations.
For the purposes of review and assessment we draw out the principal risks and uncertainties using the Enterprise-wide RiskManagement ERM process.
The three lines of defence approach is an industry-recognised best practice model supporting ERM and an effective controls framework.
It can help increase clarity regarding roles and responsibilities and improve the effectiveness of risk management systems.
It is a model we have adopted.
Board Audit Committee Tone at the top Setting the strategy Ensuring sound system of internal control is in place Reviewing effectiveness of Groups risk management system and internal control Monitoring through Board processes Executive Committee and senior management Designing and establishing the risk management system and internal control Ensuring risk appetite of the Board is understood by decision makers Ensuring risks are adequately managed First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Operational teams Risk and compliance Internal audit Establish and apply internal Financial controls Internal audit controls systems Risk management Internal controls assurance Document and conform to Security Programme assurance policies and procedures Quality IT assurance Understand roles and Compliance Fraud risk management responsibilities Monitoring Follow risk process Functions that own and Functions that oversee risks Functions that provide manage risks independent assurance Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 53 e M t a a u n l a a g v e E Principal risks and uncertainties Continued In delivering our strategy it is important In an enhancement of the process during This enhanced process provides a to understand and manage the risks that 2016, risk management papers have been framework such that the Groups strategic, face us.
We achieve this through our ERM presented at four Executive Committee financial and operational risks are approach which has been built to identify, meetings two in 2015 with two of the adequately considered by the Executive evaluate, analyse and manage risks which sessions facilitated by the Director of Committee and the Board.
threaten the successful achievement of our Internal Audit.
As part of this focus during The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of business strategy and objectives.
the year a clean sheet of paper approach the risk management process, considering was adopted in order to identify and assess We do this by combining a top-down the principal risks and uncertainties, actions strategic business risks, with time dedicated strategic view of risks driven by the Executive taken by management to manage those to identifying and discussing emerging risks.
Committee with a bottom-up divisional risks and the Boards risk appetite in respect process of identifying and managing risks.
Our bottom-up approach is driven by each of each risk.
The Board considers the The process is continuous and is reflected of our divisions.
They each operate their risk management process to be effective.
own risk management process, in line with Itrecognises this is an ongoing process Group guidelines, in order to manage risks and work will continue in 2017 to ensure specific to each business.
This is an integral itremains the case.
part of the Group ERM process.
The principal risks we have identified Another enhancement of the risk We maintain a detailed register of principal management process was an additional risks and uncertainties covering strategic, Audit Committee meeting, held during May operational, financial and compliance Enterprise-wide 2016, with a principal focus on reviewing all risks.
We rate them according to likelihood risk management divisional and corporate risk in one session.
of occurrence and their potential impact.
This gave members of the Audit Committee In2016 we have begun to rate the velocity the opportunity to assess the effectiveness of each risk.
This measure is intended to of risk management processes, as well reflect the time we would have to react as strategic business risks and mitigating toa risk were it to materialise.
In addition to the regular attendees of tothe right we provide a summary of each the Audit Committee, the CEO also attended.
risk, a description of the potential impact and a summary of mitigating actions.
We In addition to the Audit Committee meeting also provide ratings describing the potential held in May to consider risk, principal impact, the trend versus 2015 and the Our top-down approach involves a review of risks and uncertainties were reviewed and velocity of each risk.
the internal and external environment, and discussed at the March and July 2016 Audit an assessment by the Executive Committee Committee meetings.
The Chief Executive of the principal risks that face the Group.
now attends Audit Committee meetings.
2016 Highlights Audit Committee Executive Committee An additional Audit Committee meeting Facilitated risk sessions at two in May 2016 with the primary focus of Executive Committee meetings reviewing all divisional risk registers cleansheet of paper approach attended by all divisional presidents to ensure principal risks document and Chief Information Officer accurately reflects the strategic risks of the business, and emerging risks Attendance by the Chief Executive areunderstood and managed at all Audit Committee meetings Executive Committee meeting sessionsdedicated to reviewing specificprincipal risks Compliance Risk Management Process Requirements of the Financial Velocity of principal risks now captured Reporting Council FRC changes to the high-velocity risks leave us little time corporate governance code reviewed, to react understood and addressed Use of multiple measures for the Annual Letter of Assurance potential impact of a risk reflecting certification on compliance with policies different types of risk facing the from the divisional executives to the business eg market value, profit, Chief Executive extended to include the Health & Safety andreputational topic of risk management.
Certification also extended to functional heads 54 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 y A f i n t a n l y e s d e I Strategic report Governance Accounts Our principal risks as assessed by the Board Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Economic outlook and geopolitical environment Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation High Global economic and financial market conditions have stabilised after The Group has a diversified portfolio of the turmoil following the 2008 financial crisis, in large part due to businesses that mitigates exposure to any the various impacts of quantitative easing and austerity measures.
Trend However, there remains continued uncertainty arising from a range of The divisions regularly monitor their order No change geopolitical and economic issues across the world.
Smiths operates in flows and other leading indicators, where more than 50 countries and is affected by global economic and political available, so that they may respond quickly conditions.
The business is affected by government spending priorities, to deteriorating trading conditions.
Velocity in particular in the US and UK, and the willingness of governments to Medium commit substantial resources to homeland security and defence.
Maintaining our competitiveness and continually improving our product offering The change in the leadership of the UK government and the upcoming for our customers ensures we remain US presidential election are two notable events that are likely to have an resilient and well placed to take advantage impact on the economic and political conditions in which we operate.
Global security concerns continue to drive uncertainty.
These include the continuing situation in Syria and the Middle East and events in Ukraine that have led to economic and political sanctions against Russia and the devaluation of the Russian rouble.
With the UK referendum result we will see uncertainty in the UK, Eurozone and elsewhere as the economic and political relationship between the UK and EU is determined.
The global oil price continues to trade at levels well below the average of the past few years which impacts the medium-term capital expenditure plans of a number of our customers, predominantly within the John Crane division.
Compliance with legislation and regulations Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to medium There is a risk that the Group may not always be in complete Environmental, health and safety data compliance with laws, regulations or permits, for example concerning are reported to the Executive Committee environmental or safety requirements worldwide.
The Group could be and the Board, along with actions to Trend held responsible for liabilities and consequences arising from past or improveperformance.
No change future environmental damage, including potentially significant remedial Smiths Medical has dedicated staff who costs.
There can also be no assurance that any provisions for expected maintain close contact with the US Food environmental liabilities and remediation costs will adequately cover and Drug Administration and other Velocity these liabilities or costs.
High The Group operates in highly regulated sectors.
Smiths Detection, All divisions have ethics and trade Smiths Interconnect and Smiths Medical are particularly subject to compliance training and access to advice.
regulation, with certain customers, regulators or other enforcement This includes training on the Groups Code bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, processes of Business Ethics and assessments to andpremises.
Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect manufacture security Divisional and Group General Counsel products and components, which are subject to numerous export monitor legislative changes assisted by controls, technology licensing and other government regulations.
Government Relations staff and report and In addition, new legislation, regulations or certification requirements may monitor actions as necessary.
This may require additional expense, restrict commercial flexibility and business require modifications to our supply chains strategies or introduce additional liabilities for the Company or directors.
Should a regulators approval process take a particularly long time, our products may be delayed in getting to market, which could lead to a loss of revenue or benefit a competitor with a similar product.
Fraud or corruption on the part of a single employee could have severe consequences for the Group.
Failure to comply with certain regulations may result in significant financial penalties, debarment from government contracts and or reputational damage.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 55 Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Risks caused by uncontrollable external factors Pension funding Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low At 31 July 2016, the Group has legacy defined benefit pension plans, All major schemes US UK have been with aggregate liabilities of approximately 4.1bn on an accounting closed to new members and future accrual.
basis, with 2016 returning accounting funding to a surplus of 0.2bn.
Agreed funding plans are in place with Trend Changes in discount rates, inflation, asset returns or mortality the major UK schemes following the last Reduced assumptions could lead to a materially higher deficit.
The Group seeks a good the cost of a buyout on a discontinued basis, and therefore using more working relationship with the Trustees conservative assumptions, is likely to be significantly higher than the through regular update meetings.
In addition, there is a risk that the plans assets, Low Pension matters are regularly reported suchas investments in equity and debt securities, will not be sufficient tothe Board.
to cover the value ofthosebenefits.
The investment strategies of the three The implications of a worsening position include a direct impact on main plans UK and US are well hedged theGroups valuation and credit rating, and potential additional funding against changes in interest rate and requirements at subsequent triennial reviews.
inflation movements which has stabilised the overall funded position.
Read more in note 8 on page 155 Financial risks foreign exchange, funding, tax and insurance Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low to medium Exchange rate fluctuations have had, and could continue to have, The Groups hedging strategy, whereby amaterial impact on the reported results.
The Group is exposed to larger transactions are hedge accounted, two types of currency risk: transaction and translation.
The Groups mitigates the risk to profitability to some Trend reported results will fluctuate as average exchange rates change.
Net investment hedging of overseas No change TheGroups reported net assets will fluctuate as the year-end assets of approximately 50%, through exchangeratechanges.
borrowing in non-sterling currencies, mitigates the impact of exchange rate The Groups ability to refinance its borrowings in the bank or capital Velocity fluctuations on net assets.
markets is dependent on market conditions and the proper functioning Low of financial markets.
The Group may be unable to refinance its debt The Groups debt maturity is staggered so when due.
that the refinancing risk is minimised.
As at 31 July 2016, the US$800m committed The Groups future profitability, particularly in the US where there revolving credit facility was undrawn.
arehigher rates of corporation tax, may cause the headline tax rate to increase over time.
Changes in tax and fiscal regulations and transfer The Groups taxation staff co-ordinate tax pricing rules in the countries in which we operate could affect the management to mitigate possible increases Group, particularly at times when public sector debt is high.
Taxation in the effective tax rate.
Regular reporting costs could rise and earnings per share could deteriorate, which could to the Board of tax risks and exposures affect the Groups market valuation.
provides good visibility of issues.
The Group cannot be certain that it will be able to obtain insurance on Insurance risk is spread across a number acceptable terms or at all.
Furthermore, the Group cannot be certain ofcarriers to minimise individual insured that its insurance will cover losses arising from events or that insurers risk and counterparty risk.
In addition, even if our coverage is sufficient, Read more on page 29 the insurance industry is subject to credit risk, particularly in the event of a catastrophe or where an insurer has substantial exposure to a specific risk.
If insurance cover is inadequate or does not pay out as expected, the Group could be exposed to an unexpected material cash outflow, which may impact the Groups liquidity and or share price.
56 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Business challenges thematic risks Product liability and litigation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium In the ordinary course of its business, the Group is subject to litigation Quality assurance processes are embedded such as product liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class in our manufacturing locations for critical actions, alleging that the Groups products have resulted or could result equipment, supporting compliance with Trend in an unsafe condition or injury.
No change In addition, manufacturing flaws, component failures or design A global best practice programme is defectscould require us to recall products.
Many of our products are continuing to enhance product quality used in critical applications where the consequences of a failure could processes across the Group.
This is Velocity be extremely serious and, in some cases, potentially catastrophic.
sponsored by the Executive Committee High and leverages the ongoing work in Smiths Products sold to the aviation, security, healthcare, energy and Medical and John Crane.
consumer domestic industries are critical products, where the consequences of failure could be particularly severe.
The divisions have procedures for dealing with product liability issues and potential Furthermore, over half the Groups sales are in the US, where there product recalls.
These procedures are ispotentially increased litigation risk.
informed by crisis management planning Any liability claim against the Group, with or without merit, could workshops and rehearsals.
be costly to defend and could increase our insurance premiums.
The Group has insurance cover for certain Some claims might not be covered by our insurance policies, product liability risks.
The US Safety Act eitheradequatelyor at all.
provides legislative protection for certain An adverse event involving one of our products could damage Smiths Detection products in the US: and ourreputation and reduce market acceptance and demand for we support efforts to implement similar allofourproducts.
Any litigation is managed under the supervision of the Groups legal function.
We have detailed action plans to manage actual or threatened litigation.
Read more on page 30 and in note 22 on page 178 Supply chain disruption and business continuity Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The Groups business depends on the availability and timely delivery Business continuity and disaster recovery ofraw materials and purchased components, and could be affected plans are in place and tested for critical bya disruption to its supply chain.
In particular, we rely on sole suppliers locations, to reduce the impact of an event.
Trend toprovide raw materials or components for some of our products.
Single-source supplier risks are identified No change The Groups manufacturing facilities are exposed to a number of and, where possible, key materials or natural catastrophe risks that, like other external events such as components are dual sourced to mitigate terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic, could have significant adverse the impact of an event.
The Group is also affected by the social, economic, Medium The Group regularly evaluates its key sites regulatory and political conditions in the countries in which it operates.
for a range of risk factors using externally These are often unpredictable and outside the Groups control, benchmarked assessments, and takes particularly in developing countries.
action to improve these ratings where The concentration of manufacturing in lower cost countries, in appropriate.
particular in Mexico and China, increases the length of the supply The Group has business interruption chain and means that an adverse event could have more significant andproperty damage insurance.
consequences for our ability to supply customers on time.
A longer supply chain also affects transport costs, which could be exacerbated byenergy cost inflation.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 57 Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Business challenges thematic risks Government customers Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium We derive a significant proportion of our revenues in mature Western The Group has a diversified portfolio economies with a notable element directly related to government of businesses that mitigates exposure expenditure.
Additionally, a high proportion of our products and services toanyone country or sector.
Trend are in some way influenced by government regulation and certification.
Some of our government-related business No change Smiths Detection, Smiths Medical and Smiths Interconnect frequently has a services or consumables component, tender for government contracts.
The timing of contract awards and which can be more resilient during an payments under these contracts may be uncertain and uneven over economic downturn.
Medium The Group has a Government Relations Any significant disruption or deterioration in relationship with these function so that it can inform policy and governments could result in fewer contracts and lower revenues.
maintain close relationships with customers.
At a time when government finances are under pressure, these headwinds may lead to slower growth across the business.
A decrease in spending by key government customers could materially affect the Groups results and financial condition.
Delays in awarding government contracts can affect the Groups sales, margins and cash conversion in a particular reporting period.
Technology and innovation Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Developing new products and improving existing products is critical The Group has a diversified technology to our business.
There is a risk that competitors may innovate more portfolio in a range of sectors and effectively.
The emergence of a disruptive technology could have an geographies.
Trend impact on a major cash-flow contributor to the Group over time.
Our continued investment in R&D supports No change The speed of innovation in certain markets may lead to shorter product new product and service development.
lifecycles, increasing the need for innovation.
Additionally, the entry of The Group looks to expand the addressable new competitors, the consolidation of existing competitors and changed Velocity markets of its key businesses by building or irrational competitor behaviour could significantly affect the Groups Medium capabilities in adjacent markets, through business.
organic investment and through targeted The failure of the Group to develop its products and services, or more acquisitions.
effective innovation by a competitor, could have a materially adverse effect on sales growth.
Talent and succession planning Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium The loss of key personnel, or the failure to plan adequately for Each division or function holds talent succession or develop new talent may impact the reputation of and succession plan reviews at least theGroup, or lead to a disruption in the leadership of the business.
These plans are reviewed Trend .
Competition for personnel is intense and the Group may not be Reduced successful in attracting or retaining qualified personnel, particularly Remuneration packages, including engineering professionals.
In addition, certain personnel may be variable and long-term elements of the required to receive security clearance and substantial training to work compensation arrangements, are evaluated Velocity on certain programmes.
The loss of key employees, the Groups inability regularly against market practice.
Low to attract new or adequately trained employees, or a delay in hiring key The Chief Executive assesses, on an annual personnel, could seriously harm the Groups business.
basis, the Top 25 people in the organisation Over time, our competitive advantage is defined by the quality of for performance, skills and competencies ourpeople should we fail to attract, develop and retain key talent, and presents development and succession intime our competitive advantage will erode, leading to weaker plans to the Board.
Leadership development programmes and formal career counselling support the talent pipeline.
Read more on pages 67-69 58 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Business challenges thematic risks Programme delivery Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium Failure to deliver, in a timely fashion or at all, the products and services Contracts are managed and delivered Smiths is obliged to deliver, or any fault in contract execution due to byprogramme management teams that delays or breaches by its suppliers or other counterparties, may lead regularly review contract risks and take Trend tohigher costs, liquidated damages or other penalties.
No change Differences between the estimated costs in the Groups mediumA Group-level procedure for reviewing and andlong-term contracts and actual costs may arise from a number approving high-risk contracts is in place.
offactors including production delays, cost overruns and other items.
Velocity Divisional boards review significant Low Certain of the Groups contracts, particularly those with governments, contracts.
may include terms that provide for unlimited liabilities on the part of The diversified nature of the Group mitigates the Group or allow the government body or counterparty to terminate the exposure to any single contract.
unilaterally, reduce or modify the relevant contracts or seek alternative sources of supply at the Groups expense.
Acquisitions and disposals Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Low Targeted acquisitions and selected disposals form part of the Groups The Executive Committee and Board review growth strategy.
The success of our acquisition strategy depends the acquisition pipeline.
There are monthly on identifying targets, obtaining authorisations and having available reviews by the divisional presidents with Trend financing.
Even if an acquisition is completed, the acquired products and strategy leads for each division.
No change technologies may not be successful or may require significantly greater We perform comprehensive strategic resources and investment than anticipated.
and financial reviews of all opportunities.
The Group may not be able to integrate the businesses that it acquires.
Detailed due diligence, including an Velocity If integration is unsuccessful, anticipated benefits are not realised or assessment of the targets talent and Low trading by acquired businesses falls below expectations, it may be competencies, and integration planning necessary to impair the carrying value of these assets.
is undertaken and reviewed in accordance with Group policy.
The Groups return on capital employed may fall if acquisition hurdle rates are not met.
The Groups financial performance may suffer from The Board only authorises acquisitions after goodwill or other acquisition-related impairment charges.
Insufficient completion of due diligence, and approval allowance for indemnities and warranties given at disposal may affect is subject to meeting the capital allocation our financial position.
and other financial hurdles set by the Board.
The Executive Committee reviews postacquisition performance and integration.
On disposals, the Group seeks to minimise its exposure to indemnities and warranties and any that are provided are reviewed on aregular basis.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 59 Principal risks and uncertainties Continued Business challenges thematic risks Information technology and cyber-security Potential impact Risk and potential impact Mitigation Medium to high The Groups information systems, personnel, facilities and products Oversight by the Board ensures information are subject to security risk.
The Group is dependent on information and cyber-security risks have an ongoing technology systems for both internal and external communications and proactive focus with an integrated Trend and for the day-to-day management of its operations.
No change and sophistication of cyber-security crime is on the rise and some Over the last year, Group capabilities were Groupcompanies operate in sectors where cyber-criminals areactive.
further evolved and Information Technology Any disruption to the information systems could have significant and Product resources and capabilities Velocity adverse consequences on the Groups operations or its ability to trade.
High It could result in the loss of confidential information and intellectual The Group works with advanced technology property, which could affect the Groups competitive position and partners to implement technology causereputational damage.
solutions as well as following .
Compulsory awareness training has been deployed to all employees, alongside a rolling real-life simulation programme which ensure that employees are fully aware of the external threats faced by individuals from attacks such as Phishing ona dailybasis.
The Group also works with external cyber sharing partnerships, sharing best practice and threat information.
60 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Corporate responsibility At the heart of our business is a commitment to doing the right thing: behaving ethically, working safely, reducing our environmental impact, attracting and developing our people and contributing toourcommunities.
Our Code of Business Ethics Our Code of Business Ethics provides 1 2 the framework for our approach and We comply with the law We compete fairly CRfocusareas.
Promoting a culture of responsibility, developing smarter ways of working and attracting the best talent, and delivering operational efficiencies to enhance margins form key elements of our 3 4 values and business strategy, and add We act with integrity in all our We treat suppliers, partners and long-term value for our shareholders business dealings customers properly .
5 6 We treat our co-workers respectfully We contribute to healthy, safe and secure workplaces 7 8 We respect the environment We contribute to our communities 9 10 We participate in relevant public We respect human rights debates 11 12 We have high standards of financial The Code applies to all of us record-keeping and reporting Read more at www.
com responsibility Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 61 Corporate responsibility Continued Why Corporate responsibility CR Our approach also helps us to address Key relationships isimportant to Smiths key trends in our markets, including an As a global technology company operating Many of our products and services benefit increased focus on avoiding bribery and in highly regulated sectors, building the environment and contribute to the safety, corruption, increased competition for talent strong relationships with our employees, health, security and productivity of people in many of the global markets in which customers, governments and their agencies, around the world.
For example, Smiths we operate, focusing more pressure on regulators and suppliers across the globe Detections security scanners play a vital energy and water use, climate change, and iscritical to our long-term success.
role in helping to prevent terror attacks, materials safety, and enhancing our ability Our employees are key to delivering our while John Cranes seals help its customers to recycle waste and products which have strategy and are committed to attracting, to reduce their environmental impact.
reached the end of their useful life.
retaining, developing, engaging and inspiring Similarly, how we do business is critical Here we provide an overview of our approach the best talent.
Further detail on our Strong, long-term customer relationships Conducting our business responsibly approach, CR governance, performance underpin our success.
Many of our products enables us to meet our obligations to our and case studies can be found in our 2016 are developed to meet customers specific stakeholders and delivers real business CRReport, which is available to download needs and our aftermarket services, benefits, creating long-term value for from www.
com especially in Smiths Detection and John shareholders by: Our Code of Business Ethics the Code Crane, help to build customer loyalty and Protecting our reputation and ability Our Code of Business Ethics sets out 12 improve our insight.
togrow broad principles for how we do business, We engage with governments, their based on integrity, honesty, fairness and Helping us to win business from customers agencies and regulators directly through transparency.
It provides the framework for who value strong CR performance our divisions and a centralised Government our policies, programmes and procedures Relations team, as well as working in Enhancing our efficiency for a range of CR issues and is intended to partnership with industry bodies to leverage instil responsible business practices across Enabling our people to work productively, the benefits of scale.
the business, enabling our employees to in a safe and ethical environment make ethical decisions, every time.
We work with a broad range of suppliers Helping us to attract and retain talent, andpartners, such as distributors, across the Our strategic focus areas andencouraging employees to take pride Group and we require them to maintain high We focus on five priority issues: ethics, the in working for us ethical standards comparable to our own environment, health and safety, our people, see pages 63 to 64.
Reducing the risk of incidents and their and the communities in which we operate.
Global Business Ethics Forum Dont let your ethics slip was just one of the sessions at the regional ethics forums hosted in Brazil and China, andan International Trade Compliance Forum in Washington, DC in 2016.
These forums brought together senior executives and managers from across the Group to consider the business and ethical risks of doing business inchallenging business environments, with a particular focus on the individual  of all employees.
These events are all part of a series of interactive learning programmes addressing business and compliance issues in many of the developing or emerging markets in which we operate.
62 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Communication, policies and training We regularly expand and update Ethics communications and training on key compliance areas to address evolving global We believe ethical behaviour is the responsibility of every risks, changes in laws and regulations, and Smiths employee, at every level oftheorganisation.
enforcement trends in jurisdictions around the world.
We also increase the number Our objective is not only to protect the reputation of our company of languages in which training is offered to ensure we reach Smiths employees and to safeguard the investment of our shareholders, but also around the world as we expand.
Our courses to protect the interests of every employee by ensuring he or she include global competition and international has the knowledge and tools necessary for individual legal or trade law, encompassing compliance with national laws governing import and regulatory compliance and ethical decision-making.
export, and applicable embargoes and sanctionprogrammes.
We use frequent, targeted communication and face-to-face training to spread the ethics and compliance message to every Strategy and objectives 2016 Highlights employee.
Following the success of our Our ethics programme is focused on global ethics forums over the past four years continuing to embed the Code and ethicsHeld regional Business Ethics Forums we have held several regional programmes and compliance-related policies through in Brazil and China.
These highlighted in Brazil and China, exploring the individual communication, training and awareness the need for all employees to take ethical responsibility of every employee.
We aim to ensure our responsibility for ethical compliance employees understand our expectations and We also require our suppliers and partners are able to make the right, ethical decision Met with key suppliers to discuss the to uphold our standards.
To support this, Supplier Code of Business Ethics, which every time and to know when to ask for help, we offer online training on Ethics for as well as to ensure compliance with our sets a minimum standard for ethical Third Parties for our agents, distributors operations and behaviours of third parties ethics-related policies and controls and the and external sales representatives.
Our laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in Supplier Code of Business Ethics is available Held an International Trade Compliance which we operate.
externally on the Smiths website and is Forum in Washington, DC to focus on provided to all major suppliers.
The Supplier specific trade compliance risks We continually review and update our Code and our contractual provisions require policies and business controls to mitigate Updated online training courses suppliers to maintain high ethical standards changing areas of risk.
We also review, addressing the Smiths Code of Business in line with our Supplier Code or their own evaluate and update our ethics programme, Ethics and held employee focus sessions comparable ethics programme.
systems and procedures for fostering, to gauge knowledge and understanding monitoring and auditing ethical business Reporting concerns and managing Extended MyVoice global employee conduct.
specific issues engagement survey to offer all employees We encourage employees who have Other focus areas include expanding our an opportunity to assess the effectiveness concerns or queries about the Code to online training, encouraging open discussion of the Smiths Ethics programme raise them with line management, Human of ethical risks with employees at every level Engaged an external data collection agency Resources or their local in-house legal of the organisation, developing additional to assess compliance risks for certain of counsel.
If employees have concerns policies to enhance governance of key our suppliers in high-risk countries they do not feel comfortable discussing risk areas, and continued collaboration with line management or their local HR with Internal Audit, as part of our risk or Legal teams, they can report those management and assurance processes.
concerns through our confidential Ethics Alertline, which is managed by a third party and enables them to report these directly to the Ethics and Compliance function.
Itis available 24 7 via email, the internet and toll-free phone numbers, in every language used by Smiths employees.
All issues are addressed promptly and referred, as required, to relevant internal or external specialists for investigation.
Our non-retaliation policy means that any employee who in good faith reports an act of apparent misconduct or unethical behaviour will not be victimised or treated adversely.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 63 Corporate responsibility Continued Controls on defence sales Priorities for 2017 We seek to ensure that all sales and exports of defence equipment are undertaken Hold regional ethics conferences in in accordance with international trade countries considered a compliance risk regulations and national government exportapproval procedures and regulations, Continue to update our training and such as the International Traffic in Arms compliance programmes in line with Regulation and the Export Administration changing business needs and regulations Regulations in the US.
These laws prohibit Continue to refresh employees online export of certain items to specific countries.
Code of Business Ethics training every The Groups policy is to adhere to all relevant twoyears government guidelines designed to ensure Ensure suppliers understand our ethical that products are not incorporated into standards and requirements to support weapons or other equipment used for the the new Supplier Code of Business Ethics, purposes of terrorism or abuse of human including the prohibition of any abuse rights, with internal controls to ensure of human rights, such as slavery and compliance with these guidelines.
humantrafficking Human rights Continue to ensure ethics messages Smiths seeks to uphold all internationally are received and understood by all recognised human rights wherever employeesworldwide its operations are located.
Within this framework, we do not tolerate the use Refresh our compliance risk assessments ofchild or forced labour at Smiths facilities for all businesses and all regions or those of our suppliers.
The Supplier Expand our positive assurance Code of Business Ethics and contractual programmes for significant risk areas clauses incorporate and implement these prohibitions.
Furthermore, we take all steps reasonably possible to ensure our products are not used to abuse human rights.
This year Smiths produced its first Modern Slavery Statement in line with the UK Modern Slavery Act.
com Creating a supportive safety culture To reduce the risk of injury in the workplace, we promote a positive health and safety culture where employees arent afraid to suggest improvements.
John Cranes facility in Stoney Creek, Canada has redesigned its racking system for raw materials and the associated procedures for handling materials.
While the old system relied on a dedicated forklift to load and unload heavy materials from a cantilever storage rack and move them to the manufacturing line, the new storage system is based on rails and no longer needs a forklift to move materials, minimising the risk to employees.
64 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Compared to our baseline year of 2013, wehave achieved good progress in reducing EHS our environmental metrics with GHG and non-recycled waste reductions already We are committed to achieving excellence in environment, exceeding our five-year goal.
During 2016, health and safety management and performance.
our overall environmental performance continued its long-term improvement trend Our aim is to provide effective leadership in the pursuit with normalised reductions in energy, GHG emissions, and non-recycled waste while ofinjury-free and environmentally responsible workplaces.
Absolute environmental metrics reduced in 2016 with 9% energy, 17% GHG and 5% non-recycled waste.
Health and safety management The Group is committed to protecting, asfaras reasonably practicable, the health and safety of its employees.
Our employees recognise this commitment and workplace Environmental targets 2016 Highlights safety continues to be the highest scoring In 2013, we set new five-year targets for dimension in our Group-wide employee ourenvironmental metrics.
Our targets are Developed new global technical minimum engagement surveys.
to achieve 15% reductions in energy usage, safety standards for serious EHS risks greenhouse gas emissions and waste Our Group-wide activities to reduce Completed formal sustainability generation, and a 10% reduction in water incidents have focused on improving materiality assessments in two divisions usage by 2018, all normalised to revenue our safety culture, behaviours and risk against a baseline of 2013. reduction.
Wecontinue to implement and Reduced injury incident rate to lowest build on these activities and are monitoring historical level Our greenhouse gas GHG emissions them through our Safety Leading Indicator calculation methodology closely follows Environmental performance continued Activities Programme.
We use a safety the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and includes itslong-term improvement trend leading indicator activity score as a KPI, emissions from sources under our control.
Updated our multi-year EHS strategy which is supported by the recordable In addition, the inventory consists of Scope 1 with increased focus on safety culture incident rate RIR.
direct GHG emissions from sources owned andbehaviours or controlled by the company and Scope Health and safety targets 2 GHG emissions from the generation of Our 2016 safety performance metrics were purchased electricity consumed by the the Safety Leading Indicator Activity score, EHS governance and management company emissions.
In 2014, an external RIR and Lost Time Incident Rate LTIR.
Our environmental, health and safety EHS adviser performed a review of our GHG Oursafety leading indicator activities were approach starts with our EHS policy, and is emissions calculation methodology and split between Group-wide and divisionsupported by our EHS strategy, KPIs and prepared a GHG Inventory Management specific activities, which allowed us to goals.
Our divisions have responsibility for Plan that has been used to further align further target the individual improvement EHS matters within their business, and our emissions calculation methodology needs of eachdivision.
adapt the Group EHS strategy to improve with the GHG Protocol.
It was concluded their EHS management and performance.
As part of our strategic plan update and that emissions from vehicles, production benchmarking in 2013, we also revised We believe in continuous improvement processes and fugitive sources are small our safety performance targets.
These anduse management systems to realise and not material compared to our total targets increase our focus on leading itsbenefits.
These systems identify risks and GHG emissions.
Due to the difficult nature indicator activities designed to improve issues, helping sites to prioritise the most of collecting emission data from these safety culture, behaviours and reduce the significant risks.
sources and their immateriality, they have risk of incidents.
Our ultimate goal is zero been excluded from the inventory totals.
EHS strategy harm to employees.
Adopting this aim Themateriality of these sources will We aim to provide injury-free and further emphasises to employees and bereviewed again in the future.
environmentally responsible workplaces other stakeholders how seriously we take in order to protect our employees, Over the past six years, we have significantly our safety performance.
These metrics communities, environment and shareholder reduced our environmental impact with have placed less emphasis on RIR, but we value by effectively managing safety and 21% energy, 38% GHG, 16% water and 25% continue to monitor RIR and the LTIR, and environmental risks.
non-recycled waste reductions, normalised investigate incidents for contributing factors to revenue.
and trends to help focus risk assessments.
We align our EHS KPIs to our strategy, allowing us to assess our progress and form part of our senior management performance assessment.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 65 Corporate responsibility Continued Total energy Total energy efficiency Recordable incident rate 000MWh MWh m revenue Where an employee requires medical attention beyond first aid per 100 employees per year 252,000 MWh 86 MWh m revenue 2016 2522016 862016 0.47 2015 2782015 932015 0.55 2014 2842014 932014 0.50 2013 2802013 922013 0.54 2012 2792012 942012 0.60 Total CO2 emissions Total CO2 emissions Lost time incident rate 000 tonnes Tonnes m revenue Where an employee is unable to work the day after an incident per 100 employees per year 79,000 tonnes 27 tonnes m revenue 2016 79 2016 27 2016 0.14 2015 952015 322015 0.22 2014 1022014 332014 0.22 2013 1042013 342013 0.22 2012 1072012 362012 0.21 Health and safety performance Water use Water consumption 3 3 From 2004 to 2016, we achieved a significant 000m m m revenue reduction in our RIR, improving from 4.6 3 3 428,000m 145 m m revenue to 0.47, achieving our lowest RIR in 2016.
Wealso focus on sites that experience 2016 4282016 145 increased incidents.
This focus has already delivered significant improvements as we 2015 4252015 142 continue to drive world-class standards 2014 4572014 150 across thebusiness.
2013 4562013 150 After several years of a steady LTIR, we 2012 4562012 153 experienced a good reduction in 2016 to 0.14.
Over the past thirteen years, we experienced Total non-recycled waste Total non-recycled waste three occupational fatalities with an 000 tonnes Tonnes m revenue employee at a former facility in Sweden in 4,900 tonnes 1.7 tonnes m revenue 2003, a contractor in Costa Rica in 2007, and an employee in a vehicle accident in 2014.
2016 4.92016 1.7 2015 5.12015 1.7 Priorities for 2017 2014 5.62014 1.8 2013 6.12013 2.0 Implement new global technical minimum 2012 5.82012 2.0 standards to address serious EHS risks Focused leadership and employee training A small number of historical metrics have been revised to support safety culture and behaviours marginally to reflect refinements in monitoring Update safety external benchmarking study to further identify areas of Performance against environmental targets opportunity to support world-class safety Target 2013-18 2016 progress against 2013 Energy 15% reduction 7% reduction Greenhouse gas emissions 15% reduction 22% reduction Total non-recycled waste 15% reduction 18% reduction Water consumption 10% reduction 3% reduction Reduction targets are compared to the 2013 baseline year and normalised to revenue consolidated at 2016 closing exchange rates.
66 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Our MyVoice survey is one valuable tool we use for measuring engagement and People providing insights into our employees experiences and perceptions.
In March, Building a learning organisation that attracts, retains, we conducted our fourth global survey.
develops, engages and inspires the right people with the right We achieved a participation rate of 86% across the Group, and benchmarked results skills is central to our ambition of transforming Smiths into a against global norms for the manufacturing world-class organisation and supporting our growth ambitions.
We will use the data and insights gained from this survey to identify our We believe that people excellence is a strong enabler of globalpriorities for 2017 and beyond.
business growth, and we develop our employees capabilities Leadership sothey can fulfil their potential and help us reach ours.
Our focus on leadership development has delivered enhanced capability in our talent pipeline, through a more rigorous and consistent approach to assessing and developing talent and a greater focus on personal development plans.
We have also As we work to transform Smiths into 2016 Highlights invested significantly in our leadership a world-class organisation, a talented development programmes across the Group and determined workforce, united Conducted a comprehensive MyVoice and continue to add new opportunities to by commercial acumen, an appetite global employee engagement survey ensure our leaders have the skills, insights for innovation, strong leadership and and support to be truly effective.
These a commitment to collaboration and Launched the Smiths Excellence Awards programmes challenge and engage our to showcase and celebrate exceptional inclusion, will be essential to achieving our employees, build their understanding of ambitions.
To support this, we will continue behaviours and achievements across the wider Group, increase their exposure theGroup to develop our  toour senior leaders and enhance their core throughout the organisation to ensure Implemented several new programmes to leadership competencies.
The programmes we have the depth and breadth necessary provide learning and career development will also improve the diversity of candidates, to support growth: deepen our focus on opportunities for our employees especially in the areas of gender, geography, ourtechnological and engineeringexpertise and educational routes.
More than 600 Created additional HR efficiencies in order to drive innovation andmaintain leaders from across the business have to ensure employees get the right our technological leadership: and continue been on or are currently participating information, faster tobuild employee engagement across the intheseprogrammes.
business in response to the global employee engagement survey and ongoing feedback.
Learning and capability Governance We provide a variety of other learning Culture, engagement and communication The Board places a high priority on attracting and training opportunities, ranging from and retaining the right people and the Chief We aspire to have a culture that is engaging, workshops and mentoring to online respectful, fair and diverse, and rooted in Executive is the Board member nominated to resources and internal and external bring these ambitions to life.
He is supported the regular giving and receiving of feedback.
Personal development We recognise our employees contributions by the Group Human Resources Director, planning and identification of training and ateam of Human Resources professionals and growth, and we are proud of both our development needs form a key part of our heritage and our future.
and line managers across the organisation.
annual performance review process and We are on a journey to transform our culture, Strategy and objectives we have implemented a new development We have consistently focused on and to bring greater unity and strength programme for managers that helps across the Smiths divisions.
These efforts strengthening our leadership capabilities them better coach and develop their and talent pipeline at both senior and junior will create more development opportunities employees, maximising the outcomes of for our employees and leaders and bring levels, improving our recruitment and the annual review process through ongoing assessment techniques, succession planning greater strength and recognition of the development conversations and feedback.
and development, enhancing employee We constantly challenge ourselves to have engagement, and transforming our HR Communication, engagement and inclusion the right skills and competencies to support function to provide a strong platform for are at the heart of this journey.
We have our growth ambitions.
We believe this is growth.
We benchmark the effectiveness of reached out to more than 600 employees best achieved through a healthy balance of our processes against world-class standards across 20 countries to hear their feedback recruiting the very best external candidates and put in place year-on-year improvement and insights into what makes Smiths great, to bring fresh approaches and perspectives, plans to help us become best-in-class.
and what we can do to better support while also strengthening our internal talent employees.
We will continue to engage with pipeline.
For 2017, we will focus on building employees in different ways as we focus on new relationships with universities, and new culture and communication as part of our rotational and apprentice programmes for renewed focus on people excellence.
new graduates while continuing to expand our internal learning programme offerings and other development opportunities.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 67 Corporate responsibility Continued Reward and recognition At the end of 2016, 38% of our global It is our policy to provide equal employment Managing and differentiating performance is workforce and 18% of our senior managers opportunities.
The Group recruits, selects critical to ensuring our employees fulfil their were women.
We are committed to and promotes employees on the basis of potential and deliver outstanding business increasing the diversity in its broadest their qualifications, skills, aptitude and results.
In a competitive marketplace, sense of our workforce, and our two attitude.
In employment-related decisions, werecognise the importance of rewarding leadership development programmes aim we comply with all applicable antiemployees appropriately and aim to offer to increase the diversity of candidates for discrimination requirements in the relevant compensation and benefits packages that senior positions.
Two of our Board directors jurisdictions.
People with disabilities are enable us to attract, develop and retain are women, representing 22% of the Board given full consideration for employment key talent.
We have also created the new as at 31 July 2016, which is slightly below and subsequent training including Smiths Excellence Awards to reward and the level recommended by the Women retraining, if needed, for people who have recognise the highest levels of achievement onBoards Davies Report.
become disabled, career development and and impact in the six areas of our Excellence promotion on the basis of their aptitudes and Male Female Total system: Customer, People, Production, abilities.
We endeavour to find appropriate Board directors 7 2 9 Programme, Supply Chain and Technology.
alternative jobs for those who are unable to continue in their existing job because Senior managers 209 46 255 Diversity and inclusion ofdisability.
With operations in more than 50 countries Total employees 13,700 8,300 22,000 and a strategic focus on innovation and All our employees are treated with respect Senior managers are as defined by the Companies expanding into new geographic markets, and dignity.
Accordingly, any harassment Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report having a diverse, engaged workforce that or bullying is unacceptable.
The Group Regulations 2013, which includes employees who have reflects our geographic footprint and brings respects the right of each employee to join responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part local knowledge, fresh perspectives and or not to join a trade union or other bona fide of the Group other than Board members and or who constructive challenge is critical.
We aim to employee representative organisation.
are directors of subsidiary undertakings provide an inclusive, collaborative culture that values every individual, fosters collaboration, and provides the tools, opportunities and challenges to enable them to fulfil their potential and add value to the business.
engineeringU Accelerated Development Programme John Crane set up engineeringU as a12-month accelerated development programme in 2014 to attract, develop and retain talented engineering graduates at a time when competition for STEM talent has never been greater.
Since its inauguration, the programme has not only succeeded on these terms, but is also helping to improve the business overall by bringing fresh thinking to projects at an early stage.
The programme combines engineering and leadership development, through interactive workshops, coaching, self-study and business projects giving graduates both the technical ability and confidence to move into permanent roles.
68 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Acquisition integration When new businesses are acquired, we Community implement plans to integrate them into the Group, ensuring that our business ethics, Contributing to the communities in which we operate benefits employee development and EHS policies both local people and our business.
and programmes are well embedded.
We regularly review our processes in It helps to drive prosperity in local communities, enhances these areas, to identify any opportunities toimprove.
our profile and reputation, promotes employee engagement andattracts new employees.
Priorities for 2017 Introduce a culture transformation focused on enhanced communication, collaboration, inclusion and excellence Continue to develop leadership capabilities Governance Priority for 2017 across the organisation Given the diversity of our business and ourdecentralised structure, our community Deepen our commitment to and our Continue to engage with the communities relationships and charitable programmes development of STEM talent, including in which we operate across the Group are primarily managed at a local level to an increased focus on recruiting new allow our businesses to focus on the needs graduates and providing expanded of their markets and communities.
We also internship opportunities offer some Group-level support to charities Strategic report Continue to align our reward and and organisations that can demonstrate how The Strategic report was approved by the recognition approaches to highlight a donation will enhance the well-being of Board on 27 September 2016. andreinforce excellence people through improved education, health By order of the Board and welfare, or environment.
Andy Reynolds Smith In 2016, we made charitable donations Chief Executive of258,000 as a Group.
Our employees also raised money for a wide range of charitable causes through a variety of fund-raising initiatives across the business.
Giving back to the community Flex-Teks Tutco facility in Cookeville, Tennessee has created a strong culture of giving back to the community, hosting a different activity every year to support local engagement.
From renovating a playground at a shelter for abused women, to hosting a carnival for children with special needs, Tutco is constantly searching for a new cause or need inthecommunity.
Tutco General Manager Dane Owen said: This year we all enjoyed a day replanting the garden at a local nursing home.
Itwas such a pleasure to meet all the staff and we had a great time organising social activities for the residents.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 69 Governance Board of directors 72 Corporate governance statement 75 Directors remuneration report 94 Group directors report 115 70 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Governance Accounts Custom heating solutions A market leader for engineered components that heat and move fluids and gases, Flex-Teks custom heating solutions, used during surgical procedures, can be found in the majority of patient warming systems inNorthAmerica.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2016 71
