Responsibility for implementing Senior Management Team 30 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Principal risks are identified through a business-wide risk assessment process, along with an evaluation of the strategy and operating environment of the Group.
The risk review process encompasses the identification, management and monitoring of risks in each business area.
This process includes an assessment of the risks to determine the likelihood of occurrence, the potential impact and the adequacy of mitigation or controls already in place.
A full review is then undertaken by the Risk and Compliance Committee, who evaluate the principal risks of the Group with reference to its strategy and operating environment.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors these processes, reviewing the Groups Consolidated Risk Register and reporting material risks to the Board.
STRUCTURE OF RISK MANAGEMENT SOPHOS GROUP PLC BOARD Audit and Risk Committee Risk and Compliance Internal Committee Audit Business Functions Integrated Business Risk Management Strategic Commercial Operational Financial Read more about the Group's risk environment and internal controls on page 48.
Accountability for monitoring OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 The Directors consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties in no specific order affecting the Group: RISK HOW IT IMPACTS US WHAT WE ARE DOING MOVEMENT The ongoing success of the Group is Making Sophos a great place to work is RECRUITMENT dependent on attracting and retaining central to the Groups strategy.
AND RETENTION high quality employees at all levels in the Sophos is committed to a strong OF KEY business who can effectively implement recruitment process supported by robust the Groups strategy.
PERSONNEL remuneration programs which are Failure to attract, retain or develop high benchmarked appropriately.
Additionally, quality employees across the business Sophos has a commitment to all levels of could limit the Groups ability to deliver training throughout the organisation.
Reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and reward performance and ensure the retention of key talent.
Annual employee engagement surveys enable progress of our people actions to be monitored, areas of improvement identified and necessary actions performed.
The Groups products and services The Group is committed to extensive test DEFECTS OR are complex, and as such they have cycles and quality procedures, which are VULNERABILITIES contained and may in the future subject to continuous improvement.
IN PRODUCTS contain design or manufacturing Sophos employs a combination of OR SERVICES defects or errors that are not detected internal and external quality reviews and until after their commercial release testing of products, including source and deployment by end customers.
code reviews, public and private third These defects could cause the Groups party efficacy testing, and various forms products or services to be vulnerable of penetration testing.
We encourage a to security attacks, cause them to fail healthy collaboration with the security to help security networks, temporarily research community, as described interrupt end customers networking in our Responsible Disclosure Policy: traffic, fail to prevent or detect viruses https: www.
Further, due to the evolving nature of threats and the Further, we protect the privacy and continual emergence of new threats, security of our customers worldwide the Group may fail to identify and through our pledge to never engineer update its threat intelligence or other backdoors into our products as virus databases in time to protect end described here: https: www.
com nobackdoors As a result, actual or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in the Groups products or services, the failure of the Groups products or services to prevent a security threat, could harm the Groups reputation and divert the Groups resources.
32 STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK HOW IT IMPACTS US WHAT WE ARE DOING MOVEMENT The Groups products may falsely Sophos is committed to investment FALSE detect threats or malware that do not in its world class security research DETECTION actually exist in applications or content labs facility with emphasis placed OF THREATS based on the Groups classification on staff training, testing and quality of application type, virus, malware, procedures.
"vulnerability exploits, data or URL Moreover, there is a continuous categories known as ""false positives""."
proactive focus on improvement of These false positives, while inherent processes to enable early detection in the Groups industry, may impair of a false positive event, as well as the perceived reliability of the Groups applying a lessons learnt approach products and may therefore adversely through root cause analysis.
impact market acceptance of the Groups products.
Sophos acknowledges the inherent risk associated with a false positive incident If the Groups products restrict within the industry and is committed to important files or applications based ensuring there are mitigating processes on falsely identifying them as malware in place to manage any incident, large or some other item that could be or small, in order to minimise the restricted, this could adversely affect impact on our customers.
end customers systems and cause material system failures.
Any such false identification of important files or applications could result in negative publicity, damage to the Groups reputation, loss of end customers and sales, increased costs to remedy any problem and risk of litigation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and operating results.
As a provider of IT security products, Sophos has a dedicated Cyber Security IT SECURITY the Group is a high profile target and Team which is focused on investigation AND CYBER RISK the Groups networks and products and mitigation of risks related to may have vulnerabilities that have cyber-attack.
The Group is focused from time to time been, and may in on day-to-day active monitoring the future be, targeted by attacks processes to identify and deal with IT specifically designed to disrupt the security incidents, and also implements Groups business and harm the continual improvements in the IT Groups reputation.
security technology, education and awareness and policies that combine in If an actual or perceived breach of the overall security posture of Sophos.
security occurs in the Groups internal systems, it could adversely affect the market perception of the Groups products.
In addition, a security breach could affect the Groups ability to operate its business, including the Groups ability to provide support services to end customers.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 RISK HOW IT IMPACTS US WHAT WE ARE DOING MOVEMENT Sophos has an extensive number Sophos continues to focus on and PRODUCT of products, enhanced further by improve the interaction between PORTFOLIO acquired technologies.
The extent of Product Management, Product MANAGEMENT investment in each product needs to Development, Sales and Marketing and be managed and prioritised, taking into all Support functions in an integrated account the expected future prospects.
Additionally, consideration must be Internal processes are run to identify given to the ability to adequately opportunities for standardisation and support the entire product range.
Failure to manage the product This helps to eliminate redundancy, portfolio adequately could result in reduce development and support cost inappropriate investment focus in and improve partner and customer relation to research and innovation experience through a more predictable in product development.
This could and coherent product portfolio.
result in products that do not meet Additionally, Sophos customers and the the requirements of customers or partner community continue to be an partners and the risk they will look to invaluable resource in guiding portfolio alternative solutions, leading to the management decisions.
They provide potential loss of both new and existing immediate and constant feedback revenue streams.
on how well Sophos is meeting their Additionally, insufficient focus on key requirements and what improvements research and development projects Sophos can make to its current may damage the long-term growth offering, as well as opportunities for prospects of the Group.
During the year-ended 31 March 2016, the Group strengthened its product portfolio through the acquisition of Reflexion Networks Inc and SurfRight BV.
Sophos is at risk of disruption to its Sophos has made significant DISRUPTION day to day operations from a disaster investments in the technology and TO DAY TO incident, which may seriously impact IT infrastructure of the Group to ensure it DAY GROUP systems or access to office space.
continues to support the growth of the OPERATIONS organisation.
A failure in the operation of the Groups key systems or infrastructure on which Additionally, incident management the Group relies could cause a failure of procedures and escalation processes service to our customers and negatively are in place as well as maintaining impact the Sophos brand.
security, business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
Ongoing updates and testing of these plans is underway.
