Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level New product development The development of new technologies and products necessarily Impact: Moderate Strategy reviews are conducted at least annually with each 3 involves risk, including: Reduced profitability and cash flow.
These reviews often result in targeted investment in new product the product being more expensive or taking longer to develop Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
platforms, upgrades to existing products and services and bolt-on than originally planned: acquisitions.
the product failing to reach the commercialisation phase: and Mitigation: In 2016, several important new products were launched and new the market for the product being smaller than originally Regular strategic evaluations of product portfolios and the technologies and products acquired across all four segments, along envisaged.
markets in which we compete, ensuring that our with many more acquisition ideas.
investment innew products is targeted so as to maximise the opportunity of success.
Project management disciplines are in place across our product development programmes and audits provide assurance that these disciplines are applied consistently.
Work closely with customers to ensure that we develop solutions tailored to their specific needs.
Maintain customer involvement throughout the life-cycle of product development to product launch through, for example, beta evaluations.
New product developments are based on standard platforms, customised through high added-value applications engineering.
Intellectual property Our business is focused on the design and manufacture Impact: Very low During the year, we continued a programme of intellectual 1 of  products and applications.
Reduced profitability and cash flow.
property audits and took steps to further streamline management As a consequence, we own and protect patents, trademarks, Loss of market share.
of registered intellectual property through engaging a centralised trade secrets, confidential information and copyright as well Failure to recoup investment in innovation.
trademark renewals service to provide greater transparency of as exploiting intellectual property through licensing.
Mitigation: The risk therefore exists that our intellectual property may be Policies and procedures in place requiring all of our infringed by third parties or that we may inadvertently infringe businesses to: third-party rights.
maintain a watching brief on new third-party patent applications and competitor activity: ensure adequate protection for key intellectual property, including registration where appropriate: undertake specific freedom-to-operate technical reviews prior tocommencing new product development, acquisitions or licences: and register intellectual property where appropriate.
Maintain a portfolio of intellectual property assets such that nosingle patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently important to present a material risk to theongoing success ofthe Company.
Key to risk appetite 1 2 3 Very low Low Moderate Preference for ultra-safe strategic options that have a Prepared to consider a range of options known to Open to all potential options whilst inclined to choose minimal degree of net risk but with limited potential result in a low level of net risk.
the one most likely to result in successful delivery and for reward.
an acceptable level of reward value for money.
4 5 High Very high Eager to be innovative and choose options offering Actively seeks new and innovative opportunities in potentially higher business rewards butpresenting pursuit of a high risk return potential, even where greater net risk.
no track record is obvious.
32 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level New product development The development of new technologies and products necessarily Impact: Moderate Strategy reviews are conducted at least annually with each 3 involves risk, including: Reduced profitability and cash flow.
Key to strategic priorities Focus on innovative customer Increase presence in key Expand business globally Accelerate operational Deploy capital for solutions strategicmarkets excellence bothplatform and bolt-on M&A 33 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level Laws and regulations We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, consequently, Impact: Low The Group continued to take a number of actions aimed at further 1 are subject to numerous domestic and international regulations Reduced sales, profitability and cash flow.
These included anti-bribery and corruption and restrictions.
compliance audits across 13 of our 14 operating companies, ongoing Diversion of management resources to address any third-party due diligence reviews including training webinars for Any failure by the Group or its representatives to comply with resulting investigation.
relationship owners and reviewers, roll-out of a Code of Business relevant laws and regulations could result in civil or criminal Inability to attract and retain talent.
Ethics e-learning module to all employees, and ethics and liabilities, leading to significant fines and penalties or the compliance integration at Millbrook.
disqualification of the Group from participation in governmentMitigation: We continue to ensure that we are responsive to issues raised related contracts for a period of time.
In the event of a failure to Strong culture, internal control framework and policies.
through the Groups ethics hotline.
For more details of our ethics comply with export control regulations, the Group could also be Ethics training provided to all employees.
programme see pages 50 to 52. exposed to restrictions being placed upon its ability totrade.
Formal export controls compliance procedures in place, including strict product classification and transaction screening protocols.
Political and economic risks We operate in a range of end-user markets around the world Impact: Moderate The Groups balanced geographical mix, with similar exposure to North 3 and may be affected by political, economic or regulatory Reduced profitability and cash flow.
America, Europe and Asia Rest of the world, enabled it to partly mitigate developments in any of these countries.
Material adverse the effects of a weak North American manufacturing economy via robust Mitigation: changes in the political and economic environments in the growth in Asia: however, these mixed trading conditions resulted in Maintain a broad spread of markets, products and countries in which we operate have the potential to put at weaker than expected sales growth.
customers tolimit risks associated with any given territory.
risk our ability to execute our strategy.
Similarly, our broad end-market exposure has meant that weak growth Monitor market intelligence so that we can respond incertain end markets was mitigated by good demand in others.
The Group continues to monitor and control its exposure to those Ensure we remain structured in a way that enables us countries where continuing economic uncertainties exist and, in to take prompt action in the event of a material change particular, we are evaluating carefully the implications for the Group in the trading environment.
arising from the result of the last years UK referendum in which the Ensure we maintain a strong balance sheet and public voted to leave the European Union Brexit.
As far as potential trading exposures are concerned, exports from the UK into the European Union represent less than 3% of Group sales, whilst imports into the UK from the European Union represent less than 1% of Group sales.
Our cost base in the UK is largely Sterling denominated.
As a consequence, we believe that Brexit presents only limited short-term direct impact for the Group.
The main near-term risk for the Group arising from Brexit stems from broader uncertainty which could inhibit investment and increase market volatility, ultimately hindering growth in the UK and beyond.
A Brexit Risk Committee has been established and the Group will continue to monitor carefully any additional exposure arising as the full implications of Brexit become clearer.
Acquisitions Integration of the operations and personnel of acquired Impact: Low There continued to be a healthy level of acquisition activity in our 4 businesses can be a complex process.
Potential risks therefore Failure to achieve the benefits outlined in the business case.
We participated in this activity, making one platform exist that the planned benefits from the acquisition may not be Reduced profitability and cash flow.
and five further acquisitions, and we continue to look for additional achieved as a result of problems encountered during integration Unforeseen liabilities.
We have been careful to maintain our rigorous of the acquired business, incorrect assumptions made in the financial, commercial and legal due diligence and disciplines, which Mitigation: business case, changing market conditions, or issues which has meant that wehave also excluded ourselves from a number Rigorous financial, commercial and legal assessment of target were not identified during the due diligence process.
businesses involving external consultants as appropriate.
the Company could be exposed to past actsor omissions of Strict authority levels which, subject to size, involve review the acquired business.
bythe Board for such transactions.
Comprehensive representations and warranties in purchase agreements.
Regular review of the acquired businesses against the businesscase.
34 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level Laws and regulations We operate in a large number of jurisdictions and, consequently, Impact: Low The Group continued to take a number of actions aimed at further 1 are subject to numerous domestic and international regulations Reduced sales, profitability and cash flow.
35 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level Competitive activity The nature of the markets in which we operate means that all Impact: Very low We maintained high levels of investment in R&D, investing 7.3% of 3 of our businesses are exposed to risk from competitor activity.
Group sales, with all of our operating businesses bringing new products Reduced profitability and cash flow.
andsolutions to market to sustain and strengthen our strong customer relationships and competitive advantages.
Mitigation: Ongoing monitoring of competitor activity and trends in the markets in which we compete.
Maintain market-leading positions through strong customer relationships and significant investment in R&D.
Diversified portfolio of products and markets limits the overall risk from any single competitor.
Develop operational excellence initiatives that enable ourbusinesses to react quickly to changes in customer andmarket demand.
Fluctuations in exchange rates We have operations which sell and purchase goods in foreign Impact: Moderate The significant weakening of Sterling relative to most other 3 currencies and whose results we record in a variety of different Unexpected variations in the Companys results.
currencies, largely as a result of the UKs referendum decision currencies.
We are therefore exposed to any significant changes Reduced profitability and cash flow.
toexitthe EU, had a positive impact on our reported results in exchange rates between a variety of currencies.
This contrasts with the negative Mitigation: translational impact in 2015.
Forward contracts cover up to 75% of forecast exposures Our hedging policy continued to provide certainty and reduce upto 18 months ahead.
volatility to the Groups cashflows.
Natural hedging strategy, matching invoicing and purchasing currencies where practical.
Foreign currency investments hedged with borrowings inthesame currency wherever possible.
Regular monitoring, including sensitivity analyses to understand the impact of exchange rate movements ontheGroups reporting.
Supply chain dependencies and disruption We are exposed to the risk that some of the components we Impact: Low We continued to identify and qualify secondary sources of supply 2 source, particularly for custom-built items or ageing products, Inability to fulfil customer orders, resulting in lost sales and where key dependencies have been identified.
We also worked with areprovided by a single supplier and are therefore vulnerable reputational damage.
our principal electronic manufacturing suppliers to strengthen our tointerruption of supply.
disaster support and recovery processes, including two disaster Loss of market share.
recovery simulation exercises carried out at major suppliers.
Our businesses also manufacture components using proprietary Intellectual property audits initiated at key suppliers.
technologies at a number of locations.
Mitigation: Focus on critical suppliers based on specialist independent Strategic sourcing teams source cost-effective suppliers Our ability to supply products to customers could be adversely spendanalysis.
across a range of markets whilst validating suppliers impacted by a disaster or other disruptive eventatany of Ongoing supply chain risk management softwareevaluation.
business processes, quality and standards.
Underpinning of indirect spend afforded via Project Uplift.
Alternative sources of supply actively sought to reduce dependency upon single-source suppliers.
Safety stock levels established for critical components.
Business continuity plans and disaster prevention measures inplace for all material manufacturing locations.
36 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level Competitive activity The nature of the markets in which we operate means that all Impact: Very low We maintained high levels of investment in R&D, investing 7.3% of 3 of our businesses are exposed to risk from competitor activity.
37 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level Information security As with most organisations of a similar size and complexity, Impact: Low Further progress was made with our information security 1 ourbusinesses face both internal and external information Loss of sensitive information data which could put the programme.
security risks, the nature and complexity of which are businesses at a serious competitive disadvantage relative An all-employee information security knowledge repository web constantly changing.
portal was launched during the year which identifies and highlights Being subject to a malicious attack causing system failure, the key risks and controls to guard against the insider threat and to datacorruption or loss, or theft of commercial or sensitive increase overall employee awareness of information security.
A global data privacy review ahead of the forthcoming EUGeneral Data Protection Regulation was undertaken during the year using Mitigation: external advisers with new policy governance integrating information Our businesses employ a number of physical, logical and security and data protection being rolled out.
control measures designed to reduce the risk of a breach A supply chain information security audit of one oftheGroups ininformation security arising.
largest contract manufacturers was undertaken using an external Our systems are monitored against unauthorised access.
adviser accompanied byinternal audit, with the resultant A programme of continuous improvement focusing on recommendations being addressed.
information security risks evaluates whether the Groups existing controls in this area would benefit from additional strengthening.
Employees receive online and face-to-face awareness training of information security risks and controls.
Strategy execution The Groups strategic priorities are set out on page 6.
Impact: Low During 2016, we continued to make good strategic progress, 4 Failure to realise the Groups plans for enhanced efficiency transitioning our customer offering towards the provision of solutions The Group considers that, as with any undertaking of this kind, and profitability.
encompassing hardware, software and services.
Six acquisitions were there is necessarily inherent risk associated with the successful Failure to realise the Groups growth plans.
completed, adding further software, service and testing capability.
execution and delivery of the Groups strategic priorities.
The acquisition of Millbrook is an important addition to our portfolio of a high-quality automotive test service platform.
The risks associated with some of the Groups strategic priorities Mitigation: are addressed in their own right for example, how we develop Programme management disciplines, including a dedicated new products and how we acquire other businesses.
Similarly, good progress has been made in respect of Project Uplift programme management office.
where a dedicated programme management office has been Other relevant components of the Groups strategy concern: Independent assurance.
established, a detailed diagnostic and planning phase completed Talent management programme.
the Groups desire to transition the business to achieving a larger and a series of actionable plans created, with implementation of Dashboard reporting against key growth initiatives.
proportion of sales through the provision of services, software these beginning in 2017.
A measured approach over time is being targeted, and solutions to customers, rather than products alone: and ratherthan a radical change.
during the year, the Group launched a comprehensive GroupEnhanced risk management and reporting.
wide productivity improvement programme, Project Uplift.
Over the medium term, this programme will deliver improvements in productivity, both within and across our operating companies, reducing complexity where appropriate whilst preserving the entrepreneurial culture of our businesses.
We will also evaluate potential structural improvements that can leverage Spectris scale and optimise both efficiency and effectiveness.
38 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Link to Change strategic Risk in risk Risk description Potential impact and mitigation priority appetite Assessment 2016 update level Information security As with most organisations of a similar size and complexity, Impact: Low Further progress was made with our information security 1 ourbusinesses face both internal and external information Loss of sensitive information data which could put the programme.
