Strategic Report Risk Management a second line of defence consisting of various Group functions We recognise that effective which, together with the Executive Directors, shapes the policy framework within which the first line of defence operates and management of risk is essential for provides oversight and monitoring of the same: and delivering our strategic objectives.
a third line of defence identifying sources of assurance over the effectiveness of risk management activity.
As such, risk management is built The overall effectiveness of the Groups risk management and into our day-to-day activities and mitigation processes is reviewed regularly by the Executive Directors and twice yearly by the Audit and Risk Committee.
forms an integral part of how The key potential risks and uncertainties facing the Groups we operate.
ability to deliver its strategy, together with mitigating actions, are described on the following pages.
Whilst these risks are broadly consistent with those reported in 2015, we provide anupdate on how these risks, and our ability to respond to Committed to managing risk effectively andmanage them, have changed during the year.
During the The Group has a well-established process which delivers visibility year, aformal evaluation of the Groups risk appetite has been and accountability for risk management across our businesses.
completed in respect of each of the Groups principal risks and This process forms part of the Groups overall internal control the results are also included in the descriptions that follow.
framework, as described on page 70.
During the year, we have made further enhancements to this process, including establishing a risk appetite evaluation for In focus each of the Groups principal risks.
Intellectual property competitor Risk management process monitoring and freedom to Our approach to risk management incorporates both bottom-up operateprocesses and top-down elements to the identification, evaluation and management of risks and all risks are evaluated with reference to the Groups achievement of its strategic objectives, as outlined on pages 6 and 7.
Our business units are required to undertake formal risk management reviews at least twice a year.
This involves the use of a consistent framework for the assessment of significant risks with respect to impact, likelihood and the time frame in which the risk could materialise.
Risks are assessed both before and after the effect of controls and mitigating actions has been taken into account.
Overall ownership for each risk, together with responsibility for mitigating actions, is clearly assigned and communicated.
The resulting risk registers are then subject to review on an ongoing basis as part of regular operational reviews.
This ensures that Malvern uses its intellectual property IP risk management risk management is embedded in day-to-day management process to acquire market intelligence and identify valuable processes and decision-making as well as in the annual strategic technology development trends.
This is vital in a crowded planning cycle.
Malverns patent monitoring enables it to challenge and contain Directors competitor rights to safeguard its own market space.
The In addition, the Executive Committee and key functional monitoring also provides insights into competitor R&D personnel in the Group consider those risks to the Groups strategy.
Malvern has embedded focused searches for strategic objectives which are not addressed within the business relevant third-party intellectual property rights within its units and develop appropriate approaches to managing and new product development process.
This allows it to adapt mitigating these.
These key Group risks are analysed against a designs early in their development to avoid infringement lines of defence framework which involves mapping the and minimise cost impact for products such as the principal Group risks to: Mastersizer 3000, shown here.
a first line of defence comprising the key controls and sources of risk mitigation implemented by our business units: 30 Strategic Financial Report Governance Statements Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 HOW THE GROUP MANAGES RISK Business units First line Key Group functions programmes Second line Executive Third line Independent assurance Audit and Risk Committee Board First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Overall responsibility Business units Key Group functions Independent assurance Audit and Risk Committee programmes Board Executive Directors Day-to-day ownership Shaping policy and control Assurance over the Determining the Groups of risk management.
Monitoring and oversight control and risk management Oversight of the Groups ofrisk managementby framework.
internal control andrisk business units.
Evaluation of risks impacting the Group asawhole.
