STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Manipulation of revenue, both intentional and through error, by changes to the pricing master file Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee 2016 NHS revenue: 293 million We performed routine procedures to test revenue We did not identify material 2015: 262 million recognised throughout the year.
These included errors in the pricing master file, analytical review of revenue disaggregated by month nor evidence of management 2016 PMI revenue: 429 million and hospital, and cut off testing.
manipulation of revenue through 2015: 435 million this means.
In order to specifically address this fraud risk, we then Inappropriate revenue recognition by performed the following procedures: Furthermore, we did not identify way of management manipulation, both any indicators of pricing disputes intentional and through error, of the pricing we understood and evaluated the controls that with insurers or the NHS.
master file resulting in inaccurate patient have been designed and implemented to prevent invoicing, primarily in respect of PMI and or detect misstatements due to fraud or error Based on our audit procedures NHS revenue.
associated with changes to the pricing master file.
performed, we concluded We adopted a fully substantive approach to that revenue for the year is We considered that the pressure to achieve addressing this fraud risk, and as such did not appropriately recognised and free forecast results or targets increases the test or rely on the controls identified: from material misstatement.
risk of financial reporting manipulation we have agreed the prices used in a sample of by management.
revenue transactions to the relevant contracts Additionally, the high volume of pricing or agreed price list.
Our sample covered both PMI by procedure, all individually agreed with and NHS patients, as well as a range of procedures, PMI providers and the NHS, leads to a higher services and products e. g. drugs : likelihood of incorrect inputs to the pricing we investigated whether there had been pricing master file through error.
disputes with insurers or the NHS during the year through discussions with legal counsel, review In the prior year, we only considered of minutes and verifying this to correspondence, that this risk could result in material where available.
Additionally we searched journal misstatement of PMI revenue.
We have descriptions for key words that might indicate the extended this to include NHS revenue this existence of pricing disputes: and year due to the complexity of NHS pricing we obtained a summary of aged receivables and and the high volume of procedures.
verified that the ageing was appropriate by testing a sample across the different ageing categories.
We searched for any large or unusually long outstanding receivables that were outside expected credit terms that might have indicated pricing disagreements.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 2.
Manipulation of accrued patient revenue Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee 2016 accrued patient revenue: 11 million We performed the following procedures in order All items of accrued patient 2015: 12 million to specifically address this fraud risk: revenue in our sample were recognised in the correct period, Accrued patient revenue could be we understood and evaluated the controls that and the judgements made by manipulated at hospital level leading have been designed and implemented to prevent local hospital management were to inappropriate revenue recognition at or detect misstatements due to fraud associated appropriate and supported by year end.
Accrued revenue at year end is with the recognition of accrued patient revenue.
invoices issued after year end.
recorded in part by the Hospital Support We adopted a fully substantive approach to Centre HSC and in part by local hospitals, addressing this fraud risk, and as such did not test We did not identify any material the latter relying on local hospital or rely on the controls identified: unusual items on the unbilled managements judgement.
we evaluated the accrued patient revenue data, WIP report, and our testing of stratifying it into two sub-populations according to manual journal entries found We considered that the pressure to achieve their risk profiles: accrued patient revenue recorded that these had been posted by local hospital results increases the risk of by the HSC in line with unbilled WIP report revenue appropriate staff.
financial reporting manipulation by local value 5 million, and accrued patient revenue hospital management.
From the audit procedures we recorded by local hospitals where judgement has performed, we did not identify been applied 6 million : any issues regarding improper as HSC management relies on an unbilled WIP recognition of accrued patient report generated from their general ledger IT system revenue and hence conclude to book accrued patient revenue, we utilised our that it is appropriately IT specialists to assess how the customised report recognised and free from has been generated and whether it captured the material misstatement.
required information: for a sample across both sub-populations of accrued patient revenue, we obtained patient procedure notes to verify occurrence and completeness of the revenue and that the procedure had been completed before year end.
Additionally, for the items selected from the amounts recorded by local hospitals, we obtained an understanding of the judgement made by the local hospital when calculating the amount of patient revenue to be accrued.
We traced these transactions to invoices issued after year end.
Where invoices have not been issued, we investigated whether it represented an indication of improper revenue recognition: we checked the unbilled WIP report for any unusual items, such as aged transactions.
We assessed the items excluded from accrued patient revenue to determine appropriateness of exclusion and completeness of accrued patient revenue: and we validated that manual journal entries to accrued revenue had been made by appropriate staff.
98 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Inappropriate capitalisation of development costs of new hospitals Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 68 to 71.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit and Risk Committee 2016 new hospital development costs We understood and evaluated the controls that Our audit procedures found no capitalised: 92 million 2015: 37 million have been designed and implemented to prevent or instances of expenditure which detect misstatements due to fraud associated with had been inappropriately The Group has incurred substantial costs the capitalisation of development expenditure.
through the major development project at adopted a fully substantive approach to addressing St Anthonys Hospital and the construction this fraud risk, and as such did not test or rely on of new hospitals in Manchester and the controls identified.
We compared the actual expenditure to the Large hospital construction projects are approved budgets for the three projects, and not the primary activity of the Group and identified that there were no significant variances.
therefore the nature and scale of these We tested a sample of capital additions to property, projects may give rise to increased plant and equipment.
We obtained the invoice to opportunity for management to manipulate verify the existence and valuation of each item, the Groups profits.
Given managements and also obtained evidence that the expenditure bonus structure and analysts expectations had been authorised by an appropriate individual.
on the Groups performance, we consider We verified the expenditure was capital in nature by the risk of inappropriate capitalisation to reading the descriptions and details on the invoices these significant development projects to and supporting documentation.
We obtained be susceptible to management override.
evidence certified by third-party surveyors to support the value of work completed by the main contractors for each of the three development projects as at year end.
Our sample included both low and high value items.
We were particularly focused on accrued expenses and internal costs such as staff costs for Spire Healthcare employees, where these were included in our sample, as we considered there was higher risk of manipulation in these areas.
Where staff costs had been capitalised, we verified that the costs were directly attributable to the relevant project.
In the prior year, our auditors report also included further risks of material misstatements in relation to improper revenue recognition: Risk identified in 2015 Why we do not consider this an area of significant risk in 2016 Inaccurate coding at the hospital level across Based on prior years audit experience, on reassessment, we do not consider that there a number of hospitals where incentivisation is a high likelihood of a material misstatement occurring at an individual hospital level.
and direction to miscode could result in a material revenue misstatement.
Material overstatement of other income, We do not consider that any items within other income in 2016 could be manipulated specifically revenue earned through the such that this would result in a material misstatement because of the small contribution specific NHS campaigns where the reporting of other income to total Group revenue.
of results achieved could be manipulated.
The complexity of PMI and NHS contracts We continue to consider that there is a significant risk of material misstatement arising from could result in mis-billing, either through inaccuracies in the pricing master file through fraud or otherwise, and our audit procedures inaccurate coding, or using an inappropriate have addressed this risk as explained above.
We no longer consider there is a high enough likelihood that inaccurate coding would result in a material misstatement to warrant identifying this as a separate significant risk.
As noted above, this year we have extended the risk we have identified in relation to the manipulation of revenue, both intentional and through error, by changes to the pricing master file to cover NHS as well as PMI revenue.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 99
