S ST TR RA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T:: R O IVE SKR M VI ANA EW GEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Risk management and internal control The Groups risk management and internal control systems are overseen by two committees, with overall responsibility lying with the Board of Directors.
The Audit and Risk Committee, with the Risk management Internal controls assistance of the Clinical Governance and The Board recognises that the Group The principal internal controls and assurance Safety Committee CGSC, provides the needs to comply with the UK Corporate activity over the risks that are directly Board with a consolidated review of key Governance Code and with its increasing manageable by the Group are: risks from all levels of the Group, advice regulatory expectations for listed companies.
Standard policies and procedures on the Groups overall risk appetite and The risk management framework was The Group has documented policies and strategy, and on the effectiveness of the reviewed by the Board and its committees standard procedures in place covering all Groups risk management and internal during 2016, and it will continue to evolve significant activities and areas of risk, which control processes.
and develop as the level of risk maturity are subject to regular review and update.
The risk management framework is designed Assurance over clinical delivery and to identify, evaluate and mitigate the risks All significant risks facing the Group are clinical regulatory compliance risks that the Group faces at all levels.
The captured within a Risk Register and are As a provider of clinical services to patients, underlying process aims to provide robust assessed in terms of consequence and the Group faces a specific set of non-financial management information to enable likelihood.
Each such risk is owned by a risks associated with such provision.
member of the senior leadership team who In relation to these risks: works to monitor and mitigate that risk.
In 2016, the Group adopted a detailed risk The Risk Register is reviewed on a regular the corporate Clinical Services team, management methodology in order to ensure basis at all levels, and in response to changes which is independent of the hospital that all hospital and business-level risks were in the risk environment for example operations and is led by the Group Medical being identified and assessed consistently following a change in regulations.
The Director, oversees a national programme across all of Spire Healthcare.
This enabled principal risks facing the Group are drawn of clinical audits, in addition to conducting more effective risk analysis and from the Business-wide Risk Register and are on-site clinical reviews of every hospital management reporting to be conducted linked to the strategy of the Group.
Changes and non-hospital unit, according to the allowing greater visibility to the two from last year are indicated in the Principal approach taken at regulatory inspections.
committees overseeing risk Audit and risks section on pages 50 to 53.
These form part of the overall framework Risk Committee and CGSC.
for clinical governance and quality, The Board recognises that it has limited Clinical risks to ensure that clinical risk and clinical control over many of the external risks During 2016, the CGSC chaired by Dame regulatory compliance is managed it faces, such as macroeconomic events Janet Husband focused on key clinical risks effectively across all registered sites.
and the complex regulatory environment.
and trends including the review of notifiable The results of these activities are regularly However, it is important to consider the incidents and external regulatory inspections reviewed by the corporate Clinical Services potential impact of such ongoing risks to across the Group.
A copy of the CGSC report team, Operations Directors, Matrons, the business and where possible develop can be found on pages 72 and 73. the Executive Committee and the CGSC: contingency plans to minimise the impact comprehensive, non-financial of these external risks.
management information on clinical performance, including safety, clinical effectiveness and customer experience, is produced and reviewed quarterly against pre-agreed standards by the corporate Clinical Services team, Operations Directors, Matrons, the Executive Committee and the CGSC.
Specific KPI measures drawn from this management information are given on page 38: 48 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION the Group is subject to substantial levels Other non-financial operational risks are The Audit and Risk Committee has decided of external inspection and review, both by managed by means of the application of that the assurance provided by these the range of national healthcare regulators best practice, as defined by Group policies processes will be supplemented in certain and through invited assurance inspections and standard procedures, in areas such as specific areas through the procurement of such as the rolling programme of health project management, human resources specific independent reviews undertaken and safety inspections carried out by management and IT security and delivery, within an Internal Audit framework, the third-party specialists.
The outcomes supported by detailed performance scope of which is set by the Audit and Risk of these activities are reviewed by the monitoring of outputs and issues.
Committee based on a periodic review of Executive Committee and the CGSC: and the risk register and internal controls.
the structures and processes for internal Internal audit internal confirmation of clinical regulatory Continuous learning control assurance compliance and the level of evidence Accepting that internal control systems and The need for an Internal Audit function was and assurance required to monitor this robust risk management cannot guarantee reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee on an ongoing basis have been further to reduce error or loss to zero, the Group during the year.
It is anticipated that the strengthened and formalised in 2016. takes all instances of complaints, control structure of the function will be formalised failures, regulatory non-compliance or other and the remit of the Internal Audit activities Financial and operational controls risk events or near misses very seriously, and will be further redefined during 2017.
Financial control is established through: has a detailed process in place to take action Historically, the Group has not considered in respect of each specific issue identified, to the annual process of preparing business it necessary to establish an Internal understand the cause and to learn from the plans and budgets, followed up by close Audit function, in part because of the way event wherever possible, so that the chance monitoring of operational performance by hospitals and administration activities are of reoccurrence is minimised.
An open the executive management and the Board: structured, which means that the initiation culture is actively promoted and monitored monthly monitoring of actual results, of transactions is entirely separated from within the Group that positively encourages compared to budgets, forecasts and the the delivery of the associated services and the reporting of all risk events and other previous year: their financial recording, and the low level of issues arising.
The number and nature of all material capital expenditure is subject delegated authority at hospital level limits events arising and the operation of event to an investment evaluation and risk exposure.
Reliance is placed on the management processes are closely authorisation procedure: management review process, transactionmonitored by hospital management, common accounting policies and level controls built into business processes the Executive Committee, the Audit procedures: and and other forms of assurance activity and and Risk Committee and the CGSC.
the Groups treasury position and forecast audits being performed across the Group, liquidity are kept under review to ensure The Group offers an independent including clinical audits, health and safety that borrowings are aligned with the whistleblowing service to facilitate reporting audits and regulatory inspections.
Groups growth and are in compliance of any issues or concerns that staff may with banking covenants.
have that they are unwilling to raise via any other channel.
Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors assessed the viability of the Group and have adopted a period of three years for the assessment.
A three-year period was selected as it corresponds with the Boards strategic planning horizon.
Whilst existing bank facilities extend until July 2019, this viability assessment has also considered the ability of the Group to refinance bank facilities at the end of 2018 based on current market-lending multiples.
The assessment conducted considered the Groups revenue, EBITDA, operating profit, cash flows, risk management controls and loan covenants over the three-year period.
These metrics were subject to severe downside stress testing and sensitivity analyses over the assessment period, taking account of the Groups current position, the Groups experience of managing adverse conditions in the past and the impact of a number of severe yet plausible scenarios, based on the principal risks set out in the Strategic Report.
These scenarios may be summarised as follows: Spire Healthcare is unable to access sufficient numbers of appropriately qualified clinical staff, restricting growth, driving up clinical staff costs and constraining the capacity of new hospital developments this links with Availability of key medical staff : a key hospital is subject to temporary suspension of trade, with a permanent adverse impact on revenues, for example, due to failure to meet Care Quality Commission CQC regulatory standards this links with Compliance with laws, regulations and other applicable requirements : the Group is subject to temporary suspension of trade, with a temporary adverse impact on revenue, for example, as a result of a successful cyberattack on key business systems this links with Cybersecurity : the downside modelling of a number of risks which result in a decline in earnings, including lower NHS tariffs or referral rates or a general economic downturn this links with Macroeconomic conditions and Government policy : and the business is subject to significant uninsured losses arising from medical malpractice, negligence or similar claims this links with Insurance.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 49
