Y M F A I T N A N G E E D I RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS INTERNAL CONTROLS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board has a responsibility to govern the Group in the interest of the shareholders.
Comments and suggestions of shareholders are always considered by the Board.
Where the Board considers that a risk has not been fully mitigated, follow-up meetings will be arranged to assess the risk and formulate mitigation strategies.
A specialist management team of Directors and Group Executives highlight risks as and when they become apparent.
The team then in turn assists the Board in devising controls to minimise the Groups exposure.
THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK The identification and management of risk is a continuous process, and the Groups system of internal controls and the business continuity programmes are key elements of that.
The Group maintains a system of controls to manage the business and to protect its assets with the development of contingency plans and rapid response to changing circumstances and does much to mitigate the risks facing the Group.
The Group continues to invest in people, systems and in IT to manage the Groups operations and its finances effectively and efficiently.
ACTION IS TAKEN TO MANAGE THE RISKS 4.
PRACTICES ARE REVIEWED AND MONITORED TO LIMIT THE RISK The specialist management teams are responsible for the identification, analysis, evaluation and mitigation of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business.
The teams meet regularly to discuss the identified risks, and how these should be reviewed and monitored.
The Board ensures that the appropriate arrangements are in place under which staff can raise concerns about possible financial or other impropriety, which are then appropriately investigated.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee in fulfilling its overview responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial 36 information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
The Group operates a Retail Support Unit which provides strong operational internal audit services in the Retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and control licensees.
The Audit Committee has also appointed BDO as internal audit advisers see Audit Committee report on page 50.
The external auditors are invited to attend all meetings of the Audit Committee, save for those parts of any meeting when the Committee reviews the performance of the auditors.
The Groups system of internal control and risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed by the Board, the Audit Committee and the Group Executive Directors, and the Board believes that the Group has maintained throughout the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, an effective embedded system of internal control and has complied with the FRCs Risk Guidance.
The systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve business objectives.
RISK POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Business plans and budgets for each business include financial and strategic targets against which performance is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of and changes to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, monthly measurement of actual achievement against key performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
The Group has clear procedures for the approval and control of expenditure.
Strategic investment decisions involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to a formal detailed appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Board.
Operating expenditure is controlled within each business with approval levels for such expenditure being determined by the individual businesses.
There is an approved whistle-blowing policy within the Group.
The policy was established to be utilised by staff who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the Groups activities, and all matters are discussed on a confidential basis.
KEY RISKS Control Environment The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for reporting information to the Board including: assessment of three years of strategy plans for business development: creation and assessment of legal policies: and review of the Group at each Board meeting, focusing on potential new risks such as key changes in the market and succession planning.
R E V O A T L I U N A O T E M CONTROL PROCEDURES Detailed operational procedures have been developed for each of the Groups operating businesses that embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations are taken into account within these procedures.
FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting process and the Groups process for the preparation of consolidated accounts.
These include clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority, policies and procedures that cover financial planning and reporting, preparing consolidated accounts, capital expenditure, project governance and information security.
The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing and monitoring these processes, which are designed to ensure that the Group complies with relevant regulatory reporting and filing provisions.
As at the end of the period covered by this report, the Audit Committee, with the participation of the Chief Executive, evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that information required to be disclosed in financial reports is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AFFECTING THE GROUP The Group has identified the following factors in the following table as potential risks to, and uncertainties concerning, the successful operation of its business.
The Group is, however, exposed to a wider range of risks than discussed below but these are the principal risks that have recently been discussed by the Board and Audit Committee and are of primary concern.
SUPPLY CHAIN The Group operates internationally so is reliant on the successful distribution of goods from when they are distributed by the manufacturer to when they are sold in the stores.
The Group is reliant on manufacturers in developing countries as the majority of the Groups products are sourced from outside the UK.
Risk: The Group is subject to the risks associated with international trade and transport as well as those relating to exposure to different legal and other standards.
Particular risks including worker strikes, failure to meet minimum code of conduct standards, and transport delays for products which could all cause substantial difficulties.
Disasters in or around the factories of our suppliers could bring negative media attention to the Group.
Mitigation: The Group requires all suppliers to sign up to the Groups Code of Conduct Supply Policy which enables the Group to monitor and benchmark the performance of the supplier.
37 Many risks relating to the supply chain, reliance on non-UK suppliers, and to the reputation of the Groups brands are managed and mitigated by the implementation of these policies.
Strong service level agreements and maintaining relationships with all parties involved in the supply chain also mitigate these risks.
KEY SUPPLIERS The Group is reliant on good relationships with its major manufacturers, key brands or brand suppliers.
Risk: A failure to replace any of its major manufacturers or suppliers on commercially reasonable terms could have an adverse effect on the Groups business, operating profit or overall financial condition.
It may mean that customers shop elsewhere if stores cannot supply the required product.
Mitigation: The Group follows policies of forging long-term relationships with suppliers and of utilising two leading supply chain companies to procure much of the Groups own branded goods.
This close relationship brings a better understanding of the suppliers resources enabling the Group to react quickly to changes in the international supply market.
Lengthy contracts are often used by the Group to ensure that key manufacturers are aware of our commitment to them.
TREASURY AND FINANCIAL RISK The Group operates internationally.
The majority of foreign contracts relating to the sourcing and sales of Group branded goods are denominated in US Dollars and the Euro, thus leaving exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
Following the outcome of the EU referendum the Group notes the associated market volatility and in particular material changes to sterling US dollar and sterling Euro exchange rates, and the lack of transparency as to those rates in the short to medium term.
These factors are likely to impact purchases for which the Company is currently not hedged, and therefore profitability for the FY17 period and beyond.
Risk: The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures and a strengthening of the US Dollar or a weakening of the Pound making goods more expensive.
There is also a potential exposure in relation to the Euro forward sales contracts and written option arrangements that the Group is party to.
Adverse movements on the sterling Euro exchange rate could impact in group profitability.
Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys functional currency, as exchange rates move.
This could significantly reduce profitability.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk due to its borrowings at floating interest rates.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS Continued Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate the foreign exchange fluctuations by hedging via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The Group currently has no cover for its US dollar denominated purchases in FY17.
The Group also holds assets overseas in local currency, and these assets are revalued in accordance with currency movements.
This currency risk is not hedged.
The Group is cash generative and is now targeting its debt levels to mitigate interest rate risk and currently has debt levels of less than 1x underlying EBITDA.
CREDIT AND LIQUIDITY RISK The Group, primarily the Group Brands division, provides credit to some of its customers.
Funding and liquidity for the Groups operations are provided through bank loans, overdrafts and shareholders funds.
Risk: The Group could have a credit risk if customers were unable to make payments for products purchased on credit.
The Groups objective is to maintain sufficient funding and liquidity for its requirements, but the availability of adequate cash resources from bank facilities and achieving continuity of funding in the current financial climate could be a risk to the Group in future years.
The purchase of strategic acquisitions and investments to strengthen and compliment the Group may be hindered.
Relationships with suppliers could break down if we are unable to pay them in line with our contractual obligations.
Mitigation: The Groups key suppliers also face credit risks and as such the Group regularly assesses the viability of its suppliers and ensures there are plans to source from alternative businesses should key suppliers fail.
Rigorous procedures are in place to mitigate this credit risk.
The Group has a credit policy in place and the exposure to risk is monitored on an on-going basis.
Credit evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount, and concentration of credit risk is managed.
Investment of cash surplus, borrowings and derivative investments are made through banks and companies which have credit ratings and investment criteria approved by the Board.
The Group mitigates liquidity risk by keeping debt levels low and the current finance facility is held with a club of 13 banks, thereby spreading the risk.
TAXATION 38 The Group operates internationally and in a wide range of jurisdictions and is therefore subject to tax risk across its operations.
Risk: The Group is subject to varying degrees of tax risk in relation to its international trading activities, both in the UK and overseas.
These include duty and VAT in relation to its overseas supply chain both internal and external and sales taxes in relation to online sales made to overseas customers from the UK.
The Group is also subject to transfer pricing regulations relating to trading relationships and transactions between Group companies.
Tax regimes differ country by country and the Groups overseas subsidiaries are subject to local tax compliance requirements and tax enquiries from the local tax authorities.
Mitigation: Group level tax risks are monitored by the Group finance function, with support from external tax advisors as required.
On-going compliance with local tax regulations is maintained through a combination of local finance teams, central oversight from the Group finance function, and the use of external tax advisors in key jurisdictions.
The Group takes a proactive approach to engaging with the tax authorities across its business.
Key tax risks are monitored and discussed at Board level, with appropriate actions agreed and implemented.
SUCCESSION PLANNING Key individuals within the Group have such a level of knowledge and experience of the business which makes them essential to continue to further the interests of the Group.
Risk: Natural disaster, illness, injury, or the sudden resignation of key individuals could mean key people are no longer available to manage the Group, and this could result in a change to the operations and strategic direction of the Group.
Mitigation: Our departments work together to develop their understanding of each department and of the Group.
Senior managers work at ground level to help to assess the strengths within their teams and to offer development opportunities where appropriate.
This can be of assistance when considering the suitability of internal candidates for vacancies.
Promotion opportunities, a competency framework, and regular appraisals give staff a voice, encourage a sense of responsibility and support career progression.
Our structured talent management programmes, and specialist masterclasses, encourage internal progression within the Group.
Executive development is important to us and we aim to promote internally rather than recruit external individuals who are unknown to the Group.
Our Share Schemes seek to reward and retain our key members of staff.
The Nomination Committee reviews the succession plan of the Group, and discusses who would take over roles if key team members were to leave.
MARKET FORCES The sports retail industry is highly competitive and the Group currently competes at international, national and local levels with a wide variety of retailers of varying sizes who may have competitive advantages.
New competitors may enter the market.
Risk: The competition continues to place pressure on the Groups pricing strategy, margins and profitability.
Mitigation: The Group has a discount pricing policy in its Sports Retail division to help reduce the risk of increased competition in the industry.
The Group has a strong property portfolio, and continues to strengthen this by relocating and improving stores to enhance the customer experience and adapt to market conditions.
A number of key brands are owned by the Group, reducing pressure on margins.
The Groups focus on acquiring competitors enables us to retain our discounted pricing systems in Sports Retail without price increases from the brand owners.
OPERATIONAL The Group is reliant on the Head Office and National Distribution Centre at its Shirebrook Campus operating without disruption, along with the uninterrupted running of the Groups fleet of vehicles.
The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from the UK.
Risk: Any disruption to the Head Office, National Distribution Centre or the fleet of vehicles might significantly impact the Groups ability to manage its operations, distribute products to its stores and maintain its supply chain.
Any long-term interruption of the Groups IT systems would have a significant impact on the Groups operation, particularly in the Sports Retail division.
Terrorist attacks, armed conflicts, government actions or adverse weather affecting the road networks within the UK could result in a significant reduction in consumer confidence, which would in turn have an adverse effect on sales in stores.
Mitigation: The Group has a strong business continuity plan that is regularly reviewed to address operational risks.
The Board is confident that as far as it is practical, the risks and uncertainties that face the Group are being monitored and managed and that, where required, appropriate action is being taken.
The Group constantly monitors the business environment and the nature of the business model allows for the Group to act swiftly under extraordinary circumstances.
39 The Group is extending the Head Office and National Distribution Centre so that there is additional room for storage and workers, for future business needs and in case of disaster.
CYBER FAILURES AND ATTACKS Online sales and advertising are key to the Groups strategy going forward.
However, cyber attacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent, commanding headlines and losing customers trust.
Risk: Reputational implications if the attack is reported to the media, including a loss of sales whilst the site is down, and longer term loss of sales through the deterioration of customer confidence.
Possible sanctions and penalties from overseeing bodies, and the loss of competitive advantage against market competitors.
Mitigation: The Group has a strategy and processes in place which relate to our IT security.
Working with internal and external parties, our colleagues continuously monitor our systems to ensure that they are sufficiently strong to deal with ever increasing cyber risks.
We have invested and continue to invest in systems to protect our sites, data and customers.
The Groups IT is independently audited by outside agencies on an annual basis to challenge and test our defences.
Our existing strategies are under constant review to ensure we are protecting ourselves and fully utilising new technologies where those technologies could assist.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety is key across all areas of the Group.
Policies are implemented, in conjunction with legal standards, to protect our staff and customers.
Risk: Potential injuries, distress and fatalities could result from a failure to establish and maintain safe environments.
Lack of competence in health and safety reporting could lead to legal claims which are difficult to defend.
Mitigation: We take reasonable steps to train each relevant company within the Group to the appropriate standards applicable in each requisite country.
Training courses are regularly offered and staff are encouraged to learn essential health and safety techniques.
The team at Head Office is always on hand to visit and assist stores with health and safety issues, assess incidents and refer reportable matters to RIDDOR.
There is a team of employees dedicated to solely dealing with claims and complaints.
Accidents involving staff or customers are reported to the Board regularly, as are any legal claims that arise from these.
The Board considers ways to reduce the number of claims.
We have a new Head of Health & Safety who will lead the team and provide a proactive approach in supporting the business.
Additional day to day safety support is being added for our stores during 2016.
RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RELATING TO THE GROUPS BUSINESS Continued LEGAL The Groups trade marks, patents, designs and other intellectual property rights are central to the value of the Groups Brands.
Risk: The Group believes that its licensees, suppliers, agents and distributors are in material compliance with employment, environmental and other laws.
The violation, or allegations of a violation, of such laws or regulations, by any of the Groups licensees, suppliers, agents or distributors, could lead to adverse publicity and a decline in public demand for the Groups products, or require the Group to incur expenditure or make changes to its supply chain and other business arrangements to ensure compliance.
The Group may need to resort to litigation in the future to enforce its intellectual property rights and any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources.
Third parties may try to challenge the ownership of or counterfeit the Groups intellectual property.
Mitigation: The Group has an in-house legal team who have knowledge of a variety of legal areas that apply to the Group.
This in-house expertise is vital in mitigating such issues.
The legal team work closely with external advisors to assist with, and gain knowledge on, matters outside their areas of expertise.
The Groups legal advisors actively monitor trade mark applications by other companies, as well as the stock of rival retailers, to ensure that our rights are not infringed and where these are infringed, to take appropriate action.
The legal team carefully draft contractual agreements to ensure that documentation is clear and legally binding.
Standard templates and key points are shared so that knowledge is retained within the Group.
SALES The Groups retail businesses are subject to seasonal peaks.
The incidence of and participation in major sporting events will have a particular impact on the Sports Retail business.
Risk: Prolonged unseasonal weather conditions or temporary severe weather during peak trading seasons could have a material adverse effect on the Groups businesses.
The Group is dependent upon the store portfolio and consumers spending habits.
Customer tastes could change and stocked items could no longer be suitable for the market.
Mitigation: Although unable to mitigate environmental conditions, the Group is able to influence the retail portfolio and therefore constantly monitors development of stores and the Groups aim to increase the square footage through viable new retail space.
By monitoring stock levels through sales forecasting the Group can manage the peaks in demand and trading profiles can be predicted.
40 Building sales units at our Head Office and National Distribution Centre allows us to trial and monitor differing sales techniques and products, before rolling these out to the rest of the Group.
Our team keep ahead of the trends, conducting market research on our customers and monitoring our competitors.
Sophisticated ordering systems ensure that items which sell well in particular areas will be restocked.
Our strong relationship with suppliers ensures that we are able to source key items at short notice, should this be required.
