Strategic Report Our principal risks PRINCIPAL RISKS The table below sets out the Groups principal risks and describes the links to strategy, the mitigation measures and the appetite for each risk.
The year-on-year change column sets out the direction of change from 2015.
This list includes those risks which we have identified as most relevant to the Group for the current year.
Year-onKey mitigation, sponsor Risk appetite Rationale Link to strategic Principal risk and why it is relevant year change and explanation of change rating for rating themes pages 20-25 Economic and political Scenario planning We have the background Very low 1 1 2 3 instability Compliance with Group Treasury Policy and know-how to Low Strong internal controls successfully manage The Group operates worldwide 4 5 6 Resilient business model with 10% the unique challenges Balanced and maintains operations in Direct link ofGroup sales in higher risk areas in economically and territories that have historically High Indirect link politically unstable experienced economic or political Executive sponsor: Nicholas Anderson No link Very high territories.
This type of instability, Change: Increased instability post-Brexit willing to accept these which includes the uncertainties referendum, other European political challenges where of regime change, creates risks for movements and the USA election opportunities for growth our locally based direct operations are substantial.
and broader risks to credit, liquidity and currency.
Significant exchange rate Spread of manufacturing across We take a balanced view Very low 2 1 2 3 movements currency areas of this risk: the risk arises Low Forward cover where appropriate and in as a direct result of our The Group reports its results 4 5 6 line with the Group Treasury Policy global presence, but our Balanced and pays dividends in sterling.
Direct link Focus on reducing manufacturing costs geographical spread Operating and manufacturing High Indirect link Over 90% of revenue and profits means we are not wholly companies trade in local No link generated out of the UK and so the dependent on any one Very high currency.
With sales companies Group is well positioned to deal with currency.
in over 40 different countries and unknown impacts of Brexit manufacturing spread across the globe, the nature of the Group Executive sponsor: Kevin Boyd business necessarily results in Change: Increased volatility post-Brexit exposure to exchange rate volatility.
referendum Loss of manufacturing output Business continuity planning and Whilst we have mitigated Very low 3 1 2 3 at any Group factory disaster recovery plans this risk through a Low Stocks of components and finished geographical spread The risk includes loss of output 4 5 6 products in sales companies of factories, calculated Balanced as a result of natural disasters, Direct link Regular and comprehensive back-up of replication of capacity and industrial action, and accidents.
High Indirect link IT systems management of stock, Loss of manufacturing output at No link Use of audits inspections and business Very high the potential negative any important plant risks serious interruption insurance consequences to the disruption to sales operations.
Appropriate building construction with Group and its customers sprinkler systems or alternatives warrants a low appetite for thisrisk.
Executive sponsors: Jay Whalen and Ian Farnworth Change: No change Defined benefit pension deficit Use of independent professional advisers The nature of the Very low 4 1 2 3 and custodians Defined Benefit scheme Defined benefit pension schemes Low Pension scheme fide-risking strategy in requires accepting some carry risks in relation to investment 4 5 6 place inherent risk of deficit.
Balanced performance, security of assets, Direct link Use of Mercer Dynamic fide-Risking The consequences of longevity and inflation.
A deficit High Indirect link Solution accepting that risk must in the scheme is dependent on No link Very high be viewed against the a number of variables at any Executive sponsor: Kevin Boyd expensive alternative of given time, including investment Change: Continued volatility of bond yields completely fide-risking the performance, mortality have led to increased fund liabilities fund by shifting away from assumptions for employees and certain asset classes.
We pensioners, inflation assumptions, therefore have a balanced changes in bond yields used to approach to this risk.
assess liability values, and any deficit reduction payments made to the scheme.
Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk 30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Year-onKey mitigation, sponsor Risk appetite Rationale Link to strategic Principal risk and why it is relevant year change and explanation of change rating for rating themes pages 20-25 Breach of legal and regulatory Established strong ethical culture We respect the laws, Very low 5 1 2 3 requirements Regular updates on Corporate rules and regulations Low Governance and Stock Exchange rules of the jurisdictions With the global spread of its 4 5 6 Review of commercial arrangements Balanced in which we operate business, the Group is subject to Direct link undertaken with external advice and believe we have the unique laws and regulations High Indirect link Procedures in place to maintain an ethical duty to in various countries and regions.
No link accreditations Very high comply with those All commercial operations and Effective monitoring of litigation agreements must function requirements.
in compliance with relevant Executive sponsor: Andy Robson requirements on all matters, including Change: No change competition, corporate governance, securities and industry certifications, among others.
Breaching these laws and regulations could have serious consequences.
Noncompliance with health, Increased focus by Board and Executive We take seriously the Very low 6 1 2 3 safety and environmental Committee health and safety of our Low legislation Compliance with legislation and codes of employees, customers 4 5 6 best practice Balanced and all related A major health, safety or Direct link Regular audits, site checks and reporting stakeholders.
We environmental incident could High Indirect link On-going training continually strive to put cause total or partial closure of a No link Employee concerns recorded and Very high manufacturing facility.
As a premium in place policies and investigated provider of safety critical products, a procedures to ensure breach of these requirements would Executive sponsor: Ian Farnworth compliance with HSE also have reputational consequences legislation.
Change: No change for the Group.
Solution specification failure Extensive internal and field testing of new Satisfying customer Very low 7 1 2 3 products prior to launch requests for new, Total solutions demand Low On-going capital investment in the latest innovative products understanding of customers 4 5 6 manufacturing technology Balanced and designs is an complex technical requirements and Direct link Cross-checks established between important aspect of our there is risk involved in pursuing new High Indirect link manufacturing and sales to ensure we opportunities in engineering systems business, but it must have properly understood customer No link Very high always be pursued design, installation and servicing.
requirements Failure could result in disruption and without compromising Testing policy and procedures in place loss to a customers production line.
our hard-earned across manufacturing sites reputation for quality Executive sponsors: Jay Whalen and products.
Ian Farnworth Change: No change Increased risk No change to risk Decreased risk Risk appetite ratings defined: Very low Low Balanced High Very high Following a marginal-risk, Seeking to integrate An approach which brings Willing to consider bolder Pursuing high-risk, unproven marginal-reward approach sufficient control and a high chance for success, opportunities with higher options that carry with that represents the safest mitigation methods in order considering the risks, along levels of risk in exchange for them the potential for highstrategic route available.
to accommodate a low level with reasonable rewards, increased business payoffs.
of risk, though this will also economic and otherwise.
30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 31
