S ST TR RA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP POR ORT T:: PR OVE INR CVI IPE A W L RISKS Principal risks The Groups financial and operational risks, how they have changed and how they are Key: managed are shown below.
Risk increased Risk remained stable Risk decreased Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2016 How we manage the risk Availability Growing demand for healthcare, changes The Board focuses on staff retention, evidenced of key to the working requirements and a limited by high levels of staff satisfaction and, hence, medical staff supply of appropriately qualified key medical low staff turnover.
staff, leads to a shortage of medical staff.
Management deploy productivity tools and pursue Profitable growth, in line with the Groups opportunities to reduce clinical nursing time spent strategy, requires an expansion of clinical on non-clinical activities to optimise the effectiveness services in hospitals, particularly including of its clinical staff base.
more complex surgical procedures and ongoing treatment of higher-risk patients, which could We have introduced a new solution for the be impacted by a shortage of key medical staff.
recruitment of clinical staff, partnering with an In order to expand our directory of services external provider.
at hospital level, in line with our strategy, it is The Group believes consultants are attracted by vital to have access to appropriately qualified, its advanced facilities, technology and equipment, clinical staff.
excellent brand and reputation, the availability of The market may see salary rates rise as a broad range of treatments, skilled nursing staff competition for staff increases and, as a result, and medical support staff, and the efficiency of the Groups costs may increase and its profits administrative support.
The Group undertakes may reduce.
continuous investment in its equipment, facilities and services to retain high-quality consultants and also provides theatre capacity to new consultants.
This is confirmed by high consultant satisfaction levels.
Clinical care The Groups future growth depends upon its Spire Healthcare continually monitors its clinical ability to maintain its reputation for highstandards, policies and procedures through the quality services by meeting its quality goals.
Boards Clinical Governance and Safety Committee.
Poor clinical outcomes, negative media During 2016, regular management information comment or patient, GP and or consultant and associated reporting has been provided to the dissatisfaction could reduce the quality ratings, Executive Committee.
Management information is which could lead to a loss of patient referrals subject to continuous improvement to best leverage and lost earnings.
A number of key performance indicators are used in the assessment of clinical standards and these may be found in the Clinical review.
The Group reviews and maintains insurance to mitigate the possibility of a major loss.
Adequacy of cover is reviewed annually with the Groups brokers.
50 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2016 How we manage the risk Macroeconomic Approximately 68% of the Groups revenue is The Board manages this risk by regularly reviewing conditions dependent on private patients having private market conditions and economic indicators to assess medical insurance PMI, paid by their employer whether actions are required.
or paid by the individual, or being able to afford As successfully employed in the recent economic its services Self-pay.
downturn, if the private market contracts, the Group In an economic downturn, the number of can try to reduce costs and future investment to insured individuals falls with the level of improve profit and cash flow, and may be able to offer employment and individuals have reduced the released capacity to the NHS at its lower tariff, real income to fund insurance or Self-pay reducing the impact on profit.
This would have an adverse effect on the Groups business, the results of its operations and prospects.
Government Change in the medium-term public funding of The Group believes that the private sector has become policy NHS services provision, and or the prioritisation a fundamental partner of the NHS across the UK.
of this funding to particular service lines over The continued use of private facilities is, in Spire time elective healthcare, A&E, community Healthcares view, the best way to meet the challenges care, etc.
could adversely reduce the flow facing the NHS, particularly as there is limited capacity of NHS patients to Spire Healthcare.
within the NHS to take back work currently undertaken by the private sector.
Changes in the service level requirements for providers of NHS services, and service level The Groups service levels are confirmed by regular commitments to members of the public surveys of patients, GPs and consultants, which served by the NHS, could adversely impact the provide ongoing feedback to ensure NHS requirements attractiveness of privately funded treatment.
whether as providers or as commitments to its patients are met.
In addition, the Board regularly Changes in fiscal policy could increase the reviews the competitiveness of its patient offering burden of welfare resulting in a reduction both NHS and private patients.
The Board continually monitors Government policy, A fundamental change in the tariff structure NHS requirements and associated tariff structures pricing arrangements associated with the to consider the need for cost and or investment provision of services to the NHS could result reduction, whether in the short, medium or long term.
in reduced access to patients, reduced tariffs, or reduced prices leading to reduced revenues and or margins.
Compliance The Group operates in a highly regulated The Group continues to strengthen its Group-wide with laws, environment, including complying with the risk management framework and associated policies regulations requirements of, for example, the CQC, Monitor and procedures to ensure that risks are mitigated and other and the CMA.
as far as possible, the Executive Committee has applicable appropriate visibility to ensure robust decision-making, Failure to comply with laws, regulations or requirements and the Group has the ability to monitor and react regulatory standards may expose the Group to the changing regulatory framework of a listed to patient claims, fines, penalties, damage to company in the healthcare sector.
reputation, suspension from the treatment of NHS patients, loss of hospital licence and loss of The Group has a significant centralised clinical team private patients, such that the Group may not which assists hospitals in establishing and maintaining be able to operate one or more of its hospitals, a high level of clinical performance.
causing a significant reduction in profit.
Emerging legal or regulatory changes are monitored The CQC has continued its new inspection by the Board, the Executive Committee, the Audit and regime which assesses and rates hospitals Risk Committee and the Clinical Governance and and makes these results publicly available.
If a Safety Committee, in addition to consultations with hospital fared badly in one of these inspections, external advisers and industry briefings.
it could result in that hospital being assessed as Inadequate which could have significant regulatory and reputational impacts.
As at the end of 2016, no Spire Healthcare hospitals have received an Inadequate rating.
In addition, the Group could fail to anticipate legal or regulatory changes leading to a significant financial or reputational impact.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 51 STRATEGIC REPORT: PRINCIPAL RISKS Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2016 How we manage the risk Competitor Spire Healthcare operates in a highly The Group maintains a watching brief on new and challenge competitive market.
New or existing existing competitor activity and retains the ability to competitors may enter the market of one react quickly to changes in-patient and market demand.
or more of our existing hospitals, or offer The Group considers that a partial mitigation of the new services.
impact of competitor activity is ensured by providing The potential impact would be the loss patients with high-quality care and by maintaining of market share due to a new competitor good working relationships with GPs and consultants.
and reduced profitability and cash flow.
Insurance Healthcare companies, including Spire The Group holds third-party liability insurance to Healthcare, are sometimes subject to actions partially cover patient, third-party and employee alleging negligence, malpractice and other personal injury claims, and is partially self-insured up legal claims that may involve large potential to predetermined levels, above which its third-party damages and significant defence costs, liability insurance applies.
whether or not the defendant is ultimately The Group reviews and maintains insurance adequacy found liable.
of cover annually with the Groups broker.
The Group could be subject to litigation for actions by third parties or may be found liable for damages which may not be covered by its insurance policies, if the claims are in excess of cover or claims are not covered by the Groups insurance due to other policy limitations or exclusions or where it has failed to comply with the terms of the policy.
The Groups insurance premiums may increase and, if there is a significant deterioration in its claims experience, insurance may not be available on acceptable terms.
Cybersecurity The Groups information technology platform Spire Healthcares technical IT teams continually supports, among other things, management monitor these developments as a business as usual control of patient administration, billing activity.
Working with a number of specialist and and financial information and reporting industry leading technical partners, Spire Healthcare processes.
In common with other corporate has created multiple layers of business protection organisations, the Group faces the challenges through the use of advanced intrusion detection of a continually evolving external cyberthreat and protection systems, web access firewalls landscape, and could become vulnerable to and advanced content filtering to combat denial computer viruses, break-ins and similar of service attacks.
Business processes are also kept under review and The Groups business could be disrupted if its user education regularly carried out to minimise the information systems fail or if its databases are possibility of ransomware incidents.
This could Regular third-party penetration testing is performed cause financial and reputational impacts.
on Spire Healthcares core IT systems.
New IT system The level of risk to Spire Healthcares IT developments are subject to rigorous penetration architecture and systems continues to testing prior to release.
grow as the volume of cybersecurity threats are increasing and becoming more sophisticated.
52 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Risk change Risk theme Risk description and impact 2016 How we manage the risk Concentration The PMI market is concentrated, with the The Group works hard to maintain good relationships of PMI market top four companies Bupa, AXA, Aviva and and a joint product patient health offering with the VitalityHealth formerly PruHealth having PMI companies, which, in the opinion of the Directors, a market share estimated at over 85%.
assists the healthcare sector as a whole in delivering high-quality patient care.
Loss of an existing contractual relationship with any of the key insurers could significantly The Board believes continuing to invest in its wellreduce revenue and profit.
placed portfolio of hospitals should provide a natural fit to the local requirements of all the PMI providers.
Further consolidation of the PMI market could adversely impact Spire Healthcares relative The Group has looked to ensure that all significant bargaining power in any ongoing commercial contracts run for a minimum of a year to avoid arrangements.
co-termination of contractual arrangements across its PMI base.
Investment plans The capital investment programme which The Group conducts a detailed financial and and execution includes IT system developments and the operational appraisal process to evaluate the construction of two new hospitals at any time expected returns on capital during the evaluation consists of a number of individually significant phase of the project.
Robust project management is employed throughout With any major project there are risks, such the project, from the evaluation, to the bid process, as major cost overrun or substantial delay in agreement of contract terms and conditions, cost delivery, which could impact upon the forecasting, as well as regular monitoring and expected returns, the Groups planned profit management of progress.
growth and future cash flow.
Regular reporting of all significant projects to the executive sponsor and the Board is provided.
Liquidity and The Group may have insufficient liquid The Group actively monitors and manages its liquid covenant risk resources to meet its financial liabilities as they asset position, its financial liabilities falling due and fall due, or breach financial covenants linked the cover against its loan covenants.
The Board has considered the risk in detail as part Failure to meet its obligations or covenants of its assessment of the viability of the Company would have a substantial adverse effect on see page 49. the Groups reputation and may lead to borrowings becoming repayable earlier than contracted for.
The Strategic Report, from pages 1 to 53, was reviewed, approved by the Board and signed on its behalf on 1 March 2017.
Garry Watts Executive Chairman 1 March 2017 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2016 53
