Strategic Report Risk and risk management ENGINEERING SUSTAINABLE VALUE BY MANAGING RISK In 2016 we undertook a risk appetite assessment and in 2017 we will be reviewing the structure of our internal audit function.
Nicholas Anderson, Risk Management Committee Chairman Managing risks Our approach and appetite for risk Risk management is integral to the Groups strategy and to the achievement of our longBoard Audit Committee term goals.
Our continued success as an organisation depends on our ability to identify Reports to Works with and pursue the opportunities generated by our business and the markets in which we operate.
The Board is responsible for the Risk Management Committee overall stewardship of our system of risk management and internal control.
It has Oversees risk management processes and procedures and monitors mitigating actions put in place by the Group.
Works with the Audit Committee established the level of risk that is appropriate to monitor effectiveness of internal controls and the audit process.
to enable the business to meet its strategic objectives.
The leadership team uses an embedded approach to risk management Top down review so that all projects are assessed for the risks and opportunities that they offer on an ongoing basis.
Risk review external internal During 2016 we implemented a risk appetite Carried out at regular intervals assessment, determining the Groups appetite for each of its seven principal risks.
This exercise included assessing the associated control and mitigation measures Risk assurance in place, ethical concerns and other factors Internal audit and external auditor affecting each risk.
These ratings will be on-going review of effectiveness by the Audit Committee monitored and reviewed as necessary to and Risk Management Committee reflect changes in circumstances affecting the Group.
Group-wide risk register Maintained and reviewed by the Risk Management Committee The risk appetite ratings are set out in the table on pages 30-31.
Bottom-up review Group operating companies Pages 79-81 of the Governance Report provide Pages 109-110 contain our Going Concern The roles and responsibilities of the Board and its further information on the Groups approach and Viability Statements.
committees are set out on pages 68-69. to risk, including risk appetite, along with the roles, responsibilities, and actions of the Risk Management Committee.
28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information Risk likelihood, control and impact Important developments in the year The Committees analysis of the principal risks affecting the Group, Our risk management approach is subject to continuous review before mitigation, is set out in the diagram below.
and updating to take account of new and developing issues The numbers relate to the principal risks outlined on pages 30-31. which might impact our business objectives.
The following actions have been undertaken during the year to address significant developments: Risk appetite: ratings and statement 1 We performed an in-depth evaluation of risk appetite for each of the 2 Groups principal risks.
Based on those determinations, as well as a robust assessment of all other risks that could threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity, we agreed on a Risk Appetite Statement applicable for the Group.
The statement is included onpage 81.
5 6 Brexit contingency plan 3 7 4 During the year a Brexit contingency plan was developed to include an analysis of the exposure and the effects of a UK exit from the EU across all of our business operations.
The plan involves close monitoring of any effects on financial or trading positions, to mitigate the challenges and capitalise on the opportunities that may arise.
Modern Slavery Act A statement has been approved by the Board and is available on our website, www.
This year we updated the Groups Distributor Agreement template to Low likelihood High likelihood include a clause requiring compliance with the Act and a commitment to the principles it addresses.
Key The Group has implemented and will continue to implement measures to 1.
Economic and political instability protect workers from being abused or exploited in our organisation and 2.
Significant exchange rate movements supply chain.
Loss of manufacturing output at any Group factory Our Global Excellence in Supply Chain Initiative provides a framework for 4.
Defined benefit pension deficit on-going monitoring of supplier standards that are set out in our Supplier 5.
Breach of legal and regulatory requirements Sustainability Code.
Non-compliance with health, safety and environmental legislation 7.
Solution specification failure Potential impact of the risk Principal risks We undertook a top-down review of the principal risks and introduced enhanced monitoring throughout the year in accordance with changes to For details of the principal risks see pages 30-31. the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Summary of the key areas of focus for 2017: Regular updates Monitor business ethics across the Group The Executive Committee reviews the risk register at each meeting to determine if the risks are still current and the Board is provided with Monitor the impacts of the Brexit referendum regular updates.
Bottom-up risk review Statement regarding the impact of Brexit on risk As a Group we are well prepared for and have commenced mitigate any short-term volatility.
We have a resilient business model implementation of our Brexit contingency plan.
As part of our plan and provide our engineered solutions to a diverse customer base we analysed our exposure to the effects of a UK exit from the EU.
across a wide range of market sectors in many international markets.
The Board will monitor closely any effects on financial or trading Over 90% of our revenues and profits are generated outside of the positions using a range of indices, which will guide our actions over UK and as a Group we are well-prepared and well-placed to take on the coming months as the situation develops.
the challenges and identify the opportunities resulting from a UK exit from the EU.
We have navigated periods of political and economic The Group is a global organisation.
We have a broad geographic uncertainty in the past and have a long and successful history reach with wholly owned operations in all of the worlds major of growth.
economies and a regional manufacturing strategy that will help to 28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report 2016 29 High level of control No control
