STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS The management of risks is delegated through the business with a They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance variety of committees responsible for reviewing and managing the against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law procedures.
We recognise that they are designed to manage rather andregulations.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Groups risk management framework Board Internal Audit Top down Assurance activities Oversight and The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal controls and risk leadershipof risk management policies and is also responsible for reviewing their effectiveness.
management approach Overall responsibility for risk Receives regular risk updates management and internalcontrols.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews procedures that relate to risk management processes and financial controls.
The assessment of controls and risk management processes provide a reasonable basis for the Board to make proper judgements on an ongoing basis as to the financial position and prospects of the Group.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters that have arisen from the Audit Committees review of the way risk management and internal control processes have been applied.
This includes insights from its review of the reports of the internal and external auditors.
Supports the Board by reviewing Receives and reviews detailed riskmanagement processes and riskregisters.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee operates under the management of the Audit Committee.
It is not a Board committee.
It is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and comprises the Group General Counsel, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Head of Financial Reporting, the Director of Business Controls, senior representatives from Deloitte, which acts as internal auditor to the Group, and other key colleagues wherenecessary.
Identifies new risks for inclusion in the registers.
Takes action, as agreed and documented in the registers.
Reviews operational risks, controls and KPIs on an ongoingbasis.
Business Controls Coordinates the risk management process.
Holds meetings with risk owners across the business.
Updates risk registers, assesses risk ratings and documents mitigatingcontrols.
Bottom up Identification, Businesses assessment, mitigation Local risk registers and risk maps.
and escalation of risk 16 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Internal controls framework each country is required to submit a Controls Self-Assessment Regional and country management are responsible for implementing confirmation to verify its compliance with the controls set over internal control and risk management practices within their own core processes.
This must be signed off by senior management businesses and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies before being submitted to Group: andprocedures.
the Board considers social, environmental and ethical matters During 2016, the Directors reviewed the effectiveness of the in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when Groups system of controls, risk management and high-level internal reviewing the risks faced by the Group: further information control processes.
These reviews included an assessment of internal regarding environmental and ethical matters is available on controls, in particular operational and compliance controls and their pages 23 to 25: and effectiveness, supported by reports from the internal auditor, as the Group has established and rolled out a Code of Conduct, a well as the external auditor on matters identified in the course of its Whistleblowing Policy and an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption statutory audit work.
Policy, all of which are refreshed on an ongoing basis.
Training The Audit Committee supports the Board by regularly reviewing the has been provided to the Board and to the senior management effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
covering the obligations and behaviours of the UK listed company, including those on compliance, insider dealing and There were no changes to the Groups internal control over financial market abuse.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption training for all reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September 2016 applicable staff levels has been rolled out.
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups reported financial position.
Risk management framework The Groups risk management framework is designed to ensure that The key elements of the internal control environment in relation to material business risks throughout the business are identified and the financial reporting process are as follows: effectively managed on an ongoing basis.
review of the Groups strategic plans and objectives by the Board The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, on an annual basis: evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
a detailed budget is produced annually in accordance with This process was in place throughout 2016 and up to the date of the Groups financial processes and is reviewed and approved approval of this annual report and meets the requirements of the by the Board.
Operational reports are provided to Executive guidance produced by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Audit Management on a weekly and monthly basis and performance Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system against the budget is kept under regular review in accordance ofinternal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
with the Groups financial procedures manual.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Board on performance and key The key features of the risk management process are as follows: issues as they arise: the Group conducts an annual risk assessment and maintains the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its country and regional risk registers.
A top down Group risk duties regarding the Groups financial statements, accounting register is maintained covering risks to the overall Group.
Risks policies and maintenance of proper internal business, are evaluated in respect of their potential impact and likelihood.
The Committee provides Theregional country registers, covering the assessment of risk a direct link between the Board and the internal and external as well as current and future mitigation activities, are discussed auditors through regular meetings: by the Executive Committee and key risks are presented to the RiskCommittee and the Audit Committee: the Board has formal procedures in place for approval of client contracts, capital investment and acquisition projects, the Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are with clearly designated levels of authority, supported by post included in the annual report: and investment review processes for selected acquisitions and a risk management action plan is put in place to further enhance capital expenditure: the Groups risk management capability.
17 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED The following table summarises the principal risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed, and the actions taken to mitigate those risks and uncertainties.
Risks are identified as principal based on the likelihood of occurrence and the potential impact on the Group.
Tworisks labour laws and unions, outsourcing have been added as principal risks since the prior year.
Risks Mitigating Factors Strategic development The Groups strategy involves expanding its business in The Group prioritises its investment in new contracts as developing markets, including Asia Pacific and Eastern part of the ongoing review of its global pipeline, and the Europe and the Middle East.
prioritisation of its capital investment and resources.
The Group may not be successful in winning new The Group has strengthened the management team in contracts on commercially acceptable terms, or may Asia Pacific, USA and Eastern Europe and the Middle East, win new contracts but fail to mobilise and operate them especially in business development and operations.
The executive management team reviews mobilisation The Group may not have the capability to enter new plans to ensure that new openings are delivered on time.
markets and capitalise on the business development The Group adopts a joint venture model in certain opportunities theseprovide.
new territories to provide access to existing local infrastructure and expertise.
Client relationships The Groups operations are dependent on the terms of The Groups local management structures in all its major airport and railway station concession agreements and geographies allow it to maintain strong relationships with on its ability to retain existing concession contracts and its clients and monitor performance in close partnership win new contracts from either its existing or new clients.
with its clients management teams.
The Group has now The Groups clients may turn to alternative operators, established a contact strategy with key stakeholders at cease operations, terminate contracts with the Group or clients to establish and or maintain ongoing relationships.
increase pricing pressure on the Group.
The Group also has an annual online and interview-based client survey to ensure any concerns are being addressed.
Furthermore, the Group proactively seeks to invest in, extend and enhance its offers in its key locations, working in conjunction with its clients.
Senior management capability The performance of the Group depends on its ability to The Group continues to review key roles and succession andretention attract, motivate and retain key employees.
The skills plans in country and at the centre.
Senior resources have developed in our business are highly attractive to other been strengthened in a number of strategically important companies, who regularly target them for recruitment.
The Group may not have sufficient management capability The Group carries out an annual talent mapping exercise at a senior level e. g. country leadership to execute the to identify candidates for future roles.
planned operational efficiency programmes and support The Group Remuneration Committee monitors the levels the growth and development of the business.
of remuneration for senior management and seeks to The Group may not have sufficient resources to meet ensure that they are designed to attract, retain and the changing and complex needs of an international and motivate the key personnel to run the Group effectively.
growing business e. g. Legal, Finance, IT.
The Group has invested in additional resource to support change initiatives and business development programmes.
Business environment The Group operates in the travel environment where The Group monitors the performance of individual external factors such as the general economic and business units and markets regularly.
The executive geopolitical climate including the impact of Brexit and management team reviews detailed weekly and monthly sustained terrorist attacks impacting key markets, levels information covering a range of KPIs, and monitors of disposable income, weather, changing demographics progress on key strategic projects.
Specific short and travel patterns could all impact both passenger and medium-term actions are taken to address any numbers and consumer spending.
There is a risk that the trading performance issues which are monitored on an Group is unable to or poorly placed to respond to these ongoingbasis.
The Group also conducts extensive customer research to understand current levels of customer satisfaction and gathers feedback on changing consumer requirements.
Changing business model Changing client requirements, such as splitting tenders The Group has in place a clear SSP Value Proposition that across two or more providers, partnering with operators it presents to the client to address this risk.
in joint ventures, developing third party purchasing The Groups Director of Strategic Partnerships and the models and favouring local brand operators or partnering Group Chief Commercial Officer work closely with the directly with brand owners, may adversely affect the country management teams to enhance and clarify the Groupsbusiness.
The Groups contact strategy with key stakeholders and its clients helps to mitigate this risk.
This is informed by its annual client survey, which is carried out by an independentparty.
18 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks Mitigating Factors Brand portfolio The Groups success is largely dependent upon its The Group carries out extensive customer research into ability to maintain its portfolio of proprietary brands as passengers needs and continually analyses market trends well as the brands of its franchisors, and the appeal of in order to enhance its brand and concept portfolio on an those brands for clients and customers.
The loss of any ongoingbasis.
significant partner brands, the inability to obtain rights to The Group has strengthened its dedicated brands team new brands over time or the diminution in the appeal of to work closely with its partner brands and to enable partner brands or the Groups proprietary brands could greater capacity to attract and manage a broader portfolio impair the Groups ability to compete effectively in tender of external brands.
The Group has extended its brand processes and ultimately have a material adverse effect portfolio to provide additional breadth and depth of on the Groups business.
Intensified competition Competition intensifies as the Groups competitors The Group has clear internal benchmarking and become more sophisticated and direct more resources investment appraisal processes to evaluate tender to the preparation of bids and take a more aggressive proposals and to ensure that the Group is able to make a position on commercial terms when bidding for contracts.
competitive offer, as well as meet its investment criteria.
This could put pressure on the Groups profitability and The Group has developed high-quality businessreduce the availability and attractiveness of contracts.
to-business marketing collateral to clearly lay out the benefits of working with SSP, which it shares with the clients to help them better understand the Groups proposition from both quantitative and qualitativeaspects.
The Groups strengthened business development team utilise the feedback from regular client satisfaction surveys when developing new bids.
Expansion in The Group operates business directly in a number of The Group has clearly defined authorisation procedures developingmarkets developing markets, including Asia Pacific and Eastern for all contract investment to ensure that it is consistent Europe and the Middle East.
Political, economic and legal with the objectives set by the Board, and fully considers systems and conditions in these countries are generally and evaluates the risks inherent in expansion into new less predictable than in countries with more developed locations and territories.
institutional structures, subjecting the Group to additional The Group works with in-house and external advisors to commercial, reputational, legal and compliance risks.
ensure risks of doing business in developing markets are identified and where possible mitigated before entering those markets.
The Group has strengthened its legal teams to support business development activities and ensure compliance with local requirements.
The risk of working in developing markets is also monitored by the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
Implementation of The change programmes fail to deliver benefits e. g. labour The Group has completed detailed evaluation and efficiencyprogrammes efficiency and improvements in wastage and loss.
planning for its major change programmes.
Specialist expertise has been recruited into the business where required, both at a Group and a country level.
The Group provides central support with regional CEOs and CFOs to facilitate appropriate country actions based on key performance indicators linked to margin management.
Group IT also provides support for project management and implementation using agreed standard business processes andcontrols.
Labour laws and unions Approximately 35% of the Groups employees are subject The Group works proactively with all of its unions to collective bargaining agreements, principally in France, to ensure that the various collective bargaining Germany, Spain, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden and agreements are appropriate for the Group and minimise the United States.
The Group is also subject to minimum wage requirements The Group is reviewing the impact of changes in and mandatory healthcare subsidisation in some of the remuneration structures, including the introduction of the jurisdictions in which it operates, notably North America, national living wage and apprenticeship levy in the UK and the United Kingdom and China.
the Healthcare bill in the US and developing mitigating strategies across the Group.
19 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Risks Mitigating Factors Outsourcing programmes The Group fails to execute outsourcing projects The Group has recruited specialist resources into the effectively resulting in the business as usual being business to manage implementation and transition disrupted and the introduction of new third party risks.
projects and has used external advisors to provide input into the management of risks on such projects.
The outsourcing partners are highly reputable and have been selected after a rigorous tender process andextensive due diligence.
Cyber threats The Group becomes exposed to information security and The Group continually reviews its business continuity cyber threats e. g. Payment Card Industry Data Security plans for its supply chain, IT disaster recovery and Standards PCIDSS.
information security policies and practices to ensure that these meet the changing landscape.
Tax strategy Risk that reputation is damaged if customers, clients The Group has a tax management policy which is based on and or suppliers believe that the Group is engaged in Board guidance to adopt a low risk tax strategy.
aggressive or abusive tax avoidance.
Operational Business interruption The travel environment is vulnerable to acts of terrorism The Group has business continuity plans in place or war, an outbreak of pandemic disease, or a major and including liaison with authorities and clients in key extreme weather event or natural disaster which could locations to ensure that contingency plans are in place.
reduce the number of passengers in travel locations.
The Group also has comprehensive insurance at both global and local levels with leading insurers to cover, among other things, property damage, business interruption, public and product liability, employers liability, workers compensation, Directors and Officers liability, motor and other cover as required by local laws and regulations.
This cover is reviewed on an annualbasis.
Supply chain The interruption or loss of supply of core category The Group conducts risk assessments of all of its products from a key supplier to our units may affect our key suppliers to identify alternatives and develop ability to trade, whilst quality of supply issues may also contingency plans in the event that any of these key impact the Groups reputation and its ability to trade.
The Group has contractual and other relationships with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements are individually considered to be essential to the business continuity of the Group, as most of the Groups purchasing is managed at a local level.
Food commodity price inflation A substantial element of the Groups cost base The Group seeks to manage cost inflation through: comprises food and drink products and raw materials.
pricing reviews: menu management to substitute As such, the profitability of the Groups contracts will ingredients in response to any forecast shortages depend on its management of its cost of goods, which and cost increases: and continuing to drive greater also determines its ability to offer competitive pricing to purchasing efficiencies through supplier negotiations, its customers while maintaining sufficientmargins.
The Group is monitoring the impact of Brexit on food commodity prices in the UK and taking appropriate actions where possible.
Technology and infrastructure The failure of key operational IT systems could cause All IT programmes of any significance are authorised systems interruption to the trading of the business.
and overseen by the Chief Information Officer and project managed using well-recognised development Advances in technologies or alternative methods of methodologies andprotocols.
delivery, including advances in vending technology, mobile payments, digital marketing and customer loyalty programmes, could have a negative effect on the Groups business if the Group is not able to respond adequately to these technological challenges.
20 SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Risks Mitigating Factors Financial Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates on The Group maintains a balance of fixed and floating its loanbalances.
rate debt so that the risks associated with increases in interest rates are mitigated through the use of interest rate swaps.
Currency risk Although the functional currency of the Group is Sterling, The Groups policy in managing this financial currency the Groups operating cash flows are transacted in a risk is to use foreign currency denominated borrowings number of different currencies.
The Groups principal to ensure interest costs arise in currencies which reflect currencies of operation are Sterling, the Euro, the US the operating cash flows, thereby minimising net cash Dollar, the Swedish Krona and the Norwegian Krone.
The Group is subject to currency exchange risk including translation risk and economic risk.
Liquidity and debt covenants The Group needs continuous access to funding in The Group has put in place long-term borrowings in order to meet its trading obligations and to support various currencies to meet its demand for funds.
There is a risk that the Group may be unable addition, the Group has access to a revolving credit to obtain the necessary funds when required or that such facility should such demands arise at short notice.
The funds will only be available on unfavourableterms.
Groups treasury department maintains an appropriate level of funds and facilities to meet each years planned The Groups borrowing facilities include a requirement funding requirement.
to comply with certain specified covenants in relation to the level of net debt and interest cover.
A breach of Compliance with the Groups biannual debt covenant is these covenants could result in the Groups borrowings monitored on a monthly basis based on the management becoming repayable immediately.
Sensitivity analysis using various scenarios is applied to forecasts to assess their impact on covenants.
Legal and regulatory Compliance The laws and regulations governing the Groups industry The Group has processes in place to ensure compliance have become increasingly complex across a number of with local laws and regulations.
Depending on the jurisdictions and a wide variety of areas, including, among nature of complexity in a country, the Group may obtain others, food safety, labour, employment, immigration, external advice to supplement the in-house legal and security and safety, health and safety, competition complianceteam.
and antitrust, consumer protection including data The Group has a Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery and protection, environment, licensing requirements and Anti-Corruption Policy in place and Anti-Bribery and Antirelated compliance.
The Group is also required to comply Corruption training has been rolled out internationally.
with applicable data protection laws and regulations in The Groups procedures under the policy include regular many of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
reporting by the businesses into the Risk Committee.
With a UK parent company, the Group is required to Compliance is monitored by Internal Audit and the Risk comply with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act, as well Committee on an ongoing basis and all alleged breaches as the local anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws in the of the Code of Conduct and policy are investigated.
territories in which the Group operates.
Food safety The preparation of food and the maintenance of the The Group has food safety controls and procedures Groups supply chain require a base level of hygiene, in place that are embedded in the Groups operations.
temperature maintenance and traceability, and expose These are monitored by country management teams on a the Group to possible food safety liability claims and regular basis and appropriate action is taken if any issues issues, such as the risk of foodpoisoning.
Training sessions are also held in country to ensure compliance with these procedures.
The risks listed on pages 18 to 21 do not comprise all those associated with SSP Group plc and the order of risks presented does not denote an order of priority.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
These less material risks are kept in view in case their likelihood or impact should show signs ofincreasing.
21 STRATEGIC REPORT SSP GROUP Annual Report & Accounts 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT AND PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Viability statement In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects and the longer-term viability of the Group.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, the Groups strategy, the Boards risk appetite and the Groups principal risks and how these are managed, as detailed in the Strategic report.
In particular, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the Groups principal risks and those that would threaten the Groups business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
The Directors have determined that three years is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement, as this is consistent with the Groups Medium Term Plan, which was approved by the Board in July 2016.
The Medium Term Plan, which reflects the strategy and associated principal risks of the various business units across the Group, is underpinned by a detailed financial model which is based on a variety of assumptions about the key drivers of revenue, profit, capital expenditure and cashflow.
The plan is stress tested to provide the Board with assurance as to the Groups viability under a number of scenarios, for example in the event of a severe downturn in trading.
These stress tests include one that uses as its reference point the 2008 09 financial crisis, when global economic conditions adversely impacted both passenger volumes and the spending habits of customers, leading to a rapid and unprecedented drop in like-for-like sales, and one that envisages an external event that has a significant impact on the travel sector for a number of months.
The Medium Term Plan review is supported by regular Board briefings provided by the business unit heads, which consider both the market opportunity and the associated risks and mitigating factors.
These risks are also reviewed as part of the Boards annual risk assessment process.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to September 2019.
Going concern In addition, based on the detailed cash flow projections discussed above, as well as the stress-tested scenarios considered, the Directors are confident that the Group will be able to operate within its banking covenants and has sufficient liquidity levels for the next 12 months from the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Directors believe it is appropriate to prepare the Annual Report and Accounts on a going concern basis.
