Strategic Report Our business and performance Risk management Overview Managing risk to deliver long-term value To help ensure that it is able to provide the energy people need and deliver value over the long term, SSE has continued to develop its Risk Management Framework, including its Principal Risks and its Risk Appetite Statement.
For further detail on how SSE manages risk please see the supplementary Group Risk Report.
The component parts of the framework and A new Principal Risk Self Assessment process In order to support its statement of longer how it interacts with the wider system of internal was introduced during 2015 16.
Executive level term viability as required by the updated UK control are illustrated in the diagram below.
Committees are now formally identified as Corporate Governance Code, the Board has for owners of each Principal Risk and are required the first time performed a Viability Assessment.
The Group Risk Management and Internal to assess these risks and their associated This assessment is based on stress testing the Control Policy is set by the Board and outlines controls annually.
Groups financial model using scenarios relating the principles and responsibilities which to SSEs Principal Risks.
The resulting Viability underpin SSEs approach to managing risk.
Following review, the number of Principal Risks Statement can be found on page 17. to the Group has been reduced from 10 to 9 with The Board performs a review of the Funding Shortfall and Pensions Liabilities being As part of the ongoing assessment of the Groups effectiveness of the system of internal control combined into a single risk Financial Liabilities.
Principal Risks, Key Risk Indicators are reported annually.
This review is supported by a report The full list of Principal Risks is on page 18. to the Board on a regular basis.
These provide from the Director of Group Risk, Audit and high level insight into the key factors which are Insurance detailing the activity and operation The Board determines the nature and extent likely to influence SSEs exposure to those risks.
of the system during the year.
For further detail of risk that the Group is willing to take in pursuit on the outcome of the review please see the of its strategy and this is detailed in the Risk Directors Report on page 78.
System of internal control Corporate Governance Risk Management Assurance Framework Framework Framework For more information see page 71 Group Risk Management and External Audit Board Internal Control Policy Board Committees Review of the Effectiveness of the Internal Audit System of Internal Control Principal Risk Self-Assessment Executive Committee Risk Appetite Statement Group Compliance Executive SubViability Assessment Committees Key Risk indicators Divisional Risk Approach Business Divisions Assurance Evaluation Assurance Risk Blueprint C Cor orp por ora at te e S Sup upp por ort t Functions 16 SSE plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic Framework 1.
The Group Risk Management and Internal The key elements of SSEs strategy including 3.
Risks should be actively controlled and Control Policy requires the Managing Director the diversity of energy businesses within the SSE monitored through the appropriate allocation of each Division to implement a Divisional Risk Group described above, as well as its financial of management and other resources.
Approach to support their business in identifying, framework are fully reflective of its risk appetite: understanding and managing its key risks.
- SSE seeks to avoid over-exposure to any The Board has overall responsibility for single part of the energy sector and therefore determining the nature and extent of the risk Each division carries out an annual Assurance maintains a balanced range of economically it is willing to take and for ensuring that risks Evaluation with key Group policies, with the regulated and market-based energy businesses: are managed effectively across the Group.
output and any areas of required improvement - production, storage, transmission, distribution, reported to the Chief Executive.
supply and related services provide a balanced Viability Statement portfolio of business activities whilst keeping As required within provision C. 2.2 of the UK The Risk Blueprint provides guidance on best the depth of focus on a single sector Corporate Governance Code, the Board has practice in risk management and decisionenergy: and assessed the prospects of the Company over making and is designed to be used by people - Great Britain and Ireland gives SSE a the next 3 financial years to the period ending at all levels across the organisation.
geographic markets focus and a clear March 2019.
The Directors have determined understanding of the risks and opportunities that as this time horizon aligns with the Groups Risk Appetite Statement in those markets.
current capital programme and is within the No business is risk-free, and indeed the strategy planning period, a greater degree of achievement of SSEs goals necessarily involves In areas where SSE is exposed to risks for which confidence over the forecasting assumptions taking risk.
SSE will however only accept risk it has little or no appetite for, even though it has modelled can be established.
where it is appropriate, well understood, implemented high standards of control and can be effectively managed and offers mitigation, the nature of these risks mean In making this statement the Directors have commensurate reward.
that they cannot be eliminated completely.
considered the resilience of the Group taking In determining its appetite for specific risks, into account its current position, its Risk Appetite, Each of SSEs business divisions has a distinctly the Board is guided by three key principles: the Principal Risks facing the Group and the different risk profile.
For example, the Networks control measures in place to mitigate each of business is heavily regulated and is characterised 1.
Risks should be consistent with SSEs strategy, them.
In particular, the Directors recognise the by stable, inflation linked cashflows whereas the financial objective and core values safety is significance of SSEs strong balance sheet and Wholesale business is heavily exposed to energy SSEs number one value and it has no appetite committed lending facilities of 1.5bn which market and commodity risk.
Affordability, for risks brought on by unsafe actions: could be drawn down in most circumstances.
transformation and political risk particularly affect 2.
Risks should only be accepted where the Retail business, while Enterprise is exposed to appropriate reward is achievable on the The Group also has a number of highly attractive the risks that come with rapid growth in a highly basis of objective evidence: and and relatively liquid assets including a regulated competitive market place.
asset base which benefits from a strong regulated revenue stream as well as the operational wind portfolio which provide flexibility of options.
Stress tests incorporating severe but plausible scenarios relating to the Principal Risks have been assessed against the forecast cash flow of the The elements which comprise the Risk business.
The scenarios selected were those that Policy Framework are aligned to different levels of the most have the potential to affect SSEs ability to Framework Corporate Governance Framework as outlined deliver its core purpose of providing the energy in the diagram.
Outputs from the Strategic people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
Framework, particularly the Groups objectives and the SSESET of values, form the basis of all Upon the basis of the analysis undertaken, the activity within the Risk Management Framework.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to meet Group policies This provides a focus for the management of its liabilities as they fall due in the period to risk, defined as anything which can threaten March 2019. the achievement of objectives or compromise SSEs values.
Together with the Group Policy Framework, outputs from the Risk Framework provide the foundation for the work of the teams within the Assurance Framework in providing objective assessments of the control environment.
Divisional Policies and Procedures 17 Strategic Report Our business and performance Risk management continued Summary of Principal Risks Group Principal Risks Emerging risks are also considered as part of After review, the Board has determined that The Board has a responsibility to identify key this assessment to help identify new exposures the list below represents the current Principal risks which could threaten the Companys as early as possible.
While a number of risk areas Risks to SSE.
Combining Pension Liabilities business model, future performance, solvency were identified, after full consideration none of and Funding Shortfall into Financial Liabilities, or liquidity, and determine how these Principal these was felt material enough to meet the reflecting similarities in their nature and impact, Risks will be managed or mitigated.
required threshold to become a Group Principal has resulted in the list reducing from 10 risks in Risk.
Key elements of some were however 2014 15 to 9 in 2015 16.
During 2015 16, SSE introduced a new Principal incorporated into existing Principal Risks, with Risk Self-Assessment process to support this the descriptions of these being amended Further detail on each of the Principal Risks and responsibility, assigning ownership of each accordingly.
For example, Infrastructure Failure associated controls can be found in the Principal Risk to the Executive Committee has been revised to Cyber and Networks Failure supplementary Group Risk Report.
or where more appropriate to one of its formal to more explicitly highlight, in particular, the sub-committees.
The owning Committee is increasing threat of cyber attack.
The Group Principal Risks are presented here responsible for assessing any changes in the in alphabetical order: risk and the effectiveness of the controls in place, reporting on these to the Board.
Risk Owner Risk and Trading Committee RTC Key Mitigations: Commodity The Group is exposed to fluctuations in the physical - SSE uses Value at Risk VaR measures to monitor and prices volume and price of certain commodities, through i control exposures to commodity price and volume.
its requirement to match volumes of purchased gas and Trading limits are set by the Board and managed through electricity with customer demand, and ii exposures arising the Risk and Trading Committee RTC.
due to long-term investment in generation and Exploration - Commodity positions are assessed on a daily basis by a and Production E&P assets driven by the cost of fuel and business risk management function that is independent other commodities required for generation, and through of the trading team.
revenues realised from these assets.
Risk Owner Executive Committee Key Mitigations: Cyber and SSEs electricity networks are part of Great Britains critical - The Information Security and Privacy Committee networks national infrastructure assets and as such are central to the ISPC meets quarterly and works to ensure that suitable failure functioning of the economy.
Additionally, SSE is reliant on a technical, process and people security controls are number of key IT systems to support its ongoing operations.
implemented throughout the Group to protect information, intellectual property and the systems these reside on.
A loss of these systems could be caused by malicious cyber - SSE is an active member of a number of security forums attack, software or hardware issues, inadequate investment including the Energy Emergencies Executive Committee in maintenance or by poor operational performance.
Cyber Security Sub Group E3CC and the Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure CPNI.
Risk Owner Executive Committee Key Mitigations: Development SSEs strategic focus is the efficient operation of, and - Five year transformation road maps have been developed and change investment in, a balanced range of energy businesses to by each division to ensure that SSE is investing in the support annual dividend growth.
SSE strives to be a leading capabilities and solutions that deliver the greatest benefit.
provider of energy and related services within an industry - The Transformation Governance Framework provides where innovation, fide-carbonisation and competition are a consistent process and tool-set to manage change leading to continual technological advancements and within the organisation from first principles to benefit changes in customer expectations and options.
To continue realisation across the Group.
to achieve this, a number of strategic change programmes are under way.
It is vital that SSE successfully delivers these to meet the current and future needs of customers in the most efficient way possible.
Risk Owner Risk and Trading Committee Key Mitigations: Energy SSE is involved in a broad range of energy businesses in - SSE actively encourages public policy makers to ensure affordability the UK and Ireland including the production, storage, that non-commodity costs associated with energy transmission, distribution and supply of electricity, gas and provision and which make up a significant part of the related services.
The decisions taken in operating these average bill are allocated fairly.
contribute to the overall cost of energy to the consumer - The SSE Board approves retail tariff structures which is in turn driven by a number of factors including recommended by the RTC.
In addition, it approves all commodity costs, infrastructure costs and energy sector long-term generation investment decisions to ensure overheads.
Costs can also be impacted by public policies that a diverse portfolio of assets is maintained, limiting aimed at supporting measures for the reduction of carbon exposure to any one commodity.
emissions, while increased energy efficiency can lead to reduced consumption of energy.
Risk Owner Risk and Trading Committee Key Mitigations: Financial SSE ensures that it has funds available at all times to - The Group ensures that committed borrowings and liabilities meet its liabilities when these fall due, in both normal and facilities are available at all times equal to at least 105% stressed conditions.
Around 1.7bn of medium to long-term of forecast borrowings over a rolling six month period.
borrowings will mature in the two years to March 2018.
- The Audit Committee formally reviews treasury exposures, performance and the adequacy of committed borrowing SSE has obligations in respect of three defined benefit facilities twice a year.
pension Schemes including SGN and currently, in aggregate, - The defined benefit pension schemes each have there is an actuarial deficit between the current value of the investment advisors in place who have helped develop projected liabilities of these Schemes and the value of the road-maps with the aim of the schemes becoming fully assets that they hold.
funded i. e. no longer reliant on SSE, within fifteen years.
Risk Owner Executive Committee Key Mitigations: Human and SSEs people are its most valuable asset and it is therefore - SSE looks to employ, train, develop and retain a diverse and relationship essential that the Group retains, attracts and develops talented workforce and provide its people with the support capital diverse talent and leadership to ensure the continued they need to deliver objectives in a responsible way.
- SSEs business leaders are required to undertake regular succession planning reviews.
At a Group level, SSE SSE expects its people to comply with all legislation, continues to develop its approach to the management of regulation and internal policies, including the SSESET of talent, identifying the current depth across the organisation values.
The current pace of change, combined with the and developing strategies to enhance it.
inherent complexity of SSEs activities, makes it increasingly important that everyone at SSE strives for continuous improvement and is able to readily question the status quo.
Risk Owner Large Capital Projects Committee Key Mitigations: Major SSE continues to deliver its capital investment programme - The Large Capital Project Governance Framework projects with a number of major construction and IT projects Manual ensures that all material capital investment quality nearing completion.
Its single biggest construction projects for the Group are governed, developed, project, the Caithness-Moray high voltage transmission approved and executed in a consistent and link, is now underway.
- The Large Capital Projects Services function employs The operational assets from these projects have long quality and assurance teams to perform independent economic lives, typically between 15 and 30 years but project reviews.
often greater, and it is therefore essential that these projects are completed to the quality standards required.
Risk Owner Executive Committee Key Mitigations: Politics, The markets in which SSE operates are subject to a high - SSE has dedicated Corporate Affairs, Regulation, Legal regulation degree of regulatory and legislative intervention at both and Compliance functions that provide advice and and domestic and EU level.
Legal and compliance obligations guidance regarding the interpretation of political, compliance can change explicitly with the introduction of new or revised regulatory and legislative changes to its Divisions.
legislation, or implicitly due to evolving interpretation and - The Governance and Disclosure Committee maintains legal precedent.
oversight of key legislative, regulatory and governance issues.
It meets quarterly and is responsible for ensuring The potential impacts to the Group of the referendum in that SSEs objectives are achieved lawfully, ethically and June 2016 on the UKs continued participation in the EU with the appropriate corporate oversight.
have been considered against this risk.
Risk Owner Safety, Health and Environment Committee Key Mitigations: Safety and the Safety is SSEs first core value.
By the nature of its operations, - SSE has crisis management and business continuity plans environment SSE faces a number of significant safety risks in particular in place which are designed for the management of, and relating to process safety.
A major incident at one of SSEs recovery from, significant safety or environmental events.
hydro, gas storage or E&P assets could have a material - For offshore E & P assets where SSE is not the operator, adverse impact on employees, contractors, members there are a number of assurance measures in place to of the public, the environment and property.
ensure that the proven and approved operator partners maintain and adopt high standards for their safe management and operation.
This includes regular engagement across all aspects of the operation, with an emphasis on safety and technical assurance audits and verification using both internal and third party resources.
