RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW AND CULTURE RISK APPETITE The St. Jamess Place Group is exposed to a wide variety of risks as a The Board chooses carefully the risks it accepts and those it seeks to limit result of its business activities and the industry in which it operates, as or avoid.
These choices are set out in detail in our Group Risk Appetite well as a number of external factors and threats.
Under the leadership, Statement, which is owned by the Board and reviewed at least annually.
direction and oversight of our Board, these risks are carefully managed, The Risk Appetite Statement is aligned with the outcomes based contributing to our competitive advantage and helping us to achieve our approach of the Groups business and client objectives and the business and client objectives as set out on pages 22 and 23. overarching Risk Management Framework.
In particular, it articulates: We do not seek to eliminate risk entirely, rather we seek to understand Risks that are actively sought in pursuit of return: our risks fully, and to apply appropriate risk management strategies such Risks that are consciously avoided: that all material risks are identified, and appropriately managed or Risks that are reduced through transfer to other parties: and mitigated.
Risk management is a core aspect of decision making and is Risks that are minimised through controls.
Our framework is specifically designed to manage the risks that are important to our shareholders, clients, Risk appetite can and will change over time, sometimes rapidly as Partners, regulators and employees, and to provide reasonable assurance economic and business environment conditions change, and therefore the against material financial misstatement or loss.
statement is an evolving document.
A comprehensive suite of indicators is reported regularly to enable the Boards Risk Committee the Risk Risk management, solvency projections and stress and scenario testing Committee, on behalf of the Board, to monitor that the Group remains form a key part of the business planning process, including in relation to within its agreed appetite.
decisions on strategic developments, pricing and dividend payments.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Board, through the Risk Committee, takes an active role in overseeing the Risk Management Framework, for which it is responsible.
This framework is the combined processes by which the Group identifies, assesses, measures, manages and monitors the risks that may impact on the successful delivery of business objectives.
The Groups Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA is a central part of this framework, the main elements of which are shown in the following diagram.
STRATEGY KEY OUTCOMES Risk Appetite Risk Risk Governance Capital Board Identify Assess Standard Risk Committee Formula Executive Board Risk Management Processes Subsidiary Own Boards Assessment Group Risk ExCo Monitor Manage Other ExCos Risk Escalation Risk Culture and Policies 48 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Risk Committee comprises Independent Non-executive Board members, and is responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
A report of its activity during the year can be found on pages 88 to 90.
The Risk Committee is supported by the Executive Board, but also by the Group Risk Executive Committee and by Risk Management teams at Group and local levels, which take the lead in ensuring an appropriate framework is in place and that there is on-going development and co ordination of risk management within the Group.
The other executive sub committees of the Executive Board the Executive Committees also provide support for the management of risks in their areas of responsibility.
The Risk Management Framework is grounded in the outcomes which are key to our organisation.
These are: CLIENTS PARTNERS PEOPLE That we deliver positive That we continue to grow That we treat all outcomes for our increasing and develop the Partnership, of our population of clients both numbers and skills stakeholders well REGULATORS FINANCIALS AND SHAREHOLDERS That we are compliant, have an open That we deliver sustainable and honest relationship with our regulators growth in reported profits on and protect our reputation all measures Whilst clearly a simplification of the business model, this focuses The different regulated entities in the Group are governed by a number attention on those things that are of greatest importance, and hence of specific regulations, however, as an Insurance Group we are primarily indicates where risk management activity should be focused.
It also governed by the Solvency II Directive, which came into force on allows the identification of the individuals within the Group responsible 1 January 2016.
As part of these regulations, we are required to for managing these risks.
undertake an ORSA for the Group, containing the ORSAs for each insurance company within the Group.
We also produce a separate ORSA Within these outcomes, indicators are used to monitor performance for the Singapore Branch of St. Jamess Place International, to meet the against risk appetite.
Each indicator has an owner on the Executive Board requirements of the local regulator.
In 2016 the Group submitted its who is accountable for managing the associated risks within agreed third annual ORSA report to the regulator, relating to the period ended thresholds and providing regular reports to the Executive Board.
This 31 December 2015. enables the Executive Board to maintain effective oversight of all outcomes, and to manage any conflicts of interest that arise between them.
The ORSA is directed by the Board, with active engagement from the boards of St. Jamess Place UK plc SJPUK' and St. Jamess Place To ensure a comprehensive risk universe, there is also a bottom up International plc SJPI', and is intended to be a comprehensive risk element to our framework.
Each division of the Group is responsible for assessment, bringing together an understanding of the risks that the the identification, management and quarterly reporting of its own risks, Group faces, in the context of the strategic plan, and how these risks may and is supported in this by the Risk Management function.
Each risk is change over our planning period.
It also requires quantitative analysis of assessed by considering its potential impact and the likelihood of its the capital required, and how it might develop over our planning period occurrence, with impact assessments being made against financial and five years.
The ORSA is a continually evolving process which has been non financial metrics.
Establishment of appropriate controls is a core part useful to inform management decisions during the year and is of the risk management process.
increasingly embedded in ongoing risk management processes throughout the Group.
Recognising the importance of ongoing effective risk management, the Group maintains a comprehensive suite of governance policies to support Capital for our insurance companies is based on the Solvency II the Risk Management Framework.
regulations: separate risk based capital assessments are performed for the other regulated entities.
As a result of these activities we have considered Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA the calculation and allocation of risk capital to all the major risks in the Many of the activities of the Group, and the legal entities in the Group, Group, and the insurance companies in particular, and the adequacy of are regulated.
We have relationships with the UK regulators PRA and the capital position.
This process ensures our continued confidence that FCA and the Irish Regulator Central Bank of Ireland, and with the the regulated entities remain strongly capitalised.
local regulators in Singapore and Hong Kong.
The nature of our activities and the regulatory focus results in additional risk management activity, including, but not limited to, stress and scenario testing, loss event recording, resolution planning and risk capital management activity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 49 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Management has delegated responsibility to implement and maintain Viability Statement effective controls, such that the Group operates within the risk appetite In accordance with provision C. 2.2. of the UK Corporate Governance agreed by the Board.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, Code, the Directors have assessed the Groups current financial position monitors the effectiveness of internal controls across all business areas and future prospects over a five-year period, and have a reasonable primarily through the outcomes of independent assurance assignments expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and undertaken by Internal Audit.
meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of this assessment.
Control Self Assessment In reaching this conclusion the Directors have taken into account a Control Self Assessment CSA is a continuous activity, which has a number of different strands of work, including: formal summary on an annual basis, and forms a key part of our internal control system.
This self assessment process requires business areas to The Business Plan and associated strategy documents: review their controls regularly, and sign off on their efficacy, against a An assessment of the economic, regulatory, competitive and risk standard set of control statements.
Collectively these control statements environment which was carried out as part of the Boards strategy embody the elements required for an organisation to maintain a control review process: and framework across the five components of Control Environment, Risk The latest Group ORSA, which is a new requirement under the Assessment, Control Activities, Information and Communication, and Solvency II Directive, and which scope is summarised in the Monitoring Activities, as laid down in the internationally accepted section above.
As a result of this work the Board has concluded that the business model This process is beneficial as it provides confidence that business areas can remains appropriate, with no concerns that would fundamentally meet their objectives, clarity to support decision making, and agility in threaten the business model or market.
This is also supported by the adapting to change and complexity.
The annual summary of the control resilience that the Group has demonstrated over recent years and in a self assessment process contributes to the year end Internal Control variety of different external conditions.
Evaluation exercise undertaken by Internal Audit as part of the assurance provision to the Audit Committee.
A planning period of five years is used both in medium term business planning and also for the ORSA, and has therefore been used for the Financial Reporting Processes Code requirement as well, reflecting the horizon over which the Board Specifically, in relation to the financial reporting processes, the main sets medium term strategy.
features of the internal control systems include: The ORSA was particularly useful in assessing viability as it has a similar Extensive documentation, operation and assessment of controls in key purpose and includes a range of stress tests, which have been performed risk areas: at the level of the two insurance companies St. Jamess Place UK plc and Monthly review and sign off of all financial accounting data submitted St. Jamess Place International plc as well as at the level of the Group.
by outsource providers and the results of all subsidiaries within the The stress tests considered include a broad range of scenarios, including Group: and market shocks, mass lapse events, new business growth scenarios and Formal review of financial statements by senior management, for both particularly operational risk events.
These were evaluated for the impact individual companies and the consolidated Group.
on the free assets of the Group of the change in key assumptions or circumstances.
In all severe but plausible adverse tests, free assets were available, demonstrating the Groups resilience to adverse conditions.
Reverse stress tests have also been performed on liquidity, the results of which indicate that the Group can reasonably expect to have sufficient liquid funds to be able to meet its liabilities over the planning period.
The Group monitors performance against a range of predefined indicators, which will identify if experience over the planning period differs from risk appetite or expectations, allowing management action to be taken.
INTERNAL CONTROL The internal control environment in St. Jamess Place is built upon a strong control culture which is underpinned by our Code of Ethics and organisational delegation of responsibility.
The Board has adopted the three lines of defence model for the internal control system, under which the 1st Line is Business Operations, the 2nd Line is Oversight Functions including Risk Management and Compliance, and the 3rd Line is Independent Assurance.
The purpose of this internal control system is to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance.
50 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The following tables summarise the principal risks and uncertainties that are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
These are the risks which could have a material impact on the key strategic outcomes in the five areas set out on page 49.
The Group Board and the Boards of the insurance entities have responsibility for assessing their main risks and these are monitored on a regular basis by the Risk Committee, the Executive Board, the SJPUK and SJPI Boards, the SJPI Risk and Compliance Committee and the SJPI Singapore Branch Executive Management Committee.
Against each of the principal risks, consideration is given to the level of exposure and the extent to which the risk can be mitigated.
For example, the Group believes that the Accumulation of Reputational Issues risk set out below presents a significant exposure yet is difficult to mitigate beyond the processes currently in place across the business.
Conversely, the Investor Relations risk described below presents a more moderate exposure and can be mitigated through the ongoing development of the Investor Relations team.
In reflection of the stability and consistency of the Groups business model, there have been no significant changes in the principal risks to the Group over the last year.
However, notable political events and economic changes during the year have had the effect of bringing certain risks, in particular those in respect of market performance and relative exchange rates, into sharper focus.
The changes in government and uncertainties created by the vote to leave the European Union have led to an increase in the risks associated with regulatory, legislative and tax changes, although the Group remains well positioned to accommodate and build on any such changes.
The principal risks and uncertainties, the business outcomes on which they impact, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate them, are as follows: Non-financial Risks Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Systemic Clients rely on their SJP Partners for the Clients There are many processes in place to mitigate this risk, advice failure provision of initial and ongoing advice.
including detailed advice guidance with appropriate governance Failures in the quality of advice or around changes and updates, appropriate incentive structures, documentation of advice could lead to redress Partner training and accreditation, compliance procedures, costs, reputational damage and regulatory monitoring processes and quality checking.
guarantees the advice given by Partners and also has appropriate professional indemnity insurance in place.
Cyber risk or The Groups business model involves the Clients, We maintain close working relationships with our outsourcing outsourcing outsourcing of administration to third parties.
Financials and partners, who are central to our business model.
This enables failure Poor service from, or failure of, one of these Shareholders us, in seeking to work effectively and efficiently together, to third parties, the failure of an IT system, or a deliver the best result.
Service level agreements are in place and significant cyber attack or fraud, could lead to performance is monitored against these.
In the extreme event, disruption of services to clients, reputational all our relationships are governed by formal agreements with damage and profit impacts.
The business continuity arrangements of each significant cyber attack could cause very outsourcer are also continually tested and improved and substantial reputational damage.
scenario analysis is carried out.
An effective information security control framework is in place and we continue to enhance our existing cyber security risk management capabilities in light of the increasing threat in this area.
Low yield Our approach to investment management may Clients We actively manage and monitor the performance of our environment fail to deliver expected returns to clients of investment managers through the Investment Committee, which also makes use of firms of professional investment the Group or the range of products and advisers, including respected independent investment research services offered may become inappropriate for consultancies, Stamford Associates, Redington and AON client needs.
Consulting, to help them with this key task.
We offer a broad range of funds, which allows client diversification and mitigates our new business, persistency and market risks.
Effective governance frameworks are in place in respect of manufactured and third-party products.
Key: Clients Partners Financial Regulation People Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 51 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Non-financial Risks continued Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Partner Group products are distributed, and ongoing Partners The Partner proposition is an area of continual focus, with proposition, advice is provided, exclusively through the SJP outputs from regular Partner surveys and other Partner recruitment Partnership.
Inadequacies in the Partner feedback being reflected on an ongoing basis.
We employ a and retention proposition, range of products, technology or number of specialist managers specifically to manage the services offered to the Partnership may result recruitment and retention of high quality Partners, and a in inefficiencies and frustration, with dedicated senior management team oversees the SJP Academy, consequent loss of Partners and client impact, which broadens our recruitment streams.
Formal retention or inability to recruit sufficient, high quality strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever possible, we new Partners or field management.
retain good quality and experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Regulatory, The nature of the Group is such that it falls under Regulators Regulatory and legislative change is largely a risk which cannot legislative the influence of regulators and legislators in be mitigated, although the Group seeks to engage with and tax multiple jurisdictions, a growing number given regulators and policy makers in an open and constructive environment the Groups expansion into Asia.
Wholesale manner, with the aim that key issues impacting the Group are changes to regulations or to the political taken into consideration in the drafting of changes.
Our environment may result in implementation costs governance structures, management committees and and disruption to business.
The Group could face compliance monitoring activities seek to ensure we remain a fine or regulatory censure from failure to compliant with regulation.
comply with applicable regulations, with increased supervisory intrusion and disruption to business.
Competition Competitor activity in the adviser based wealth Financials This risk is mitigated through ensuring our business is run efficiently, being responsive to the needs of our clients and and charge management market may result in a reduction and Partners and seeking continual improvements to processes.
pressure in new business volumes, reduced retention of shareholders Charges are benchmarked against competitors and competitor existing business, pressure on margins for both activity is monitored allowing action to be taken in a timely new and existing business, and the potential manner if required.
The Group offers a diversified product loss of Partners and key employees.
range, including manufactured and third party products.
We have a proven track record in Partner and employee acquisition The low yield environment places additional and retention.
Our more established Partners often have pressure on client charges and advice fees.
significant equity stakes in their practices and their ability to access these is structured to aid retention.
Similarly, variable remuneration of key employees is structured to aid retention.
Availability Lack of availability of credit may limit the Financials A debt funding policy is in place, with committed funds of credit Groups ability to provide Partner loans and and available through the revolving credit facility.
Credit approved make strategic investments.
shareholders bank lending facilities are available to support Partner loans.
Further corporate borrowing requires approval at Board level.
Investor Failure to communicate effectively with new Financials This risk is mitigated through the work of the investor relations relations and existing shareholders may lead to falls in and team, whose remit is to ensure the maintenance of positive the share price and reputational damage.
Accumulation The success of the Group is closely linked Financials Mitigants for individual reputational events are described of reputational with the strength of the St. Jamess Place and earlier in the table.
The Group seeks to achieve the best issues brand.
An accumulation of reputational issues, shareholders possible outcomes for its clients and the cultural driver of for example, advice failures, fraud, service doing the right thing runs through the whole organisation.
issues, low client investment returns, has However, it is recognised that isolated incidents will occur and, the potential to damage the brand, leading when this is the case, the Group seeks to rectify the issue and to reduced retention and lower levels of achieve positive outcomes for clients.
People and People and the distinctive culture of the People This risk is mitigated through effective leadership, succession culture Group play an important part in its success.
planning, the implementation of executive and management Poorly managed expansion, succession, development initiatives and regular surveys and consultation culture and resourcing may lead to loss of groups.
The latter enable us to monitor the sentiment of our valued individuals, increased risk of errors, staff and Partners and identify any potential adverse impacts and failure to deliver on the business plan.
upon, or trends within, our culture, and respond appropriately.
52 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report St. Jamess Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information Financial Risks Risk Description Outcome Management and Controls Market Risk A reduction in funds under management Financials The Group accepts the risk of reduced future profits as a result Loss of owing to market shocks, poor market and of market shocks, poor market performance, adverse Annual performance or currency and exchange rate shareholders movement in credit spreads or currency movements.
This risk Management movements would reduce future AMC is mitigated to an extent by the diversified fund range.
Charge AMC income, and hence future profits.
income Insurance risk A reduction in funds under management Financials Retention risk is managed through the long-term relationships owing to poor retention would reduce future and between Partners and clients.
In particular, Partners keep AMC income.
This may arise from factors shareholders clients informed during periods of market volatility, and lower such as changes in the economic climate, poor risk funds and portfolios are available, with no charges for investment performance, competitor activity, switching.
The Investment Management Approach involves or reputational damage to the Group.
monitoring of fund manager performance, and changes are made where appropriate.
Some of the key sources of Adverse mortality or disability experience, in reputational risk and related controls are described in the table particular higher death claims following an above.
incident or widespread illness, or longer-term increases in mortality rates, would reduce Mortality and disability risk is substantially reduced through future profits.
the use of reassurance with low retention.
Mortality risk benefit on investment products are generally limited to 1% of invested assets.
Most risk deductions are reviewable and an increase in reassurance rates would be passed on to clients through increases to charges and or premiums within five years.
Expense risk Increased expenses, in particular higher than Financials Expenses are controlled through contracts with third party expected administration costs, would reduce and administrators and expense controls at Group level, so that future profits.
shareholders growth in average per policy expenses is no greater than the rate of increase in the average weekly earnings index.
Clients meet investment management fees directly through the product, with changes, both positive and negative, also passed on.
Interest rate Changes in interest rates or the failure of a Financials Generally, shareholder funds are invested in high credit rating and credit counterparty may reduce the value of fixed and and highly liquid cash and cash equivalent investments, and only risks interest assets held by the shareholder.
shareholders highly rated reinsurers are used.
Key counterparties include reassurers, banks, However, in support of the business, some shareholder funds money market funds, issuers of fixed interest outside the insurance companies are used to provide loans to securities, Partners to whom loans have been Partners.
These are secured against income streams on a granted, and other debtors.
conservative multiple and with appropriate financial monitoring.
A pre payment has been made to IFDS in anticipation of future benefits arising from the development of the new Bluedoor administration system.
However, the contract with Bluedoor would enable the Group to continue to use the Bluedoor system in the event of failure of IFDS.
Liquidity risk Liquidity issues may arise from client requests Financials Client funds are invested in deep and liquid markets and, where to switch or withdraw money from unit and investments are less liquid, contractual terms are included, linked funds, and through events that may shareholders allowing the flexibility to defer withdrawals.
Sizeable balances require immediate recourse to shareholder of liquid shareholder assets are maintained and the emergence funds.
of cash profits is monitored.
Banks propensity to lend in support of Partner loans is also monitored.
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 St. Jamess Place plc 53
