Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Principal risks and uncertainties Construction and development 1.
Unforeseen exposures, framework at a national manage major projects costs and liabilities on and regional level projects Risk assessment Risk assessment Risk assessment Trend Trend Trend Impact Impact Impact Financial loss Inability to deliver development scheme Inability to obtain planning permission Negative reputational impact Financial loss on major projects Failure to maximise returns from developments Loss of competitive advantage Commentary Commentary Commentary Our daily exposure to all aspects of We use our extensive knowledge All developments are subject to financial the planning process, and internal and experience in remediation, appraisal and approved in accordance procedures for sharing best practice, asset development and construction with defined authority limits.
Contractor ensure we remain abreast of to manage our major projects.
A number selection and management processes most developments.
Furthermore, of our major projects are joint ventures are rigorous whilst subcontractor we continue our efforts to influence which shares the risk exposure whilst packages and direct material purchases public policy debate.
benefitting from the considerable are subject to robust procurement expertise of both parties.
processes and competitively tendered Although the current fluctuations in to secure best value.
However, proposed planning legislation mean that Major projects are subject to regular fluctuations in the value of sterling future rules are uncertain, at a national review by the executive directors and also and inflationary pressures may lead level there appears to be a continued by the Board to ensure that we continue to an increase in the cost of goods focus on the regeneration of brownfield to manage these risks effectively.
sites which, combined with our planning expertise, we believe will enable us to Progress on all developments is prosper relative to our competitors.
monitored at a regional level and through the Property Board, with regular oversight from the executive directors and the Board.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Joint ventures on a number of Robust procurement and purchasing Use of high quality professional major projects reduces the overall processes in place advisors risk exposure Detailed budgets are established Active involvement in public Significant in-house development for each project which are regularly consultations skills and expertise monitored with significant variances Constant monitoring of the planning Sites are often prime locations investigated framework by in-house experts allowing flexibility over their use and Prime assets have alternate uses.
Regular dialogue with central and increasing development options.
Projects, acquisitions and disposals local government Regular performance review by are reviewed and financially appraised executive directors and the Board in detail, with clearly defined authority limits Contractual liability clearly defined St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 49 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Construction and Economic environment development and market continued 4.
Financial collapse of, or contractors, consultants economic conditions dispute with, a key joint and third parties venture partner Risk assessment Risk assessment Risk assessment Trend Trend Trend Impact Impact Impact Adversely impacts on the quality Reduced demand for sites Financial loss of work and properties Delays and or inability to deliver Inability to meet demand and support Declining yields development schemes the growth of the business A fall in the valuation of our assets Financial impact on the returns achieved on individual developments Commentary Commentary Commentary The expansion of the business and During 2016 there has been increased Our key partners are Persimmon, VINCI increased volume of work, particularly uncertainty in the UK property market plc and Salhia Real Estate Company in residential housing, has resulted and broader UK economy, partly as a K. S. C of Kuwait.
These are financially in the need for additional contractors consequence of the EU Referendum in strong partners with good prospects and consultants in order to meet June 2016. and strong balance sheets.
had financially weaker partners, we We mitigate the risk through the diversity have exited from those arrangements.
We continue to use trusted contractors of geographical regions and sectors and consultants working in a partnership within which we hold assets, including approach.
We also seek to continually residential, industrial logistics and retail develop our pool of third party expertise which creates diversification meaning and ensure value for money at both a we are not exposed to any one sector national and regional level through regular or region.
Additionally, the land bank market testing.
This ensures we do not of approximately 6,000 acres provides become overly reliant on a single supplier.
flexibility to move with market demands and pursue those opportunities that generate the greatest value at any one time.
We continue to focus on maximising net rent and other income in order that the revenue generated broadly covers the running costs of the business.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Regular tendering is undertaken for Regional spread and portfolio diversity Monthly review of performance new consultants and contractors mitigates sector or location specific risks to identify if senior management Reliance on a single consultant Active portfolio management achieves intervention is required contractor minimised through the better than market utilisation of assets Flexible but legally secure contracts use of pools of specialists PRS developments less susceptible with partners Close monitoring of contractor to short-term market fluctuations Funding structure has reduced consultant performance and Extensive land bank with a continuing the exposure financial viability stream of planning applications Fewer but financially strong Regular monitoring of macro JV partners level indicators Risk level Low Medium High St. Modwen Properties PLC 50 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Regulatory and Organisational compliance 7.
Failure to recruit and incident occurs or nonterm environmental issues retain staff with the compliance with legislation relating to brownfield and necessary skills and contaminated sites expertise Risk assessment Risk assessment Risk assessment Trend Trend Trend Impact Impact Impact Serious injury or death to an Major environmental issue Significant disruption to the business employee, client, contractor Financial and reputational damage Loss of intellectual property or member of the public Adversely affects the ability to grow Financial penalties the business Reputational damage Commentary Commentary Commentary The nature of our operations means In line with our risk appetite, we are willing In 2015 all members of our management that ensuring effective health and safety to accept a degree of environmental risk team completed a multi-faceted arrangements remains a priority as the where opportunities for higher returns development programme operated Group has no appetite for health and exist.
The inherent risks are minimised by external providers.
or passed on wherever possible and the we have also enhanced existing reward residual risk remains acceptably low.
programmes as part of the annual salary The SHE Committee has continued to review process to ensure that packages meet during 2016 and has undertaken During 2016, as in previous years, we remain competitive.
a review to further enhance our health have undertaken regular environmental and safety framework.
This has resulted audits of our land bank to ensure we Staff turnover remains low and the in the development of a revised health have visibility of, and can adequately proportion of management with more and safety training programme which manage, environmental risks effectively.
than three years service is 69%.
There will be rolled out to staff in 2017.
Actions arising from these audits are have been a number of new hires at monitored through to implementation.
senior management and Board level during 2015 and 2016, including a new Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The ongoing effort to attract the best people with relevant skills will support the Companys long-term business objectives.
Mitigation Mitigation Mitigation Use of high quality HS&E advisors Use of high quality external advisors Succession planning monitored Annual cycle of SHE audits Risk assessments conducted as part at Board level and below SHE Steering Group chaired by of due diligence process Leadership and management the Group Construction Director Contamination remediated development plans in place Regular reporting of performance immediately following acquisition Targeted recruitment with competitive, against indicators to executive Cost plans allow for unforeseen performance-driven remuneration directors and the Board remediation costs packages to secure highly-skilled Defined business processes in place Annual independent audit of and motivated employees.
to proactively manage issues arising environment risk Key information is documented Full warranties from consultants to safeguard knowledge and contractors St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 51 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Financial 10.
Reduced availability of The following risks were included in our 2015 Annual Report but have since been either aggregated with other risks or are no longer significant enough to warrant disclosure: funding and unforeseen changes to cash flow inadequate due diligence on major new failure to identify a pipeline of future schemes, programme management, residential sites: and requirements construction and delivery: inadequate security or business Risk assessment failure to anticipate market changes continuity or disaster recovery.
through poor market intelligence: Trend Impact Lack of liquidity Adversely impacts the saleability sites and properties, declining yields and Viability statement of assets a fall in the valuation of our assets: Limits the business to meet its The directors have assessed the viability ongoing commitments reduced availability of funding and of the Company over the period to Restricts the ability of the business th unforeseen changes to cash flow 30 November 2020, which is coterminous to grow.
requirements, with the resultant lack with our most recent strategy process.
of liquidity adversely impacting the The Group currently has an average lease Commentary saleability of assets, causing the length of five years excluding the Bay The increased uncertainty in the UK business to limit its focus on meeting its Campus at Swansea but the four year property market and broader UK ongoing commitments and restricting timeframe gives more certainty over the economy may impact on the Groups growth: and availability of finance and the forecasting cash flow requirements and also the assumptions used.
The strategy process failure to manage major projects availability of funding.
is conducted at Group level and reviewed effectively, causing financial loss Our prudent approach to forward each year by the Board with key influencers and a negative reputational impact.
commitments, speculative development within the business having ownership of On the basis of this and other matters and asset disposals has enabled us the outcomes from the process.
Once considered and reviewed by the Board to optimise operational cash flows and approved by the Board, the plan provides during the year, the Board has a reasonable offset the impact of fluctuating market the basis for setting all detailed financial expectation that the Company will be conditions.
We also continue to monitor budgets and strategic actions that are able to continue in operation and meet cash flow carefully and regularly subsequently used by the Board to its liabilities as they fall due over the undertake downside risk analysis.
In doing so, Our banking relationships are strong, The strategy process considers the it is recognised that future assessments our gearing is broadly constant and the Groups cash flows including the normal are subject to a level of uncertainty interest rate risk is hedged.
We continue level of capital recycling expected to occur, that increases with time and, therefore, to operate within our headroom and funding requirements, the sustainability of future outcomes cannot be guaranteed during 2016 have increased our facilities dividend payments and other key financial or predicted with certainty.
The directors further to provide greater flexibility.
ratios over the period, as well as the also considered it appropriate to prepare headroom in the financial covenants the financial statements on the going contained in its various loan agreements.
concern basis, as discussed further in In making their assessment the directors the Directors report on page 102. assessed the potential impacts, in severe Mitigation but plausible scenarios, of the principal Recurring net rental and other income risks and uncertainties set out on pages broadly covers the overhead and 49 to 52 together with the likely degree interest cost base of effectiveness of mitigating actions Financial headroom is maintained reasonably expected to be available to to provide flexibility the Company.
The most relevant potential Regular and detailed cash flow Approval of Strategic report impact of these risks on viability was forecasts enable monitoring of considered to be: The Strategic report for the year ended performance and management of th 30 November 2016 has been approved by future cash flows the impact of the forthcoming triggering the Board and was signed on its behalf by All corporate debt refinanced until of Article 50, with the potential for a Mark Allan at least 2019 downturn in market and economic Chief Executive th conditions, causing reduced demand for 6 February 2017 Risk level Low Medium High St. Modwen Properties PLC 52 Annual report and financial statements 2016
