Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Risk management The Board, through the Audit Committee, Risk management has carried out a robust assessment of Top-down risk and internal control the principal risks facing the Company, management process As the UKs leading regeneration specialist, including those that would threaten its A top-down process is driven by exposure to risk is inherent in the delivery business model, future performance, the Board, who have responsibility of our strategy.
The Board recognises solvency or liquidity.
Its evaluation of these for maintaining robust systems of risk that effective risk management and robust solvency risks is described further in the management and internal control.
internal control is critical in managing going concern and viability statements risk effectively and enabling the business on pages 102 and 52, respectively.
The Board regularly considers and to mitigate the potential downside whilst Details of how St. Modwens principal challenges the organisations risk profile leveraging the potential opportunities risks are managed and mitigated are and the effectiveness of mitigation and upside that may arise in a considered set out on pages 49 to 52. strategies in order to ensure the risk and informed way.
exposure remains within the Boards Our risk management framework risk appetite.
The Board is ultimately responsible incorporates both a top-down and for maintaining a sound system of risk bottom-up approach to the evaluation The Board formally reviews St. Modwens management and internal control and of risk, to ensure there is a common principal risks twice yearly and will for determining the nature and extent understanding of those risks that the consider the movements and trends of the principal risks it is willing to take Group is exposed to and their potential of the existing risks, as well as the to achieve its strategic objectives.
The impact on the performance of the business addition of new or emerging risks.
Board has established a structure for the and achievement of strategy.
In evaluating the risk exposure the delivery of its responsibilities in assessing, Board considers the interdependency monitoring and assuring the effectiveness between risks across all financial and of the management of risk within the Group.
The Boards consideration of risk is further supported by the Audit Committee who will assess and challenge the robustness of St. Modwens risk management process twice per year.
The Board and risk management The executive directors, consisting of the Chief Executive, Group Finance The Board Director and Group Construction Maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems Director, maintain day-to-day Determining and reviewing risk appetite and key risk indicators responsibility for the management Assessing and monitoring principal risks and monitoring of St. Modwens strategic risks in line with the delivery Audit Committee Executive directors and of the Groups strategy.
The executive Property Board directors also provide oversight and Monitoring the Groups risk management Delivering Group strategy and challenge to the Property Board who and internal control systems managing operational risk are responsible for the management Receiving reports from management Reviewing principal risks of operational and functional risks.
on its review of risk management Monitoring and managing operational and internal controls risk in line with risk appetite Reviewing principal risks Identifying emerging risks Reviewing of reports from Internal Audit Internal Audit Regions, Functions, Employees Reviewing internal controls Sharing responsibility for effective management of risk Reporting to the Audit Committee Contributing to risk registers at Group, regional and functional level Maintaining risk registers and monitoring the management of risk at regional and functional levels Identifying emerging risk St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 45 Risk management continued The Board has reviewed the effectiveness Key features of St. Modwens risk Bottom-up risk of the Groups systems of internal control management and internal controls and risk management during the period management process framework covered by this Annual Report.
It confirms Risks are identified and escalated via Clear organisational structure that the processes described above, which the bottom up process by individual with delegations of authority and accord with guidance on internal control, regions, divisions and functional responsibilities for the management have been in place throughout that period departments who maintain their of risk across the Group.
and up to the date of approval of this own operational risk registers.
The Board also confirms that it has Robust system of monthly reporting not identified, nor been advised of, a failing The respective Regional Divisional including financial budgeting, reporting or weakness which it has determined to Director or Head of Department is and re-forecasting, and the monitoring be significant.
responsible for ensuring their risks of performance against financial and are subject to regular review, operational KPIs.
St. Modwens risk management and mitigating controls remain effective internal control systems are designed to Monthly operational reviews between and additional actions are completed identify, manage and, where practicable, executive management, regional within the agreed timescales.
reduce and mitigate the effect of the risk of directors and functional heads.
failure to achieve business objectives.
They External risk management specialists Board and Audit Committee monitoring are not designed to eliminate such risk and meet with the owners of the respective and review of business performance, can only provide reasonable, not absolute, risk registers twice per year to facilitate risk and internal control.
assurance against material misstatement the discussion of risk and to provide or loss.
challenge to the status of risk.
Periodic assessment, reporting and monitoring of risk at a group, regional A revised summary of the consolidated and departmental level.
Developments in our risk operational risk profile is presented management process to the Property Board twice per year.
Risk profiles and risk registers Where the risk exposure of one or a maintained and regularly reviewed During 2016 the Board instigated a number of operational risks may have for major projects and joint ventures.
Group-wide initiative to review and refresh a potentially significant impact on the the risk management process, to ensure Group-wide policy framework in place Group, the Property Board will escalate it remains effective in identifying and which includes key policies in areas these to the executive directors who managing current and future challenges such as anti-bribery, whistleblowing will consider their inclusion within the and uncertainties that may arise.
External risk management specialists were Independent reports from Internal Audit Risk profiles exist at a project level engaged to work alongside management on the effective design and operation for significant projects and or schemes and support the Group in the delivery of controls within selected areas of risk.
These risks of these risk management activities, are managed and monitored by the Annual environmental audits undertaken incorporating a best in class approach respective project teams.
The risks at all sites with actions monitored both from within the industry and more associated with these projects and through to completion.
These activities have been schemes are also subject to regular underpinned by strong leadership, Proactive management of health and review by the executive directors and reinforcement of the importance safety across all sites supported by and Property Board.
of risk management from the Board independent audits and regular and executive directors, which has management reporting.
been cascaded down to individual regions, Assurances over the effectiveness of divisions, and functional departments.
internal controls to mitigate strategic and The review of the risk management operational risk are also provided to the process covered a number of areas executive directors, Audit Committee and set out opposite.
the Board by the Internal Audit function.
A programme of internal audit activity is delivered throughout the year taking a risk based approach with the outcomes from the work of Internal Audit used to inform the residual risk exposure levels.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 46 Annual report and financial statements 2016 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information This included: The implementation of an automated Review of the Board framework risk management system which provides for risk appetite Review and challenge of the Group risk a single platform for recording, assessing register by the executive directors and During 2016 the Board commenced a and monitoring risk across the Group the Board, including consideration of review of the risk appetite framework to on an ongoing basis.
This will improve the bottom-up risk assessment, ensure that the Group continues to operate the accountability and visibility of risk resulting in revisions to the description within a level of risk exposure acceptable across St. Modwen and enable more and assessment of specific risks to the Board.
The revised risk appetite effective risk reporting to the Property detailed within the Group risk register.
framework, and associated tolerance Board, Audit Committee and Board.
This reflected changes in the internal levels, will be completed in 2017 but will and external environment within which be regularly reassessed and will continue Our risk profile we operate, including consideration of to evolve.
A suite of key risk indicators will the potential impact of the results of the also be established and integrated into the During the year there have been a number EU Referendum in June 2016. overall framework for the monitoring of risk of events, predominately at a macro-level, during 2017.
This will assist the Board and which have resulted in changes to our Risk workshops with individual regions, executive directors in evaluating whether risk profile.
divisions and functional departments the business is operating within defined to identify and assess their operational The uncertainty within the investment risk appetite tolerances.
Revised risk registers now exist market and concerns over the softening of for each region, division and functional the wider UK economy, to which the result Updated risk management department which contains clear of the EU Referendum in June 2016 was a process and risk registers ownership of risk and allocation of contributory factor, has changed the profile responsibility for the completion of further A comprehensive business-wide refresh of risks faced by the business with regards mitigating action where appropriate.
of our risk management process was the potential level of investor and occupier Furthermore, the refresh of the bottomcompleted during the year, which demand, the potential impact on the UK up process has enabled common risks, incorporated both the top-down and housing market, and the valuation of our themes and trends to be identified bottom-up risk assessment processes.
which has improved the visibility of risk Whilst the longer-term impact of these at all levels of the organisation.
The risk macro-economic uncertainties are not yet registers have been reviewed as part of known, we are proactively monitoring and the regional and functional management managing these risks at both a strategic meetings and have been subject to and operational level, underpinned by challenge by those independent of maintaining a strong financial position the region or function.
during this period of uncertainty.
Further details on the principal risks which could prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives and may have a material impact on our business are Risk appetite set out on pages 49 to 52.
Secure excellent returns Focus on long-term significant value Protecting our assets Strategic risk profile and core values Overarching risk appetite statement Economic Construction and Regulatory and Financial risk Organisational risk environment and development risk compliance risk appetite statement appetite statement external market appetite statement appetite statement risk appetite statement St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2016 47 t n e m O r p g o l a e v n i e s D a t i & o n n O o t a r i n l t g c e a u n m i tr s p s a o t n i l o o e C v n e a l d d n a n o i t c R u r e t g s n R u l o e a g C t o u l r a y t o a r y n Risk management continued Principal risks heat map Risk level Low Medium Low High Medium Severe High Representing residual risk after mitigation Risk Strategic Risk Risk Ref category objective description level Trend 1 Construction and Secure excellent returns Changes to the planning framework at a national development and regional level 2 Protecting our assets Failure to effectively manage major projects 3 Secure excellent returns Unforeseen exposures, costs and liabilities on projects 4 Secure excellent returns Absence of high quality contractors, consultants and third parties 5 Economic environmental Secure excellent returns Downturn in market and economic conditions and market 6 Secure excellent returns Financial collapse of, or dispute with, a key joint venture partner 7 Regulatory and compliance Protecting our assets A major health and safety incident occurs or non-compliance with legislation 8 Focus on long-term Failure to manage long-term environmental issues significant added value relating to brownfield and contaminated sites 9 Organisational Focus on long-term Failure to recruit and retain staff with the necessary significant added value skills and expertise 10 Financial Protecting our assets Reduced availability of funding and unforeseen changes to cash flow requirements Risk level Low Medium High St. Modwen Properties PLC 48 Annual report and financial statements 2016 d & c t C o e o k m r m a p p l m l i i a a n d n c n c e a e l a t n e m n o r i v n e t c F n i i n e a m m n n o c t n o i e a r o l vi k c r n a F E E i M n c a i & m n c o i n a o l c E
