STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH Risk management approach Risk Management Framework recommendations thereon to the Board.
Its responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Effective risk management is essential to consistent and Groups risk management systems and controlling the adequacy sustainable performance for all of our stakeholders and is therefore ofinformation it is provided with, considering the implications a central part of the financial and operational management of ofmaterial regulatory change proposals, and ensuring effective the Group.
The Group adds value to clients and therefore the duediligence on material acquisitions and disposals.
The communities in which they operate, generating returns for BoardRisk Committee also reviews reports on key cyber risks, shareholders by taking and managing risk.
threats, events, project updates and the Boards top risk profile Through our Risk Management Framework we manage enterpriseupdates as identified by the Information and Cyber Security wide risks, with the objective of maximising risk-adjusted returns Management Group.
while remaining within our risk appetite.
The Committee has the authority to request and receive relevant As part of this framework, the Board has approved a set of information consistent with the requirements of the Basel principles that describe the risk management culture we wish Committee on Banking Supervision regulation 239 BCBS239 tosustain: that will allow the Committee to fulfil its governance mandate relating to the risks to which the Group is exposed, and alert senior Balancing risk and return management when risk reports do not meet its requirements.
We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise, in the The Board Risk Committee receives regular reports on risk interests of all our stakeholders management, including our portfolio trends, policies and standards, stress testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is We only take risks within our risk appetite and risk tolerances, authorised to investigate or seek any information relating to an andwhere consistent with our approved strategy activity within its terms of reference.
The Board Risk Committee We manage our risk profile so as to maintain a low probability also conducts deep dive reviews on a rolling basis of different of an unexpected loss event that would materially undermine sections of the consolidated risk information report that is provided theconfidence of our investors ateach scheduled committee meeting.
The Brand, Values and Conduct Committee oversees the brand, Conduct of business values and good reputation of the Group, ensuring that reputational We demonstrate that we are Here for good through our conduct, risk is consistent with the Risk Appetite Statement approved by the andare mindful of the reputational consequences of Board and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
inappropriate conduct The Board Financial Crime Risk Committee focuses on financial We seek to achieve good outcomes for clients, investors and the crime compliance risk matters across the Group and oversees markets in which we operate, while abiding by the spirit and letter theGroups effective compliance with financial crime regulations.
of laws and regulations The Audit Committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls We treat our colleagues fairly and with respect to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial risks.
Further details on the role of the Board and its committees in matters of Responsibility and accountability risk governance are covered in the Directors report on pages 63 to 92 We take individual responsibility to ensure risk-taking is Executive responsibility for risk management is delegated to the disciplined and focused, particularly within our area of authority Standard Chartered Bank Court the Court, which comprises theGroup executive directors and other directors of Standard We make sure risk-taking is transparent, controlled and reported Chartered Bank.
The Court delegates authority for the in line with the Risk Management Framework, within risk appetite management of risk to the Group Risk Committee and and risk tolerance boundaries and only where there is appropriate theGroupAsset and Liability Committee.
infrastructure and resource The Group Risk Committee is responsible for the management of Anticipation all risks other than those delegated by the Court to the Group Asset and Liability Committee.
The Group Risk Committee is responsible We seek to anticipate material future risks, learn lessons from for the establishment of, and compliance with, policies relating to events that have produced adverse outcomes and ensure credit risk, country cross-border risk, market risk, operational risk, awareness of known risks pension risk and reputational risk.
The Group Risk Committee also defines our overall Risk Management Framework.
Competitive advantage The Group Asset and Liability Committee is responsible for We seek to achieve competitive advantage through efficient determining the Groups approach to balance sheet management andeffective risk management and control and ensuring that, in executing the Groups strategy, the Group operates within internally approved risk appetite and external Risk governance requirements relating to capital, liquidity and leverage risk.
It is also Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk appetite statement responsible for policies relating to balance sheet management, andforthe effective management of risk rests with the Board.
including management of our liquidity, capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange and interest rate exposure and Acting within an authority delegated by the Board, the Board taxexposure.
RiskCommittee, whose membership is exclusively comprised ofindependent non-executive directors of the Group, has responsibility for oversight and review of prudential risks, including but not limited tocredit, country cross-border, market, pension, capital, liquidity and funding, and operational risks.
It reviews theGroups overall risk appetite statement and makes www.
com 139 RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH HOW THE STANDARD CHARTERED COURT COMMITTEE STRUCTURE HAS CHANGED As at 1 January 2016 STANDARD CHARTERED BANK COURT Group Risk Committee Group Asset and Liability Committee Group Operational Risk Committee Liquidity Management Committee Group Financial Crime Risk Committee Capital Management Committee Group Information Management Governance Committee Global Balance Sheet Committee Stress Testing Committee Tax Management Committee Business Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee Credit & Market Risk Committee As at 31 December 2016 STANDARD CHARTERED BANK COURT Group Risk Committee Group Asset and Liability Committee Combined United States Operations Risk Committee Group Operational Risk Committee Operational Balance Sheet Committee Group Financial Crime Risk Committee Group Information Management Governance Committee Stress Testing Committee Business Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee Corporate & Institutional Banking RiskCommittee Private Banking Risk Committee Greater China and North Asia Risk Committee ASEAN and South Asia Risk Committee Africa and Middle East Risk Committee Further simplification of the committee structure was carried out are drawn principally from the Court.
Five risk committees were formed to ensure coverage of ischaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The Group Asset and allrisks arising from activities within the businesses and regions.
Liability Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
These committees, appointed by the Group Risk Committee, Risk limits and risk exposure approval authority frameworks are comprised: Africa & Middle East Risk Committee, ASEAN & South setby the Group Risk Committee in respect of credit risk, country Asia Risk Committee, Greater China & North Asia Risk Committee, cross-border risk, market risk and operational risk.
The Group Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk Committee, and Private Asset and Liability Committee sets theapproval authority Banking Risk Committee.
These committees are chaired by the frameworks in respect of capital and liquidity and funding risks.
Risk approval authorities may be exercised by risk committees orauthorised individuals.
Under the revised risk committee structure, Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk Committee covers risks arising from The committee governance structure ensures that risk-taking activities in Corporate & Institutional Banking globally and in the authority and risk management policies are cascaded down from the Europe & Americas region as well as bank-wide Market and Traded Board to the appropriate functional, client segment and countryCredit Risk.
The Private Banking Risk Committee covers risks level senior management and committees.
Information regarding arising in Private Banking globally including Wealth Management.
material risk issues and compliance with policies and standards The three regional risk committees will cover risks arising from their iscommunicated to the appropriate country, client segment, respective region including Commercial and Retail Banking.
functional and Group-level senior management andcommittees.
The roles of the Group Risk Committee and the Group Asset In 2016, we aligned the sources of authorities to the Senior andLiability Committee are essentially unchanged following the Managers Regime.
Given the focus on individual accountability, reorganisation of our business, although the committee structures thisarea continues to be reviewed and further refined.
below them have changed in some areas.
The Group Risk Committee and Group Asset and Liability Members of the Group Risk Committee are drawn from the Committee request and receive information to fulfil their governance Management Team and the Group Asset and Liability Committee mandates relating to the risks to which the Group is exposed, 140 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 1 andalert senior management when risk reports do not meet their To exercise direct risk control ownership for credit, market, requirements.
Similar to the Board Risk Committee, theGroup country cross-border and operational risk types RiskCommittee and Group Asset and Liability Committee receive The independence of the Risk function is to ensure that the reports that include information on risk measures, risk appetite necessary balance in risk return decisions is not compromised metrics, risk concentrations, forward-looking assessments, byshort-term pressures to generate revenues.
This is particularly updates on specific risk situations oractions agreed by these important given that revenues are recognised from the point of committees to reduce or manage risk.
sale, while losses arising from risk positions typically manifest On 29 June 2016, the Standard Chartered Bank Combined United themselves over time.
States Operations Risk Committee was established to comply with In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that provides the Dodd-Frank Act section 165 Enhanced Prudential Standards specialist capabilities of relevance to risk management processes EPS Rules.
The EPS Rules legislated a number of enhanced in the wider organisation.
obligations on the US operations commensurate with its structure, risk profile, complexity, activities and size.
The Committee receives Risk appetite its authority from the Court and is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer with membership drawn from the Board of directors of In 2016 our risk appetite and risk tolerance definitions were Standard Chartered Bank and one Independent Director of updated.
We recognise three sets of constraints which determine Standard Chartered Bank.
Its responsibilities are drawn from the the risks that we are willing to take in pursuit of our strategy and EPS Rules and pertain to liquidity, risk governance and oversight.
thedevelopment of a sustainable business: The committee receives reports that include information on risk Risk capacity defines externally imposed constraints within measures, compliance with local liquidity risk limits, risk which the Group must operate.
It is the maximum level of risk the concentrations, changes to the Risk Management Framework Group can assume, given its current capabilities and resources, andupdates on specific risk situations or actions agreed by the before breaching constraints determined by regulatory capital Committee to reduce or manage risk.
and liquidity requirements, or otherwise failing to meet the Roles and responsibilities for risk management are defined under expectations of regulators and law enforcement agencies aThree Lines of Defence model.
Each line of defence describes Risk appetite is defined by the Group and approved by the aspecific set of responsibilities for risk management and control.
It is the maximum amount and type of risk that the Group First line of defence: all employees are required to ensure the iswilling toassume in pursuit of its strategy.
Risk appetite cannot effective management of risks within the scope of their direct exceed risk capacity organisational responsibilities.
Business unit, function and Risk tolerance is the outer constraint defined by the Group geographic heads are accountable for risk management in their foreach risk type via metrics and thresholds.
Risk tolerance respective businesses and functions, and for countries where isset within the risk appetite and is a buffer, determined by they have governance responsibilities management, within the Board approved risk appetite Second line of defence: this comprises the risk control owners, The Groups risk profile is our overall exposure to risk at a given supported by their respective control functions.
Risk control point in time, covering all applicable risk types.
Risk control tools owners are responsible for ensuring that the residual risks within such as exposure limits, underwriting standards, scorecard cut-offs the scope of their responsibilities remain within risk appetite.
and policies and other operational control parameters are used to Thescope of a risk control owners responsibilities is defined by keep the Groups risk profile within risk appetite and therefore also a given risk type and the risk management processes that relate risk capacity.
Status against risk appetite is reported to the Board to that risk type.
These responsibilities cut across the Group Risk Committee.
This includes the reporting of breaches.
andare not constrained byfunctional, business and geographic boundaries.
The major risk types are described individually on The Board has approved a Risk Appetite Statement, which is pages 142 to 149 underpinned by a set of financial and operational control parameters, known as risk tolerances.
These risk tolerances directly constrain Third line of defence: the independent assurance provided by the aggregate risk exposures that can be taken across the Group.
Its role is defined and The number of risk tolerances has been increased in 2016 to overseenby the Audit Committee of the Board include greater breadth and greater granularity for credit, capital, Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance of the market and operational risks.
A strategic risk appetite statement effectiveness of managements control of its own business has been introduced for the first time.
The Risk Appetite Statement activities the first line and of the processes maintained by the risk has been supplemented by an overarching statement outlining the control functions the second line.
As a result, Group Internal Audit Groups Risk Appetite Principles.
provides assurance that the overall system of control effectiveness The Groups Risk Appetite Principles and Risk Appetite Statement, is working as required within the Risk Management Framework.
along with the key associated risk appetite metrics approved by theBoard are as follows: The Risk function Risk Appetite Principles: The Group Risk Appetite is in The Group Chief Risk Officer directly manages a Risk function accordance with Risk Management Principles that inform thatis separate and independent from the origination, trading ouroverall approach to risk management and our risk culture.
andsales functions of the businesses.
Wefollow the highest ethical standards required by investors The role of the Risk function is: andensure a fair outcome for our clients, the effective operation of financial markets, while at the same time meeting expectations To maintain the Risk Management Framework, ensuring it of regulators and law enforcement agencies.
Weset our risk remains appropriate to the Groups activities, is effectively appetite to enable us to grow sustainably andtoavoid shocks communicated and implemented across the Group, and to toearnings or our general financial health, that would materially administer related governance and reporting processes undermine the confidence of our investors and all internal and To uphold the overall integrity of the Groups risk return external stakeholders.
decisions, and in particular to ensure that risks are properly General: the Group will not compromise adherence to its risk assessed, that risk return decisions are made transparently appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns onthe basis of this proper assessment, and controlled in accordance with the Groups standards and risk appetite 1.
In 2017, the Risk function will also exercise direct risk control ownership for reputational risk www.
com 141 RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH Credit and country cross-border risk: the Group manages Support the development of management actions and itscredit and country cross-border exposures following the contingency plans, including business continuity, to ensure principle of diversification across products, regions, client theGroup can recover from extreme but plausible conditions segments and industry sectors.
Specific metrics are set for Meet regulatory requirements individual and aggregate single-name credit concentrations, industry credit concentrations, portfolio tenor, specific portfolio Stress tests are performed at Group, country, business and exposure, portfolio collateralisation, retail unsecured credit risk portfolio level.
Bespoke scenarios are applied to our market and concentrations, high risk retail unsecured credit risk liquidity positions as described in the section on Market risk on concentrations, mortgage high loan-to-value concentrations page 146 and Liquidity and funding risk on page 147.
In addition andcountry cross-border credit risk concentrations tothese, our stress tests also focus onthe potential impact of macroeconomic, geo-political and physical events on relevant Market risk: the Group should control its trading portfolio regions, client segments and risk types including among others andactivities to ensure that market risk losses financial or credit risk which is discussed in more detailbelow.
reputational do not cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
Specific metrics are set to ensure resilience tomarket Credit risk stress to minimise volatility to profit and loss in Financial Markets and Common Equity Tier 1 capital Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a counterparty to meet its obligations to pay the Group in accordance Liquidity and Funding risk: the Group should be able to meet its with agreed terms.
Credit exposures arise from both the banking payment andcollateral obligations under extreme but plausible and trading books.
liquidity stress scenarios without recourse to extraordinary central bank support.
Specific metrics are set for liquidity stress Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out policies survival horizons, short-term wholesale borrowing, minimum and procedures covering the measurement and management advances todeposits and liquidity coverage ratios ofcredit risk.
There is a clear segregation of duties between transaction originators in the businesses and approvers in the Capital: The Group should maintain a strong capital position Riskfunction, other than in very few authorised cases for Retail including the maintenance of management buffers sufficient Banking this is discussed in the Credit approval and credit risk tosupport its strategic aims.
Specific metrics are set for assessment section.
All credit exposure limits are approved within minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital, Total a defined credit approval authority framework.
The Group manages capital and leverage ratios under business-as-usual and its credit exposures following the principle of diversification across stressconditions products, regions, industries, collateral types and client segments.
Operational risk: the Group aims to control operational risks toensure that operational losses financial or reputational, Credit Risk Governance including any related to conduct of business matters, do not The Group Risk Committee delegates the authority for the cause material damage to the Groups franchise.
This statement management of credit risk among other risk types to several is underpinned by metrics for each operational top risk.
Seepage committees the Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk Committee, 181 for the list of the Groups current operational toprisks Private Banking Risk Committee as well as the regional risk Reputational risk: the Group will protect its reputation to ensure committees for Greater China & North Asia, ASEAN & South Asia that there is no material damage to the Groups franchise and Africa & Middle East.
These committees are responsible for overseeing the credit risk profile of the Group within the respective Pension risk: the Group will manage its pension plans such that: business areas and regions.
Meetings are held regularly and the There is no material unexpected deterioration in their funding committees monitor all material credit risk exposures, key internal requirements or other financial metrics developments and external trends, and ensure that appropriate action is taken.
Members benefits will continue in their current form although management actions such as a removal of discretionary Credit policies benefits are allowable in the case of a market stress event Credit policies and standards are considered and approved by Strategic risk: the Group will review its strategy on an annual recognised second line risk committees or individuals with basis to take account of external and internal developments delegated authority.
The Group Risk Committee oversees the andmonitor execution of strategic plans to ensure their effective delegation of credit approval and loan impairment provisioning implementation authorities.
The principles for the delegation, review and The Group Risk Committee, the Group Financial Crime Risk maintenance of credit approval authorities are defined in the Risk Committee and the Group Asset and Liability Committee are Authorities policy.
In addition, there are other Group-wide policies responsible for ensuring that our risk profile is managed in integral to credit risk management such as those relating tostress compliance with the risk appetite set by the Board.
The Board Risk testing, risk measurement and impairment provisioning.
Committee and the Board Financial Crime Risk Committee for Policies and procedures specific to each client or product segment Financial Crime Compliance advises the Board on the Risk are established by authorised individuals identified in the Risk Appetite Statement and monitors Group compliance with it.
These are consistent with our Group-wide credit policies, but are more detailed and adapted to reflect the different Stress testing risk characteristics across client and product segments.
Policies Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the ability are regularly reviewed and monitored to ensure they remain of Standard Chartered to continue operating effectively under effective and consistent with the risk environment and risk appetite.
extreme but plausible macrofinancial conditions.
Credit rating and measurement Our approach to stress testing is designed to: Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgement Contribute to the setting and monitoring of Board-level risk appetite andexperience, in informing risk-taking and portfolio Contribute to the setting and monitoring of executive-level managementdecisions.
riskappetite and risk management more generally Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered has used the advanced Identify key risks to our capital and liquidity positions, strategy, internal ratings-based IRB approach under the Basel II regulatory franchise and reputation framework to calculate credit risk capital requirements.
142 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Credit concentration risk A standard alphanumeric credit risk grade CG system for Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking is Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure used.
The numeric grades run from 1 to 14 and some of the toa counterparty or a group of connected counterparties, or from gradesarefurther sub-classified.
Lower credit grades are indicative multiple exposures across the portfolio that are closely correlated.
of a lower likelihood of default.
CG 1 to 12 are assigned to Large exposure concentration risk is managed through performing customers or accounts, while CG 13 and 14 are concentration limits set by a counterparty or a group of connected assigned to non-performing or defaulted customers.
Credit quality of thoseloans that are neither past due nor impaired is set out on pages 153 to 155.
At the portfolio level, credit concentration thresholds are set and monitored to control concentrations, where appropriate, by Retail Banking IRB portfolios use application and behaviour credit country, industry, product, tenor, collateral type, collateralisation scores that are calibrated to generate a probability of default level and credit risk profile.
andthen mapped to the standard alphanumeric credit risk grade system.
We refer to external ratings from credit bureaus where For concentrations that are material at a Group level, thresholds these are available, however, we do not rely solely on these to areset and monitored by the respective Risk Committees and determine Retail Banking CGs.
reported to the Group Risk and Board Risk Committees.
Advanced IRB models cover a substantial majority of our Risk appetite levels are set by a counterparty depending on credit exposures and are used in assessing risks at a customer and grade, by industry, and for the Top 20 Corporate exposures.
portfolio level, setting strategy and optimising our risk return decisions.
Material IRB risk measurement models were approved Credit risk mitigation by the Credit and Market Risk Committee, on the recommendation Potential credit losses from any given account, client or portfolio of the Credit Model Assessment Committee.
The Credit Model are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, netting Assessment Committee approves all other IRB risk measurement agreements, credit insurance, credit derivatives and guarantees.
models, with key decisions noted to the Credit and Market Risk The reliance that can be placed on risk mitigants is carefully Committee.
The Credit Model Assessment Committee drew assessed in light of issues such as legal certainty and authority from the Credit and Market Risk Committee in ensuring enforceability, market valuation, correlation and counterparty risk risk identification and measurement capabilities are objective and ofthe protection provider.
The requirement for risk mitigation is, consistent, so that risk control and risk origination decisions are however, not a substitute for the ability to pay, which is the primary properly informed.
The Credit and Market Risk Committee ceased consideration for any lending decisions.
to exist in September 2016 and the Stress Testing Committee assumed theseauthorities.
Prior to review by the Credit Model The Group credit policies set out the key considerations Assessment Committee, all IRB models are validated in detail by foreligibility, enforceability and effectiveness of credit risk amodel validation team, which is separate from the teams that .
Collateral types that are eligible as risk mitigants include: cash: Reviews are also triggered if the performance of a model residential, commercial and industrial property: fixed assets such deteriorates materially against predetermined thresholds during as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: marketable theongoing model performance monitoring process.
securities: commodities: bank guarantees: and standby letters ofcredit.
The Group also enters into collateralised reverse Credit approval and credit risk assessment repurchase agreements.
Major credit exposures to individual counterparties, groups The Group has credit policies and procedures in place setting out ofconnected counterparties and portfolios of retail exposures the criteria for collateral to be recognised as a credit risk mitigant, arereviewed and approved by the Credit Approval Committee.
including requirements concerning legal certainty, priority, TheCredit Approval Committee is appointed by the Group concentration, correlation, liquidity and valuation parameters such RiskCommittee.
as frequency of review and independence.
All other credit approval authorities are delegated by the Group Physical collateral, such as property, fixed assets and commodities, Risk Committee to individuals based both on their judgement and financial collateral must be independently valued and an active andexperience and a risk-adjusted scale that takes account of secondary resale market must exist.
The collateral must be valued theestimated maximum potential loss from a given customer or prior to drawdown and regularly thereafter.
Credit origination and approval roles are segregated in all is at minimum annual and more frequent valuations are driven by but a very few authorised cases for Retail Banking.
In those very the level of price volatility of each type of collateral and the nature of few exceptions where they are not, originators can only approve the underlying product or risk exposure.
For financial collateral to limited exposures within defined risk parameters which are subject be eligible for recognition the collateral must be sufficiently liquid, to oversight from the credit risk function.
and its value over time sufficiently stable, to provide appropriate All credit proposals are subject to a robust credit risk assessment.
certainty as to the credit protection achieved.
Risk mitigation It includes a comprehensive evaluation of the clients credit quality, benefits may be reduced or removed where the collateral value is including willingness, ability and capacity to repay.
The primary not supported by a recent independent valuation.
lending consideration is usually based on the clients credit Documentation must be held to enable the Group to realise the qualityand the repayment capacity from operating cash flows collateral without the cooperation of the obligor in the event that forcounterparties: and personal income or wealth for individual this is necessary.
For certain types of lending, typically mortgages borrowers.
The risk assessment gives due consideration to the or asset financing where a first charge over the risk mitigant must clients liquidity and leverage position.
Where applicable, the be attained, the right to take charge over physical assets is assessment includes a detailed analysis of the credit risk mitigation significant in terms of determining appropriate pricing and arrangements to determine the level of reliance on such recoverability in the event of default.
Physical collateral is required arrangements as the secondary source of repayment in the event to be insured at all times against risk of physical loss or damage.
of a significant deterioration in a clients credit quality leading to default.
Lending activities that are considered as higher risk or Collateral values are, where appropriate, adjusted to reflect current non-standard are subjected to stricter minimum requirements market conditions, the probability of recovery and the period of andrequire escalation to a senior credit officer or authorised body.
time to realise the collateral in the event of liquidation.
Stress tests Ananalysis of the loan portfolio is set out on pages 163 to 167. are performed on changes in collateral values for key portfolios to assist senior management in managing the risks in those portfolios.
com 143 RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Group also seeks to diversify its collateral holdings across economic trends across major portfolios and countries: portfolio asset classes and markets.
delinquency and loan impairment performance.
Where guarantees, credit insurance or credit derivatives are used Credit risk committees meet regularly to assess the impact of as credit risk mitigation, the creditworthiness of the protection external events and trends on the Groups credit risk portfolios provider is assessed and monitored using the same credit approval andto define and implement our response in terms of the process applied to the obligor.
The main types of guarantors appropriate changes to portfolio shape, portfolio and underwriting include banks, insurance companies, parent companies, standards, risk policy and procedures.
governments and export credit agencies.
Clients or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display signs of actual or potential weakness: for example, where there Traded products isadecline in the clients position within the industry, financial Credit risk from traded products derives from the positive markdeterioration, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an to-market value of the underlying instruments, and an additional obligation within the stipulated period, or there are concerns component to cater for potential future market movements.
This relating to ownership or management.
counterparty credit risk is managed within the Groups overall credit Such accounts and portfolios are subjected to a dedicated process risk appetite for corporate and financial institutions and relies on overseen by the Credit Issues Committees in the relevant countries various single and multi-risk factor stress test scenarios to where client account plans and credit grades are re-evaluated.
measure, identify and risk manage counterparty credit risk across Inaddition, remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial derivatives and securities financing transactions.
actions include, butare not limited to, exposure reduction, security The Group uses bilateral and multilateral netting to reduce preenhancement, exiting the account or immediate movement of the settlement and settlement counterparty credit risk.
Pre-settlement account into thecontrol of Group Special Assets Management risk exposures are normally netted using bilateral netting GSAM, our specialist recovery unit.
Typically, all Corporate & documentation in legally approved jurisdictions.
Settlement Institutional Banking, Commercial Banking and Private Banking past due accounts are managed by GSAM.
exposures are generally netted using Delivery versus Payments orPayment versus Payments systems.
Master netting agreements For Retail Banking exposures, portfolio delinquency trends are are generally enforced only in the event of default.
In line with monitored continuously at a detailed level.
Individual customer International Accounting Standards IAS 32, derivative exposures behaviour is also tracked and considered for lending decisions.
are presented on a net basis in the financial statements only if there Accounts that are past due or charged-off are subject to a is a legal right to offset and there is intent to settle on a net basis collections or recovery process respectively, and managed orrealise the assets and liabilities simultaneously.
independently by the Risk function.
In some countries, aspects ofcollections and recovery activities are outsourced.
In addition, the Group enters into credit support annexes CSAs with counterparties where collateral is deemed a necessary or Loan impairment desirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further details on CSAs are set out on page 164.
A loan is impaired when we assess that we will not recover a portion of the contractual cash flows.
Specific definitions of when a Wrong way risk occurs when an exposure increase is coupled with loan is deemed as impaired are discussed in the following sections a decrease in the credit quality of the obligor.
Specifically, as the for Retail Banking, as well as Corporate & Institutional Banking, mark-to-market on a derivative contract increases in favour of the Commercial Banking and Private Banking.
Group, the driver of this mark-to-market change also reduces the ability of the counterparty to meet its payment, margin call or The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise collateral posting requirements.
The Group employs various incurred impairment losses either on specific loan assets or within policies and procedures to ensure that wrong way risk exposures aportfolio of loans and advances.
Individually impaired loans are are recognised upfront and monitored.
those loans against which individual impairment provisions IIP have been raised.
Securities Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves The portfolio limits and parameters for the underwriting and significant judgement, and considers the level of arrears as well purchase of all predefined securities assets to be held for sale asthe assessment of matters such as future economic conditions areapproved by the Underwriting Committee.
The Underwriting andthe value of collateral, for which there may not be a readily Committee is established under the authority of the Corporate & accessible market.
The business operates within Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been separately set limits, which include country, single issuer, holding period and identified at the balance sheet date are determined by taking into credit grade limits.
account past loss experience as a result of uncertainties arising Day-to-day credit risk management activities for traded securities from the economic environment, and defaults based on portfolio are carried out by a specialist team within the Risk function whose trends.
Actual losses identified could differ significantly from the activities include oversight and approval within the levels delegated impairment provisions reported, for example, as a result of by the Underwriting Committee.
Issuer credit risk, including uncertainties arising from the economic environment.
settlement and pre-settlement risk, and price risk are controlled The total amount of the Groups impairment provision is inherently bythe Risk function.
uncertain, being sensitive to changes in economic and credit The Underwriting Committee approves individual proposals conditions across the regions in which the Group operates.
tounderwrite new security issues for our clients.
Where an Economic and credit conditions are interdependent within each underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target geography and as a result there is no single factor to which the sell-down period, the final decision on whether to sell the position Groups loan impairment allowances as a whole are sensitive.
rests with the Risk function.
Itispossible that actual events over the next year will differ fromtheassumptions built into our model, resulting in material Credit monitoring adjustments to the carrying amount of loans and advances.
We regularly monitor credit exposures, portfolio performance, andexternal trends that may impact risk management outcomes.
Internal risk management reports that are presented to risk committees contain information on key environmental, political and 144 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Retail Banking For further details on Corporate & Institutional Banking, Commercial Banking and Private Banking see page 153 and page 165.
For Retail Banking portfolios, an account is considered impaired when it meets certain defined threshold conditions in terms Country cross-border risk unaudited ofoverdue payments contractual impairment or meets other objective conditions such as bankruptcy, debt restructuring, Country cross-border risk is the risk that we will be unable to fraudor death.
A loan is considered delinquent or past due, obtainpayment from our customers or third parties on their when the customer has failed to make a principal or interest contractual obligations as a result of certain actions taken payment in accordance with the loan contract.
These threshold byforeign governments, chiefly relating to convertibility and transferability of foreign currency.
conditions are defined in policy and are set at the point where empirical evidence suggests that the client is unlikely to meet The Group Risk Committee is responsible for approving country their contractual obligations or a loss of principal is expected.
cross-border risk limits and delegates the setting and management of limits to the Group Country Risk function.
The business and Portfolio impairment provisions PIP cover the inherent losses country chief executive officers manage exposures within these inthe portfolio that exist at the balance sheet date but have not limits.
Countries designated as higher risk are subject to increased been individually identified.
Considerations applied in determining central monitoring.
the appropriate level of portfolio provisions include historic loss experience, loss emergence periods, risk indicators such as Assets that generate country cross-border exposure are those delinquency rates, and the potential impact of existing external where the main source of repayment or security is derived from a conditions.
Some of these factors require judgemental overlays.
country other than the country in which the asset is booked.
These PIPs take into account the fact that, while delinquency is an cover a wide range of products, including loans and advances, indication of impairment, not all delinquent loans particularly deposits with other banks, trade and other bills, acceptances, thosein the early stages of delinquency will in fact be impaired.
amounts receivable under finance leases, derivatives, certificates This will only become apparent with the passage of time and as ofdeposit and other negotiable paper, investment securities and weinvestigate the causes of delinquency on a case-by-case basis.
Cross-border assets also include exposures to local residents denominated in currencies other than the local It is on this basis that Retail Banking accounts are considered currency and local-currency assets funded by intra-group funding.
impaired when a credit obligation is 150 days past due.
There Cross-border exposure also includes the value of commodity, are, however, exceptions to this rule for portfolios where empirical aircraft and shipping assets owned by the Group that are held in evidence suggests that they should be set more conservatively.
The core components of the IIP calculation are the value of gross charge off and recoveries.
Gross charge off and or provisions Market risk arerecognised when it is established that the account is unlikely Market risk is the potential for loss of economic value due to topay, either through past due or any other specific condition.
adverse changes in financial market rates or prices.
The Groups Recovery of unsecured debt post-impairment is recognised based exposure to market risk arises predominantly from these sources: on actual cash collected, either directly from clients or through the sale of defaulted loans to third-party institutions.
Provision release Trading book: the Group provides clients access to financial of secured loans post-impairment is recognised if the loan markets, facilitation of which entails the Group taking moderate outstanding is paid in full release of full provision, or the provision market risk positions.
All trading teams support client activity: is higher than the loan outstanding release of the excess provision, there are no proprietary trading teams.
Hence, income earned or the loan is paid to current and remains in current for more than from market risk-related activities is primarily driven by the 180 days release of full provision.
volume of client activity rather than risk-taking.
From 1 January For further details on Retail Banking see pages 153 to 165.
2016, a CVA desk has been actively hedging the credit and market exposures arising from CVA and FVA.
From 1 August Corporate & Institutional Banking, Commercial Banking 2016, Credit and Funding Valuation Adjustment XVA risk was and Private Banking recognised in the total trading and non-trading VaR, and the impact of which was not material Loans are classified as impaired where analysis and review indicate that full payment of either interest or principal is questionable, Non-trading book: orassoon as payment of interest or principal is 90 days overdue.
The Asset and Liability Management ALM desk is required Impaired accounts are managed by our specialist recovery unit, tohold a liquid assets buffer of which $84.9 billion is held in GSAM, which is independent from our main businesses.
Where any high-quality marketable debt securities amount is considered irrecoverable, an IIP is raised.
This provision is the difference between the loan-carrying amount and the present The Group has capital invested and related income streams value of estimated future cash flows.
denominated in currencies other than US dollars.
To the extent that these are not hedged, the Group is subject to structural The individual circumstances of each client are taken into account foreign exchange risk, which is reflected in reserves when GSAM estimates future cash flows.
All available sources, such as cash flow arising from operations, selling assets or The primary categories of market risk for the Group are: subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under guarantees Interest rate risk: arising from changes in yield curves, credit areconsidered.
In any decision relating to the raising of provisions, spreads and implied volatilities on interest rate options we attempt to balance economic conditions, local knowledge andexperience, and the results of independent asset reviews.
Currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in exchange rates and implied volatilities on foreign exchange options Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect of recovering a portion of an exposure against which an impairment Commodity price risk: arising from changes in commodity prices provision has been raised, that amount will be written off.
and implied volatilities on commodity options: covering energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture As with Retail Banking, a PIP is held to cover the inherent risk oflosses which, although not identified, are known through Credit spread risk: arising from changes in the credit spread of experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
This is set with its derivatives counterparties through credit value adjustment reference to historical loss rates and subjective factors such CVA accounting astheeconomic environment and the trends in key portfolio indicators.
The PIP methodology provides for accounts for whichan IIP has not been raised.
com 145 RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH Market risk governance See an analysis of VaR and backtesting results in 2016 on pages 171 to 172.
The Board approves the Groups risk appetite for market risk.
Subject to the risk appetite set for market risk, the Group Stress testing RiskCommittee sets Group-level market risk limits and stress losstriggers.
Losses beyond the 97.5 per cent confidence interval are not captured by a VaR calculation, which therefore gives no indication The Corporate & Institutional Banking Risk Committee CIBRC, of the size of losses in tail event situations.
under authority delegated by the Group Risk Committee, is responsible for setting material value at risk VaR and stress loss Market and Traded Credit Risk complements the VaR triggers for market risk within the levels set by the Group Risk measurement by weekly stress testing of market risk exposures Committee.
The CIBRC also delegates to the Global Head, Market tohighlight the potential risk that may arise from extreme market & Traded Credit Risk responsibility for the policies and standards events that are rare but plausible.
for the control of market risk and overseeing their ongoing Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk management effectiveness.
These policies cover both trading and non-trading framework and considers both historical market events and books of the Group.
A consistent stress-testing methodology The Market and Traded Credit Risk function approves all the is applied to trading and non-trading books.
The stress-testing othermarket risk limits within delegated authorities and monitors methodology assumes that scope for management action would exposures against these limits.
Additional limits are placed on be limited during a stress event, reflecting the decrease in market specific instruments and position concentrations where liquidity that often occurs.
Sensitivity measures are used in addition to VaR Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reflect changes in risk asrisk management tools.
For example, interest rate sensitivity profile and economic events.
The Market and Traded Credit Risk ismeasured in terms of exposure to a one basis point increase function reviews stress exposures and, where necessary, enforces inyields, whereas foreign exchange, commodity and equity reductions in overall market risk exposure.
The Group Risk sensitivities are measured in terms of the underlying values or Committee considers the results of stress tests as part of its amounts involved.
Option risks are controlled through revaluation supervision of risk appetite.
limits on underlying price and volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk and other variables that determine the options value.
Regular stress test scenarios are applied to interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
VaR Thiscovers all asset classes in the Financial Markets banking and trading books.
The Group applies VaR as a measure of the risk of losses arising from future potential adverse movements in market rates, prices Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared, reflecting specific market and volatilities.
VaR, in general, is a quantitative measure of market conditions and for particular concentrations of risk that arise within risk that applies recent historical market conditions to estimate the the business.
potential future loss in market value that will not be exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical confidence level.
VaR provides a Non-trading book and Group Treasury market risk treatment consistent measure that can be applied across trading businesses Interest rate risk from non-trading book portfolios is transferred to and products over time and can be set against actual daily trading local Asset and Liability Management ALM desks.
ALM deals in profit and loss outcome.
the market in approved financial instruments in order to manage the VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum of net interest rate risk, subject to approved VaR and risk limits.
Local onebusiness day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
This Asset and Liability Committees are responsible for any residual confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, in excess of interest rate risks that cannot be managed by ALM.
the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six times per year.
VaR and stress tests are therefore applied to these ALM exposures, The Group applies two VaR methodologies: including available-for-sale debt securities, in the same way as for the trading book.
Securities classed as Loans and Receivables or Historical simulation: involves the revaluation of all existing Held-to-maturity are not reflected in VaR or stress tests since they positions to reflect the effect of historically observed changes are accounted for on an amortised cost basis, so market price inmarket risk factors on the valuation of the current portfolio.
movements have a limited effect on either profit and loss This approach is applied for general market risk factors and orreserves.
themajority of specific credit spread risk VaR Equity risk relating to non-listed private equity and strategic Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to historical investments is not included within VaR.
It is separately managed simulation but with considerably more input risk factor through delegated limits for both investment and divestment, observations.
These are generated by random sampling and is also subject to regular review by an investment committee.
techniques, but the results retain the essential variability andcorrelations of historically observed risk factor changes.
These are included as Level 3 assets, as disclosed in note 13 to Thisapproach is applied for some of the specific credit spread thefinancial statements on pages 230 to 231. risk VaR in relation to idiosyncratic exposures in credit markets Group Treasury raises debt and equity capital and the proceeds In both methods a historical observation period of one year is are invested within the Group as capital or placed with ALM.
Interest rate risk arises due to the investment of equity and reserves into rate-sensitive assets, as well as some tenor mismatches VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the close of business, between debt issuance and placements.
These risks were generally UK time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from those managed within an Earnings at Risk limit set by Operational reported at the end of the day.
Balance Sheet Committee but, in future, will be incorporated A small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions intothe overall Earnings Risk framework of the Group.
isnot included in VaR or cannot be appropriately captured by VaR.
Group Treasury also manages the structural foreign exchange This is recognised through a Risks-not-in-VaR RNIV framework, riskthat arises from non-US dollar currency net investments which estimates these risks and applies capital add-ons.
The impact of foreign exchange To assess their ongoing performance, VaR models are backtested movements is taken to reserves which form part of the capital against actual results.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital ratio ispartially mitigated by the fact that both the value of these 146 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION investments and the risk-weighted assets in those currencies follow Stress testing broadly the same exchange rate movements.
Under delegated The Group intends to maintain a prudent and sustainable funding authorities, the Group Treasurer may decide to hedge the net and liquidity position, in all presence countries and currencies, investments if it is expected that the capital ratio will be materially such that it can withstand a severe yet plausible liquidity stress.
affected by exchange rate movements.
Changes in the valuation This is reflected in the Risk Appetite Statement and metrics ofthese positions are taken to reserves.
See details on page 174. discussed on page 175.
Structural foreign exchange risk is not included within Group VaR.
Regular stress testing is conducted to demonstrate that the Liquidity and funding risk Groups liquidity exposure remains within the approved Risk Appetite Statement as well as within regulatory limits.
Liquidity Risk is the potential for loss because the Group, although solvent, does not have available sufficient financial resources to The internal liquidity stress testing framework includes multiple enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can access stress scenarios with varied survival periods and stressed conditions these financial resources only at excessive cost.
to appropriately reflect the liquidity risks undertaken by the Group.
The framework includes an idiosyncratic stress, a market-wide Funding risk is the potential for actual or opportunity loss because stress and a combined stress.
The combined stress assumes the Group does not have stable or diversified sources of funding bothidiosyncratic and market-wide events that affect the Group inthe mediumand long-term to enable it to meet its financial simultaneously and hence is typically the most severe scenario.
obligations, in pursuit of its desired business strategy or growth objectives.
The results for the combined stress takes into account convertibility and portability constraints across all major presence countries and We seek to manage our liquidity and funding prudently in all is used to calibrate the amount of liquidity resources the Group locations and for all currencies.
Exceptional market events could should hold.
It is monitored daily and managed by Group Treasury.
impact us adversely, thereby potentially affecting our ability to fulfil our obligations as they fall due.
The Stress Testing Committee STC has oversight over the appropriateness of the stress scenarios and the assumptions We have a robust risk type framework for managing the Groups contained within them.
Through this framework we control and optimise the risk-return profile of the Group.
This is principally Operational risk unaudited achieved by: We define operational risk as the potential for loss from inadequate Setting risk appetites aligned with strategic objectives or failed internal processes, people and systems or from the impact Identifying, measuring and monitoring liquidity risks: of external events, including legal risks.
Assessment of regulatory requirements and internal balance The management of operational risk is a challenge due to its sheet characteristics driving liquidity risk broadscope as operational risks arise from all activities carried outwithin the Group.
To address this challenge we map risks The ILAAP Internal Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process, across the Group at a processes level with controls installed to which assesses the liquidity adequacy of the Group under mitigate these risks.
We benchmark practices against peers and business as usual and stressed conditions regulatory requirements.
The Groups liquidity stress testing framework covering both internal and regulatory scenarios Operational risk governance Constraining risk profile within the Board approved risk appetite: The Group Risk Committee provides oversight of operational risk Development of policies to address the liquidity and funding management across the Group.
It is supported by the Group risks identified Operational Risk Committee, and the Group Financial Crime Risk Committee, which oversee operational risk arising from the global Implementation of associated risk measures that act as businesses and functions.
These committees receive regular mitigants of these risks reports on the Groups operational risk profile.
The Group Risk Ongoing monitoring of risk measures against limits Committee is also supported by the Group Information To mitigate liquidity and funding risk we maintain a well-diversified, Management Governance Committee which oversees the customer-driven funding base and access to wholesale funds management of the data quality framework and strategy.
In addition, we maintain a diversified portfolio of marketable securities that can be monetised Internal organisation Three lines of defence or pledged as collateral in the event of a liquidity stress.
The Group To implement its operational risk management approach, the Recovery Plan, reviewed and approved annually, is maintained by Group applies the Three Lines of Defence model, as set out in the Group Treasury and includes a broad set of Recovery Indicators, Risk Management Framework and explained on page 141.
In the an escalation framework and a set of management actions that context of operational risk: could be effectively implemented by senior management in the event of a liquidity stress.
A similar plan is maintained within each The first line of defence is responsible for identifying and managing major country.
the inherent risks in processes they own.
The second line of defence is responsible for setting and Liquidity and funding risk governance maintaining control standards for the operational risk management.
The Board approves the Groups Risk Appetite for liquidity and The second line of defence comprises both risk control owners funding risk along with supporting metrics.
The Group Chief ofeach operational risk sub-type and Group policy owners.
Financial Officer has overall responsibility for determining the The third line of defence is the independent assurance provided Groups approach to liquidity and funding risk management and bythe Group Internal Audit function.
delegates authority to the Group Treasurer.
Country oversight under the liquidity and funding framework Risk classification resides with country Asset and Liability Committees, supported Operational risk sub-types are the different ways that the Group bylocal Asset and Liability Management desks.
Countries must may be operationally exposed to loss.
The Group uses operational ensure they operate within predefined liquidity limits and remain risk sub-types principally as an aid to ensure comprehensive and incompliance with Group liquidity policies and practices, as well consistent identification of operational risks, wherever they may aslocal regulatory requirements.
Operational risk sub-types are listed in the table below.
com 147 RISK MANAGEMENT APPROACH OPERATIONAL RISK SUB-TYPES External rules Potential for actual or opportunity loss due to failure to comply with laws or regulations, or as a result andregulations ofchanges in laws or regulations or in their interpretation or application Liability Potential for loss or sanction due to a legal claim against any part of the Group or individuals within theGroup Legal enforceability Potential for loss due to failure to legally protect the Groups interests or from difficulty in enforcing theGroups rights Damage or loss of Potential for loss or damage or denial of use of property or other physical assets physicalassets Safety and security Potential for loss or damage relating to health and safety or physical security Internal fraud Potential for loss due to action by staff that is intended to defraud, or to circumvent the law or Group policy or dishonesty External fraud Potential for loss due to criminal acts by external parties such as fraud or theft of financial assets Information security Potential for loss due to unauthorised access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction ofinformation Processing failure Potential for loss due to failure of an established process or a process design weakness Model Potential for loss due to a significant discrepancy between the output of credit and market risk measurement models and actual experience Potential for regulatory breach due to a significant discrepancy between the output of financial crime clientrisk scoring and financial crime transaction monitoring models and actual experience Operational risk management approach by the Group or any individual acting on its behalf, in accordance with our strategic intent, risk management principles and risk The Group defines and maintains a process universe for all client appetite.
More narrowly, it refers to specific regulations designed segments, products and functions.
toachieve fair outcomes for customers and the effective operation The process universe is the complete list of end-to-end processes of markets.
that collectively describe the activities of the Group and is the Good conduct is evidenced through disciplined adherence to our reference for the application of the operational risk management overall systems and controls outlined in the Risk Management approach.
This approach has been installed for prioritised Framework and the standards of individual behaviour set out in risks across all countries.
The operational risk management theCode of Conduct the Code.
approach requires: Specifically for operational risk: All processes to be identified and standardised except for regulatory or legitimate system exceptions External rules and regulations classifications defined in the Operational Risk Framework include specific categories of Inherent risks to be identified and assessed by the first line and regulation designed to achieve fair outcomes for clients client approved by the second line conduct and the effective operation of markets market conduct.
Industrial strength controls to be designed with standards for This ensures that each category of regulation is properly quantity, materiality and timeliness of detection and rectification classified and aligned to the Groups systems and control of defects structures.
Risk control owners and Group policy owners are responsible for defining the Groups minimum standards and Residual risks to be assessed by first line and approved by controls in respect of each category second line Conduct is considered in the Groups operational top risks Monitoring of risks and controls seeRisk profile on page 181.
The Group aims to prevent the Prompt execution of risk treatment actions risks of failure to deliver the conduct of business standards expected by the Groups clients, investors and markets in which Stress testing we operate.
Many of the top risks can be driven by poor conduct so the Group is focused on its control standards around As part of the operational risk management approach, the Group theserisks conducts stress testing by scenario analysis.
In 2016, we participated in the Bank of England stress test and the Reputational risk unaudited annual Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The exercises Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups included judgemental overlays for the potential risk of low-frequency, franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on market high-severity events occurring during stress conditions.
capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a negative view of In addition to the above, we review concentration of risks across the Group or its actions.
Failures in behaviours or systems may the Groups processes and prioritises low-frequency high-severity affect stakeholders perceptions of the Groups commitment to its scenarios to assess the potential impact that may exceed the Here for good brand promise.
Reputational risk could arise from the Groups risk appetite.
During 2016, the scenario analysis failure of the Group to effectively mitigate the risks in its businesses, programme conducted 13 scenarios.
These scenarios included including one or more of country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, anti-money laundering, sanctions, information and cyber security legal, strategic or other operational risk.
Damage to the Groups and change management.
reputation could cause existing clients to reduce or cease to do business with the Group and prospective clients to be reluctant Conduct of business, or conduct, is a term that is used in a broad todo business with the Group.
All employees are responsible number of ways across the financial services industry.
At its forday-to-day identification and management of reputational risk.
broadest, good conduct is the appropriate execution of business, 148 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT RISK REVIEW AND CAPITAL REVIEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION These responsibilities form part of the Code and are further The Group reports on its environmental and social performance embedded through values-based performance assessments.
through the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and through the sustainability section of the Groups website.
Riskcontrol owners must identify material reputational risks arising from any business activity or transaction that they control and For more information on our environmental and social risk assessment ensure that these are escalated and controlled in accordance with please refer to sc.
com eandsrisk the Groups Reputational Risk Policy and applicable procedures.
The Group Risk Committee provides Group-wide oversight on Our reputational risk framework covers two areas.
Reputational reputational risk, sets policy and monitors material risks.
The riskmanagement refers to proactively avoiding or mitigating the Brand, Values and Conduct and Board Risk Committees provide potential damage that might result from a future reputational additional oversight of reputational risk on behalf of the Board.
Reputational issues management and crisis the business level, the Business Responsibility and Reputational communication refers to measures to limit damage from a Risk Committee has responsibility for managing reputational risk.
reputational risk event that has already occurred ex post.
In 2017 a review of risk control ownership and governance of Reputational risk may also arise from a failure to comply with reputational risk will take place.
environmental and social standards in our relationship with clients and in our financing decisions.
Environmental risk is the potential Pension risk unaudited for material harm or degradation to the natural environment, while Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an social risk is the potential to cause material harm to individuals or actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
Environmental and social risks associated with clients Standard Chartered offers defined contribution pension plans are a key area of risk for the Group and we have continued to fornew hires in most locations, and only maintains defined benefit develop and enhance our approach to managing such risks plans where required by law, contract or for closed groups of since1997.
The Group monitors and manages Reflecting the differing regulatory and legislative frameworks boththe pension financial risks stemming from its legacy defined applicable to clients in the Groups markets, we have global benefit schemes and the operational and reputational risks of all sector-specific environmental and social E&S standards as set out itspension arrangements.
In doing this the Group has primary in our 17 sectoral and three thematic position statements.
We apply regard to its capital position, and the relative costs and benefits these in the provision of financial services to clients who operate in ofreducing or removing its risk exposure.
sectors presenting specific risks, and for key issues.
These are The Groups primary pension risk measures are updates, at least underpinned by the Equator Principles and the IFC Performance quarterly, of the accounting balance sheet position, the 1-in-200 Standards.
year stress test required annually by the PRA, and the funding The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks and position of the UK Fund over 60 per cent of the Groups pension that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse liabilities.
The Group mitigates pension risk via a Group Pension impact on our business, and is responsible for ensuring that high Risk Policy which requires all new plans to be defined contribution standards of responsible business are maintained and that an where possible, and mandates standards around investments, effective control framework is in place.
benefit changes, funding, documentation, actuarial valuations, accounts and auditing.
Adherence to these standards is assured The Board receives regular information to identify and assess byan annual governance review.
significant risks and opportunities arising from environmental and social matters.
These issues are overseen by the Brand, Values The Pension Risk Control Owner is responsible for the governance and Conduct Committee.
The Committee reviews sustainability of pension risk and reports to the Group Risk Committee every priorities, and oversees the development of, and delivery against, sixmonths on pension risk matters.
public commitments regarding the activities and or businesses that the Group will or will not accept in alignment with our Here for good Strategic risk unaudited brand promise.
Strategic risk is defined as a possible source of loss or lost We take our position statement commitments seriously.
To ensure opportunity that might arise from the pursuit of an unsuccessful we deliver our commitments, we embed these requirements business plan.
Strategic risk is as much about missing out on through our core banking processes.
We have mechanisms in our potential upside opportunities as managing downside risks.
origination and credit processes to identify and assess Strategic Risks also materialise through other risk types.
environmental and social risks in accordance with our standards.
As the ultimate governance body for the Group, the Board We have a dedicated Environmental and Social Risk Management challenges the Groups strategy and highlights potential underlying ESRM team that reviews clients and proposed transactions that risks.
The Group Chief Financial Officer is responsible for present specific risks.
formulation of the Group Strategy consistent with the risk appetite The Group recognises that stakeholder expectations of our and financial objectives agreed by the Board from time to time.
He environmental and social risk management will change over time.
is also responsible for ensuring any strategic analysis presented to As such we seek to explain our approach and standards via our the Group Chief Executive, the Board of Standard Chartered PLC position statements, and to ensure they remain appropriate through or other governing bodies is sound and comprehensive.
In 2016 we have updated our Climate Change Responsibility for strategy development formally rests with the and Energy Position Statements to reflect changing expectations business heads, but the Group Head of Strategy is the risk control on our role in energy financing and in managing climate risk.
We owner for all strategic risks.
also created a Human Rights Position Statement, consolidating our previous policies and disclosures.
In 2016, our ESRM team reviewed over 320 client relationships and transactions across a range of Position Statement sectors.
We believe in working collaboratively to achieve sustainability goals.
This includes working with clients, other financial institutions and industry bodies to promote, develop and encourage leading E&S standards.
For all risks identified, we seek to develop effective mitigating measures.
Where this is not possible, transactions have been and will continue to be turned down.
In 2016, we trained more than 110 staff on our requirements and processes.
