SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we Manage our Risks.
In accordance with the Code, we understand the need for a system of internal control and risk management.
The identification and management of key risks for the Group is achieved through a risk register which is reviewed formally and updated by management on a regular basis to ensure that it is focused on real, current and significant business risks, that mitigating actions are feasible and effective and that the resulting net risk is appropriate.
A Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and includes the Global Retail Director, Director of IT, Head of Risk & Assurance, Head of Internal Audit, Group General Counsel and Group Programme Manager.
The Committee meets monthly to co-ordinate the risk management programme throughout the business, and review the risk procedures and practices in place to ensure they reflect the growing scale, maturity and complexity of the Group.
On an annual basis each member of the senior management team is required to document and present their key risks to the Risk Committee as part of a programme of departmental risk reviews.
These reviews serve to heighten awareness of risk and greater accountability for management of risk at all levels within the organisation and specifically, for each department, consider existing and emerging risks, current and planned mitigations, together with a wider consideration of business continuity risks.
Following a review of our risks, we have further assessed our key risks and uncertainties which are reviewed and challenged robustly by the Executive Committee and Board twice a year.
We consider the following matters to be the principal risks and uncertainties affecting SuperGroup.
However, these may not be exhaustive and there might be additional unknown risks that could have an adverse effect on the business.
Change Change in risk in risk Link to Risk Potential Impact Mitigation 2015 2016 Strategy The Groups business The Group may experience The combination of an enhanced programme of customer research and the brand may suffer if it is unable inventory shortages or understanding embedded in the organisation and particularly in our founders provides a to predict or respond excesses that could strong understanding of and connection to the market and our customers.
This combined to fashion and design result in lower margins, understanding informs our range and product development.
lost revenue or customer We have continued to develop new product ranges including our premium collection, in This risk may become goodwill.
collaboration with Idris Elba, and Superdry Sport, each launched during the past year.
The more significant as ongoing launch of new ranges is expected to further broaden and strengthen customer womenswear grows as appeal.
We have implemented improved planning and stock management processes and systems which are enabling the business to make better decisions on initial stock quantities, allocation across sales channels and to respond more rapidly to inventory levels and opportunities.
co. uk 44 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Change Change Financial in risk in risk Link to Statements Risk Potential Impact Mitigation 2015 2016 Strategy Failure to achieve longFailure to achieve planned The four pillar growth strategy sets out how we will create a global lifestyle brand.
We term business growth growth targets could continue to implement this strategy effectively as laid out in the Strategic Report section of as a result of the lack of significantly impact on this report, including planned store expansion within Europe and the creation of key points of an effective strategy, the investor sentiment.
infrastructure necessary to support our planned growth.
failure to successfully Our executive team, which has been further strengthened during the year, has broad retail implement the strategy, and business experience with clearly defined ownership for each element of the strategic an inappropriate plan.
Our transformation function provides consistent programme management disciplines business model in and management reporting.
Regular Executive Committee and Board reviews take place of key markets or the key initiatives to ensure that progress against plans are tracked and that issues are resolved failure to deliver critical and opportunities pursued in a timely manner.
Such reviews also consider the balance of infrastructure projects.
current and estimated sales in each channel within a key territory to ensure it remains optimal and reflects changes to customer shopping behaviours.
We continue to be strongly cash generative and able to fund our ongoing investment programme.
Failure to deliver on our Failure to improve the Execution of the business plan continues with key integration and improvement steps nearing business aspirations in performance of and expand completion.
The customer offer has been successfully repositioned in all customer channels North America.
our operations in North over the past 12 months through the clearance of legacy stock and improvements to range, America could result in price positioning, availability and product density.
Additional test retail stores that support better financial losses and or the brand proposition are planned for 2016.
NEW brand damage, which could All key operating processes, including those for merchandising and replenishment, have been undermine the strategy of transferred on to the Groups global infrastructure and, combined with the strengthening becoming a global lifestyle of the North American team, enables us to deliver an effective balance of local and global brand.
The introduction of a dedicated warehouse in the USA to support retail operations is scheduled for 2016.
Key: NEW Enable Extend Embed Execute Increasing Stable Reducing New risk www.
co. uk 45 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we Manage our Risks.
Change Change in risk in risk Link to Risk Potential Impact Mitigation 2015 2016 Strategy Loss of key colleagues Lack of appropriately skilled Euan Sutherland as Chief Executive Officer and Julian Dunkerton as Founder and Brand and or the inability to attract and experienced resource Product Director provide the necessary leadership skills to drive our global strategic goals.
and retain talent or could result in a delay In addition, the appointment of the Global Retail Director during the year has completed the preserve the Superdry in achieving the Groups executive team and we now have a strong and highly experienced leadership team in place.
The founders each remain totally committed to the Group and the retention of James Holders unique design and creative skills on an exclusive consultancy basis is a further example of the measured development of our leadership team over time.
Our ongoing resourcing, talent review and succession planning processes are providing the executive team with the necessary data and tools to understand the future skills requirements of the business.
This has led to the significant strengthening of key functions, particularly design and merchandising, during the year.
This process is also helping to ensure that all colleagues can benefit from rewarding careers.
Recognising the importance to the overall Superdry proposition of a service led customer experience, colleague retention and recruitment in stores is a priority.
Retention levels have improved during the year as we have enhanced our training and development programmes.
We recognise that retaining the Superdry culture is key and have undertaken a colleague survey to understand better the level and drivers of engagement.
While this showed that our colleagues rate us as a really good place to work, we are developing an action plan to drive this to great.
Economic and financial Our results can be affected Our increasingly diversified business model encompassing Retail including e-commerce and conditions or external by events or circumstances Wholesale along with our increasing global footprint, provides significant counter-economic world events result in which impact consumer protection.
Increased category breadth provides further insulation.
challenging trading confidence and buying Regular reviews through customer research and a review of competitor pricing, together with conditions or economic habits.
forecasting disciplines, are in place to assess current market conditions and to ensure that instability.
any issues are dealt with in a timely manner.
Our Wholesale team manages closely credit terms and use of insurance and bank guarantees with their trading customers to balance their ability to purchase goods with managing the risk of bad debts.
Our Treasury function monitors the stability of financial institutions that hold our deposits or provide currency instruments.
These are spread over a number of institutions to mitigate this risk and ensure competitive terms.
The policy governing this is laid out in note 31 to the financial statements.
co. uk 46 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Strategic Report Our Governance Change Change Financial in risk in risk Link to Statements Risk Potential Impact Mitigation 2015 2016 Strategy Failure to protect There is a potential for Our health and safety policies are enforced through regular training and audit activities in the well-being of our SuperGroup to suffer all Group locations.
Ethical trading matters are managed by our Ethical Trading Manager, customers and the negative customer and reporting directly to the Head of Sourcing, and we are a member of the Ethical Trading colleagues who work for investor sentiment.
us or in support of our We engage with our suppliers and expect them to operate in accordance with our Ethical business.
We assess the status of operating practices through a schedule of audits and visits and, where necessary, work with suppliers on improvement plans.
We have upgraded our strategic supplier engagement programme during the year, which included holding our maiden global supplier conference.
Key infrastructure or Should any of our IT The IT replacement programme has continued to deliver systems with improved reliability IT systems may be facilities be unavailable for and availability, including enhancements to our merchandise planning system capability.
In unavailable due to an extended period, our addition, a major focus in the past year has been the transitioning of many of our international operational problems or ability to trade would be operations onto our global infrastructure and applications, which benefit from greater a major incident.
If a major incident resilience than local infrastructure.
impacted the peak trading Our IT disaster recovery capabilities have been further enhanced and we have now period from November to contracted for a business continuity capability to provide an alternative facility in the event of January, then the impact the loss of our head office.
on earnings would be more severe.
Brand damage may The strength of the Our ongoing customer research insight programme continues to show that the Superdry occur due to distribution Superdry brand is brand has strong appeal in all of our major markets.
The research has shown that our through inappropriate fundamental to the success addressable customer market is broader than previously understood and more defined by channels or the of our business.
The research programme will be extended further in the coming year to existence of counterfeit is a risk that the equity provide insight to all key operating markets.
within the brand may be New distribution channels are approved internally to ensure that they meet our brand damaged by distribution guidelines.
Our in-house Brand Protection team also works closely with third party through lower perceived advisers and customs authorities throughout the world to monitor the production and quality points of sale or the sale of counterfeit product and, where identified, remove it whether it be online or in the existence of counterfeit marketplace using all remedies available, including take down procedures and issuing products with inferior proceedings.
We also monitor our supply chain to limit the risk of any supplier selling quality and or design.
unauthorised product directly into the market.
co. uk 47 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 How we Manage our Risks.
Change Change in risk in risk Link to Risk Potential Impact Mitigation 2015 2016 Strategy Failure to comply with Failure to comply with Our in-house Tax and Legal functions work closely with the business to identify and mitigate legal and regulatory legal obligations or legal and regulatory risks using both internal resources and external advisers where either frameworks.
regulatory frameworks specialist or local advice is needed.
in the diverse markets in which we operate could result in financial penalties, the inability to enforce contracts and or reputational damage.
Risk of cyber, system A failure to protect data We continue to invest in new IT systems and infrastructure to enhance our security profile.
or information security adequately could lead to Security controls, including regular audits and penetration tests, are in place to ensure that breach.
financial losses, prosecution data is protected from corruption, unauthorised access or use through encryption.
During and reputational damage to the year we have implemented a point to point system, both in store and on-line, that is SuperGroup.
compliant with the Payment Card Industry standards and expect to be accredited in the summer of 2016.
As part of our global data protection training programme, our Legal team works closely with the operational teams particularly Human Resources and IT to ensure that the requirements of data protection legislation are understood and built into operational processes.
Risk of significant Our financial results could We maintain constant management oversight, including Board review, of foreign exchange changes in currency be impacted by changes in exposure and opportunities.
We use forward foreign exchange contracts to provide planning certainty in the major currencies in which we trade.
While mitigating currency translation exposure, the Board consider that this risk has heightened following the European Referendum.
This policy is set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
