STRATEGIC REPORT Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the key risks that may affect our business, although there are other less significant risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance.
STRATEGY RISKS Risks Response 2017 Plans Volatility and cyclicality of the global The Group maintains a balanced portfolio New product development and our chemicals and polymers markets may ofproducts serving a wide range of end acquisitionstrategy targeting adjacent adversely affect the results of the markets around the globe.
Business unit speciality chemicals businesses will help Group.
The political risk of Brexit and performance is closely monitored and usdiversify this risk further.
other events on the worldwide economy corrective actions are taken as necessary.
together with economic slowdowns ingrowth markets could impact thebusiness.
Link to strategy 1 4 Change in risk level The markets in which the Group The Group continues to invest in existing We have strengthened our business operates are highly competitive and the andnew products through R&D and also development teams and expect a number Group may lose market share to other anactive acquisition strategy targeting of projects and new product releases to producers of speciality chemicals or to newtechnological knowhow.
other products that can be substituted The Group continues to invest in new for the products of the Group.
facilitiesto allow the Group to maintain itskeymarket positions.
All sites operate quality management systems, such as ISO, to ensure products that reach customers meet agreed standards.
Link to strategy 1 3 Change in risk level The ability of the Group to compete The Group protects its intellectual property Disaster recovery and security ishighly dependent on its ability through use of patents.
improvements for non ERP systems toprotect its intellectual property suchas those used in plants is a focus The Group is improving disaster recovery and andtrade secrets as well as defend in2017 as well as improving the overall resilience across the Enterprise Resource manufacturing sites from potential ITGovernance framework.
The Group could suffer significant losses of intellectual property or other assets through theft.
The Group is exposed to continually evolving cyber and other security risks which could lead to regulatory fines, reputational damage and loss of opportunity.
Link to strategy 1 Change in risk level 30 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION KEY Research and development Capacity utilisation 1 3 andtechnical expertise Investment in capacity toexploitnew markets 4 Driving efficiency and excellence 2 Business growth through acquisition 5 through operations READ MORE P12 AND 13 Risks Response 2017 Plans Capacity enhancements designed totake We have a robust capital appraisal process in We expect to develop a project assurance advantage of growth and newmarkets, place to assess projects proposed to ensure capability and revamp our processes or other projects, are dependent on they will deliver value.
We introduced the around post investment review to ensure Synthomer managing projects well to Project Excellence methodology to improve lessons are learned around development correctly anticipate and deliver the benefits project management.
of business cases, assumptions and associated with the enhancement.
Link to strategy 4 Change in risk level The Groups strategic plan involves Transactions are managed by the Executive We will continue to develop our Procurement significant M&A activity to enhance Committee with extensive experience of and IT functions to drive synergies.
market positions including expanding successful M&A and integration of acquired thetarget search to adjacent speciality assets with the use of external specialist chemical businesses to provide new advice as required.
There is a risk that wefailto identify enough suitable opportunities, pay too high a price, fail to integrate acquired assets and drive planned synergies across the business, or encounter performance, funding and cash flow issues and potentially unknown liabilities.
Link to strategy 5 Change in risk level OPERATIONAL RISKS Risks Response 2017 Plans Volatility in the prices of raw materials The Group actively manages margins We are strengthening our procurement and energy prices may adversely affect andseeks to recover input cost increases teams and improving strategic sourcing.
the profitability of the Group and its from customers.
Link to strategy 2 3 Change in risk level The manufacture, storage and Robust maintenance programmes We aim to make progress on our long transportation of chemicals is areundertaken in order to ensure that termambition to move further towards inherently dangerous and any ourfacilities meet Group and local anincreasingly proactive approach incidentsrelating to the hazards legalrequirements.
whichthe Group faces may Synthomer operates a central safety audit The central SHE audits will continue to adverselyimpact its financial function dedicated to SHE issues and it improve our approach to process safety condition, results of operations provides advice to our sites to enable with additional training of auditors in this andreputation.
continuous improvement across all major area.
Assurance processes for lower risk SHEareas.
Increasingly the focus is on SHE areas will continue to be devolved to process safety risk to mitigate the risk of local site specific SHE representatives with acatastrophic accident.
the central SHE providing oversight over these assurance areas.
Link to strategy 2 Change in risk level The failure or loss of a manufacturing Crisis management procedures are in place for We plan to improve our overall approach to Plant, process, information or all sites which are reviewed and tested regularly.
business continuity and disaster recovery communication system, whether planning to include alternative suppliers, Our strategic sourcing initiative ensures that temporarily or permanently could identify the potential to move production Group-wide strategies are in place to access occur, directly or otherwise, through between sites and prioritise customers multiple sources for key raw materials and the natural disaster, failure of supplier, needs.
We will increase our IT resilience Group works closely with key suppliers to sabotage or cyber-attack, and would through a refreshed IT security policy ensure availability.
have an adverse impact on operations.
Link to strategy 2 3 Change in risk level Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 31 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY Principal risks and uncertainties continued Research and development Capacity utilisation 1 3 andtechnical expertise Investment in capacity toexploitnew markets 4 Driving efficiency and excellence 2 Business growth through acquisition 5 through operations READ MORE P12 AND 13 COMPLIANCE RISK Risks Response 2017 Plans The Group may be liable for damages Technically qualified personnel and control The Group will continue to invest in based on product liability claims systems are in place around the Group to qualitycontrol systems and quality brought against its customers in ensure products meet certification and assurance testing.
Synthomer has industry standard insurance policies in place which cover product liabilityexposure.
Link to strategy 2 Change in risk level Compliance with extensive environmental, Detailed safety, health and environmental Our SHE audit program will continue to health and safety lawsand regulations processes are documented in operating improve process safety and assurance could require material expenditure, guidance which is updated and activity.
Additionally, our Regulatory Affairs changes in theoperations of the Group or communicated to staff on a regular basis.
team will implement the strategy to register site remediation.
Failure to comply could OurRegulatory Affairs Department provides under the EU REACH Directive in line with result in fines or the loss of a licence advice to Operations and also conducts thepublished timetable.
Link to strategy 2 Change in risk level The Group could suffer substantial All our key employees affirm their E-learning will be used in 2017 covering key penalties, damage to reputation and understanding of the code of business compliance risks to targeted employees to other sanctions for any failure to conduct, covering corruption and antiensure training is refreshed and to ensure control anti-competitive behaviour, competitive business practices.
Malpractice that all new employees receive training such as bribery and corruption, reporting and whistleblowing protection are relevant totheir role.
orotherwise not be in compliance similarly covered in the Group policy on withlaws and regulations in the protecting our reputation.
Training is jurisdictions where we operate.
Link to strategy 2 Change in risk level FINANCIAL RISK Risks Response 2017 Plans The Group is exposed to significant risk of volatility in markets which may affect us: A significant proportion of the Groups The Group has a policy of hedging all We will continue to hedge currency risks.
turnover and assets are in currencies significant foreign exchange transactional We will continue to monitor our covenants other than UK sterling and fluctuations in exposure at operating company level.
The as we pursue our M&A strategy and ensure currency exchange rates may significantly Group borrows a proportion of its funding we pay the right price for acquisitions.
impact the results of the Group.
in overseas currencies to hedge the net Pension deficits should continue to The Groups balance sheet and cash flow, assets held in those currencies.
reduceover the longer term as we pay the and also credit market conditions and The Group closely monitors its operating incremental contributions agreed with the credit ratings, may restrict the ability of cash flow and capital expenditure on Trustees in 2016 but the timescale will be the Group to obtain credit facilities or to amonthly basis and regularly reviews subject to market volatility and also moves refinance its existing debt facilities in the covenantcompliance.
The trustees of the UK longer term.
The UK pension scheme was closed pension scheme will retain the services of The Group has funding risks relating to tofuture accrual in 2009 and additional an investment manager to manage the risk defined benefit pension schemes, the contributions and careful asset management and returns of the UK scheme assets value of which are highly dependent are targeted to reduce the deficit over andliabilities.
Overseas schemes arereviewed by actuaries to provide assurance over unfunded liabilities.
Link to strategy 2 5 Change in risk level 32 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with the provision of section C. 2.2 of the 2014 In completing the viability assessment, the Directors considered revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors the Groups ability to refinance our current debt, raise new finance have assessed the viability of the Group over a five-year period and complete our investment plans during the review period.
toDecember 2021, being the period covered by the Groups approved strategic plan.
The Group strategic plan, which is Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a updated annually, includes analysis of product and profit reasonable expectation, predicated on the assumption that performance, cash flow, investment programmes and returns asignificant event for example, the loss of a large plant or toshareholders.
operating licence in a key country does not inhibit the Groups ability to manufacture for a sustained period, that the Group will The Board considers five years to be an appropriate time horizon be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall for our strategic plan, being the period over which the Group due over the five year period.
actively focuses on its long term product development and capital expenditure investments.
A period above five years is considered by the Board to be too long given the uncertainties that exist beyond his time frame.
In making their assessment, the Directors have considered the Groups current strong financial position, undertaken a sensitivity analysis over the key trading assumptions and the potential impact of the principal risks detailed on pages 30 to 32 over thefive year period.
The risks have been assessed for their potential impact on the Groups business model, future trading and funding structure.
The sensitivity analysis focuses on critical economic volatility risks such as significant exchange rate or interest rate movements, which are deemed to be outside the control of the Group as well as the effect on operating profit from crystallisation of the other risks outlined above.
