Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Every organisation faces risks of varying severity as an inherent part of doing business.
Someof these are within the control of the organisation and others are not.
The Board has identified the following principal risks and uncertainties to the Group, which the Group seeks to proactively manage and monitor on an ongoing basis.
Thedetail of these principal risks, and the controls in place for mitigating them, areoutlined below in no particular order of severity.
The customer wheel is used by TalkTalk to articulate its strategy.
A link to the elements of our strategy has been included alongside each risk to highlight how the principal risk relates to the strategic objectives of the organisation.
The highlighted sections of the customer wheel show the impacted areas.
In addition, the directional arrows reflect the movements in gross risk from the prior year.
The Groups risk management framework facilitates continuous and ongoing discussion of risks and associated risk appetite to ensure theappropriate focus is placed on mitigating principal risks.
The Board will continue to assess the principal risks and uncertainties faced bytheGroup and will update the risk register and mitigation plans accordingly.
Data and cyber security Risk and impact Mitigation Link to Security of customer, commercial The October 2016 cyber attack has had a significant and lasting impact on TalkTalk strategy and colleague data poses asanorganisation.
Prior to the attack, the Company was actively implementing an increasing reputational and ongoing programme to build security capability.
However, subsequent learnings have financial riskto all businesses.
been fundamental in reshaping the Companys approach to risk and mitigation.
Whilst Inparticular, the sharp rise itis not possible to completely eliminate data and cyber security risk, it is clear that incyber and data related crime effective mitigation must now go beyond building and operating security controls.
Gross risk presents a significant challenge What is required is a sustained evolution of culture, organisation and ways of working in terms of securing data and whichembeds security across the business.
Failure TalkTalk will therefore continue the Ten Steps to Cyber Security programme, as well as todo so successfully may have maintaining and updating ongoing initiatives such as monitoring activities, vulnerability amaterial impact on brand scanning, penetration testing and the data loss prevention solution to ensure they reputation and financial remain fit for purpose.
However, following an extensive independent review of existing performance.
Other associated controls andprocesses, an updated security programme is also now in place, designed costs may also be incurred, to ensure thebusiness itself is optimally configured for security.
including potential regulatory A number of other activities have been completed including: fines.
Asexperienced by TalkTalk the realignment of Board-level responsibilities for technology and security, including inOctober 2015, this is a modern, the establishment of an additional senior position Chief Information Security Officer rapidly evolving threat requiring tosupport focus and oversight on the security plan and security activities: and a new approach to risk which the replacement of the previous governance forum for monitoring security progress fullyaccounts for the scale witha Security Committee.
This is a subcommittee of the Board, chaired by andcomplexity of the theChiefExecutive, with senior executive representation and including a ongoingchallenge.
In addition to the above, other activities are underway including: a comprehensive new governance structure to ensure sufficient security practices across systems, risk management, design, Company culture, third parties and internally: a thorough, high priority review of vulnerabilities of all systems and all data across the existing estate: and a renewed focus on awareness around data and cyber security, including formal internal and external awareness programmes.
Key: Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as prior year 20 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 People Risk and impact Mitigation Link to TalkTalk recognises employees as a key asset As well as a full internal review into corporate culture following the cyber strategy and aspiresto be a Great Place to Work for attack, TalkTalk also appointed independent advisers PWC to conduct a all colleagues.
Weunderstand the increasing thorough assessment of what happened and what learnings might be taken challenges and importance in the market from TalkTalks experience.
Responding to these learnings, the Company is ofattracting and retaining the right talent now implementing an extensive programme of cultural change, including todeliver current performance and future behaviours, values and ways of working.
More information on this is available Gross risk growth aspirations.
Failure to attract and retain in the People section.
required talent and competencies may Structured talent forecasting and assessment processes are inplace negatively impact our ability to deliver on toensure required talent is proactively understood.
Apeople scorecard performance targets and strategic objectives.
isalsoin place for ongoing monitoring and oversight of people risk and, where required, actions to further mitigate risk exposures are identified TalkTalk has undertaken an extensive andimplemented.
Inaddition, a Group-wide engagement survey is programme tounderstand and implement completed annually to understand the level of employee engagement the behavioural and values-based changes andaction plans are developed from the survey to ensure ahighly required for the Company toevolvefrom a engagedand motivated workforce is maintained.
start-up culture to a fully mature, responsible The Executive Committee assesses the annual engagement level of the business.
Failure to successfully bring workforce and, in addition, performs an annual assessment of talent at aboutthis change may have a negative senior management level to ensure theright leadership is in place for impact on the Companys reputational motivating, inspiring and leading the workforce to deliver on the andcommercial outlook.
In FY16, TalkTalk announced the move to new office premises in Salford in2017, reinforcing its commitment to developing a Great Place to Work through investment in employees and their workplace.
Customer trust and brand reputation Risk and impact Mitigation Link to Customer confidence and trust are critical TalkTalk remains confident of the role for a well-regarded value champion in strategy toTalkTalks business, and the Companys themarket and is committed to delivering a positive end-to-end customer operating approach always seeks to do experience.
The ongoing MTTS programme is designed to improve customer whatisright for the customer.
However, as experience through better quality and availability of products and services.
avalue player in the market, there is a risk Over the last three years, the programme has delivered material improvements that TalkTalk is perceived as a budget on congested exchanges and customer complaints handling processes, as Gross risk provider, associated with price rather than well as improved web chat facilities, shorter call waiting times and router quality and service.
Further significant benefits are scheduled for delivery in FY17.
Programme progress and success is monitored via a formal governance Events in the last twelve months have also structure, includingsenior management representation on the had an impact on brand reputation and SteeringCommittee.
trust, particularly in the caseof the Building trust and confidence in a value brand presents particular challenges, Consumer business.
Failure to maintain particularly for TalkTalks Consumer business.
One of the key learnings from trust, improve brand reputation and offer a the October 2015 cyber attack was that putting customers first was critical to positive customer experience may result in the speedy recovery of the business.
Consistent quantitative and qualitative increased churn, performance decline and data suggests that the decision to inform customers, and to provide a gesture loss of investorconfidence.
of thanks in the form of a free upgrade, has increased brand consideration and provided a firm foundation on which to improve trust and reputation.
TalkTalk willnow move forward with a renewed focus on existing customers, guided bythefour key principles we believe are critical to being a value champion affordability, reliability, simplicity and fairness.
21 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Change delivery and execution Risk and impact Mitigation Link to Delivery of performance objectives and development of In FY16, TalkTalk formalised its change framework and established strategy the business is reliant onthe ability to successfully deliver a centre ofexcellence Group Change function under the Group innovation and other operational changes required to Change Director.
Theremit ofthe function includes overseeing support growth andperformance.
Failure to effectively and monitoring the progress ofsignificant change programmes deliver change programmes and associated benefits, and embedding a consistent and robust change framework for including MTTS, would result in an inability to deliver delivery of change and innovation.
Gross risk performance objectives and limit TalkTalks competitive The Group Change function facilitates prioritisation discussions position in themarket.
to ensure people and financial resources are appropriately engaged, allocated and focused.
Performance measures for allkey change projects are defined and monitored and benefit tracking is in place and regularly reviewed by Group Change.
Monitoring and oversight of key change projects occurs at both the business unit leadership team level and by the Executive Committee on a regular basis.
The Group Change Director sits on the Executive Committee, enabling real time consideration of the potential impact of other operational and strategic activities on current change projects.
Competitive intensity Risk and impact Mitigation Link to TalkTalk is established as a value for money provider in the A clear pricing strategy is in place with ongoing monitoring of strategy fast growing quad play market.
The value proposition is a pricing position and value proposition.
The strategy is reviewed key part of the business model and to date has provided toensure it remains competitive and continues to support our competitor differentiation.
Over the last year there has position as a value for money provider against the changing been significant activity in the competitive landscape.
In addition, competitor pricing There is a risk that this competitive backdrop makes it activity is monitored to understand customer and market impact Gross risk difficult for TalkTalk tomaintain its value credentials.
and plans are revisited if necessary accordingly.
TalkTalk uses customer communications to promote the value for money provider message and is committed to helping customers understand the best positioned package to meet their needs.
Changing market structure Risk and impact Mitigation Link to The UK telecommunications market structure is currently TalkTalk has been a vocal advocate of competition strategy experiencing significant change.
Both the regulator and the and is well placed to benefit from an increasing Government have acknowledged a pressing need to promote trend toward a more pro-competition regulatory competition and drive investment across the market, and TalkTalk is framework.
This poses a significant risk to well placed participate in the opportunities that may result.
incumbent players in the market, whilst presenting potentially valuable opportunities for challengers.
The outcomes from the Ofcom Strategic Review of the UKs digital Gross risk The business is actively engaging with the communications markets published in February 2016 fell short of necessary external stakeholders to share views and recommending a formal split of Openreach from BT.
However, mounting attempt to deliver the best market and customer political and public pressure has ledto Ofcom considering Openreach outcomes, as well as to proactively understand separation as part ofaseparate consultation process in summer 2016. andrespond to the opportunities and challenges Thestrategic review also included a commitment by Ofcomto help presented by structured market changes.
improve competition among broadband providers by opening up access to BTs infrastructure.
Theoutcome of the review also included other proposals such as making it easier for consumers to switch providers.
There is a risk that change to the current regulatory regime of Openreach, and future mergers and or acquisitions proceeding with limited or no remedies, creates a less competitive environment with possible negative impacts in the end customer.
Key: Gross risk has increased Gross risk has decreased Gross risk remains broadly the same as prior year 22 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016 Regulatory compliance Risk and impact Mitigation Link to The telecommunications sector is highly regulated, There has been continued focus on improving processes and strategy withcompliance over key customer-focused regulations controls and clarifying lines of accountability both in first-line monitored by the governing body, Ofcom.
The regulations operations and in our second-line assurance function.
There that TalkTalk must comply with are designed to support has been significant progress with delivering improvements in customers.
Failure to comply with regulatory obligations our complaint handling processes during the period and there may result in negative customer impact and or significant is continued focus on reducing compliant volumes.
The Groups Gross risk regulatory fines.
Regulatory Compliance Committee, a subcommittee of the Board, has continued to convene throughout the year to monitor the mitigation of operational risks which could give rise to customer complaints and regulatory breaches.
The Group Counsel and Company Secretary has chaired weekly compliance meetings throughout the year, attended by senior management.
Financial Risk and impact Mitigation Link to A key financial risk is the ability to raise required The Group Treasury function is responsible for managing the strategy shortandlong term funding to enable delivery Groups liquid resources.
Policies and operating procedures of strategic objectives.
are in place and these are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain appropriate for the business.
Inaddition, the Executive Committee and the Board oversee the liquidity andfunding position of the Group on a regular basis and are required to Gross risk provideapproval on major and significant funding decisions.
Resilience and business continuity Risk and impact Mitigation Link to TalkTalk is reliant on its infrastructure as well as key third Network resilience is assessed and monitored on regular basis strategy party suppliers and partners in order to deliver quality and, over the last year, network improvements supporting products and services to its customers.
Network or third greater resilience have been delivered.
Further improvements party failure could result in significant disruption to are in progress and will continue in FY17.
Continuous monitoring services or business processes, which may have a of network availability is also in place to ensure any issues are negative impact on customers and therefore damage identified in a timely manner.
Where an incident does occur, Gross risk customer loyalty or drive complaints.
It is therefore arobust incident response process is in place and exercised important to establish resilience in the network and toensure effective response in the event of an incident.
require resilience from our third parties and partners.
Other prioritised critical processes, systems and third parties Itisalso noted that in the event of an incident, TalkTalk are identified andbusiness owners are assigned accountability must be able to respond in an efficient and effective for assessing resilience and implementing business continuity manner in order to minimise impact on customers plans to enable continuity of operations in the event of an andperformance.
For third parties, the relationship owners are  for requiring critical third parties tohave adequate business continuity plans in place and obtaining third party assurance that their plans have been reviewed and tested on a regular basis.
23 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2016
