Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Risks Tate&Lyle is exposed to a number of risks which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, operations and financial performance RISK FRAMEWORK Viability statement In accordance with the provisions of the Effectively managing UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September 2014, the Directors have the risks we face 1 assessed the viability of the Group, taking IDENTIFY into account its current position and RISKS the potential impact of the Principal risks it faces.
Although the Groups strategic plan, which 5 2 the Board reviews annually, forecasts REVIEW AND ASSESS RISKS AND beyond three years, the current planning MONITOR RISKS INTERACTIONS process provides for the preparation of a detailed financial plan over a three-year period, built bottom-up on a divisional basis, including anticipated capital and funding requirements.
For this reason, the Directors have determined that a three-year period to 31 March 2019 is an appropriate 4 3 3 period over which to assess viability.
Sustainability RESPOND PRIORITISE PRIORITISE TO RISKS RISKS To assess viability, the strategic plan RISKS was stress tested under three downside scenarios.
These were seen as key outcomes that would stress the potential viability of the Group if one or more of the Principal risks set out in this Annual The Board has overall responsibility for the risk assessment process, the Board also Report occurred.
The potential impact of Groups system of risk management and reviews emerging and black swan risks these scenarios was assessed individually, internal control.
The schedule of matters facing the Group.
Principal risks are and in combinations, on both a gross reserved to the Board ensures that the reviewed over a time period of three years.
before mitigation and a net after Directors control, among other matters, Areas and behaviours which could mitigation basis.
The three downside all significant strategic, financial and potentially trigger risk combinations scenarios modelled were a major organisational risks.
in the future are also reviewed.
operational failure causing the shutdown Annual process to identify risks Managing risks of a large manufacturing facility for an The Group-wide risk management and Individual executives in each division are extended period of time, a sharp decline in reporting process helps us to identify, assigned responsibility for managing risks sales in one or more of the Groups major assess, prioritise and mitigate risk.
and their associated mitigating controls.
product lines, and the loss of one or more It follows the Committee of Sponsoring As part of the process, senior executive of the Groups key global customers.
In Organizations of the Treadway Commission management formally confirms once a each case, it was assumed that the Groups COSO Enterprise Risk framework.
year that risks are being managed ability to acquire financing or re-financing appropriately within their operations and in the capital markets remained available Our process is both bottom-up and that controls have been examined and in all plausible market conditions.
The bottom-up aspect of the are effective.
The confirmations and any process involves a rolling programme The impact of these risks occurring was exceptions are discussed at the Audit of workshops, facilitated by the risk measured by quantifying their financial Committee and Corporate Responsibility management team, held around the Group.
impact on the strategic plan, and on the Committee, and, where appropriate, During these workshops, we identify Groups viability when set against measures reported to the Board.
The Board and the current and forward-looking risks which including liquidity, credit rating and bank Executive Committee undertake an annual are collated and reported through covenant requirements.
Operational and exercise to consider the nature and extent functional and divisional levels to the commercial impacts were also considered.
of the Groups risk appetite.
The top-down The results of this stress testing showed that of this exercise are used as part of the aspect involves the Board assessing what the Group would, over the three-year period, strategic planning activities, and in setting it believes to be the Principal risks facing be able to withstand the impact of the most ongoing mitigating actions.
We combine the results of severe combination of the risks modelled these processes to identify the Groups Principal risks by making adjustments to its strategic plan key business, financial, operational and Principal risks and uncertainties identified and capital allocation priorities, and other compliance risks, and then develop action as part of the risk management process available mitigating actions.
plans and controls to mitigate them as undertaken during the year, together Based on this assessment, the Directors far as possible, to the extent deemed with some of the mitigating actions we confirm that they have a reasonable appropriate taking account of the Groups are taking, are described on pages 32 and expectation that the Group will be able risk appetite.
However, it is not possible to identify to continue in operation and meet its reviewed again by the Board.
This process or anticipate every risk that may affect liabilities as they fall due over the period takes place annually.
As part of this annual the Group.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 31 Strategic Report Risks continued Principal risks Examples of how we manage the risk Safety Health and safety policies and procedures at all facilities with dedicated staff to ensure they are embedded and measured Failure to act safely and to maintain the safe operation Regular review of performance and policies by the Corporate of our facilities Responsibility Committee The safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, and the Maintenance of suitable insurance programme communities in which we operate is paramount.
We must operate Programme of global compliance audits: senior executives also within local laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to undertake annual executive audits at most sites health, safety and the environment, including emissions.
Failure Process safety management system in place to manage to act safely may give rise to fines or penalties for breach of safety use of hazardous chemicals laws, interruptions in operations or loss of license to operate, SafeStart behavioural safety training programme rolled out liability payments and costs arising from injuries or damage and across plants, offices and labs damage to reputation.
Strategy Investments to increase sales and technical resources, particularly in emerging markets Failure to grow in speciality food ingredients Tate&Lyles strategy is to become a leading global provider of New staff recruited and existing staff developed to upgrade skill speciality food ingredients and solutions.
Our ability to deliver that sets in customer-facing areas and innovation strategy may be affected by a number of factors such as delivering Enhancement of internal capabilities to promote growth through growth in emerging markets, acquisitions, customers readiness to acquisition and partnerships adopt new ingredients and incorporate them in new product Global programme to enhance customer account management, launches, competitor actions, and growing key product or product planning and execution families.
Failure to deliver our strategy over the longer term would negatively affect our credibility, reputation and profitability.
Innovation Innovation and Commercial Development team conducts research and works closely with customers and other external Failure to innovate and commercialise new products organisations to identify emerging consumer trends Failure to identify important consumer trends and provide Open innovation team actively scouts for breakthrough innovative solutions, and the inability to successfully commercialise technologies and opportunities across industries and universities new products, could impact the delivery of our strategy.
This would Global marketing organisation provides support for new product affect our performance and reputation.
launches and consumer and category insight Prioritisation of partnership opportunities with customers to accelerate development cycles and time to market for new ingredients Tate&Lyle Ventures invests in early-stage companies in the areas of food sciences and technologies by partnering with research institutions, entrepreneurs and other venture funds Strict quality control and product testing procedures to ensure Quality products are released only with full quality control clearance Failure to maintain the quality and safety of our products, Quality policies, procedures and performance reviewed regularly and high standards of customer service by the Corporate Responsibility Committee The safety of consumers of our products is critical.
Poor quality Immediate response Recall Committee that would meet within or sub-standard products or poor customer service could have hours in case of a potential recall event a negative impact on consumer safety or our reputation and Third-party audit programme supplemented by internal global relationships with customers.
compliance audits Regular recall simulation exercises Global Operations manages customer service as part of integrated end-to-end supply chain process People Remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and reward employees with ability and experience to execute Group strategy Inability to attract, develop, engage and retain key personnel Talent development strategy to provide opportunities for Performance, knowledge and skills of employees are central to our employees, as well as training to close skills gaps success.
We must attract, integrate, engage and retain the talent Single global performance management system and talent required to deliver our strategy, and have the appropriate processes planning processes in place and culture in place.
Being unable to retain key people and Greater focus by the Board on succession planning for businessadequately plan for succession could have a negative impact critical roles our performance.
Measurement of progress against cultural objectives, for example, global employee surveys Regular monitoring and review of changes in law and regulation Legal and compliance in areas such as health and safety, environment, quality, food Breach of legal or regulatory requirements safety, corporate governance and data protection We operate in a variety of markets and are therefore exposed Legal teams maintain compliance policies in areas such as to a wide range of legal and regulatory frameworks.
We must anti-trust and anti-corruption law: and provide ongoing training understand and comply with all applicable legislation.
Any breach to employees could have a financial impact and damage our reputation.
32 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report | Risks Key: New Principal risk since last years Annual Report Principal risks Examples of how we manage the risk Operations Preventive maintenance programme in place across plant network Programme in place to improve global supply chain processes Failure to maintain the continuous operation of our plant Business continuity capabilities in place to enable supply, as quickly network and supply chain as practicable, of product to customers from alternative sources in The operation of plants involves many risks which could cause the event of a natural disaster or major equipment or plant failure temporary or permanent breaks in production.
We must have a Dedicated internal resources allocated to key projects in robust sales and operations planning process to avoid disruption conjunction with business teams to ensure business continuity to the supply chain and negative impacts on our ability to service is not compromised.
External resources and expertise used our customers.
Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect where required on our performance and reputation.
Cyber security Cyber security enhancement programme in place focused on strengthening people, process and technology defences Cyber security breach leads to the misuse of information Continuous compulsory cyber security training systems, or data Cyber security breach scenario exercises undertaken A cyber security breach, whether as a result of human error, Advanced perimeter defences in place deliberate action or the failure of technology systems, could result Continuous vulnerability detection and defences in unauthorised access to information systems, technology and data Separation of systems within plant network or data belonging to an employee, customer or other third party.
Third-party Security Operations Centre providing 24 7 security This could cause harm to our assets, loss or misuse of data or monitoring, security event correlation and threat countersensitive information, business disruption, legal liabilities and measures damage to our reputation.
Strategic relationships with suppliers and trading companies Raw materials including multi-year agreements Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, Balanced portfolio of supply and tolling contracts in operation energy, freight and other operating inputs with customers to manage balance of raw material prices and Our margins may be affected by fluctuations in crop prices due product sales prices and volume risks to factors such as alternative crops, co-product values and the Raw material and energy purchasing policies to provide security variability of local or regional harvests caused by, for example, of supply weather conditions, crop disease, climate change, and crop yields.
Continuously evaluating expanding network of corn elevators In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales contracts, or due to enhance security of supply to competitive markets, we may not be able to pass on to customers New or back-up supply sources in place in case primary suppliers the full increase in raw material prices or higher energy, freight or face localised challenges other operating costs.
Additionally, margins may be affected by Use of derivatives and forward contracts where practical, to customers not taking expected volumes.
hedge and manage raw material and co-product price exposures Food regulation and consumer concerns Global regulatory team, supported by external consultants, monitors local regulatory requirements affecting our products Changes in consumer or government perception of our Global nutrition team initiates and monitors research and products and regulatory risks publications concerning the use and functionality of our Our freedom to operate may be affected by changes in food ingredients and maintains global network of health and nutrition regulation, consumer concerns, political campaigns targeted at clinicians, academics and experts specific ingredients or technologies or other factors that may impact Membership of trade organisations to provide access to broader the regulatory status or perception of our products or of their sources of information and to ensure, where appropriate, a single functionality, efficacy or use.
We must ensure that the science voice for the industry on regulatory and public interest issues behind our ingredients for example, health claims, nutritional affecting our ingredients impact is supported by credible sources, clearly communicated and Maintenance of relations with regulatory authorities understood by relevant regulatory authorities.
Failure to do so may Providing clear information on ingredients provenance and restrict the markets for our products.
traceability Research Advisory Group chaired by a non-executive director comprising leading scientific experts to review selected critical aspects of the Groups innovation activities and provide guidance Finance policies and standards are in place supported by Finance procedures for key finance processes, for example, capital Failure to maintain an effective system of internal expenditure financial controls Finance risks are monitored and managed through a number Without effective internal financial controls, we could be exposed of forums, for example, the Treasury Risk Committee to financial irregularities and losses from acts which could have a Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer undertake detailed significant impact on the ability of the business to operate.
We must quarterly business and financial reviews safeguard business assets and ensure the accuracy and reliability Core controls were reviewed during the year for existence and of our records and financial reporting.
effectiveness Shareholder expectations New business performance management process in place to improve performance management and steer 2017 Annual Failure to manage shareholders expectations Operating Plan delivery We must communicate a clear strategic vision, deliver the annual Revised disclosure framework to improve presentation of operating plan and provide accurate and timely information to the business results implemented market to enable the investment community to efficiently assess the Investor Relations team in place with improved communications Groups value and reduce the risk of uncertainty and volatility in the and disclosure framework share price.
Failure to do so could impact our reputation and Capital Markets Days held to provide more detail of strategy credibility with shareholders.
execution and how the business works Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2016 33
