Strategic report BUSINESS MODEL EXPLAINED CONTINUED OPTIMISING VALUE We look to optimise the value of each site not only during the initial acquisition process, but throughout the planning and development stages so that the original value is not only protected but enhanced.
WHAT MAKES US DIFFERENT WHAT WE DO Capturing value Our ability to constantly increase efficiency and tightly control costs We actively review every site, both new and old, through our value is part of the Taylor Wimpey culture and remains central to delivering improvement meetings which are held quarterly and are tracked centrally.
This extends to and encompasses all aspects of This allows us to benchmark our success and identify opportunities for our business as we strive to optimise and capture value at every further improvement, ranging from re-planning of sites to redesign and level from procurement through to delivery, and we aim to add value selective enhancements to our specication.
We are committed to not to the charities we support and to our wider partnerships.
only delivering what we set out to do but, by delivering more, instilling a discipline of capturing ination.
In the year we achieved a 2.5 percentage points margin upside on completions from land acquired since 2009, WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
compared with the expected margin at the point of acquisition.
The discipline of continually reviewing and challenging ourselves During 2016 we achieved an average annual return on net operating to do more ensures we do more than simply protect the business, assets of 30.7% 2015: 27.1% which is ahead of our medium term we enhance the value.
target of 30% as set out in May 2016.
We have improved our UK net operating asset turn to 1.46 times HOW ARE WE DIFFERENT?
2015: 1.34 times, benefitting from a low land cost as a percentage We have a relentless focus on value at every stage of our Business of average selling price in the short term owned landbank as a result Model and this is ingrained into the Taylor Wimpey mindset.
We also of higher margin land acquired in recent years and increased strategic balance our desire to improve quality with a focus on making our conversion, particularly in our Central and South West Division.
The higher assets work harder for us and our stakeholders.
proportion of strategic land conversion results in higher work in progress spend, due to these sites generally requiring greater infrastructure investment.
OUR APPROACH We achieve this optimisation of value by undertaking a series of thorough Higher return potential reviews of each site at all stages of its life cycle, using our value It is important to develop approaches that enable us to control land in improvement and tracking processes to ensure that we are continually a capital-light way, without unduly burdening the business.
This light optimising and delivering the value within our land portfolio.
touch improves our returns, frees money for other investment and reduces risk in the event of negative changes in the market.
Taking this approach can also help if and when there is greater competition in high growth areas.
40 Taylor Wimpey plc OUR KPIS Partnerships We strive to be an open, transparent and responsive company for all our Contribution per legal completion stakeholders and to work with them to understand and address the wider social, economic and environmental impacts resulting from our operations.
Objective During 2016 we carried out a materiality assessment to review the current social, economic and environmental priorities both for our business and We strive to maximise the level of contribution per home sold.
our stakeholders, to help us better understand stakeholder views on key topics and to identify emerging risks and opportunities.
This has shown Definition us that we are largely focused on the right issues but there are also Revenue, net of incentives, less build costs, land costs and direct selling opportunities to do more in key areas and to continue to play an active costs, divided by the number of homes completed excluding joint ventures.
part in addressing major challenges like access to housing and climate change.
We will be using the materiality assessment findings to review Why is it key to our strategy?
and strengthen our approach to sustainability during 2017.
Our strategy is focused on value and we continue to prioritise both short As previously highlighted during 2015 we reviewed our charity policy to and long term margin performance.
Increasing the contribution per plot is ensure that it is fully aligned to our values as a business and that we a key driver to achieving this.
continue to make a difference to the charities that we work with by actively contributing nancially, with our time, energy or through leadership.
In 2016 we continued to support selected charities at both a national and 2014 49.6k regional level with a focus on projects which promote aspiration and education in disadvantaged areas and intervening to help tackle 2015 59.4k homelessness for economically disadvantaged groups in the UK.
At the 2016 65.5k end of 2016 we introduced a new framework which provides employees with two full days or four half-days paid time off to support our network of charities or local community projects as volunteers.
This will benefit our 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 charity partners and provide development opportunities for our people.
During 2016, we continued our partnership with our national charities Forward order book as a percentage of completions as well as local charity partners across the UK.
Our six national charities include the Youth Adventure Trust, End Youth Homelessness, Crisis, Objective Crash, St Mungos and Foundations Independent Living Trust.
Our national We look to maximise and maintain a strong order book.
charity partners are selected by our Charity Committee, with regional charities selected by our regional businesses.
Definition In total, during 2016 we donated and fundraised over 875k for registered The number of homes in our year end order book, expressed as a charities 2015: over 746k, in addition to c. 159k for other organisations, percentage of the number of homes completed during the year excluding such as scout groups and other local community causes 2015: c. 112k.
More information about our local sponsorships and charity partnerships can be found within our Sustainability Report, which will be published on Why is it key to our strategy?
A strong order book provides our customers with good visibility and provides greater stability for business planning and enhances our ability to deliver the best experience for customers whilst driving the most value for shareholders.
co. uk R i s k R B e U g i s t e r R i s k m s P a e r F l l n a a v e i a t i o g c t r n e r e e s n t i e i j m b a g n c e o g M e a n Strategic report OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVELY MANAGING RISKS As with any business, Taylor Wimpey faces a number of risks and uncertainties in the course of the day to day operations.
It is only by effectively identifying and managing these risks that we are able to deliver on our medium term targets 2016-2018 of an average operating profit margin of c. 22%, an average annual return on net operating assets of 30% and a total of 1.3 billion of dividends to be paid in cash to shareholders over the period.
The successful management of risk is essential to enable the Group to The standard methodology used in risk management requires each deliver its strategic objectives.
Our risk management and internal control identied risk to be assessed and measured according to a risk framework defines the procedures that manage and mitigate risks facing matrix.
This matrix considers the potential impact of each risk, the business, rather than eliminate risk altogether and can only provide whether financial, reputational, HSE etc, the likelihood of the event reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement occurring, together with mitigating actions and hence the remaining or loss.
Our risk registers are refreshed on an ongoing basis as part of our financial planning cycle.
The registers feed into a formal Our risk management framework consists of risk registers that are risk assessment that identies the Principal Risks and Uncertainties maintained at all organisational levels, which detail the risks faced by the see pages 44 to 47 and other key risks which are monitored closely, Group, its operating companies and the central teams that support the and allows the Board to re-evaluate the identied strategic risks facing the business and a wider stakeholder group.
The registers identify key Group.
Our Sustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity operational, financial and strategic risks to the business, with strategic Register highlights the material risks and opportunities facing the Company risks being identied as part of the business planning process.
Our risk in relation to sustainability and climate change and forms part of our registers take into account the signicance of health, safety and Corporate Risk Management Framework.
More information is provided in environmental issues, together with social and governance matters of the our Sustainability Report 2016.
Group and use a standardised methodology for the assessment of risk.
OUR RISK ASSESSMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROCESS Group Material Risk Register Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Material Risk Register is maintained The Board, supported by the GMT by the GMT and reviewed by the Audit and the Audit Committee, will identify Committee with the promotion, removal the Principal Risks based on the or change of risks.
Views are collated assessment of the Material Risk from the bottom up Business Unit risk Register.
The Principal Risks will be registers and a top down view of disclosed with the half and full year strategic risk formed from horizon results.
Feedback regarding changes scanning the macro-economic to Principal Risks is given to the risk environment, the political landscape owners who have been identied to and developments in specic areas of manage the specic risk on behalf of uncertainty.
Each material risk is the Group.
assessed as to its likely impact based Forecast and Planning Process on the Groups standard methodology, and risk items promoted or removed All BU risk registers are re-evaluated as appropriate.
and completed as part of the formal planning process every six months.
Business Unit Risk Register Each regional business unit re-assesses All items reported in the Business Unit with their Senior Management Team, BU risk registers are reviewed for the risk landscape that the business individual risks of note and for riskfaces and the risk register is then themes which may arise across the updated to reect latest forward views.
A summary of BU risks is assessed by the GMT, with significant items promoted for discussion by the Audit Committee.
The assessment includes a comparison of the risk-rating of the individual items over time.
Denitions can be found in the Group financial review on page 50 42 Taylor Wimpey plc c t i P R s p a g r t u n e o k t d a o c a s r r i n t e m G i S s t R d i s g a t i o n a P n r i d n U c i n p c e a r l t a R i n i s t i k e s s RISK MATERIALITY PROCESS The Board determines the nature and extent of the Principal Risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategy, whilst maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Board oversees the risk management and internal control framework Reputational risks could arise from many sources: including IT breaches of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any and from the quality of the home which we sell to our customers.
We necessary improvements, with the support of the GMT.
In line with the actively work with our stakeholders to minimise the overall impact of these UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board holds formal risk reviews half risks.
Specically, we manage the impact from customer service delivery yearly.
The Board reviews the risk prole of the Group and the significant which falls short of our expectations and from potential cyber-attacks.
Our risks with the mitigating factors.
enhanced customer service processes and departments were established by the end of 2016, and whilst they will take time to fully embed, they will At the Board meeting in February 2017, the Board completed its annual ensure that the quality of our homes is delivered to our high standards.
This followed the Audit Committees formal have also invested in IT security to help ensure that we identify any assessment of risk, which was supported by the detailed risk assessment cyber-attacks and respond accordingly.
by the GMT, and their review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
The key risks affecting the Group were identied and agreed with the Board.
In the final quarter of 2016, concern was expressed by some customers about certain leasehold houses and apartments which are subject to In addition to the principal industry related risks set out in the following leases with doubling ground rent clauses used on some of our pages, we also monitor closely a number of other key internal and external developments started between 2007 and 2011.
Whilst the clauses are factors.
These factors could arise as a result of a combination of unlikely clearly outlined in the lease and customers received independent legal events, which together create a major event, or could be new risks with advice, we note the reports of the potential impact of these clauses for our increasing potential impact or likelihood which are added to our watch list.
We are therefore in the process of reviewing this matter and These include the impact to the Group from the result of the EU working with these customers.
Referendum and those factors that are likely to affect our reputation.
Group Appetite for Risk Risk level Low Medium High Our description of the Groups Balance sheet strength, dependent risk appetite is the bedrock of our on current position in the land cycle Enterprise Risk Management framework.
We have identied Landbank quality operational categories against which both our current risk prole Brand and reputation and and our risk tolerance range have customer satisfaction been dened.
These risk categories may be dependent on Operational strength where we believe we are in the cycle, and may adjust accordingly.
In dening our risk appetite, Health, safety and the Board has taken into environment account the expectations of its shareholders, regulators Employee retention and other stakeholders.
Legal, regulatory and IT security Risk tolerance range Current risk prole Overall Assessment The current risk prole is within our tolerance range and overall is described as: The Group is willing to accept a moderate level of risk in order to deliver financial returns.
There may be occasions where these risks could have a moderate adverse impact to the Group, be it nancially or operationally, although the effect can be mitigated through some management effort.
co. uk Risk Category Strategic report PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Principal Risks and Uncertainties The table below summarises the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
These are not listed by order of importance.
Management of these risks anduncertainties is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the Group Management Team GMT, together with the roles noted below.
We maintain aSustainability and Climate Change Risk and Opportunity Register to monitor other sustainability issues that could affect the Group.
In addition, ourclimate change related risks and opportunities are available as part of our 2016 CDP submission.
More information is available at www.
co. uk corporate Risk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2016 Our ability to build homes With the introduction of We operate within Our customer and Government policy and A and communities is The Housing and our comprehensive community engagement planning regulations dependent upon drawing Planning Act, we may community led planning strategy is embedded The National Planning Policy Framework up site proposals which be required to meet strategy.
This improves and having a positive NPPF and the Localism Act are well meet the needs and higher levels of communications with all effect.
We have been established, although are insufficient to affordability of our planning obligations parties, but especially successful in gaining deliver greater housing availability for the customers, obtaining and we may incur local communities, planning consents UK.
Additional initiatives and legislative planning permissions in additional costs to thereby enhancing throughout the year with and regulatory amendments have been acceptable timeframes and meet increased our ability to deliver particular emphasis on signalled by the enactment of The achieving other regulatory regulatory developments that meet the conversion of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 and requirements and permits.
The Neighbourhood Planning Bill is consult with Government There remains a risk of Unforeseen delays or We continued our currently progressing.
These seek agencies and opposition delayed or refused planning our inability to obtain participation in the local changes to hasten progress through the parties on housing policy, applications, increased suitable consents, Plans Management planning system and accelerate build.
both directly and indirectly timescales to the discharge could impact on the Group PMG, via the They could also signal potential financial as a member of industry of planning conditions and number or type of HBF, to ensure local considerations for some sections of groups, to highlight greater complexity around homes that we build.
plans are robust and our customer base.
potential issues and to Section 106 since the CIL charge schedules The locally produced understand any proposed The new Administration has published a introduction of the are appropriate.
We CIL charge schedules changes to regulations.
Housing White Paper in February 2017, Community Infrastructure have met with may increase costs, with several months of consultation to Levy CIL.
Government ofcials impacting the viability of follow.
Both the Housing White Paper and contributed to the current developments.
As all elements of the and the Neighbourhood Planning Bill HBF submissions in Where CIL charges are anticipated changes from could have a disruptive effect on the respect of The Housing not in place, there The Housing and Planning planning system, sales rates, site mixes and Planning Act and could be an impact Act and the Housing White and customer behaviour.
the Starter Homes on gaining planning Paper are claried, there initiative in particular.
In December 2016, the Housing and consent or Judicial could be a change in Planning Minister issued a Written Review challenge.
demand for specic Ministerial Statement negatively products at our planned This could have a impacting on the provisions of sites.
In turn, this may lead detrimental impact housing land supply set out in the to changes to site mixes, on the contribution NPPF in instances where there is a and to extended timeframes per plot.
This could reduce to gaining consent.
the scale of strategic land conversion in the near term.
Responsibility UK Land Director Regional Managing Directors 44 Taylor Wimpey plc Risk Relevance to strategy Potential impact on KPIs Mitigation Progress in 2016 The majority of the homes A reduction in demand Our local teams select We continue to promote Impact of market environment that we build are sold to for new homes below the locations and home the Government backed B on mortgage availability individual purchasers who normal levels could designs that best meet Help to Buy scheme and and demand take on mortgages to negatively impact on the needs of the local have seen strong interest finance their purchases.
both profit and cash community and customer in the scheme amongst Mortgage availability and affordability A change in business generation.
This would demand in the present our customers.
constrain the demand for housing.
confidence, employment have an adverse effect and future.
We evaluate Sustained growth in interest rates Throughout 2016 we opportunities or significant on return on net new outlet openings on and low wage ination could challenge have continued to changes in the base rate operating assets and the basis of local market mortgage affordability, leading to develop good working may impact on the demand net cash.
conditions and regularly lower selling prices as a result of relationships with for housing.
In particular, the review the pricing and falling demand.
established mainstream ability of first time buyers incentives that we offer.
lenders and those Following the 2014 Mortgage Market and investors to purchase We work closely with the wishing to increase Review, stricter guidelines were homes is impacted by financial services industry volume within the new introduced for lenders to assess changes in mortgage to ensure customers build market.
mortgage affordability in a rising interest availability at the higher receive good advice on rate environment.
In 2015, the Bank of loan-to-value levels, as it the procurement of Englands Financial Policy Committee would impact on the level mortgage products.
gained new powers to set loan-to-value of deposits required.
and debt-to-income limits for residential mortgages.
The Government has extended the Help to Buy equity loan scheme to 2021.
There is uncertainty over the impact when the scheme ends.
Responsibility UK Sales and Marketing Director Regional Sales and Marketing Directors We aim to commence If the availability of We maintain regular Following the recent Material costs and availability C work on new sites as subcontractors or contact with suppliers growth in housebuilding, of subcontractors planning consents allow, materials is insufficient and negotiate contract availability and cost of A continued increase in housing to accelerate build progress to meet demand, this volume, pricing and materials has stabilised and optimise return on could lead to increased duration as appropriate.
and meets current production may further reduce the capital employed.
The build times and costs, We provide both high demand.
The supply of availability of skilled subcontractors vast majority of work thereby reducing level and site specic quality subcontractors and materials and put pressure on performed on our sites is profitability and return programme information to remains challenging.
utility rms to keep up with the pace subcontracted, providing on capital employed.
The Group has agreed of installation.
Further, leaving the EU exibility and supporting Competencies are product lines and Lack of skilled could impact on the availability of skilled our strategy.
considered as part of our volumes with key subcontractors could workers.
Together, this could result in subcontractor selection suppliers to mitigate also result in higher build programme and completion delays process, particularly in long lead times and levels of waste being relation to health and shortages.
produced from our safety, quality, previous sites and lower During the year the Responsibility performance and financial build quality.
Group has trialled Head of Procurement stability.
We are assessing several different build alternative build methods Regional Commercial Directors methods as alternatives to reduce reliance on to conventional brick traditional brick and block and block.
We work to address the skills shortage with apprenticeship schemes and the Construction Industry Training Board.
