o STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control during the period.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for of risk management and internal control and risk management identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board confirms business and the policies and procedures by which these risks that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and are managed.
Management is responsible for the identification managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which has and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of been in place for the period and up to the date of approval of the business together with the design and operation of suitable these financial statements, and that this process is regularly internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual reviewed by the Board.
However, such systems are designed basis and may be associated with a variety of internal or to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
regulatory requirements, and also by reference to the Groups In order to help manage these risks and uncertainties, five year strategic and financial plan.
the Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the The Group has an independent internal audit function effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk whose findings are regularly reviewed by the Board and the management methodology to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee monitors and In addition, the Group has established a Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
that includes the Finance Director and various members of The Chief Operating Officer provides the Board with monthly the Executive Committee and heads of department.
The Risk financial information which includes key performance indicators.
Committee reviews the risk management and control process in each key business area on an ongoing basis and considers: the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: the maintenance of a controlled environment directed towards the proper management of risk: and the annual reporting procedures.
Having considered the key risks inherent in the business and the system of control necessary to manage such risks, the Finance Director of the Subsidiaries the Finance Director presents the Risk Committees findings to the Board on a regular basis.
In addition, the Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
16 o o STRATEGIC REPORT The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Although not exhaustive, the following list highlights some of the principal risks identified by the Group which are not shown in order of importance : ISSUE POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION STRATEGIC Brand and The strength of our brand and its reputation are We carefully consider each new opportunity and each such RISKS reputational risk important to the business.
There is a risk that our brand customer and partner with whom we do business.
Such may be undermined or damaged by our actions or those partners are monitored on an ongoing basis to ensure they of our partners.
remain appropriate to the brand.
Incorrect management of social media interactions Our dedicated team closely monitors social media channels could have an adverse effect on our reputation.
and addresses any issues in accordance with our protocol.
Development of Failure in growing the international business through We perform extensive due diligence on all potential partners overseas markets franchise operations, licensees and e-commerce.
Risk and territories and to assess our appropriate route to market.
that the Group fails to prioritise the right territories or We operate in a range of international markets, which investment or to support these markets with systems helps to mitigate over reliance and exposure to any and supply chain capability.
Fashion and design As with all fashion brands there is a risk that our offer We maintain a high level of market awareness and an will not satisfy the needs of our customers or we fail to understanding of consumer trends and fashion to ensure correctly identify trends in an increasingly competitive that we remain able to respond to changes in consumer market, both resulting in lower sales and reduced preference.
We use customer data to develop targeted market share.
We continue to focus on product design, quality and attention to detail.
External events External events may occur which may affect the global, All factors affecting these stakeholders are monitored economic and financial environment in which we closely on an ongoing basis ensuring that we are operate.
These events can affect our suppliers, customers prepared for and can react to changes in the external and partners, risking an increase in our cost base and environment, allowing us to reduce our exposure as early adversely affecting our revenue.
The geographic spread of our business and supply chain also helps to mitigate these risks.
OPERATIONAL Supply chain If garments do not reach us on time and to Our supply chain is diversified across a number of RISKS specification, there is a risk of a loss of revenue suppliers in different regions, reducing reliance on a and customer confidence.
small number of key suppliers.
Suppliers are treated as key business partners and we work closely with them to mitigate these risks.
Infrastructure There is a risk of operational problems, including disruption The business continuity plan is constantly reviewed and to the infrastructure that supports our business, which updated by the Risk Committee.
In addition, business may lead to a loss of revenue, data and inventory.
disruption is covered by our insurance policies.
Social responsibility We are committed to operating in a responsible A sub-committee of the Executive Committee has and sustainable manner as regards our supply chain, been tasked with overseeing specific areas of our environment and community.
If we fail to operate in a social responsibility agenda.
Teds Conscience Team is manner that supports our philosophy, this could damage responsible for monitoring this agenda and ensuring our the trust and confidence of our stakeholders.
practices fall in line with it.
IT and cyber security The business is reliant on data being transmitted Ted has committed additional specialist resources electronically, and is subject to threats from hacking or and the continual upgrading of security equipment viruses of other unauthorised data breaches.
There is and software mitigates these risks.
Tightly controlled also the possibility of unintentional loss of controlled security controls and data recovery and business data by authorised users.
continuity plans have been implemented.
Implementation of We are in the process of implementing Microsoft The Groups IT Steering Committee meets on a two ERP and other IT Dynamics AX across the business.
With any project weekly basis to review the implementation and all other infrastructure of this scale, there is a risk of a poorly managed major IT projects.
This Committee comprises members implementation or take up of new systems, which of the Executive Committee and the Board and is advised could lead to business disruptions.
This, and the by external professional advisers.
The Steering Committee implementation of other new business systems, has has established a Design Authority charged with potential to impact interdependent systems.
overseeing the scheduling of the implementation of any new system.
Robust change management and project governance with professional project managers recruited to oversee the project team which includes key business stakeholders.
17 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 o o STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL People Our performance is linked to the performance of Retention of key talent is important and we take active RISKS our people and, in particular, to the leadership of key steps to provide stability and security to the key team.
The loss of a key individual whether at We carry out an annual benchmarking review to ensure management level or within a specialist skill set could that we provide competitive remuneration and total have a detrimental effect on our operations and, in some reward packages.
We also utilise long-term incentive cases, the creative vision for the brand.
schemes to retain key talent.
Employee engagement through our culture and environment strengthen the commitment of team members and has a positive impact on our attrition rate.
Succession plans are in place and have been reviewed during the period.
Regulatory and legal We operate within many markets globally and must The Group closely monitors changes in the legal framework comply with various regulatory requirements.
Failure and regulatory framework within the markets in to do so could lead to financial penalties and or which it operates.
We work closely with specialists reputational damage.
in each market to ensure compliance with local laws and regulations.
Infringement of the Unauthorised use of the Groups designs, trademarks and The Group, with its external advisers, rigorously manages Groups intellectual other intellectual property rights could damage the Ted and defends its intellectual property.
property Baker brand and the Groups reputation.
The Group deals with counterfeit goods in accordance with its robust enforcement strategy.
FINANCIAL Currency, interest, In the course of its operations, we are exposed to these The Groups policies for dealing with these risks are RISKS credit and counterparty financial risks which, if they were to arise, may have discussed in detail in note 22 on pages 55 to 101. credit risks, including material financial impacts on the Group.
financial covenants under the Groups credit facilities VIABILITY STATEMENT the impact on the Groups cash flows, headroom, covenants and In accordance with Provision 2.2 of the UK Corporate other key financial ratios having stress tested the potential impact Governance Code dated September 2014 the Code the of these scenarios, both individually and in combination.
Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three Sensitivity analysis was also used to stress test the Groups year period, taking into account the Groups current position and strategic plan and to confirm that sufficient headroom would the potential impact of the principal risks documented above.
remain available under the Groups credit facilities.
The Board The Group operates a five year plan, which is updated and considers that under each scenario tested the mitigating actions reviewed annually by the Board.
Within the five year plan, would be effective and sufficient to ensure the continued detailed scenario planning and stress testing has been carried viability of the Group.
For the reasons stated above, based on out over a three year period.
The Directors consider the three the robust assessment undertaken, the Directors confirm they year period to 30 January 2019 to be the appropriate period to have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to assess the viability and prospects of the Group with a high level continue in operation, and meet its liabilities as they fall due, of certainty, and also aligns with the typical borrowing period over the period of assessment.
The Directors assessment has been further enhanced by The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors analysing the current and future risks, controls and assurances on 17 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: available, resulting in a clear picture of the risk profile across the whole business.
The principal risks that could affect the future Charles Anderson viability of the Group over the next three years are identified on Company Secretary pages 16 to 18 in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the Registered office: resilience of the Group to the occurrence of these risks in severe The Ugly Brown Building, but plausible scenarios, taking into account the effectiveness of 6a St Pancras Way, London NW1 0TB any mitigating actions.
In addition, the Board has considered Company number: 03393836 18 o
