PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES BACKGROUND The Group faces various risk factors, both internal and external, which could have a material impact on long-term performance.
However, the Groups underlying business model is considered relatively lowrisk, with no need for management to take any disproportionate risks in order to preserve or generate shareholder value.
The Group continues to develop and operate a consistent and systematic risk management process, which involves risk ranking, prioritisation and subsequent evaluation, with a view to ensuring all significant risks have been identified, prioritised and where possible eliminated, and that systems of control are in place to manage any remaining risks.
A formal document is prepared by the executive directors and senior management team on a regular basis detailing the key risks faced by the Group and the operational controls in place to mitigate those risks: this document is then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
No new principal risks have been identified during the year, and save as set out below, nor has the magnitude of any risks previously identified significantly changed during the year.
BUSINESS MODEL The principal risks outlined below should be viewed in the context of the Groups business model as a reseller of utility services gas, electricity, fixed line telephony, mobile telephony and broadband under the Utility Warehouse and TML brands.
As a reseller, the Group does not own any of the network infrastructure required to deliver these services to its membership base.
This means that while the Group is heavily reliant on third party providers, it is insulated from all the direct risks associated with owning and or operating such capital intensive infrastructure itself.
The Groups services are promoted using word of mouth by a large network of independent Partners, who are paid solely on a commission basis.
This means that the Group has minimal fixed costs associated with acquiring new Members.
The principal specific risks arising from the Groups business model, and the measures taken to mitigate those risks, are set out below.
REPUTATIONAL RISK The Groups reputation amongst its Members, suppliers and Partners is believed to be fundamental to the future success of the Group.
Failure to meet expectations in terms of the services provided by the Group, the way the Group does business or in the Groups financial performance could have a material negative impact on the Groups performance.
In relation to the service provided to its membership base, reputational risk is principally mitigated through the Groups recruitment processes, a focus on closely monitoring staff performance, including the use of direct feedback surveys from Members Net Promoter Score, and through the provision of rigorous staff training.
26 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Responsibility for maintaining effective relationships with suppliers and Partners rests primarily with the appropriate member of the Groups senior management team with responsibility for the relevant area.
Any material changes to supplier agreements and Partner commission arrangements which could impact the Groups relationships are generally negotiated by the executive Directors and ultimately approved by the full Board.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RISK The Group is dependent on its proprietary billing and membership management software for the successful operation of its business model.
This software is developed and maintained in accordance with the changing needs of the business by a team of highly skilled, generally long-standing, motivated and experienced individuals.
The Group relies on this software and any failure in its operation could negatively impact service to Members and potentially be damaging to the Groups brand.
During the year the Group recruited a new highly experienced Chief Technology Officer in order to strengthen the existing IT team.
All significant changes which are made to the billing and membership management software are tested as extensively as reasonably practicable before launch and are ultimately approved by the Chief Technology Officer and Billing departments in consultation with the Chief Executive as appropriate.
Back-ups of both the software and underlying billing and membership data are made on a regular basis and securely stored off-site.
The Group also maintains a disaster recovery facility in a warm standby state in the event of a failure of the main system, designed to ensure that a near-seamless service to Members can be maintained.
The Group has full strategic control over the source code behind its billing and membership management system, thereby removing any risk of future software development not being able to meet the precise requirements of the Group.
DATA SECURITY RISK The Group processes sensitive personal and commercial data during the course of its business.
The Group looks to protect customer and corporate information and data and to keep its infrastructure secure.
A significant breach of cyber security could result in the Group facing prosecution and fines, loss of commercially sensitive information, financial losses from fraud and theft, lost productivity from not being able to process orders and invoices, and unplanned costs to restore and improve the Groups security.
This could damage the Groups brand which might take an extended period of time to rebuild.
Ultimately, individuals welfare could be put at risk in the event that the Group was not able to provide services or personal data was misappropriated.
The Group uses high specification firewalling, network segmentation, and multifaceted network and endpoint anti-viral mitigation systems: external consultants are also used to conduct penetration testing of the Groups internal and external IT infrastructure.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 27 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY RISK The Group is subject to varying laws and regulations, including possible adverse effects from European regulatory intervention.
The energy markets in the UK and Continental Europe are subject to comprehensive operating requirements as defined by the relevant sector regulators and or government departments.
Amendments to the regulatory regime could have an impact on the Groups ability to achieve its financial goals and any failure to comply may result in the Group being fined and lead to reputational damage which could impact the Groups brand.
Furthermore, the Group is obliged to comply with retail supply procedures, amendments to which could have an impact on operating costs.
The Group is a licenced gas and electricity supplier, and therefore has a direct regulatory relationship with Ofgem.
If the Group fails to comply with its licence obligations, it could be subject to fines or to the removal of its respective licences.
Proposed regulatory changes such as the new requirements in relation to smart energy meters with the potential for additional costs if existing meters must be replaced prior to the end of their planned lives and social tariffs, and changes to the current decommissioning regime, could all have a potentially significant impact on the sector, although such additional costs are not expected to affect the net margins earned by energy suppliers in the longer term as any such extra costs are likely to be reflected in higher retail charges.
In general, the majority of the Groups services are supplied into highly regulated markets, and this could restrict the operational flexibility of the Groups business.
In order to mitigate this risk, the Group seeks to maintain appropriate relations with both Ofgem and Ofcom the UK regulators for the energy and communications markets respectively, the Department for Energy and Climate Change DECC, and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The Group engages with officials from all these organisations on a periodic basis to ensure they are aware of the Groups views when they are consulting on proposed regulatory changes or if there are competition issues the Group needs to raise with them.
It should be noted that the regulatory environment for the various markets in which the Group operates is generally focussed on promoting competition: it therefore seems reasonable to expect that most potential changes will broadly be beneficial to the Group, given the Groups relatively small size compared to the former monopoly incumbents with whom it competes, although these changes, and their actual impact, will always remain uncertain.
Political and consumer concern over energy prices and fuel poverty may lead to further reviews of the energy market which could result in further consumer protection legislation being introduced through energy supply licences.
The Government could also choose to introduce adverse measures such as a windfall tax on the Group or price controls for certain customer segments.
In addition, political and regulatory developments affecting the energy and telecoms markets within which the Group operates may have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, results of operations and overall financial condition.
28 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements FINANCING RISK The Group has debt service obligations which may place operating and financial restrictions on the Group.
This debt could have adverse consequences insofar as it: a requires the Group to dedicate a proportion of its cash flows from operations to fund payments in respect of the debt, thereby reducing the flexibility of the Group to utilise its cash to invest in and or grow the business: b increases the Groups vulnerability to adverse general economic and or industry conditions: c may limit the Groups flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business or the industry in which it operates: d may limit the Groups ability to raise additional debt in the long term: and e could restrict the Group from making larger strategic acquisitions or exploiting business opportunities.
Each of these prospective adverse consequences or a combination of some or all of them could result in the potential growth of the Group being at a slower rate than may otherwise be achieved.
FRAUD AND BAD DEBT RISK The Group has a universal supply obligation in relation to the provision of energy to domestic customers.
This means that although the Group is entitled to request a reasonable deposit from potential new Members who are not considered creditworthy, the Group is obliged to supply domestic energy to everyone who submits a properly completed application form.
Where Members subsequently fail to pay for the energy they have used Delinquent Members, there is likely to be a considerable delay before the Group is able to control its exposure to future bad debt from them by either installing a pre-payment meter or disconnecting their supply, and the costs associated with preventing such Delinquent Members from increasing their indebtedness are not always fully recovered.
Fraud and bad debt within the telephony industry may arise from Members using the services, or being provided with a mobile handset, without intending to pay their supplier.
The amounts involved are generally relatively small as the Group has sophisticated call traffic monitoring systems to identify material occurrences of usage fraud.
The Group is able to immediately eliminate any further usage bad debt exposure by disconnecting any telephony service that demonstrates a suspicious usage profile, or falls into arrears on payments.
More generally, the Group is also exposed to payment card fraud, where Members use stolen cards to obtain credit e. g. on their CashBack card or goods e. g. Smartphones and Tablets from the Group: the Group regularly reviews and refines its fraud protection systems to reduce its potential exposure to such risks.
Wholesale prices risk The Group does not own or operate any utility network infrastructure itself, choosing instead to purchase the capacity needed from third parties.
The advantage of this approach is that the Group is protected from technological risk, capacity risk or the risk of obsolescence, as it can purchase the amount of each service required to meet its Members needs.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 29 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Whilst there is a theoretical risk that in some of the areas in which the Group operates it may be unable to secure access to the necessary infrastructure on commercially attractive terms, in practice the pricing of access to such infrastructure is either regulated as in the energy market or subject to significant competitive pressures as in telephony and broadband.
The profile of the Groups Members, the significant quantities of each service they consume in aggregate, and our clearly differentiated route to market has historically proven attractive to infrastructure owners, who compete aggressively to secure a share of the Groups growing business.
The supply of energy has different risks associated with it.
The wholesale price can be extremely volatile, and Member demand can be subject to considerable short term fluctuations depending on the weather.
The Group has a long-standing supply relationship with Npower under which the latter assumes the substantive risks and rewards of hedging and buying energy for the Groups Members, and where the price paid by the Group is set by reference to the average of the standard variable tariffs charged by the Big 6 to their domestic customers less an agreed discount: this may not be competitive against the wholesale prices paid by new and or other independent suppliers.
However, if the Group did not have the benefit of this long term supply agreement it would be exposed to the pricing risk of securing access to the necessary energy on the open market and the costs of balancing.
COMPETITIVE RISK The Group operates in highly competitive markets and significant service innovations or increased price competition could impact future profit margins.
In order to maintain its competitive position, there is a consistent focus on ways of improving operational efficiency.
New service innovations are monitored closely by senior management and the Group is generally able to respond within an acceptable timeframe by offering any new services using the infrastructure of its existing suppliers.
The Group offers a unique multi-utility proposition.
The increasing proportion of Members who are benefiting from a genuine multiutility solution, that is unavailable from any other known supplier, materially reduces any competitive threat.
The Directors anticipate that the Group will face continued competition in the future, as new companies enter the market and alternative technologies and services become available.
The Groups services and expertise may be rendered obsolete or uneconomic by technological advances or novel approaches developed by one or more of the Groups competitors.
In the event that smaller independent energy suppliers were to experience financial difficulties as a result of increasing wholesale prices for instance, it is possible that customers could also have a loss of confidence in the Group, given that it is also an independent energy supplier.
The existing approaches of the Groups competitors or new approaches or technologies developed by such competitors may be more effective or affordable than those available to the Group.
There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to compete successfully with existing or potential competitors or that competitive factors will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
However, as the Groups membership base continues to rise, competition amongst suppliers of services to the Group is expected to increase.
This has already been evidenced by various volume-related growth incentives which have been agreed with the Groups three largest wholesale suppliers.
This should also ensure that the Group has direct access to new technologies and services available to the market.
30 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements INFRASTRUCTURE RISK The provision of services to the Groups Members is reliant on the efficient operation of third party physical infrastructure.
There is a risk of disruption to the supply of services to Members through any failure in the infrastructure e. g. gas shortages, power cuts or damage to communications networks.
However, as the infrastructure is generally shared with other suppliers, any material disruption to the supply of services is likely to impact a large part of the market as a whole and it is unlikely that the Group would be disproportionately affected.
In the event of any prolonged disruption isolated to the Groups principal supplier within a particular market, services required by Members could in due course be sourced from another provider.
ENERGY INDUSTRY ESTIMATION RISK A significant degree of judgement and estimation is required in order to determine the actual level of energy used by Members and hence that should be recognised by the Group as sales.
There is an inherent risk that the estimation routines used by the Group do not in all instances fully reflect the actual usage of Members.
However, this risk is mitigated by the relatively high proportion of Members who provide meter readings on a periodic basis, and the rapid anticipated growth in the installed base of smart meters over the next four years.
GAS LEAKAGE WITHIN THE NATIONAL GAS DISTRIBUTION NETWORK The operational management of the national gas distribution network is outside the control of the Group.
There is a risk that the level of leakage in future could be higher than those historically experienced, and above the level currently expected.
KEY MAN RISK The Group is dependent on its key management for the successful development and operation of its business.
In the event that any or all of the members of the key management team were to leave the business, it could have a material adverse effect on the Groups operations.
SINGLE SITE RISK The Group operates from one principal site and, in the event of significant damage to that site through fire or other issues, the operations of the Group could be adversely affected.
ACQUISITION RISK The Group may invest in other businesses, taking a minority, majority or 100% equity shareholding, or through a joint venture partnership.
Such investments may not deliver the anticipated returns, and may require additional funding in future.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2016 31
