Principal risks and uncertainties We have performed a robust and systematic review of those This development of our risk process has resulted in the inclusion risks that webelieve could seriously affect the Groups performance, of liquidity risk as a principal risk in this section.
In our Annual futureprospects, reputation or its ability to deliver against Report 2015, this risk was included as part of a separate financial itspriorities.
risks review, now set out in Note 22 on page 123 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016.
We maintain a Group Risk Register of the principal risks faced by theGroup.
Our risk management process is operated throughout Our process for identifying and managing risk is set out in more theGroup.
All business units perform regular risk assessments detail on page 47 of the corporate governance report.
The table that consider and assess the Groups principal risks and specific on page 25 sets out our principal risks, their movement duringthe local risks pertinent to the market in which they operate.
This process year and examples of controls and mitigating factors.
Asignificant ensures a consistent approach to the assessment of risk across process for the enhancement of our internal control environment the Group as well as informing the Group risks from a bottom-up is under way.
The content of the Group Risk Register is considered and discussed through regular meetings with senior management The risks identified do not comprise all of the risks associated and reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
with our business and are not set out in priority order.
Additional risks not presently known to management, or currently deemed As part of a wider and ongoing process to enhance our risk to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
management activities and capabilities, we have refreshed the process by which Tesco evaluates and reports principal risks and Key to risk movement uncertainties.
We show the alignment of our risks to our priorities by principal risk in the table on page 25.
In some cases a change Risk increasing of emphasis in the risk reflects both the external and internal No risk movement business environment, including wider economic factors facing our Group that have also been considered as part of this process.
Risk decreasing Risk Management Framework Priorities Assessment of Risk Oversight Board Overall responsibility for Customer risk management, engages Proposition directly with risk assessment Transformation mitigation and risk appetite Tesco Bank of Economic 1.
Regaining Model competitiveness Audit Committee page 06 Oversight of the risk framework and controls on People Liquidity behalf of the Board Group Chief Executive and 2.
Protecting Executive Committee Principal Risks The Group Chief Executive the balance sheet page 07 has overall accountability for Competition control and the management Safety and Markets of risk.
Individual members, reporting to the Group Chief Executive, are accountable for specific risks 3.
Rebuilding trust and Brand, Regulatory transparency Reputation Group Compliance and page 08 and Trust Compliance Committee Oversight of key regulatory Data and compliance risks on behalf Security and Technology of the Executive Committee, Data Privacy reporting biannually to the Audit Committee Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 24 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risk Risk movement Key controls and mitigating factors Customer proposition We have developed strategic plans to enhance our understanding of our customer needs.
Failure to listen to our customers and We are addressing Customer insight supports development of customer-focused strategies across each market tounderstand the changing marketplace the challenge of andwe have developed strategic customer profiles to understand specific market expectations.
leadsto a loss of market share as customer changing customer purchases are made with competitors.
wants and increased We have invested in the customer experience by increasing colleague hours on the shop floor We are unable to build and sustain loyalty customer choice as a and by providing further customer service training for colleagues across all stores.
We continue resulting in an adverse impact on our result of heightening toinvest in availability and price as well as running our Feet on the Floor programme whereby financial results.
non-store colleagues spend a day on the shop floor to ensure customer focus is maintained.
The customer need 1 is central to our Link to priorities decision-making.
2 3 Transformation of economic model Significant transformation programmes are being undertaken across the Group, including The transformation of our economic We are in the process organisational design, data strategy, reset of supplier relationships, cost reduction and model does not allow us to respond of transforming our people & capability.
tochanges inthe external economic business and how environment, nordoes it progress weoperate to drive There is Executive Committee and Board overview of key strategic initiatives to improve sufficiently quickly tomaintain or increase improvement and sales and margin, and to reduce cost.
Periodic sales margin planning and forecasting activity operating margin, to generate sufficient better performance.
are reviewed by Group and local finance functions.
cash to meet business objectives.
This may result in an adverse impact on the business and shareholder confidence.
1 Link to priorities 2 3 Liquidity The funding plan and its key elements e. g. debt issuance, cash resources, available credit Business performance does not deliver cash We have a strong facilities and cash flow forecasting are subject to regular executive review, supported by as expected: access to funding markets or focus on improved rolling liquidity updates and key financial metrics.
Treasury and debt-related policies covering facilities is restricted: failures in operational liquidity management UK and International markets are in place and periodic reviews of the Going Concern and liquidity management: Tesco Bank cash call: and have taken a Longer Term Viability Statement is undertaken by the Audit Committee and the Board.
or adverse changes to the pension deficit number of steps Following the significant reduction in future pension risk by closing the UK defined benefit funding requirement, create calls on cash toaddress this.
scheme, we are implementing a derisking strategy to further reduce pension risk and better higher than anticipated, leading to impacts match our cash flows.
Specific activities have been undertaken to reduce our debt-level with enhanced cost control measures in place.
Further information on these risks can be found on financial performance, cash liquidity or in Note 22 on page 123 of the financial statements.
the ability to continue to fund operations.
Whilst Tesco Bank is financially separate from Tesco PLC, there is a regular review of Tesco 1 Banks risk appetite by Tesco Bank Board and the Tesco PLC Board.
This sets out Tesco Link to priorities 2 Banks key risks, their optimum ranges, alert limits, controls and tolerance limits and ensures ongoing awareness of any potential risk to Tesco PLC.
3 Competition and markets Executive oversight and ownership of business plans provide strategic direction for the We do not have an effective, coherent We face the ongoing Group with plans regularly reviewed and challenged.
Dedicated Board strategy days are andconsistent strategy to respond to challenge of a heldto develop and challenge strategic direction.
The use of market scanning and ongoing ourcompetitors and changing markets, changing competitive competitor analysis provides insight, an ability to anticipate market movements and develop resultingin a loss of market share and landscape and price an effective proposition.
We remain closely aligned with local trade associations, failureto improve profitability.
pressure across most governments and other policy makers across our markets.
1 We have realigned our individual European businesses to sit within a simplified Central European structure under a single management team to provide greater clarity and a Link to priorities 2 consistent strategic approach.
3 25 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Risk movement Key controls and mitigating factors Brand, reputation and trust Brand guidelines have been updated to provide Group-wide consistency over the use of Failure to manage our brand means We are working the Tesco brand.
Group commercial and corporate affairs policies and procedures have we areunable to consolidate loyalty and toensure that we been updated.
Communications, media relations and corporate responsibility plans are rebuild trust, creating a perception among rebuild trust and in place and include internal and external stakeholder engagement.
There is a Group customers, colleagues, communities and transparency across Corporate Responsibility Committee that oversees corporate responsibility activity.
suppliers that result in a loss of market our stakeholders share or unfavourable effects on our through initiatives The Code of Business Conduct has been refreshed with specific guidance over brand, ability to do business.
such as price social media and communications, ethical trading and the establishment of a tone at transparency, Brand the top with defined consequences in the event of non-compliance.
1 Guarantee and Link to priorities the launch of new 2 fresh-food brands.
3 This helps toensure that our brand perception reflects the values that we demonstrate.
Technology Controls include a technology strategy outlining a number of approved technology policies and A significant failure of IT infrastructure or Our IT landscape procedures.
The Technology leadership team provides central governance across major project key IT system results in loss of information, requires further approval, configuration changes, application updates and the development of new systems.
inability to operate effectively and or investment in core financial or other regulatory penalties.
infrastructure and We are increasing our investment in IT with a fully-funded development plan covering a range of datacentres, as well back office and customer systems.
Technology assessments are performed on an ongoing basis 1 asto support the to identify further areas of need and opportunities for improvement.
2 3 Data security and data privacy Our systems are secured with access controls, while regular vulnerability and penetration Failure to maintain control over customer, We operate a large testing provides additional security.
Compliance assessments are executed across UK colleague, commercial and or operational number of disparate and international business units against the information security policies.
data leads to a loss of data, either through IT systems, some of deliberate targeted action or inadvertent which are legacy We are strengthening our data-related controls as part of a significant IT security error.
The misuse of personal data, for systems and we hold improvement programme.
The strengthening includes enhanced information security example without the customers consent significant amounts policies and governance, review of defence measures against attacks and continued or retaining for longer than is necessary, of sensitive data in a migration away from unsupported systems.
may also result in reputational harm, number of locations.
A Group-wide, comprehensive privacy compliance programme is being developed, which regulatory investigations and potential fines.
covers governance, risk assessment, policies and processes, training, incident management, monitoring and review.
This is designed to drive the right behaviours and ensure obligations 1 are met with regards to the handling of personal data.
Link to priorities 2 3 Regulatory and compliance The Group-wide Code of Business Conduct has been refreshed, with specific compliance Failure to comply with legal or regulatory Our regulatory and programmes existing around key legislation e. g. UK Bribery Act, built around a risk and requirements relating to our business activities, legal landscape compliance model.
Colleagues in high-risk areas receive annual training and a communications resulting in reputational damage, fines or continues to evolve programme supports ongoing awareness of Code and other regulatory risks.
Leadership other adverse consequences including criminal in all of our locations, teams are trained on their regulatory duties and receive management data on compliance penalties and consequential litigation, adverse and across each of our risks and breaches.
impact on our financial results or unfavourable businesses.
There is a effects on our ability to do business.
risk of breach of existing Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP compliance is addressed in a number of ways, legal or regulatory including through a GSCOP audit and monitoring programme and the appointment of a 1 Code Compliance Officer.
Equivalent legislation will be issued in ROI in 2016 and steps are being requirements, and taken to prepare for this.
There is an externally managed whistleblowing service across theGroup Link to priorities of not adapting our 2 for colleagues and suppliers except Thailand, where it is internally managed andasupplier business as demands helpline for the anonymous reporting of inappropriate conduct.
There are specific actions under Tesco Banks Board oversees Tesco Banks compliance with regulatory requirements.
way toaddress matters identified last year relating to commercial income and supplier relationships.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 26 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Principal risk Risk movement Key controls and mitigating factors Safety For workplace safety, controls include Group safety policies and procedures, Group safety We do not meet safety standards in relation We continue to standards and rapid escalated incident-reporting to the CEO.
Implementation is driven by to workplace or product, resulting in death, focusour efforts on adedicated Group Safety function, which provides advice to the Group on safety matters injury or illness to customers, colleagues, controls to ensure across geographies.
A framework for standardised safety risk assessments has been developed.
An extensive programme of technical product testing and reporting is in place with country 1 teams responsible for the delivery and implementation of product safety policies and Link to priorities systems.
We are proud to make the results of our provenance-testing publicly available.
2 A supplier audit programme is in place to monitor product integrity and labour standards, 3 which includes unannounced specification inspections of supplier facilities and products.
People Standardised recruitment policies and processes have been established and a BoardFailure to attract, motivate and retain the Our people are sponsored people strategy is being implemented to attract and retain the best people.
most talented colleagues and develop the our most valuable Diversity and inclusion are key elements of our people agenda.
Remuneration policies and required culture, leadership and behaviours asset.
We continue succession planning are subject to periodic benchmarking to ensure they remain appropriate to meet our purpose, resulting in an inability to manage and for the Group.
to achieve our business objectives.
consider diversity and inclusion as We provide ongoing opportunities for personal and professional development through 1 wellas colleague our established leadership development and graduate programmes.
Our Tesco and Link to priorities engagement.
initiatives allow us to connect, listen and respond to our colleagues.
2 The consolidation of our UK offices into a single campus and the restructure of our Central 3 European businesses has created an environment that fosters improved communication and collaboration between teams.
Tesco Bank There is Bank Board reporting throughout the year in line with relevant regulatory requirements, Continual and progressive changes in the The Bank actively with updates to the Tesco PLC Audit Committee by the Bank CFO Audit Committee Chairman.
regulatory environment in which the Bank manages its response A member of the Tesco PLC Board is also a member of the Banks Board.
operates could impact the level of capital to proposed regulatory and liquidity that is expected to be held.
changes and has The Bank has formed good working relationships with the Prudential Regulation Authority a track record of and the Financial Conduct Authority and is also a member of the British Bankers Association.
Regulatory uncertainty could also impact adapting activities Through these relationships, the Bank is able to adopt a proactive approach to engaging in the future earnings profile of the Bank.
in advance of the proposed regulatory change.
The Bank monitors proposed regulatory guidance and changes during consultation and implementation phases.
As a result, the Bank would expect to have implementation of sufficient time to respond and adapt its funding and business plans as appropriate.
1 The Bank has a defined risk appetite which is approved and reviewed regularly by both Link to priorities 2 the Banks Board and the Tesco PLC Board.
The risk appetite defines the type and amount of risk that the Group is prepared to accept to achieve its objectives and forms a key link 3 between the day-to-day risk management of the business, its strategic priorities, long-term plan, capital planning, liquidity management and stress testing.
Adherence to risk appetite is monitored through a series of ratios and limits.
Longer Term Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over Our principal risks are identified through our risk management athree-year period, taking into account the Companys current process, which relies on our judgement of risk likelihood and position and the potential impact of scenarios arising from the theirpotential impacts, whilst also understanding the existing principal risks set out above.
Based on the results of our testing mitigations and developing further appropriate controls.
The of a number of severe but plausible scenarios, the Directors principal risks faced by the Company are recorded on a Group have a reasonable expectation that the Company willbe able Risk Register, which is considered and discussed through regular to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as theyfall due meetings with senior management and reviewed by the Executive during this period.
Committee, relevant sub-committees and the Board.
We have considered our principal risks and risk appetite against our The Directors have determined that a three-year period is an strategic objectives.
appropriate timeframe for assessment given the dynamic nature of the retail sector and is in line with the Companys strategic This Strategic report, which has been prepared in accordance planning period.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
We have based our assessment on our current long-term plan, which makes assumptions relating to: the prevailing economic climate and global economy: the structural challenges facing oursector: and the costs associated with delivering our strategy.
Against this we have conducted sensitivity analysis and modelled arange of scenarios including reverse stress-testing Paul Moore based on the materialisation of principal risks, including market Company Secretary and competition, economic and technology failure, which would 12 April 2016 result in declining sales and increased margin pressures.
27 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 28 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
