46 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT EMBEDDING A CULTURE OFRISKMANAGEMENT During 2016, we focused on developing close integration of the risk OUR RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGY function with the business through the risk owners network to The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups risk management ensure that risk is an integral part of the decision-making process.
and internal control systems, with a mandate that includes defining We have made improvements in the quality of risk data leading risk appetite and monitoring risk exposures and mitigations to ensure to an enhanced coherency and interdependency among risks, that the nature and extent of risks taken by the Group are aligned strengthening our ability to manage risks throughout the Group.
TOP DOWN OVERSIGHT RISK APPETITE The Risk Matters Group RMG and the broader risk management The Board has undertaken a detailed exercise to consider the risk framework have been designed to ensure the scope of coverage appetite in a number of key areas for the business.
The results of includes transformational strategic, operational, financial and legal this review indicate the relative appetite of the Board across the risk risks within a single framework.
Chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, factors and behaviours.
It is evident that this represents a view at thepurpose of the RMG is to provide leadership, direction and a point in time: changes in the economic environment, strategy or oversight with regard to the Groups overall risk framework, appetite, performance of the business will impact this evaluation.
and relevant risk policies, processes and controls.
The RMG meets The Board are aligned on the relative risks and have agreed that the on a quarterly basis, and reviews the Group Risk Dashboard, key appetite for risk taking for digital delivery, product, New Operating risk indicators and the Groups principal risks.
All business areas Model and talent is entrepreneurial.
This position aligns with the are represented through attendance by senior executives ensuring strategic aims of the transformation programme and targets set an appropriate level of insight and validation.
The chair of the Audit forthe business.
Committee regularly attends the meetings of the RMG.
The RMG reports to the Audit Committee and the CEO of the Group.
The report The Board seeks to minimise exposure to all reputational and health of the Audit Committee can be found on page 59. and safety risks.
In all other aspects, the Board takes a balanced view on risk taking.
BOTTOM UP ASSESSMENTS Each major business unit has a quarterly risk committee attended by OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT the risk owners representing all areas of the business, as well as the Operating in a dynamic and continually volatile environment requires Group Enterprise Risk and Audit Team.
The risk committees analyse a flexible and responsive risk management process which can key business unit risks and ensure implementation of risk mitigation match the pace of change and provide management with a concise plans.
Where appropriate, significant risks identified at business unit view of the Groups risk profile at any point in time.
We continue to level are escalated and discussed within the RMG.
focus on further embedding a culture of risk management that will contribute towards effective strategy execution, ensuring both risk and opportunities are identified and managed to deliver long-term value creation.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 47 THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK THE BOARD TOP DOWN Oversight and assessment Overall responsibility for the Sets strategic objectives and Receives and reviews Audit of risk exposures at the risk management system defines risk appetite Committee reports on risk corporate level governance AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE including CEO and CFO Supports the Board in monitoring risk exposure Maintains executive oversight of the Groups key againstrisk appetite risksand mitigation Monitors the risk management process RISK MATTERS GROUP Sets the risk management Considers emerging risks Provides oversight and challenge process for risk mitigation plans OPERATIONAL LEVEL BOTTOM UP Identification and assessment Group-wide risk identification, Risk awareness and culture Implementation of risk mitigation of risk exposures at segment assessment and monitoring embedded across the Group plans and controls and function level Maintenance of risk registers OUR PRIORITIES FOR 2017 The Business Plan includes analysis of the Groups income statement, balance sheet, cash flows, KPIs and debt covenants outlook.
Our strategy for FY17 will focus on further developing both the top Where appropriate, this analysis is subject to sensitivity testing down and bottom up capability.
Having successfully designed and which involves flexing a number of the main assumptions underlying implemented a robust process for risk management at both an the Business Plan and evaluating the potential impact of the Groups operational and strategic level, the Group Enterprise Risk and Audit principal risks actually occurring, bothindividually and in unison and Team will now focus on further embedding culture and sophistication the mitigating actions available tothe Group.
The sensitivity testing of risk management across the Group.
Whilst we continue to see included assessing the effect of reduced customer demand to certain ongoing improvements in the quality and availability of key financial summer destinations.
and non-financial data, we are working with the business to further enhance key risk matrices to improve the quality of our risk reporting.
The principal risks with a direct link to the viability statement have been indicated in the table overleaf.
Based on the results of this VIABILITY STATEMENT analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company in falldue over the three-year period of their assessment.
accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board approved the Thomas Cook Group three-year ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS business plan, which covers the period to 30 September 2019 theBusiness Plan.
This Business Plan has been used as the basis The Groups risk management system works effectively in assessing for the going concern assessment, goodwill impairment reviews and the Groups risk appetite and has supported a robust assessment other estimates made during the financial year.
The Business Plan by the Directors of the principal risks facing the Group.
The principal contains the most up-to-date management information and provides risks are reviewed throughout the year and these are discussed with asufficient level of detail to support these assessments.
This includes all relevant principal risks that could threaten Thomas Cooks business model, future The Directors believe a three-year period is appropriate to consider performance, solvency or liquidity.
viability as this is typically the longest duration the Group contracts with hotels and the timeframe over which the Directors believe they can accurately forecast the benefits arising from the NewOperating Model.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 48 STRATEGIC REPORT RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The table below lists the principal risks and uncertainties as determined by the Board that may affect the Group and highlights the mitigating actions that are being taken.
The content of the table is not intended to be an exhaustive list of all the risks and uncertainties that may arise.
Principal risks Mitigation Opportunities Our New Operating Model NUMO programme delivery is receiving significant management attention: To deliver a best in 1 NUMO initiatives fail to Monthly Group Management Committee meetings attended by senior management class operatingmodel deliverour strategic and includingCEO and CFO, during which progress and issues arediscussed which will providea operational targets.
andaddressed: and competitive advantage Financial benefits and KPIs are incorporated in the FY17 FY19 business plan inour market.
anddeliveryistracked as part of the business reviewprocess.
Inability to consistently Our Customer Experience Roadmap, which we will continue to implement over the Deliver the best 2 meet customer nextfour years, has strengthened our focus on customer excellence and will improve possible customer expectations may havean ourability to respond to shifts in consumer behaviours.
experience today adverse impact to Thomas As part of the Customer Experience Roadmap we have already implemented the offering value, flexibility Cook market share.
following key initiatives: and choice while The 24-hour hotel satisfaction promise currently applicable within 1,500 innovating to meet the differentiated hotels has had positive customer feedback: changing future needs The training curriculum provided to our overseas destination representatives has of our customers.
been extended and now includes additional focus oncustomer service and health and safety: and We have enhanced our customer satisfaction measures: Net Promoter Score NPS is implemented and fully embedded into management bonusobjectives: and Customer Survey Questionnaires CSQs have been improved to enable in-destination performance monitoring.
Failure to develop a diverse There has been significant investment into our hotel portfolio in order toachieve a Diverse product 3 product portfolio may differentiation, which delivers the customers a unique holiday experience and allows portfolio enabling have anadverse impact thetour operator to earn a higher margin with branded hotels including: us tomatch on our abilitytoimprove Refurbishment of Hi Hotels: product offerings to the customers experience Launch of our new-brand hotel Casa Cook in May 2016: and change incustomer ofThomas Cook holidays.
Opening Sunwing Ocean Beach Club hotel in Gran Canaria in December 2015. preferences We have signed a strategic hotel sourcing partnership with Webjet Limited which anddemand.
willoutsource our complementary portfolio allowing a greater focus on our differentiated products.
Failure to achieve growth In recognising changes to consumer behaviours, we are moving from a brochure retail Flexible distribution 4 in our digital distribution focus to a digital mobile first approach to selling holidays.
mode which reduces channel may have an Our successful migration to a responsive web platform OneWeb in the UK has led to our cost base and is adverse impact on our double digit growth in our online channels.
We are now rolling out OneWeb in Belgium aligned to the way our market share, profitability and The Netherlands, where we expect a similar conversion uplift.
customers research and future growth.
In Continental Europe, we have upgraded our current platform Golden Gate and rolled and purchase their it out in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
Eastern countries will follow between now holidays.
The web sales uplift has been extremely encouraging.
In the Nordic countries where 80% of our sales are online, we are now redesigning our website witha focus on mobile expecting further benefits in markets where mobile has overtaken desktop.
Our web sales channel allows us to scale our distribution which reduces our cost base andis aligned to the way our customers research and purchase their holidays.
Failure to recruit or to Our annual engagement survey allows us to assess employee motivation and Employing the best 5 retain the right people at commitment andidentify actions we need to enable talent retention.
people to continuously the right time will lead Our high potential talent have been identified by using a matrix of performance develop and evolve to a lack of capability or andpotential.
Those identified have targeted development plans based on their strategy and ensure capacity to enable the careeraspiration.
ongoing efficiency implementation of our Graduate programmes have been introduced in 2016 in the UK and Group Airline andoperation of businessstrategy.
businesses to further strengthen future succession.
commence in 2017 tospecifically targeted areas.
A Group Leadership Development programme for direct reports to Senior Leaders has been developed to commence in 2017, targeting those identified as having potential for senior leadership roles.
Principal risk with a direct link to the viability statement.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 49 Principal risks Mitigation Opportunities IT architecture is unable Our service delivery process ensures demands from the business are addressed in To develop a 6 to support theneeds of atimely manner.
There are weekly reviews between business unit IT Heads to discuss service issues ITOperatingModel.
andensure preventative measures are implemented.
We have a robust governance process that enables IT to align with and meet the needs ofthe business.
Information security and Our Information Security Steering Group continues to provide oversight of the cyber To become thought 7 cyber threats are currently a risk framework and ensures appropriate mitigations areinplace.
leaders in developing priority across all industries Following completion of the risk assessment of our business critical systems, we a strategy to combat and remain a key Government have developed a comprehensive security improvement programme.
The Group of this programme is well progressed to ensure protection from cyber-based attacks recognises that we have high and compliance with appropriate legislation.
risk exposure in this area.
A decision or a course In the past year, we have strengthened our Group communications function, putting Promotion of the 8 of action is perceived in place an experienced in-house team across corporate communications, internal business and negatively by the media, communications and public affairs.
enhancement of brand investors and or general The team has implemented new systems and processes to manage, both reactively value through positive public, which in turn andproactively, potential issues of reputational impact on the business.
impacts the corporate anew out-of-hours function and improved monitoring of social media, print and reputation of the Group broadcast, and political developments.
The communications team has clear protocols in place in the event of a crisis, working closely with all relevant areas of the business, including investor relations, customer relations, legal and operational teams to prepare timely responses across allnecessary channels.
The Group Communications Director also sits on the Group Management Committee, ensuring that reputational risk and opportunity is considered in all important decisionmaking.
Cash generation is We proactively monitor our short, medium and long-term cash requirements and Generate cash to 9 insufficient to strategically liquidityheadroom.
finance the Companys manage debt repayment Our cost-out and profit-improvement initiatives are successfully contributing to strategic objectives.
We continue to monitor all opportunities to manage liquidity requirements and maintain anadequate level of contingency as well asseeking to lower the average cost of debt overthemedium term.
Due to the nature of its We operate a robust safety management system SMS to ensure the implementation To provide class- 10 business, the Group will ofourHealth and Safety Policies and procedures.
leading health and always be exposed to a The Group Health, Safety, and Security team implement the SMS, whichis further safety programmes risk ofa health and safety supportedbya reputable external specialist SGS.
for the benefit incident that may impact The Group regularly reviews and updates its safety and security training programmes ofourcustomers our customers or colleagues toensure they continue toreflect best practice.
together with associated Our Health and Safety Audit programme, which is delivered by externalspecialists, reputational damage.
measuresstandards and includes a clear escalation and decision process.
The programme also includes arobustfollow up process.
We have increased the frequency of auditing ofourdifferentiated hotels and the scope of the audits.
The assessment of Health and Safety risks is inbuilt into daily management routines and is monitored by a structure of health and safety committees that are in turn overseen byacorporate Health, Safety & Environmental Committee with Board level oversight.
Thereport ofthe Health, Safety & Environmental Committee can befound on page 64.
A significant decline in Our flexible business model allows us to align our committed capacity tofluctuating To deliver proactive 11 customer demand due to the demand.
We continue to rebalance our destination mix and add new destinations to our capability to pregrowing threat of terrorist portfolio e. g. Croatia and Italy thereby mitigating the impact of geopolitical events.
emptively manage attacks in our key tourist We continue to follow the guidance of the appropriate state departments relevant to our emerging geopolitical destinations, may lead to source market.
The decision for the UK to exit The Brexit Working Group has been established to ensure all potential implications To positively leverage 12 the EU has a detrimental impact have beensufficiently considered and that we maintain on-going dialogue with the UK the outcome of Brexit on the Groups operations.
Government as exit plans gain clarity.
Failure to comply with We have a dedicated Legal Team that endeavours to ensure full compliance with Instilling values and 13 regulatory and legislative mandatoryregulatory requirements and which monitors all applicable current and positively influencing requirements in the legal emergingregulatory developments in our source markets.
Theteam receives regular and supporting all of jurisdictions where Thomas trainingto provide awareness of critical changes inrelevant legislation or case law.
Our Code of Conduct is backed by a comprehensive training programme toensure that itisfully embedded across the Group.
Our Legal Risk Database enables communication and timely analysis ofallrisks related toregulatory and legislative requirements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
