Principal Risks and Uncertainties In delivering long-term returns to shareholders, the Board must also identify and monitor the risk that has been taken in order to achieve that return.
The Board has included below details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the appropriate measures taken in order to mitigate these risks as far as practi cable.
Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation The Board monitors the level of discount or premium Share Price performs poorly in comparison at which the shares are trading over the short and to the underlying NAV longer-term.
The shares of the Company are listed on the London Stock Exchange and the share price is determined by The Board encourages engagement with the supply and demand.
The shares may trade at a discount shareholders.
The board receives reports at each or premium to the Companys underlying NAV and this meeting on the activity of the Companys brokers, PR discount or premium may fluctuate over time.
agent and meetings and events attended by the Fund Manager.
The Companys shares are available through the F&C share schemes and the Company participates in the active marketing of these schemes.
The shares are also widely available on open architecture platforms and can be held directly through the Companys registrar.
The Board takes the powers to buy-back and issue shares at each AGM.
The Managers objective is to outperform the Poor Investment performance of the benchmark.
The Board regularly reviews the portfolio relative to the benchmark.
Companys long-term strategy and investment The Companys portfolio is actively managed.
In addition guidelines and the managers relative positions to investment securities the Company also invests in against these.
commercial property and accordingly, the portfolio may not follow or outperform the return of the benchmark.
The Management Engagement Committee reviews the Managers performance annually.
The Board has the powers to change the Manager if deemed appropriate.
28 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation The Board receives and considers a regular report Market Risk from the manager detailing asset allocation, Both share prices and exchange rates may move rapidly investment decisions, currency exposures, gearing and adversely impact the value of the Companys levels and rationale in relation to the prevailing portfolio.
Although the portfolio is diversified across a number of geographical regions, the investment mandate is focused on a single sector and therefore the portfolio will be sensitive towards the property sector, as well as global equity markets more generally.
Property companies are subject to many factors which can adversely affect their investment performance, these include the general economic and financial environment in which their tenants operate, interest rates, availability of investment and development finance and regulations issued by governments and authorities.
The Board receives and considers regular income The Company is unable to maintain its forecasts progressive policy on dividends Income forecast sensitivity to changes in FX rates is Low earnings in the underlying portfolio, through adverse also monitored changes in tax treatment of dividends or other income received by the company, changes in the timing of The Company has revenue reserves which can be receipt of dividends or the weakening of FX rates leading drawn upon when required.
to a fall in the Sterling value of income receipts from overseas holdings may reduce the level of earnings of the Company and therefore put pressure on its ability to maintain a progressive dividend.
Third party service providers produce periodic reports Accounting and Operational risks to the Board on their control environments and Disruption or failure of systems and processes business continuation provisions on a regular basis.
underpinning the services provided by third parties and the risk that these suppliers provide a sub-standard The Management Engagement Committee considers service.
the performance of each of the service providers on a regular basis and considers their ongoing appointment.
The Custodian and Depository are responsible for the safeguarding of assets.
In the event of a loss of assets the Depository must return assets of an identical type or corresponding amount unless able to demonstrate that the loss was the result of an event beyond their reasonable control.
TR Property Investment Trust 29 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation Details of these risks together with the policies for Financial Risks managing these risks are found in the Notes to the The Companys investment activities expose it to a variety Financial Statements on pages 64 to 87. of financial risk which include counterparty credit risk, liquidity risk and the valuation of financial instruments.
The Investment Manager monitors the investment Loss of Investment Trust Status portfolio, income and proposed dividend levels to The Company has been accepted by HM Revenue & ensure that the provisions of CTA 2010 are not Customs as an investment trust, subject to continuing to breached.
The results are reported to the Board meet the relevant eligibility conditions.
As such the at each meeting.
Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the profits realised from the sale of investments.
The income forecasts are reviewed by the Companys tax advisor through the year who also reports to the Any breach of the relevant eligibility conditions could lead Board on the year-end tax position and on CTA 2010 to the Company losing investment trust status and being compliance.
subject to corporation tax on capital gains realised within the Companys portfolio.
The Board receives regular regulatory updates from Legal, regulatory and reporting risks the Manager, Company Secretary, legal advisors and Failure to comply with the London Stock Exchange Listing Auditors.
The board considers these reports and Rules and Transparency and Disclosure rules: failure to recommendations and takes action accordingly.
meet the requirements under the Alternative Investment Funds Directive, the provisions of the Companies Act The Board receives an annual report and update from 2006 and other UK, European and overseas legislation the Depository.
Failure to meet the required Internal checklists and review procedures are in place accounting standards or make appropriate disclosures in at service providers.
the Interim and Annual Reports.
External auditors review Interim & Annual Reports and audit year end Financial Statements.
The Board receives regular reports from the Manager Inappropriate use of gearing on the levels of gearing in the portfolio.
These are Gearing, either through the use of bank debt or through considered against the gearing limits set in the the use of derivatives may be utilised from time to time.
Investment Guidelines and also in the context of Whilst the use of gearing is intended to enhance the NAV current market conditions and sentiment.
total return, it will have the opposite effect when the return of the Companys investment portfolio is negative.
The Chairman conducts regular meetings with the Personnel changes at Investment Manager Fund Management team.
Loss of portfolio manager or other key staff.
The fee basis protects the core infrastructure and depth and quality of resources.
The fee structure incentivises good performance and is fundamental in the ability to retain key staff.
30 TR Property Investment Trust STRATEGIC REPORT
