Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2016 The Group operates in markets and an industry which by In common with most large organisations the Group is subject their nature are subject to a number of inherent gross risks.
to general commercial risks: for example, political and economic The Group is able to mitigate those risks by adopting different developments, changes in the cost of goods for resale, increased strategies and by maintaining a strong system of internal control.
competition in its markets and the threat of emerging and However, regardless of the approach that is taken, the Group disruptive competitors, material failures in the supply chain, failure has to accept a certain level of risk in order to generate suitable to secure supply of goods for resale on competitive terms, returns for shareholders and for that reason the risk management cyber-security breaches and failure of the IT infrastructure.
process is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
The risk environment inwhich the Group operates does not The Board has a risk reporting framework that ensures it has remain static.
The nature of risk is that its scope and potential visibility of the Groups key risks, the potential impacts on the impact will change over time.
Assuch the list on pages 38 to Group and how and to what extent those risks are mitigated.
43 should not be regarded as a comprehensive statement of all As part of its risk management process, the principal risks stated potential risks and uncertainties that may manifest themselves in the Groups risk register are reviewed, challenged and updated in the future.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not by the Board and monitored throughout the year.
Each operating presently known to the Directors, or which they currently deem business within the Group monitors a separate risk register.
immaterial, couldalso have an adverse effect on the Groups This risk register is used to determine strategies adopted by the future operating results, financial condition or prospects.
Groups various businesses to mitigate the identified risks and The table on pages 38 to 43 sets out, in no particular order, the these are embedded in their operating plans.
current principal risks that are considered by the Board to be Details of the Groups risk management processes are given in the material, their potential impacts and the factors that mitigate Corporate Governance report on page 65. them.
The inherent risk before the operation of control is stated for each risk area together with an indication of the current trend for thatrisk.
Daniel Underwood Toolstation, Northampton 37 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report Inherent Risk, Level and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation The Groups products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad Market Conditions Adverse effect on financial results.
The Board conducts an annual review of strategy, which includes an assessment of likely range of end uses in the built environment.
The Groups markets are cyclical in nature and competitor activity, market forecasts and possible future trends in products, channels of Inherent Risk: the performance of those markets is affected by general economic conditions and a number l l l distribution and customerbehaviour.
of specific drivers of construction, RMI and DIY activity, including mortgage availability and Trend: affordability, housing transactions and the timing and nature of government activity to stimulate The Group maintains a comprehensive tracking system for lead indicators that influence the activity, net disposable income, house price inflation, consumer confidence, interest rates market for the consumption of building materials in the UK.
Significant events including those in the supply chain that may affect the Group are monitored A significant downturn in economic conditions or alternatively major uncertainty about by the Executive Committee and reported to the Board monthly by the Group CEO.
the future outlook could affect the Groups markets levels of construction activity and the Should market conditions deteriorate then the Board has a range of options dependent upon confidence levels of the Groups customers, which could reduce their propensity to purchase the severity of the change.
Historically these have included amending the Groups trading products and services from the Groups businesses.
stance, cost reduction, lowering capital investment and cutting the dividend.
Competitive pressures place Market trends, particularly in respect of customers preferences for purchasing materials Adverse effect on financial results.
Changes to market practice are tracked on an on-going basis and reported to the Board pressure on prices, margins through a range of supply channels and not just through the Groups traditional competitors each month.
and profitability may affect the Groups performance so making traditional branch based operations less The Group is building multi-channel capabilities that complement its existing operations relevant or profitable.
Inherent Risk: l l l and provide its customers with the opportunity to transact with the Group through channels Increased price transparency could cause customers to perceive that the Group is less that best suit theirneeds.
Trend: competitive than some other competitors.
Pricing strategies across the Group are regularly reviewed and where necessary refined to Public sector buying groups could reduce sales if public bodies choose to buy direct from ensure they remain competitive.
Disintermediation may become more of a threat if manufacturers decide The development of new, innovative and competitive supply solutions is a key strength to deal directly with end users.
It works closely with customers and suppliers on a programme of continuous The Group faces the risk of new entrants to any of its markets, including from businesses improvement designed to improve its customer proposition.
currently operating outside its industry or only in overseas markets.
The Groups strategy allows it to use sites flexibly.
Alternative space utilisation models are possible, including maintaining smaller stores and implanting additional services into existingbranches.
Information technology The Group depends on a wide range of complex IT systems, both in terms of the availability Adverse effect on financial results.
The strategic demands of the business, the resources available to IT, the performance levels capabilities impact the Groups of hardware and the efficient and effective operation of software.
ofkey systems and IT security are kept under review by the Executive Committee.
Adverse effect on the Companys ability to trade profitably The rapid expansion of the Group together with an increasing demand for IT services, reputation.
Plans that require continual investment in the IT infrastructure have been approved and are Inherent Risk: l l particularly as the Group embraces modern platforms such as multi-channel, updates its being implemented.
Maintenance is undertaken on an on-going basis to ensure the resilience point of sale systems and develops its supply chain capabilities, could result in development of Group systems, with escalation procedures operating to ensure any performance issues are Trend: programmes being delayed or new IT systems and change management systems not being resolved at an early stage.
The Groups two data centres mirror each other with data processing capable of being Should a system become unavailable for an extended period either through deliberate act switched from one site to the other.
An IT disaster recovery plan exists together with a or through accidental failure it could impact the business ability to trade.
Arrangements are in place for alternative data sites for both trade and consumer businesses.
Off-site back-up routines are in place.
Incidents of sophisticated cyber-crime represent a significant and increasing threat to all businesses including the Group.
A major breach of system security could result in system The Group has a data security committee responsible for monitoring and maintaining cyber disruption to systems and or the theft and misuse of confidential data with consequential security.
In addition a programme of risk oriented reviews is undertaken to ensure the level impacts on the Groups reputation or ability to trade.
of control around IT systems remains robust.
The Group has a team in place to deliver a comprehensive security architecture to protect it from cyber crime.
Investments in best of breed solutions have been made that continually adapt to mitigate the risk associated with the most advanced threats.
Furthermore, the Information Security team has the full support of senior management acting as an important gateway to ensure the development of new systems is performed according to industry standard securitypractices.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 38 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Inherent Risk, Level and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation The Groups products are sold to businesses, tradesmen and retail customers for a broad Market Conditions Adverse effect on financial results.
39 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report Inherent Risk, Level and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Colleague recruitment, The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of Inability to develop and The Groups employment policies and practices are kept under regular review.
retention and succession plans the Groups overall performance.
execute development Staff engagement and turnover by job type is reported to the Executive Committee regularly do not deliver the required skills and succession plans.
The strength of the Groups customer proposition is underpinned by the quality of people and to the Board regularly.
Succession plans are established for the most senior positions and experience working throughout the Group.
Many of them have worked for Travis Perkins for some Competitive disadvantage.
within the Group and these are reviewed annually.
Inherent Risk: considerable time, during which they have gained valuable knowledge and expertise.
l The Groups reward and recognition systems are actively managed to ensure high levels of Trend: The Group faces competition for the best people from other organisations.
retention and proper development of employees and succession for key positions is important A wide range of training programmes are in place to encourage staff development, whilst if the Group is not to suffer an adverse effect on future prospects.
management development programmes are available to those identified for more senior positions.
Salaries and other benefits are benchmarked regularly to ensure that the Group remains competitive and the Group operates incentive structures to ensure that high performing colleagues are adequately rewarded and retained.
Supplier dependency could result The Group is the largest customer to many of its suppliers.
In some cases, those suppliers Adverse effect on The commercial and financial teams have established strong relationships with the Groups in shortages of product are large enough to cause significant supply difficulties to the Group if they are unable to meet financial results.
key suppliers and work closely with them to ensure the continuity of quality materials.
their supply obligations due to either economic or operational factors.
Inherent Risk: Adverse effect on reputation.
To spread the risk where possible contracts exist with more than one supplier for key products.
l l Alternative sourcing may be available, but the volumes required and the time it may take Trend: The Group has made a significant investment in its Far East infrastructure to support its direct those suppliers to increase production could result in significant stock-outs for some sourcing operation which allows the development of own brand products, thereby reducing the considerabletime.
The Group has become more reliant on overseas factories producing products as the Group Comprehensive checks are undertaken on the factories producing products and the quality has rapidly expanded its direct sourcing capabilities.
This has increased the Groups exposure and the suitability of that product before it is shipped to the UK.
to sourcing, quality, trading, warranty and currency issues.
There is a potential for European anti-dumping legislation to be extended to encompass further Asian countries which could increase the cost of some imported products.
Defined benefit pension The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level in relation to its on-going Adverse effect on All of the Groups final salary pension schemes are closed to new members.
scheme funding could increase obligations to provide current and future pensions for members of its defined benefit financial condition.
For the Travis Perkins scheme, pensionable salary inflation has been capped at 3% per annum.
The schemes investment policies are kept under regular review by the trustees in conjunction Inherent Risk: l l The level of contributions required from the Group to meet the benefits promised in the with the Group to ensure asset portfolios produce the desired level of return within an final salary schemes will vary depending upon the funding position of those schemes.
The funding of pension obligations could increase significantly due to a number of factors The Group has agreed deficit reduction payment plans for each of its defined benefit pension including poor performance of the pension fund investments, falling corporate bond and schemes with the Trustees of the schemes.
The repayment plans will remain in place until the gilt yields and increasing longevity of pension scheme members.
next actuarial valuation, when in conjunction with the Scheme Trustees they will be reassessed to take into account the circumstances at the time.
In 2015 the Group agreed with the Trustees to align future member contributions more closely to the cost of the accrual and in so doing capping the current service contribution of the Group.
Notwithstanding this, the Group remains exposed to movements in member longevity, the value of pension scheme investments and falling corporate bond and gilt rates.
Future expansion plans are The Groups strategic plans are predicated on the continued expansion of its UK branch Adverse effect on Responsibility for identifying and implementing opportunities to expand the Groups operations not implemented due to the network and the development of its supply chain capabilities.
rests with each of the divisional boards, with capital being deployed to those projects giving the unavailability of funding or do best return on capital.
Large scale acquisitions in existing UK markets are unlikely due to the Groups size and the not achieve the desired sales and potential concerns of the competition authorities to ensure competitive markets.
Therefore The Group has identified a significant number of opportunities for expansion throughout profit improvements theGroup will rely on developing smaller scale opportunities, in new catchment areas or in the United Kingdom and continues to develop alternative trading formats that will open up Inherent Risk: l new formats within existing sites or on expanding into adjacent markets in which it does not additional opportunities in future.
Trend: The Group continues to invest in its leading supply chain infrastructure.
Its capabilities in this The Group also needs to ensure that funding is available to support its plans.
The Group area allow it to source directly from manufacturers, offer superior availability to customers has been reliant on the banking market for funding, a market that has contracted in recent and operate cost efficient mechanisms to deliver products to customers when they most years and which may continue to contract in the future.
It has an established bond issuance needthem.
capability, but the availability of funds from that market at a sensible cost may depend upon It is the responsibility of the treasury function to manage the Groups liquidity, funding the Groups rating which can be affected by its trading performance.
availability and treasury risk by reference to the policies and plans set out in the board approved funding strategy.
Regular reporting of a series of key metrics is designed to monitor treasury activities and maintain opportunities to diversify sources and access suitable funding.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 40 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Inherent Risk, Level and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Colleague recruitment, The ability to recruit, retain and motivate suitably qualified staff is an important driver of Inability to develop and The Groups employment policies and practices are kept under regular review.
41 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Strategic Report Inherent Risk, Level and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Business transformation projects The Group is undertaking a large number of strategic projects throughout its business.
Adverse effect on All potentially significant projects are subject to detailed investigation, assessment and fail to deliver the expected Theseprojects are intended to transform the Groups infrastructure and its information financial results.
benefits, cost more or take longer technology systems and to develop its supply chain operations and its branch and Dedicated teams are allocated to each project, with additional expertise being brought into the to implement than expected storenetworks.
Group to supplement existing resource when necessary.
Inherent Risk: By their nature, strategic projects are often complicated, interlinked and require considerable l l All strategic projects are closely monitored by the Executive Committee with regular reporting resource to deliver them.
As a result the expected benefits and the costs of implementation Trend: to the Board.
of each project may deviate from those anticipated at their outset.
Plumbing & Heating business The market supplying boilers to large contract customers, served by the PTS business, Adverse effect on A new management team has been appointed to the Plumbing & Heating division, which is performance adversely affects is highly competitive, offers low margins and certain manufacturers exercise a degree of financial results.
conducting a fundamental review of all P&H businesses and activities.
It is due to report its Group returns control through disintermediation.
findings in August 2017, but in the meantime greater focus is being placed on developing the customer proposition ensuring there is a renewed focus on serving existing customers Inherent Risk: l l l Competition in the plumbing and heating P&H markets remains intense, with margins being well, tight management of operating costs and capital expenditure and ensuring the basics of adversely affected and is likely to continue to be so for the foreseeable future.
Trend: ranging and pricing are carefully managed.
The provision of plumbing and heating product to the secondary P&H market, which is Projects are underway to tailor branch processes in the PTS business to better meet the undertaken by F & P, is becoming increasingly competitive.
needs of contracting customers and improve the customer offer which should drive an Low margins, pressure on sales and a high fixed cost base mean the Plumbing and Heating increase insales.
business profit could be more muted than some of the Groups other businesses.
The branch network of the F & P Primaflow business is going through a major rationalisation programme to better meet the needs of customers, whilst reducing costs.
UKs decision to leave The result of the UK vote to leave the European Union has caused considerable market Adverse effect on It is too early to determine the effect of the decision to leave, but the Board is closely the European Union uncertainty, which has resulted in a significant weakening of sterling against the US dollar financial results.
monitoring market conditions and will react accordingly.
and the Euro, the main currencies used by the Group for imported goods.
Inherent Risk: l l l The Board has already taken steps to reduce some costs, but is carefully balancing the current The effect on the Groups operations is unlikely to become clear until full details emerge about needs of the business against what may or may not occur in the future.
Trend: how the UK will seek to engineer its exit from the EU and the EU responds.
The Group continues to invest in the business where those investments are expected to realise acceptable returns, but it is prepared to reduce activity levels should market conditions sodictate.
Where the cost of goods increases due to the exchange rate deteriorating, the Group will seek to pass those price increases through to its customers, but its ability to do so will depend upon market conditions at the time.
Legislation The Group is subject to a broad range of existing and evolving governance, environmental, Adverse effect on the The Groups legal team is responsible for monitoring changes to laws and regulations that health and safety and other laws, regulations, standards and best practices which affect the Companys reputation.
Inherent Risk: l l way the Group operates and give rise to significant compliance costs, potential legal liability Adverse effect on The Group has policies in place that set out the ways employees and suppliers are expected Trend: exposure and potential limitations on the development of the Groups operations.
Those expectations are widely disseminated using a range of methodologies to ensure colleagues and suppliers understand their responsibilities to comply Adverse effect on with the law and other regulations affecting the Company at all times.
The Board and the Executive Committee regularly monitor compliance with laws and regulations.
The Group operates a whistleblowing process that allows the anonymous reporting of noncompliance with health and safety, environmental, bribery and other laws and regulations.
Corporation tax The Group has a number of unresolved disputes with HMRC about the tax treatment of several Adverse effect on the Given the lack of agreement with HMRC about the interpretation of key areas of the disputed commercial transactions undertaken in previous years.
Based on legal and tax technical advice Companys reputation.
transactions, coupled with the current tax litigation environment and HMRCs policy for pursuing such Inherent Risk: l the Group claimed 72m of tax benefits in its tax returns over several years and reduced a route the Group has recognised a 20m provision for the disputed amounts claimed by HMRC and Adverse effect on Trend: its tax payments accordingly, although following a change in legislation in 2015, the Group has not recognised any benefit in its income statement for the 52m tax legislation required it to pay financial performance.
subsequently paid HMRC 52m of the amount withheld.
HMRC have disputed the Groups to HMRC in respect of the disputed amounts, which it hopes will be repaid in future.
interpretation of the tax legislation.
The Group has a governance structure that requires specialist third party technical advice Whilst the Group believes it has acted appropriately when submitting its tax returns, HMRC has to be obtained on significant tax treatments before the Board of Directors agrees to the tax the power to levy penalties in circumstances where it believes a taxpayer has been negligent.
position to be adopted by the Group.
Accordingly, it does not believe that its actions can be considered negligent and therefore should the Groups views ultimately not prevail it does not believe HMRC will have any basis for levying penalties or additional assessments.
In the event that the Groups view does not prevail, interest will be payable on previously unpaid amounts.
Given the current uncertainty interest has been fully accrued in the financial statements.
Inherent risk: High Medium Low Trend: Increasing Static Reducing 42 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Inherent Risk, Level and Trend Risk Description Impact Risk Mitigation Business transformation projects The Group is undertaking a large number of strategic projects throughout its business.
43 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Brendan Cowlam BSS, Leeds 44
