34 Strategic report Our principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In undertaking this assessment on behalf of the Board, the Risk Committee has considered a wide range of information, including regulatory requirements, reports provided by the Risk function, presentations by senior management and the findings from the Groups bottom-up and top-down risk assessment processes conducted in 2016.
Risk Description Potential Impact Mitigation Key risk indicator Related strategic objectives as set out on page 8 Adverse change The Group is exposed to the risk of a fundamental change to the Reduction in broking activity Close monitoring of regulatory Key regulatory changes Working within a robust investment framework toregulatory regulatory environment it operates within resulting in a reduced Reduced earnings and profitability developments.
Status of regulatory so that the business allocates capital and resources framework role for Interdealer brokers or restricted client trading activity, Active involvement in consultation change initiatives to areas where the most value can becreated.
and rule setting processes Continuing to develop the Data & Analytics including FCA consultations business where the product suiteand delivery onMiFID II.
Cyber-security and The risk that the Group fails to adequately protect itself against Loss of revenue The Group continues to monitor System outages Investing in technology and realigning the mix data protection cyber-attack and or to adequately secure the data it holds, resulting Remediation costs and assess the evolving and Data loss events between owned and outsourced platforms to in loss of operability, as well as potential loss of critical business or Severe damage to reputation increasingly sophisticated Cyber-security maximise the businesss intellectual property client data.
Regulatory sanctions cyber-threat landscape to ensure events losses to ensure that the business has the technology Payment of damages compensation that its control framework capabilities that customers seek.
isappropriate to address the Working within a robust investment framework potential cyber-threats to which it so that the business allocates capital and resources isexposed.
to areas where the most value can becreated.
Deterioration in The Groups performance would be adversely affected by a sustained Reduction in broking activity Adoption of a clearly defined Operating profit Seeking to improve the businesss brand awareness the commercial period of suppressed market activity leading to reduced revenues.
Reduced earnings and profitability business development strategy Revenues by region and coverage.
environment This could arise as a result of adverse macro-economic conditions tomaintain geographic and Trade volumes Extending the businesss broking offering to service or geopolitical developments, such as Brexit.
Revenue forecast clients where the market is receptive to a broadening Establishment of working group Stress testing of the client base.
to prepare the Groups response scenariooutcomes Seeking to continue to build the businesss activities to Brexit.
in energy and commodities products.
Seeking to add brokers to maintain and grow presence in those products with high market attractiveness where the business has a high ability to compete, and where its presence can be developed.
Failure to respond The markets in which the Group competes are characterised by Loss of market share Proactive engagement with clients Trade volumes Investing in technology and realigning the mix to client rapidly changing technology and evolving customer requirements, Reduced earnings and profitability through customer relationship Operating profit between owned and outsourced platforms to requirements including the demand for electronic broking solutions.
The Group is management process.
New business maximise the businesss intellectual property exposed to the risk that it fails to respond to customer requirements Adoption of a clearly defined initiatives to ensure that the business has the technology in a timely manner.
business development strategy Client satisfaction capabilities that customers seek.
which continues to enhance the surveys Investing in client relationship management to bring Groups service offering.
focus and discipline to how the business targets and covers clients, to seek to broaden and institutionalise relationships.
Failure to deliver The Groups business strategy is dependent on the successful Double running costs leading to Adoption of clearly defined Integration plan Developing the businesss capability tosource, execute integration integration of ICAP, and achieving the targeted reducedprofitability integration plan.
tracking status and integrate acquisitions.
Lack of investor confidence Implementation of robust Reduced access to the capital markets integration governance structure.
Measurement of synergies realised and monitoring of costs of theintegration.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 35 Principal risks The Board has conducted a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
com 36 Strategic report Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Description Potential Impact Mitigation Key risk indicator Related strategic objectives as set out on page 8 Failure to retain The Group operates in a highly competitive market for talent, and Potential loss of expertise and client Proactive management of Complaints and Developing the HR function and processes to and recruit talent is exposed to the risk that it fails to retain or recruit the employees relationships.
conductissues hire and train staff and to manage compensation required to deliver its strategy.
Increase in employee costs as Group seeks Competitive remuneration Voluntary leavers appropriately to encourage good long to counter aggressive competitor activity.
Operation of Early Careers appraisalratings Programme.
Trainings conducted Operational failure The Group is exposed to operational risk in nearly every facet of its Financial loss which could, in extreme Implementation of an appropriate Residual balances Working within a robust investment framework role as a hybrid voicebroker, including from its dependence on: cases, impact the Groups solvency control framework to ensure that Loss events so that the business allocates capital and resources The accurate execution of a large numbers of processes, including and liquidity.
operational risk exposure is Crisis to areas where the most value can becreated.
those required to execute, clear and settle trades: and Damage to the Groups reputation managed within risk appetite.
Incidents Investing in technology and realigning the mix A complex IT infrastructure as a reliable intermediary in the Reverse stress tests undertaken Settlement fails between owned and outsourced platforms to financial markets.
toidentify key risks which could Margin calls maximise the businesss intellectual property undermine viability of the Group.
to ensure that the business has the technology Maintenance of effective business capabilities that customers seek.
Adoption of Incident and Crisis Management Plan to ensure all key stakeholders involved in the event of a major incident.
Breach of The Group operates in a highly regulated environment and is subject Regulatory fines The Groups Compliance function is Regulatory fines Working within a robust investment framework regulatory to the laws and regulatory frameworks of numerous jurisdictions.
Potential loss of regulatory licence responsible for ensuring that staff Financial crime so that the business allocates capital and resources requirements These include laws relating to conduct of business, financial crime, Severe damage to reputation are made aware of all applicable breaches to areas where the most value can becreated.
market abuse and anti-bribery and corruption.
regulatory requirements, and for Market abuse Developing the HR function and processes to monitoring compliance with breaches hire and train employees and to manage Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could theserequirements.
Conflict of interest compensation appropriately to encourage result in enforcement action being taken.
Adoption of Cultural Framework breaches good long term behaviours.
which seeks to implement the See Note 33 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Groups core values and principles throughout all areas of the business.
Adoption of comprehensive Compliance training programme.
Counterparty The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk arising from Financial loss which could, in extreme Counterparty exposures managed Matched Principal Working within a robust investment framework credit risk brokerage receivables owed by clients, unsettled matched principal cases, impact the Groups solvency against exposure reporting tradeexposure so that the business allocates capital and resources trades held with clients and from cash deposit counterparties.
thresholds, calibrated to reflect Name Passing to areas where the most value can becreated.
receivables Exposures subject to ongoing Group cash monitoring and reporting by peakexposure independent Credit function.
Exposure concentration limits toprevent excessive exposure toone institution.
Liquidity risk The Group is exposed to potential margin calls from clearing houses Reduction in Groups liquidity resources Brokers subject to broking limits Unplanned intra-group Working within a robust investment framework and correspondent clearers.
The Group also faces liquidity risk which could, in extreme cases, impact which restrict potential funding calls so that the business allocates capital and resources through being required to fund matched principal trades which the Groups liquidity.
RCF draw-down to areas where the most value can becreated.
failto settle on settlement date.
Group maintains significant Tax issues cashresources in each Credit reviews past due operatingcentre to ensure Level of margin call immediate access to funds.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 37 Risk Description Potential Impact Mitigation Key risk indicator Related strategic objectives as set out on page 8 Failure to retain The Group operates in a highly competitive market for talent, and Potential loss of expertise and client Proactive management of Complaints and Developing the HR function and processes to and recruit talent is exposed to the risk that it fails to retain or recruit the employees relationships.
