32 Strategic report Risk management Effective risk management is essential for the financial strength and resilience of the Group and for the achievement of its business objectives.
This section sets out a summary of how risk is managed by the Group, covering the Enterprise Risk Management Framework and the Groups principal risks.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework risk management activities.
The principles The Board recognises that embedding a The Enterprise Risk Management Framework dictate that risk management should be sound risk management culture throughout ERMF enables the Group to understand value enhancing, address the expectations the Group is fundamental to the effective the risks it is exposed to and to manage and requirements of key stakeholders and operation of the ERMF, specifically to ensure them in line with its business objectives be integrated into the business processes that all employees are aware of, and act in and within the stated risk appetite.
conformity with, the desired values and The ERMF comprises four mutually behaviours adopted by the Group in their Risk management should also be reinforcing components: risk management day-to-day activities.
proportionate to the type and complexity philosophy, risk management culture, of the business model and the nature The Group seeks to achieve the riskmanagement governance structure of the associated risks.
Furthermore, risk implementation of its desired risk andrisk management processes.
oversight and assurance functions should management culture through a Philosophy and culture be sufficiently independent of business combination of frameworks, policies, The Groups risk management philosophy decision taking and supported by practices and incentive schemes.
is underpinned by a set of core principles adequate resources.
that establish the context for the Groups Governance The Group has implemented a risk management governance structure based on three lines of defence that segregate risk management first line of defence from risk oversight second line of defence and risk assurance third line of defence, and is subject to Board and Risk Committee oversight: The Board has overall responsibility for the management of risk within the Group.
This includes: determining its risk appetite and defining expectations Board for the Groups risk culture ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management framework monitoring performance so that the Group remains within its risk appetite The Groups Risk Committee governance structure ensures the effective oversight of the implementation BRC and operation of the ERMF.
It comprises: Board Risk Committee BRC GERC Group Executive Risk Committee GERC three regional risk committees in EMEA, Americas and Asia Pacific other function specific committees Functional EMEA Americas Asia Pacific Risk Committees TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 33 First line of defence Second line of defence Third line of defence Risk management within the business Risk oversight and challenge Independent assurance The first line of defence comprises The second line of defence comprises the Internal Audit provides independent themanagement of the business units risk and compliance functions, which are assurance on the design and operational andsupport functions.
effectiveness of the ERMF and associated activity.
The first line of defence has primary The functions are responsible for overseeing responsibility for ensuring that the and challenging the first line of defence businessoperates within risk appetite as it undertakes the identification, onaday-to-day basis.
assessment and management of risks, and for assisting the Board and its various committees in discharging its overall risk oversight responsibilities.
Risk management processes Risk appetite The ERMF sets out the core risk management activities undertaken The Groups risk appetite represents the type and level of risk which it by the Group to identify, assess and manage its risk profile within is willing to accept in pursuit of its business objectives.
Risk appetite theprescribed risk appetite.
is articulated by the Board through the Groups risk appetite statements which are reviewed on at least an annual basis.
The Groups risk appetite statements are set by reference to five Review riskimpacts and can be summarised as follows: Board risk oversight universe Impact Statement Mgt.
and Set risk governance appetite Capital The Group must ensure it holds committees sufficient capital to meet any applicable regulatory capital Exposure 4.
Identify Adopt risk requirements in both expected monitoring mgt.
policy andstressed business conditions and reporting framework Risk Liquidity Each operating entity must maintain, management philosophy or have access to, sufficient liquidity to and culture meet all of its funding obligations and Assess Undertake financial comply with any minimum regulatory 3.
Assess and control requirements, in both normal and stressed conditions.
Perform Assure Reputation The Groups objective is to maintain top down controls and risk its reputation for being a sound, trusted policies assessment Conduct and reliable market intermediary, Review key stress and with market integrity at the heart controls scenario analysis of its business, as articulated in the Groups Cultural Framework.
Regulatory standing The Groups objective is to maintain its good standing with all of its regulators and to fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations to which the Group is subject.
Access to capital markets The Groups objective is to ensure that it maintains access to the capital markets, and complies with existing bank lending covenants, even in stressed operating conditions.
The Group implements its risk appetite statements through the adoption of risk thresholds at individual risk level.
These thresholds constitute the operational parameters which the first line of defence must operate within on a day-to-day basis.
