INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Continued OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Investment property valuations Taxation Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Valuation of investment properties is the We assessed Managements review of the We conclude that the fair value of the The majority of the Groups rental income We reviewed Managements future We conclude that the recognition and key driver of the Groups net asset value.
work of the external valuers: Groups investment properties as determined is subject to UK Income Tax under the UKs taxable profits forecasts to determine recoverability of the deferred tax asset Valuations are inherently complex and by the Directors is appropriate.
the rate at which accumulated tax is appropriate.
We assessed the external valuers require significant judgement and estimation losses are expected to be utilised, independence, integrity and competence: around the key inputs and assumptions, A significant amount of unutilised tax losses and we assessed the probability of The assessed risks of material misstatement described below including equivalent yields and market rent.
are available to be offset against future recovery over the forecast period: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS We met with the external valuers to discuss are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the taxable rental income.
and challenge the valuation process, OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT We reviewed the tax workings and allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of The valuation of the investment property performance of the portfolio and significant re-performed calculations of the possible the engagement team.
portfolio at 31 December 2016 amounted The recognition of a deferred tax asset in assumptions and critical judgement areas.
respect of those losses is subjective and Assisted by our Real Estate specialists, depends on the availability of future taxable we benchmarked these assumptions to We enquired with Management and Refer to notes 1 b, 1 h of Accounting profits against which those tax losses can relevant market evidence including specific evaluated their assessment for the policies on page pages 60 and 61, be utilised.
property transactions and other external recognition of a deferred tax asset: and and note 9 on page 67 of the Notes data on a sample basis: We reviewed the disclosures in the to the Financial Statements.
The Group recognised a deferred tax asset We performed audit procedures to assess Annual Report.
amounting to 6.5m as at 31 December 2016. the integrity of information provided to the external valuers, including testing on Refer to notes 1 g of Accounting Policies on a sample basis back to underlying lease page 60 and 61, and note 6 on page 64 of the agreements: and Notes to the Financial Statements.
We have reviewed the financial statements disclosures.
These matters were addressed in the context of Rationale for the benchmark applied our audit of the financial statements as a whole, Net Assets is the key balance considered by and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not the users of the financial statements which is provide a separate opinion on these matters.
consistent with the market approach for such Revenue recognition entities.
Net Assets was selected as investors are seeking capital appreciation in addition to dividend OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY streams and the net asset value per share is an important indicator of performance to investors.
We define materiality as the magnitude of Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations misstatement in the financial statements that In addition to net assets, we consider EPRA There is a risk that rental income received by We performed analytical procedures over We conclude that revenue recognition is makes it probable that the economic decisions Adjusted Profit After Tax as a critical performance of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be the Group is not complete or not accurate, the Groups rental income for the year: appropriate.
measure for the Group and a measure which is taking into account any lease incentives, changed or influenced.
We use materiality both widely used within the Real Estate industry.
We reviewed the Managers Internal in planning the scope of our audit work and in and thus impacting the net revenue available We applied a lower threshold of 2.5 million, Controls Report for the operating evaluating the results of our work.
which equates to 5% of that measure for testing effectiveness of management controls all balances impacting that measure.
over the revenue cycle: Based on our professional judgement, we Rental income recognised for the year ended 31 December 2016 amounted to determined materiality for the financial statements We tested on a sample basis the rental We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would as a whole as follows: 68.5m 2015: 69.5m.
income back to underlying lease agreements report to the Committee all audit differences in for accuracy and the apportionment for the excess of 0.56m, as well as differences below that Refer to notes 1 e of Accounting Policies Group materiality current period: and threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on page 60, and note 2 on page 63 of the 11.2m on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit We reviewed the lease incentive calculations Notes to the Financial Statements.
Committee on disclosure matters that we identified on a sample basis and tested the data back Basis for determining materiality when assessing the overall presentation of the to lease agreements.
We have used 1% of the Net Asset Value as the benchmark for determining materiality.
