STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Continued Taxation The tax structure of the Group is not optimised or is affected by legislative change, impacting performance and dividend cover.
The Group is currently structured in a tax efficient way which results in rental income the Group generates being offset by expenses and internal loan interest.
The terms of the internal loan notes, In addition the Board considers specific property The discount control policy of the Company namely interest rates and loan to value ratios, are KPIs such as void rates, rent collection levels and provides that if the market price of the ordinary crucial in preserving the tax efficiency of the Group.
weighted average lease length on a regular basis.
shares is more than 5 per cent below the published These loan notes were refinanced in September net asset value as last calculated, adjusted 2016 via a rigorous process to ensure they represent downwards for the amount of any dividend Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties commercially available terms.
The result of this declared by the Company upon the shares going loan note refinancing is that the Company is ex-dividend for a continuous period of 90 dealing expected to generate future taxable profits.
The Board has established a Risk Committee days or more, following the second anniversary As the Company has over 50 million of unutilised to ensure that proper consideration of risk is of the Companys most recent continuation vote tax losses and it is anticipated that these losses undertaken in all aspects of the Companys in relation to the discount control policy, the Board will now be utilised, the Company has recognised business on a regular basis.
The Risk Committee will convene an EGM to consider an ordinary a deferred tax asset in the financial statements of meets quarterly, comprises all members of resolution for the continuation of the Company.
This asset will be written off over the the Board and is chaired by John Robertson.
This situation arose in the 90 day period up to time period in which the losses are utilised or are The duties of the Risk Committee include the 11 October 2016 and, as a result, the Board convened no longer able to be offset against future profits.
consideration of matters relating to the risk an EGM which was held on 9 November 2016 and, profile of the Company, including an assessment at which, the continuation of the Company was Linked to the above is the announcement in the of risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk strategy, approved with 76% of shareholders voting and, Autumn Statement relating to base erosion and and the regular review of principal risks, seeking of those who voted, 99.99% voting for the profit shifting BEPS.
The proposals in the assurance that these risks are appropriately rated continuation of the Company.
Autumn Statement, if implemented, would mean and ensuring that appropriate risk mitigation is in the Group would only be able to deduct interest up place.
The Committee also reviews emerging risks.
Dividend cover to the amount payable on its external borrowings Dividend cover falls to a level whereby the Company thereby significantly increasing the amount of tax The Board confirms that, through the operation becomes unattractive to investors, for example due that would be payable once the tax losses have been of the Risk Committee, it frequently carries to tenant failure or inability to let properties.
This would have a material impact out a robust assessment of the principal risks on dividend cover.
The Board is considering facing the Company.
These risks and how they This risk is mitigated through regular review various methods to mitigate the impact of BEPS are mitigated are set out below.
of forecast dividend cover, regular contact with including a REIT conversion.
shareholders and regular review of tenant mix, The Companys assets consist of direct investments 15 Great Marlborough Street risk and profile.
Due diligence work on potential Macroeconomic environment in UK commercial property.
Its principal risks London tenants is undertaken before entering into new lease are therefore related to the commercial property Uncertainty or change in the macroeconomic agreements and tenants are kept under constant market in general, but also to the particular environment results in property becoming an review through regular contact and various reports circumstances of the properties in which it is undesirable asset class, causing a decline in both from managing agents and from the Managers invested and their tenants.
The Manager seeks to property values.
Contingency plans are put mitigate these risks through continual review of in place at units that have tenants that are believed the portfolio utilising research produced by the This risk is managed through regular reporting to be in financial trouble.
Managers in-house research team, detailed from, and discussion with, the Manager and other reports on the performance of the portfolio, advisors.
Macroeconomic conditions form part of The potential introduction of new base erosion setting of annual asset plans for each asset in the decision making process for purchases and sales and profit shifting regulation BEPS has been the portfolio and also through asset management of properties and for sector allocation decisions.
recognised by the Board as a potential future risk initiatives.
All of the properties in the portfolio to dividend cover.
This risk is considered in more are insured, providing protection against risks to Macroeconomic uncertainty increased during 2016, detail in the taxation section opposite.
the properties and also protection in case of injury following the UKs decision to leave the EU and the to third parties in relation to the properties.
The Board continues to monitor closely the effect of this on property values Company indebtedness The Board has also identified a number of key and also the impact of any resultant regulatory The Company is unable to service or repay its specific risks that are reviewed at each quarterly changes that may impact the Company.
debts, threatening the future solvency and liquidity Risk Committee Meeting.
These are as follows: of the Group.
Company objectives This risk is mitigated by two factors.
First of all the The Company and its objectives become unattractive Investment Policy of the Company limits gearing to to investors which may lead to a persistent discount 25 per cent of total assets at the time of draw down.
Emerald Park East and a continuation vote which may threaten the This low gearing limit means it is expected that, Bristol future solvency and liquidity of the Group.
barring any unforeseen circumstances, the Group will have adequate assets to service and repay This risk is mitigated through regular performance the debt if required.
Secondly, the underlying reviews of the Companys portfolio, contact with assets themselves are mainly invested in shareholders, a regular review of share price a diversified, prime UK commercial property performance and the level of discount at which portfolio underpinned by a strong tenant base.
the shares trade to and regular meetings with the This means that, even in a significant economic Companys broker to discuss these points and downturn, the Board is confident that the assets address any issues that arise.
will still be of sufficient value and generate sufficient income to meet future liabilities.
