UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Principal Risks Strategic priorities Change on 2015 In accordance with provision C. 2.1 of No change the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Agile growth Risk increased Code, the Board of Directors has made Risk decreased a robust assessment of the principal Customer insight and innovation risks facing the business including those related to its business model, Operational future performance, solvency excellence or liquidity.
Standardised technology and data The following principal risks have been identified from the review process.
High performance culture Risk Risk Impact Mitigation trend A slowdown in the macro-economic Our business is diversified across multiple Macro-economic environment or changes to the geographies and sectors.
slowdown, geopolitical environment could We have invested in IT systems that will bring adversely impact the Companys geopolitical us greater visibility and improve our ability to revenue, as exhibitor advertising, respond to macro changes more quickly.
instability attendee, sponsorship and other Market and credit collection trends are closely discretionary revenue may decline.
or exchange rate monitored and regularly reported at a divisional level.
As an international business fluctuations Credit policies are kept under review.
UBM is sensitive to this risk.
Exchange rate risk is partially hedged by issuing debt Foreign exchange rate Strategic priority in currencies where we have significant exposure.
fluctuations, particularly the US Dollar, could adversely affect impacted our reported earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
Acquisitions are an important We apply strict strategic and financial criteria, and have Acquisition risk part of our strategy.
Acquisitions well-documented acquisition and integration processes.
may not deliver their expected We employ comprehensive due diligence processes Strategic priority returns.
Integration issues or in assessing potential acquisition opportunities.
failure to realise operating impacted We adopt clear delegated authorities which benefits or synergies may also require management and Board consents impact expected returns.
Following an acquisition we monitor key financial and operational metrics on a monthly basis to ensure business plans and expected synergies are achieved.
For acquisitions of a certain size, a formal review of actual performance against the original business plan is presented to the Board.
For smaller acquisitions, this same process is adopted and the output reviewed by senior Group management.
42 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Risk Risk Impact Mitigation trend The geopolitical environment We are disciplined about deciding where we Specific country remains dynamic and our business choose to operate and new market entry risk and operates in many countries, is subject to approval by the Board.
particularly emerging markets, emerging We engage in proactive stakeholder management which may present logistical and to foster strong relationships with local markets management challenges due government and industry operators.
to different business cultures, exposure We integrate key owners and managers of our joint languages or unfavourable venture partners into our development programmes.
changes in applicable law or Strategic priority We adopt global controls and strong financial systems and compliance requirements.
New markets are subject to the Expansion through joint ventures same standards and policies as all other business regions.
reduces logistical and management Compliance and governance risks are assessed by the issues but can create governance Group and managed through legal and operational reviews.
We adopt global, ethical and operational standards which meet or go beyond local requirements.
A disaster or natural catastrophe, All our divisions have business continuity Factors and terrorism, political instability and crisis management plans in order to help incidents or disease could affect peoples mitigate against catastrophic events.
willingness to attend our events, affecting our We will postpone and or move an event if necessary.
which could have an adverse We foster strong relationships with venue ability to stage effect on our revenues.
operators and plan for alternative locations.
an event UBM utilises some of the largest We place a strong focus on health & safety best global venues available, creating practices to reduce the risk of an incident occurring.
the possibility of concentration risk Strategic priority We carry insurance to reduce our risk exposure to where few or no alternatives exist.
impacted our operations and impacts to our revenue.
A major incident at a venue during an event may give rise to We build on our engagement with our customers outside of significant contractual liabilities.
live tradeshow events through the use of digital platforms.
We have carried out a review of our contracts with major venues to identify areas where we can seek to improve commercial terms and reduce contractual liability.
We cannot predict all the changes We use customer insight and experience initiatives to identify Changes in and impacts that may affect the emerging trends.
Each division closely monitors these trends our business competitiveness of the business, and provides regular updates to senior management.
such as changes in customer environment We collect and analyse consistent global customer behaviour, or technological metrics relating to NPS and CSAT.
innovations which would increase We invest in innovative products that enhance our Strategic priority competition or make some products events and, over time, through development and or services less relevant.
Social impacted acquisition, seek to reduce exposure to products media platforms, search engines which are at risk, such as print advertising.
and other online technologies could all pose a competitive threat to We use a number of different social media our businesses, as could changes platforms and other sources as one of many in legislation or compliance connection points with our customers.
We compete strongly in all our market sectors and we are strengthened by the leading market position of our events and our reputation as a Similarly, additional venue professional and international organiser.
capacity is introducing We will continue to work on our relationship with venue competition as well as enhancing operators so that we get access to venues supported opportunities for growth.
by long-term contracts, where appropriate.
Our collaboration with Alibaba will assist in our understanding of how the events market evolves.
43 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Principal Risks continued Risk Risk Impact Mitigation trend The increasing threat from We mitigate project-related risks by applying project Technological unauthorised access to our management principles and disciplines.
Controls are risk: execution, systems by external parties subject to review by Internal Audit and by the Board, could lead to reputational and by assigning responsibility at Executive Committee data breach and damage and regulatory action.
level through the Chief Information Officer.
cyber security Our IT function operates under clearly defined policies, procedures and maintenance programmes.
As part of its strategy, UBM These policies have been reviewed by the Board.
Strategic priority has continued to invest in the impacted technology platforms of the We have begun a comprehensive programme of business.
Having completed a improvement of our information security systems, system enhancement for UBM processes and organisation, particularly aided by the EMEA, progress has been made move to increased standardisation.
The programme will with UBM Americas and UBM deliver an integrated capability across our divisions.
Failure to deliver these We are conducting a review of our data protection policies projects effectively could lead to and processes in readiness for the implementation of the increased costs, delays or erosion Global Data Protection Regulations GDPR from May 2018. of UBMs competitive position.
Our Internal Audit and Information Security departments regularly review IT systems and security.
System failure could have We conduct penetration tests of primary systems.
a significant impact on our Disaster recovery plans are in place for key systems business.
The collapse of the and these are subject to regular testing.
Cloud on which various products and systems are hosted could We train our employees and raise their awareness on have negative consequences how to behave with regard to information security best for our operational activity.
practices, particularly social engineering and phishing.
UBM has started a Global Data Centre project.
Commencing with data centre consolidation in the US this year we are taking the first step on our long-term roadmap to deliver an agile, low-cost infrastructure for UBM.
This will create a comprehensive disaster recovery structure.
With the changing macroIn December 2016 we drew down on a bridging facility Access to capital environment and currency changes, to partially finance the acquisition of Allworld.
We the availability or cost of financing intend to refinance during 2017, diversifying sources may affect our acquisition strategy.
of debt with a longer maturity to decrease risk.
Strategic priority impacted We maintain sufficient liquidity and headroom, and our policy is to maintain a manageable maturity profile.
We plan on refinancing in advance of maturities to minimise risk.
We have access to both long-term and short-term borrowing facilities at competitive rates.
Changes in the operating We use external salary benchmarking as People model and competitive part of our annual pay review cycle.
recruitment external landscape could see We benchmark short and long term an increase in staff turnover.
and retention incentives to ensure competitiveness.
We maintain standard terms and conditions including post-termination provisions for all key personnel.
Strategic priority Performance reviews and objective setting are impacted carried out formally each year for all personnel.
We calibrate performance levels and invest in top talent and key personnel.
A robust succession planning process is in place across the Group.
We use routine pulse checks to measure the extent of employee engagement and to learn from their feedback.
44 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements HOW WERE DOING All China Leather Exhibition Shanghai 45
