e c n e l l e c x e l a n o i S t t a a r n e d p a O r d i s e d t e c h n o l o g y a n d d a h t t a w o r g e l i g C A u s t o Increasing risk size m e r i n s i g h UBM UBM An Ann nua ual R l Report a eport an nd A d Ac cc coun ounts 20 ts 2016 16 S Str tra at te eg gi ic R c Report eport Risk Management Structure and control assisted by the Audit Committee, which A review of UBMs major venue Group Risk is the function which reviews and challenges management on contracts, focused on contractual promotes the processes and methods the risk management processes and risk, was completed.
for managing risks within the Company.
The Executive Divisional materiality thresholds It acts as a catalyst in helping the Committee assesses operational and and risk maps were introduced.
organisation consider potential strategic risks facing the business with Risk workshops were held with business and strategic risks the support of Group Risk.
divisional management to support identification, assessment and the quality of risk identification and prioritisation as well as co-ordinating, Developments in risk management assessment at a local operating level through active engagement with in 2016 and to enhance engagement and management, the cost-effective UBM continued to enhance its risk understanding across the business.
application of resources to mitigate management policies and procedures UBMs risk scenario modelling was and monitor the impact of these risks.
carried out to include testing the In addition to the Audit Committee resilience of the organisation from The UBM Board is responsible for receiving divisional risk the perspectives of liquidity and monitoring the risk management presentations, the Board also solvency.
This was extended to systems across the organisation and considered a number of deep-dive include reverse stress testing reviewing their effectiveness and risk reports including an analysis and aggregation.
The Board receives reports of cyber risk, the implications of from each of the businesses on their Brexit and the robustness of UBMs principal risks and the steps they are capital structure.
In carrying out its monitoring activities, the Board is Risk map The diagram illustrates the principal risk mapped against the strategic pillar primarily impacted.
M ER: Macroeconomic Exchange Rate fluctuations A: Acquisitions SC: Specific Country AC ISE: Inability to Stage an Event PR CBE: Changes to Business Environment T: Technology AC: Access to Capital PR: People Recruitment Change since previous year A M ER SC T ISE CBE 40 40 t a n d i n n e o r u v t a l t u i c o n e c n a m r o f r e p h g i H S St tr ra ate teg gi ic R c Re ep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e R Re epor port t F Fi in nanc anci ia all S St tat ate em me en nt ts s Risk management process likelihood.
Risks are ranked in order to With a focus on continuous improvement, The graphic below illustrates our better direct resources to those which the bi-annual risk reviews critically approach to identifying and managing have a higher potential impact.
Risks assess the effectiveness of the mitigation risk.
UBM employs both a top-down which reach a materiality threshold and recommend enhancements.
Risk have specific mitigation plans in place identification follows a standard to reduce or remove those risks.
framework to assess impact and Top-down review The Executive Committee, Head Office Audit and the divisions review the Group and divisional risk maps and compare them Committee and with the existing and future characteristics Board review of our products, services and customers.
This analysis is presented to the Board bi-annually.
We continue to use a financial modelling process, based on an enhanced version of that used in 2015, to test the resilience of the business in relation to its Divisional risk Executive Committee solvency and liquidity.
identification Risk analysis and and Head Office and assessment evaluation review risks against exercise corporate strategy Bottom-up review A full risk assessment and identification exercise is carried out twice a year.
The Group Risk function participates with the divisions and business functions to analyse impacts and likelihoods.
Similar risks across Monitoring and Group Monitoring and different divisions are monitored to assess mitigation Risk management mitigation any changes on an aggregate basis globally.
The Group Risk function continues to review its policies and procedures to ensure that they support UBMs strong controls framework and operational needs.
completed to inform its assessment.
plans, crisis management strategies Long Term Viability Statement Management carried out a top-down and how frequently these are tested.
and bottom-up assessment of the Additionally, reverse stress testing In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of risks facing the business, identifying was used to assess the magnitude of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance eight principal risks.
These are set out change in one or more variables within Code, the Board has assessed the in the Principal Risks section overleaf.
the three year plan necessary to cause outlook of the Company over a Of these principal risks, five were a collapse of UBMs solvency.
This period selected by the Audit Committee for testing was based on the potential continues to be relevant for the the purpose of scenario modelling impact of litigation, third party property following reasons: developed from the UBM long-term damage and regulatory penalties.
it aligns to the time period for financial plan.
The scenario exercise UBMs financial plan and Major comprised the modelling of considerable The modelling demonstrated that UBM event plans: change in the economic climate, the maintained adequate headroom for for Major events, a three-year outbreak of an infectious disease, loss each scenario or where certain period gives sufficient time to of key events staff, a major data scenarios were combined.
review expected revenues breach and the loss of a key venue.
based on advanced bookings Included within the modelling Based on the results of this analysis, and associated risks: and assumption is the bridge facility to the Directors believe that the Group multi-year contracts are entered fund the acquisition of Allworld, as well is well placed to manage its business into with major venues which as potential refinancing measures.
For risks successfully, having taken into extend on average, over a each scenario UBM has also identified account the current economic and three-year period.
the mitigation steps it would take to market trends, and will be able to reduce the risk and performed the continue in operation and meet its The Board has assessed the principal scenario modelling on that basis.
liabilities as they fall due over the risks to the business with severe but These mitigations include the three-year period.
plausible risk scenario modelling identification of business continuity 4 41 1
