Regulators External Audit Strategic report.
Risk management 36 Analysing and managing uncertainty The analysis and management of risk is a fundamental aspect of Ultras operating, financial and governance activities.
Analysing the risks the Group faces, understanding the effectiveness of its responding control environment and early consideration of emerging risks will help Ultra deliver on its commitments, improve long-term performance and enhance its reputation in its markets.
Profitable growth cannot be achieved without The evolution of our risk management maturity The Risk Management Framework facilitates some degree of considered risk.
Our objective will continue in 2017 with particular focus on: the following objectives: to outperform the market in terms of the The embedding of the Risk Management Identication, measurement, control and annual increase in shareholder value is Framework at business level to ensure reporting of risk that can undermine the reflected in our appetite for risk.
We have a consistency in the reporting and escalation business model, future performance, low risk appetite in situations where our of risk awareness across the Group and solvency or liquidity of the Group culture, reputation or financial standing may further embed a risk management culture Better allocation of resources for the be adversely affected: however, we do The implementation of a risk management management of principal and emerging risks consider taking higher risks where the software tool to capture all risk registers Assurance from management that all opportunity is seen to outweigh the risks, and to provide live updates and better risks are owned by a risk lead being an provided appropriate levels of mitigating management information for the risk leads individual best positioned to control and controls are put in place.
The performance of a deep dive into the mitigate the risks Risk management and internal control delivering change principal risk.
Driving business improvements and The Board has overall responsibility for provision of enhanced intelligence for key Risk management establishing, monitoring and maintaining an decision-making The Risk Management Framework governs effective system of risk management.
The Support and developed of our reputation as the approach we take while the LEAP culture responsibility for risk oversight is principally a well-governed and trusted organisation.
and behaviours inherent within Ultra see delegated to the Audit Committee and a page 47 ensure risk consideration is continuous review and challenge of risks is embedded into the way we operate.
provided by the Executive Team.
The approach to risk management across the The risk management process Group has continued to develop and Risk Champions are now an integral part of each Board and Committees Divisions identication, assessment and management of risk.
The work of the Risk Champions is supported by the following Executive Team enhancements which have been implemented during the reporting period covered by this Report: Divisions An internal Group Risk Manager was Aerospace & Infrastructure appointed to provide continuous Communications & Security development and co-ordination of the risk Maritime & Land management framework and to consolidate, challenge and report on all risk management information First Line Second Line Third Line Deep divereviews were performed in Risk and control Group and Independent challenge respect to contract win delivery and the processes as part of Divisional oversight to the levels of assurance business as usual provided by management Companys acquisition process in order to Group Board & Committees on the effectiveness of support the management of the growth oversight and challenge Group Operating Manual governance, risk setting out policies & Executive Team oversight principal risk see case study outlining the management and internal processes and challenge controls actions resulting from the contract win Training and development Divisional business Internal Audit delivery deep dive and case study on the performance reviews Regulatory and compliance provided by PwC integration of the Herley acquisition on requirements Divisional Control Review Other independent assurance meetings page 37 Risk registers activities e. g. health, safety Six-monthly Compliance and environment audits The Risk Appetite metrics were reviewed Reports An assessment of the Groups aggregate Review of monthly Business Performance Reports including risks was undertaken by the Board.
Financial Performance Co-ordination of the implementation of the Risk Management Framework provided by Deloitte Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Risk management 37 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties The key components of the Risk Management Case study Framework are: Deep dive OVERSIGHT STRUCTURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY The deep dive risk review focused on the that the risk appetite gate reviews for all The risk management oversight structure has challenges and areas of concern associated major bids and contracts are aligned with been developed using the principles of the with the conversion of pipeline opportunities the approved bid terms.
three lines of defence ensuring risk is into contract wins and the delivery of Other key controls introduced in the new considered from both a top-down and a contracted customer commitments on policies include: bottom-up perspective with risk information budget, on time and to the agreed quality captured at strategic, Divisional and An improved bid approval process and specification.
The use of risk registers at a project level The current risk exposure was identified, aligned with the Group methodology PROCESS mitigation measures were assessed, lessons The risk management process is focused on risk The reporting of significant project risks by learnt were documented and actions to identication using cause and effect analysis, the businesses to their Division on a enhance the existing controls were inherent pre controls and residual post monthly basis allocated.
The risk appetite statements and controls assessment, control identication supporting metrics were also reviewed and Ensuring only individuals with the and the development and implementation of updated.
A key action resulting from the appropriate competences are engaged to further mitigation strategies.
review was to update the Groups bid undertake the contract and project management and contract management ESCALATION, MONITORING management roles.
policies to ensure, amongst other things, AND REPORTING Changes to risk exposure are notied through the governance structure as risks emerge and are identied.
Risk leads are identied for all risks and they have the Case study responsibility for monitoring the effectiveness Herley acquisition of current controls and the progress against the implementation of further mitigating In August 2015 Ultra completed its largest TRAINING actions.
The risk reporting ow is based on a ever acquisition when the Electronic External training was provided to the senior combination of annual, biannual, quarterly Products Division of Kratos Defense & management team, focusing on the key and monthly reporting to the Board, Audit Security Solutions was purchased for $258m vision for the business and its strategic goals Committee, Executive Team and Divisional now Ultra Electronics Herley.
This together with blockers which had the individual business management teams.
A acquisition provided Ultra with an established potential to slow progress.
The senior risk management software tool which is major presence in the Electronic Warfare management team also attended Ultras being introduced will facilitate this process.
However, it brought about other Maximising Leadership Impact MLI course.
challenges which, had they not been The principal risks and uncertainties which 24 employees were selected from across managed effectively, could have had a could have a material impact on the Groups the sites to attend two separate Making a material impact on the Groups performance.
performance have not changed signicantly Difference MAD workshops.
The themes This case study outlines the steps taken by from those set out in the Groups 2015 Annual for the workshops included operational Ultra to mitigate the Herley integration risk.
However, following a efficiency, YOURviews action plans and review by the Board during 2016, the number INTEGRATION creating a One Herley culture.
of principal risks has been reduced and some Following a series of welcome presentations COLLABORATIVE WORKING risks have been reclassied to improve scrutiny, by the Chief Executive to all Herley employees A cross-site Operations Council was management and reporting.
Each principal risk the Divisional MD relocated to Herleys established to exploit the gross margin continues to have an Executive Team risk Woburn facility to manage the integration efficiency savings assumed in the owner allocated to them who is responsible for activities.
A baseline integration plan was business case.
risk mitigation, management and reporting.
formed, responsibilities were assigned and Within 12 months of the acquisition fortnightly progress meetings were scheduled During the last year the Board considered the Herley was fully engaged in the S3 to ensure key objectives were met.
impact on the Group of the EU referendum programme including: and considered that the decision for the UK Within six months of the acquisition a involvement in meetings around the to exit the EU does not pose a significant risk YOURviews survey was conducted to consolidation of all US purchasing, and for Ultra.
Key metrics showed that 86% of all Herley employees evaluating options to maximise the sale value of unused land in Lancaster.
thought the transition to Ultra was handled well and 90% enjoyed working at Herley.
BOARD FOCUS AND CONTROL During 2016, the Board received quarterly reports on the Ultra Electronics Herley integration plan to ensure the integration risk was being managed effectively and appropriate controls had been established.
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Strategic report.
Risk management 38 Principal risks The Groups reclassied principal 2016 Principal Risks 2015 Principal Risks risks are set out opposite, along Risk 1.
Growth Strategy and market environment Decreased risk with the principal risks reported Contract win delivery Innovation and development in 2015 which they have Acquisitions replaced, and on the following Risk 2.
Delivering change No change Increased risk pages, together with details of Risk 3.
People and culture People No significant change their potential impacts, examples Culture of the current controls and Risk 4.
Information management Cyber No significant change mitigation actions taken to and security Intellectual property information security manage the risk and an Risk 5.
Supply chain No change No significant change indication of whether the risk Risk 6.
Governance and No change No significant change internal controls exposure is increasing, Risk 7.
Pensions No change Decreased risk decreasing or largely unchanged.
Legislation regulation No change No significant change Risk 9.
Health, safety No change No significant change and environment newly reclassied risk.
Note: the Treasury and Tax risk reported in 2015 is no longer considered a principal risk.
Growth Trend: Decreased risk Changes during 2016 Whilst the defence market has been challenging in recent years there are now strong indications of a return to growth, particularly in the USA.
Export markets remain problematic but these constitute only about 15% of revenue.
The Companys focus in the year on its market-facing segment strategies, successfully integrating Ultra Electronics Herley and improving its bid and contract management policies, leaves us well placed to exploit this upturn.
The overall level of risk has reduced from the prior year.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Ultras strategic objective for year on year Poor investment decisions leading to Challenges in the UK defence market offset by growth requires: the ability to respond to inadequate returns expansion into targeted overseas regions changing market dynamics: the capacity to exhibiting long-term growth characteristics Reduced business opportunity and loss of win new business and deliver successfully reputation, customers, market share, revenue The market-facing segment strategies enable against contracted customer requirements: and profit Ultra to utilise the capabilities of its businesses the development of highly differentiated more effectively to deliver enhanced solutions Specialist capabilities eroded through solutions to address customer needs: and the to its customers commoditisation ability to select, execute and integrate The LAUNCH approach to customer Reduction in anticipated acquisition value acquisitions effectively.
engagement ensures Ultra understands the through overpayment, non-delivery of real needs of its customers synergies and or economies of scale and senior management focus diverted away from Following an audit conducted by PwC on delivering business as usual.
Ultras bid process and long-term project management, the Group has revised its internal bid and contract management policies to ensure that bids are submitted and won at acceptable margin levels and risk tolerances and contracts are effectively executed The Board conducts a rigorous review of acquisition opportunities including commissioning third-party market reports and due diligence.
Post-acquisition reviews are performed on all acquisitions comprising integration effectiveness, operational performance compared to expectation and lessons learned.
In 2016, the Board received quarterly reports on the Ultra Electronics See our market section Herley integration plan.
on page 2 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc.
Risk management 39 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk 2.
Delivering change Trend: Increased risk Changes during 2016 The scale and complexity of change has increased as S3 initiatives and business consolidations take effect.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Effective delivery of major change programmes Expected benets of change not realised A deep dive review of this principal risk with minimal effect on business as usual is a in 2017 significant increase in change programme costs key component of Ultras continual drive for An Executive Team sponsor is allocated to all Senior management distraction from business operational improvement.
major change programmes, which are also as usual monitored on a monthly basis by the Board Reduction in employee morale In 2016, PwC undertook a risk review of S3.
The recommendations from this review are being considered for implementation An S3 steering committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, meets monthly to track progress against the plan An S3 communications manager is being recruited with responsibility for implementing See pages 12-13 the communications strategy approved by the for information on S3 S3 steering committee.
People and culture Trend: No significant change Changes during 2016 Talent and succession planning has been a focus for the Board and Executive Team in 2016.
The Board considers there is more work to do in this area and it remains a focus in 2017.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Preserving Ultras culture innovation, agility and Not recruiting and retaining the right Ultra is engaged in a number of initiatives accountability and attracting, developing and employees in the right roles would result in with local schools, colleges and universities retaining the right people who have the domain Ultra being unable to full its contractual which provide access to the best people for its expertise and who embrace Ultras culture is obligations and lead to operational apprenticeship and graduate recruitment critical to the Groups strategic objective.
inefficiencies and loss of productivity programmes.
Employee development needs are identied during the performance and Staff morale could be impaired resulting in a development reviews and future development rise of employee related issues e. g. grievances is aligned with these specic needs and sickness The annual Organisation, Succession & Not maintaining a strong ethical culture would Development Plan OSDP results in highincrease the Groups exposure to legal and potential employees being identied and their regulatory breaches.
The establishment of the Chief Executives Mentoring Club has enhanced this process.
Employee engagement and morale is measured through YOURviews surveys.
The survey identies any areas of concern which are then addressed by the businesses leadership teams Talent and succession planning has been, and See developing Ultras people on will continue to be, a focus for the Board see pages 46-50 page 50.
Risk management 40 Principal risks continued Risk 4.
Information management and security Trend: No significant change Changes during 2016 CORVID Protect and Ultras approach to security provide a high level of assurance.
However, the global increase in the frequency and sophistication of cyber security crime means this risk continues to be a priority for the Company.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The incidence and sophistication of cyber Reduced product differentiation caused by loss Continued investment in Ultras Cyber Protection security crime continues to rise.
The effective of intellectual property Group CPG now part of CORVID Protect, management and protection of information and which provides Group-wide monitoring, incident Reputational damage to Ultra as a highly Ultras IT systems is necessary to prevent loss of response and continued enhancement of Ultras regarded provider of secure data systems data data integrity and disruption to operations.
IT systems and processes Loss of business opportunity with removal of Board is kept updated on CPGs developments government approval to work on classied on protecting Ultras network, including programmes protecting Ultra from phishing attacks Disruption to business activity as systems are The Groups Information Security Policy has cleansed and restored.
been updated Protection of intellectual property was addressed in the bid and contract management review see page 38 Security clearance processes in place for all employees Established physical security processes implemented at all sites.
Supply chain Trend: No significant change Changes during 2016 We do not consider that the level of risk has changed in the year.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The Group relies upon suppliers and Failure to deliver against customer The Bid Management Policy has been updated subcontractors to deliver upon its customer commitments to ensure any major supplier issues and risks commitments.
Ultras supply chain needs to including single-source arrangements are Reduced profit margins and increased be efficient to maintain margins and be highlighted and mitigated against, prior to contractual disputes and litigation compliant with legislation.
customer contracts being accepted Loss of reputation and investor confidence.
The Board has adopted an Anti-Slavery and The Groups manufacturing facilities are Human Trafcking Statement in compliance exposed to natural catastrophe risks and the with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Group is exposed to social, economic, www.
com investors antiregulatory and political conditions in the .
aspx countries in which it operates.
Pre-contract audits of key suppliers and subcontractors and continuing review of their performance Business continuity and IT disaster recovery plans are in place S3 improvements to the supply chain process Business interruption, property damage, See S3 work on improving the professional indemnity and product liability supply chain on pages 12 and 13 insurance.
Risk management 41 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk 6.
Governance and internal controls Trend: No significant change Changes during 2016 We do not consider that the level of risk has changed in the year.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Maintaining corporate governance standards significant financial loss e. g. fraud, theft, The Group Operating Manual and Risk as well as an effective risk management and material errors Management Framework provides clear internal control system is critical to supporting instructions on the Groups internal Loss of reputation and investor confidence the delivery of the Groups strategy.
governance and controls Loss of business opportunity with removal of The businesses provide year end disclosures government approval to work on classied on the effectiveness of their accounting and programmes.
internal control systems Internal Audit conducts an audit of the Group's internal control system Read more about accountability The terms of reference for the Board and on page 64 committees are reviewed and updated annually.
Pensions Trend: Decreased risk Changes during 2016 We consider this risk to have reduced due to the closure of the UK pension scheme to future accrual, the completion of the 2016 triennial valuation and the increase in hedging of the pension scheme liabilities.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The Groups UK dened benefit pension Any increase in the deficit may require Groups UK dened benefit pension scheme scheme needs to be managed to ensure it additional cash contributions and therefore was closed to future accrual with effect from does not become a serious liability for the reduce the available cash for the Group.
There are a number of factors including The Company agreed the pension triennial investment returns, long-term interest rate and valuation in 2016 price ination expectations, and anticipated The Pension Trustees and Company actively members longevity that can increase the consider pension risk reduction activities such liabilities of the scheme.
as liability matching, dynamic fide-risking, pension increase exchange and retirement transfer options The Pension Trustees and Company agreed to increased hedging of the schemes liabilities Read more about the Groups UK in 2016 defined benefit pension scheme The Board undertakes regular Pension on pages 26-27 Strategy Reviews.
Risk management 42 Principal risks continued Risk 8.
Legislation regulation Trend: No significant change Changes during 2016 We do not consider that the level of risk has changed in the year.
The Company continues to take compliance very seriously and the Board and Executive Team strive to reinforce an ethical culture.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : The Group operates in a highly regulated Failure to comply with legislation and The Group Operating Manual has wellenvironment across many jurisdictions and is regulations could result in fines and penalties established and regularly updated policies and subject to regulatory and legislative and or the debarment of the Group from procedures covering legislative and regulatory requirements.
There is a risk that the Group government contracts requirements and compliance training.
Individual may not always be in complete compliance businesses are required to provide compliance Reduced access to export markets could have a with laws, regulations or permits.
statements as part of their monthly business material adverse effect on the Groups future performance reports revenue and profit Export restrictions could become more The Ethics Overview Committee provides arduous and factors outside of Ultras control Loss of reputation and investor confidence.
independent advice and scrutiny of Ultras could result in the Group being unable to business activity and provides assurance that the obtain or maintain necessary export licences.
Groups current and planned undertakings are transparent and conducted in a manner consistent with the legislative environment Employees have access to a Group-wide condential hotline to report anonymously any concerns they may have about possible improprieties and other compliance issues The Company has taken steps to ensure it is compliant with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 The Board receives regular updates and presentations on the Companys legal and regulatory requirements A working group has been established to evaluate the impact of the General Data Read more about Ultras approach Protection Regulation and to ensure Ultra is to ethics on page 51 compliant with its obligations.
Health, safety and environment Trend: No significant change Changes during 2016 Ultra has strong health, safety and environment HS&E processes and procedures.
The Board has a zero appetite for HS&E reportable incidents and has elected to report health and safety as one of its KPIs see page 29.
The externally reportable accident rate per 100 employees and the number of lost time accidents per 1000 employees increased slightly in 2016.
Investigations of these accidents were undertaken and appropriate risk mitigations were implemented.
The Company does not consider the HS&E risk prole of the Group to have changed from last year.
Description Potential impact of failure: Mitigations examples : Ensuring high standards of health and safety of Incidents may occur which could result in The Board has a low appetite for HS&E risk employees and visitors and maintaining our harm to employees and or visitors, the and is committed to ensuring that the Groups commitment to minimise the environmental temporary shutdown of facilities or other leadership see this as a top priority.
Any impact of our activities is of paramount business disruption material incidents are reported to the Board importance to the Company.
along with a correction mitigation plan The Group may be exposed to regulatory action and financial loss The Board undertakes an annual review of HS&E and the Executive Team reviews HS&E Loss of reputation and investor confidence.
Each business conducts Read more about Ultras approach an annual HS&E self-assessment in addition to to HS&E on page 52 a biannual external audit.
Risk management 43 2016 Principal risks and uncertainties Statement of going concern Long-term viability statement Ultras committed banking facilities amount In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the to 482.9m in total, together with a 2014 revision of the Code, the Directors have 15.0m overdraft.
They were established assessed the viability of the Company over a in three tranches.
longer period than the 12 months required by the going concern basis of accounting.
The first tranche comprises 100m of The Board conducted this review for a period revolving credit, denominated in Sterling, US of three years to December 2019, to coincide Dollars, Canadian Dollars, Australian Dollars with its review of the Groups financial or Euros.
This facility was signed in December budgets and medium-term forecasts from its 2012, amended and extended in July 2015 Strategic Plan.
The certainty is lower in later and expires in August 2019.
The facility is years due to the inherent uncertainties in provided by a group of five banks.
The Strategic The second tranche provides a further 200m Plan is underpinned by the regular Executive of revolving credit in the same currencies.
This Team reviews of business unit performance, was signed in August 2014 with seven banks market opportunities and associated risks.
Both facilities The assessment has taken into account the have the same covenants.
Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks documented in The third tranche, agreed in May 2015, is a the Strategic Report.
Based on this $225m term loan with a group of banks from assessment, the Directors have a reasonable our lending group.
This loan, denominated in expectation that the Company will be able to US Dollars, was drawn in full in August 2015 continue in operation and meet its liabilities to complete the Herley acquisition, and expires as they fall due over the period to December in August 2019.
In making this statement, the Directors revolving credit facilities.
have considered the resilience of the Group, The Group also has loan notes in issue to taking account of its current position, the Pricoa: at the year end, $70m 2015: $70m principal risks facing the business in severe of loan notes, which mature in 2018 and but reasonable scenarios and the 2019, had been issued.
effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
This assessment has considered the potential As well as being used to fund acquisitions, impacts of these risks on the business model, the nancing facilities are also used for other future performance, solvency and liquidity balance sheet and operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day working over the period.
The Directors have determined that the three-year period to capital requirements.
The US Dollar December 2019 is an appropriate period to borrowings also represent natural hedges provide its viability statement.
In making their against assets denominated in that currency.
Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity risk assessment, the Directors have taken account of the Groups robust balance sheet, its can be found in note 23 Financial financial covenant headroom, its ability to Instruments and Financial Risk Management.
raise new finance in different financial market Although global macroeconomic conditions conditions and its key potential mitigating remain uncertain, the long-term nature of action of restricting dividend payments.
Ultras business and its positioning in attractive This conclusion is based on a review of the sectors of its markets, taken together with the Groups forward order book, provide a resources available to the Group, taking account of the Groups financial projections satisfactory level of confidence in respect of together with available cash and committed trading in the year to come.
borrowings, financial covenants and any The Directors have a reasonable expectation material uncertainties.
In reaching this that the Group has adequate resources for a conclusion, the Board has considered the period of at least 12 months from the date of magnitude of potential impacts resulting approval of the financial statements and have from uncertain future events or changes in therefore assessed that the going concern conditions, the likelihood of their occurrence basis of accounting is appropriate in preparing and the likely effectiveness of mitigating actions the financial statements and that there are no that the Directors would consider undertaking.
