RISKS We have a framework of Code Policies that underpin the Code of OUR RISK APPETITE AND APPROACH TO Business Principles and set out the non-negotiable standards of behaviour expected from all our employees.
RISK MANAGEMENT For each of our principal risks we have a risk management Risk management is integral to Unilevers strategy and to the framework detailing the controls we have in place and who is achievement of Unilevers long-term goals.
Our success as an responsible for managing both the overall risk and the individual organisation depends on our ability to identify and exploit the controls mitigating that risk.
opportunities generated by our business and the markets we are in.
In doing this we take an embedded approach to risk management which Unilevers functional standards define mandatory requirements across puts risk and opportunity assessment at the core of the leadership team a range of specialist areas such as health and safety, accounting and agenda, which is where we believe it should be.
reporting and financial risk management.
Unilever adopts a risk profile that is aligned to our Vision to accelerate PROCESSES growth in the business while reducing our environmental footprint and Unilever operates a wide range of processes and activities across all increasing our positive social impact.
Our appetite for risk is driven by its operations covering strategy, planning, execution and performance the following: management.
Risk management is integrated into every stage of this Our growth should be consistent, competitive, profitable business cycle.
These procedures are formalised and documented and and responsible.
are increasingly being centralised and automated into transactional Our behaviours must be in line with our Code of Business and other information technology systems.
We strive to continuously improve our operational efficiency ASSURANCE AND RE-ASSURANCE and effectiveness.
Assurance on compliance with the Code of Business Principles and all We aim to maintain a strong single A credit rating on a of our Code Policies is obtained annually from Unilever management via long-term basis.
In addition, there are specialist awareness and training programmes which are run throughout the year and vary Our approach to risk management is designed to provide reasonable, but depending on the business priorities.
These specialist compliance not absolute, assurance that our assets are safeguarded, the risks programmes supplement the Code declaration.
Our Corporate Audit facing the business are being assessed and mitigated and all information function plays a vital role in providing to both management and the that may be required to be disclosed is reported to Unilevers senior Boards an objective and independent review of the effectiveness of risk management including, where appropriate, the Chief Executive Officer management and internal control systems throughout Unilever.
ORGANISATION The Unilever Boards assume overall accountability for the management BOARDS ASSESSMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH of risk and for reviewing the effectiveness of Unilevers risk management THE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORKS and internal control systems.
The Boards, advised by the Committees where appropriate, regularly The Boards have established a clear organisational structure with well review the significant risks and decisions that could have a material defined accountabilities for the principal risks that Unilever faces in impact on Unilever.
These reviews consider the level of risk that the short, medium and long-term.
This organisational structure and Unilever is prepared to take in pursuit of the business strategy and distribution of accountabilities and responsibilities ensure that every the effectiveness of the management controls in place to mitigate the country in which we operate has specific resources and processes for risk exposure.
risk review and risk mitigation.
This is supported by the Unilever Leadership Executive, which takes active responsibility for focusing on The Boards, through the Audit Committee, have reviewed the the principal areas of risk to Unilever.
The Boards regularly review assessment of risks, internal controls and disclosure controls and these risk areas, including consideration of environmental, social and procedures in operation within Unilever.
They have also considered the governance matters, and retain responsibility for determining the effectiveness of any remedial actions taken for the year covered by this nature and extent of the significant risks that Unilever is prepared to report and up to the date of its approval by the Boards.
take to achieve its strategic objectives.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this can FOUNDATION AND PRINCIPLES be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 42 to 43.
Unilevers approach to doing business is framed by our Purpose and Further statements on compliance with the specific risk values.
Our Code of Business Principles sets out the standards of management and control requirements in the Dutch Corporate behaviour that we expect all employees to adhere to.
Day-to-day Governance Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the US responsibility for ensuring these principles are applied throughout Securities Exchange Act 1934 and the Sarbanes-Oxley 2002 Act Unilever rests with senior management across categories, can be found on pages 33 to 35. geographies and functions.
A network of Business Integrity Officers and Committees supports the activities necessary to communicate the Code, deliver training, maintain processes and procedures including support lines to report and respond to alleged breaches, and to capture and communicate learnings.
36 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 VIABILITY STATEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect its Our business is subject to risks and uncertainties.
On the following future development, performance, the financial position of the Group, pages we have identified the risks that we regard as the most relevant its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described to our business.
These are the risks that we see as most material to on pages 1 to 28.
In addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages Unilevers business and performance at this time.
There may be other 110 to 124 the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing risks that could emerge in the future.
its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its Our risk profile has not fundamentally changed this year but we have financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit now more clearly highlighted that Climate Change is one of our and liquidity risk.
For a number of years we have recognised that changes in climate pose a risk to our business and hence as a part of ASSESSMENT our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan we are trying to both reduce our In order to report on the long-term viability of the Group, the Directors impact on climate change and to prepare ourselves for the impact carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the climate change will have on our business in the coming years, and Group, including those that would threaten its business model, this risk and our management approach were outlined within our future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This assessment included Sustainability risk factor.
However following discussions at the United reviewing and understanding the mitigation factors in respect of each Nations Convention on Climate Change, 21st Conference and the of those risks.
The risks and mitigating factors are summarised on Financial Services Board Taskforce on Climate Related Financial pages 37 to 41.
Disclosures, it is clear that the impacts of climate change itself and The viability assessment has two parts: the potential actions government may take are of such significance First, the Directors considered the period over which they have a that Climate Risk should be separately identified.
reasonable expectation that the Group will continue to operate and As well as identifying the most relevant risks for our business we meet its liabilities: and reflect on whether we think the level of risk associated with each of Second, they considered the potential impact of severe but plausible our principal risk factors is increasing or decreasing.
There are two scenarios over this period, including: areas where we believe there is an increased level of risk which are: assessing scenarios for each individual principal risk, for example Information Protection: the digital revolution is happening at such the termination of our relationships with the three largest global a pace both in terms of technological capabilities and in our ability customers: the loss of all material litigation cases: and the to collect and use consumer data such that we believe the risk destruction of three of our largest sourcing units: and around security of information, including the privacy of consumer assessing scenarios that involve more than one principal risk data is increasing.
We are doing much work to enhance our such as: information security controls and indeed the digital revolution is - a contamination issue with one of our products, leading to a also helping us to better manage this risk.
fine equal to 1% of Group turnover, lower sales of impacted Business Transformation: we are continuously transforming our products and temporary closure of our largest sourcing unit: business to remain competitive, however with Connected 4 Growth - a major IT data breach resulting in a fine equal to 2% of we are implementing a particularly large transformation so we Group turnover along with an outage in a key system believe the level of risk is currently heightened and will remain so resulting in the temporary inability to sell products: and for 2017.
Post 2017 this initiative will reduce risk in the - a global economic downturn leading to an increase in organisation as it will improve competitiveness.
funding costs and the loss of our three largest customers.
We also comment below on certain mitigating actions that we believe FINDINGS help us to manage these risks.
However, we may not be successful in A three-year period is considered appropriate for this assessment deploying some or all of these mitigating actions.
If the because it is the period covered by the strategic plan: and it enables a circumstances in these risks occur or are not successfully mitigated, high level of confidence in assessing viability, even in extreme adverse our cash flow, operating results, financial position, business and events, due to a number of factors such as: reputation could be materially adversely affected.
In addition, risks the Group has considerable financial resources together with and uncertainties could cause actual results to vary from those established business relationships with many customers and described, which may include forward-looking statements, or could impact on our ability to meet our targets or be detrimental to our suppliers in countries throughout the world: profitability or reputation.
high cash generation by the Groups operations: flexibility of cash outflow including significant marketing and capital expenditure: and the Groups diverse product and geographical operations.
Taking into account the Groups current positon and plans, the Directors believe that there is no plausible scenario that would threaten our business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity over the next three years.
CONCLUSION On the basis described above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 37 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK BRAND PREFERENCE We continuously monitor external market trends and collate As a branded goods business, Unilevers success depends on consumer, customer and shopper insight in order to develop category the value and relevance of our brands and products to and brand strategies.
consumers around the world and on our ability to innovate and remain competitive.
Our strategy focuses on investing in markets and segments which we identify as attractive because we have already built, or are confident that Consumer tastes, preferences and behaviours are constantly we can build, competitive advantage.
changing and Unilevers ability to anticipate and respond to these changes and to continue to differentiate our brands and products Our Research and Development function actively searches for ways in is vital to our business.
which to translate the trends in consumer preference and taste into new technologies for incorporation into future products.
We are dependent on creating innovative products that continue to meet the needs of our consumers.
If we are unable to innovate Our innovation management process deploys tools, technologies and effectively, Unilevers sales or margins could be materially resources to convert category strategies into projects and category plans, adversely affected.
develop products and relevant brand communication and successfully roll out new products to our consumers.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Unilevers strategic investment choices will affect the Our Compass strategy and our business plans are designed to ensure that resources are prioritised towards those categories and markets having the long-term growth and profits of our business.
greatest long-term potential for Unilever.
Unilevers growth and profitability are determined by our portfolio of Our acquisition activity is driven by our portfolio strategy with a clear, categories, geographies and channels and how these evolve over time.
If Unilever does not make optimal strategic investment decisions then opportunities for growth and improved margin could be missed.
SUSTAINABILITY The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan sets clear long-term commitments to The success of our business depends on finding sustainable improve health and well-being, reduce environmental impact and enhance solutions to support long-term growth.
Underpinning these are targets in areas such as hygiene, Unilevers Vision to accelerate growth in the business while nutrition, sustainable sourcing, fairness in the workplace, opportunities for reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive women and inclusive business as well as greenhouse gas emissions, water social impact will require more sustainable ways of doing business.
These targets and more sustainable ways of operating are In a world where resources are scarce and demand for them being integrated into Unilevers day-to-day business through initiatives continues to increase it is critical that we succeed in reducing our such as efficient packaging design, waste reduction and recycling and resource consumption and converting to sustainably sourced converting to use of renewable energy.
In doing this we are dependent on the efforts of partners and various certification bodies.
We are also committed to improving Progress towards the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan is monitored by the health and well-being and enhancing livelihoods around the world Unilever Leadership Executive and the Boards.
The Unilever Sustainable so Unilever and our communities grow successfully together.
There Living Plan Council, comprising six external specialists in sustainability, can be no assurance that sustainable business solutions will be guides and critiques the development of our strategy.
developed and failure to do so could limit Unilevers growth and profit potential and damage our corporate reputation.
CLIMATE CHANGE As part of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan we monitor climate change Climate changes and governmental actions to reduce such and are responding by developing operations and products with reduced changes may disrupt our operations and or reduce consumer environmental impact.
We seek to develop products that will require less water during Climate changes are occurring around the globe which may impact consumer use.
our business in various ways.
We aim to minimise our impact on climate change through committing to They could lead to water shortages which would reduce demand for emission reduction targets and have developed a roadmap to be carbon those of our products that require a significant amount of water positive by 2030. during consumer use.
They could also lead to an increase in raw material prices or reduced availability.
We monitor trends in raw material availability and pricing, and proactively reformulate our products where appropriate.
Governments may take action to reduce climate change such as the introduction of a carbon tax which could impact our business We monitor governmental developments around actions to combat climate through higher costs or reduced flexibility of operations.
change and act to minimise the impact on our operations.
Climate change could result therefore in making products less affordable or less available for our consumers resulting in reduced growth and profitability.
38 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS We build and maintain trading relationships across a broad spectrum of Successful customer relationships are vital to our business channels ranging from centrally managed multinational customers and continued growth.
through to small traders accessed via distributors in many developing Maintaining strong relationships with our existing customers and countries.
We identify changing shopper habits and build relationships building relationships with new customers who serve changing with new customers, such as those serving the e-commerce channel.
shopper habits are necessary to ensure our brands are well presented to our consumers and available for purchase at all times.
We develop joint business plans with our key customers that include detailed investment plans and customer service objectives and we The strength of our customer relationships also affects our ability to regularly monitor progress.
obtain pricing and competitive trade terms.
Failure to maintain strong relationships with customers could negatively impact our We have developed capabilities for customer sales and outlet design terms of business with affected customers and reduce the availability which enable us to find new ways to improve customer performance of our products to consumers.
and enhance our customer relationships.
We invest in technology to optimise order and stock management processes for our distributive trade customers.
TALENT AND ORGANISATION Resource committees have been established and implemented A skilled workforce and agile organisation are essential for throughout our business.
These committees have responsibility for the continued success of our business.
identifying future skills and capability needs, developing career paths Our ability to attract, develop, organise and retain the right number of and identifying the key talent and leaders of the future.
appropriately qualified people is critical if we are to compete and We have an integrated management development process which grow effectively.
includes regular performance reviews underpinned by a common set of This is especially true in our key emerging markets where there can leadership behaviours, skills and competencies.
be a high level of competition for a limited talent pool.
The loss of management or other key personnel or the inability to identify, attract We have targeted programmes to attract and retain top talent and we and retain qualified personnel could make it difficult to manage the actively monitor our performance in retaining talent within Unilever.
business and could adversely affect operations and financial results.
We regularly review our ways of working and organisation structures to ensure that we drive speed and simplicity through our business to remain agile and responsive to market place trends.
SUPPLY CHAIN We have contingency plans designed to enable us to secure alternative Our business depends on purchasing materials, efficient key material supplies at short notice, to transfer or share production manufacturing and the timely distribution of products to between manufacturing sites and to use substitute materials in our our customers.
Our supply chain network is exposed to potentially adverse events These contingency plans also extend to an ability to intervene directly to such as physical disruptions, environmental and industrial support a key supplier should it for any reason find itself in difficulty or accidents or bankruptcy of a key supplier which could impact our be at risk of negatively affecting a Unilever product.
ability to deliver orders to our customers.
We have policies and procedures designed to ensure the health and The cost of our products can be significantly affected by the cost of safety of our employees and the products in our facilities, and to deal the underlying commodities and materials from which they are with major incidents including business continuity and disaster recovery.
Fluctuations in these costs cannot always be passed on to the consumer through pricing.
Commodity price risk is actively managed through forward buying of traded commodities and other hedging mechanisms.
Trends are monitored and modelled regularly and integrated into our forecasting process.
SAFE AND HIGH QUALITY PRODUCTS Our product quality processes and controls are comprehensive, The quality and safety of our products are of paramount from product design to customer shelf.
They are verified annually and importance for our brands and our reputation.
regularly monitored through performance indicators that drive continuous The risk that raw materials are accidentally or maliciously improvement activities.
Our key suppliers are externally certified and the contaminated throughout the supply chain or that other product quality of material received is regularly monitored to ensure that it meets defects occur due to human error, equipment failure or other the rigorous quality standards that our products require.
factors cannot be excluded.
In the event of an incident relating to the safety of our consumers or the quality of our products, incident management teams are activated in the affected markets under the direction of our product quality, science and communications experts, to ensure timely and effective market place action.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 39 RISKS CONTINUED DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK SYSTEMS AND INFORMATION We have policies covering the protection of both business and personal Unilevers operations are increasingly dependent on IT information, as well as the use of IT systems and applications by our systems and the management of information.
Our employees are trained to understand these Increasing digital interactions with customers, suppliers and requirements.
We also have a set of IT security standards and closely consumers place ever greater emphasis on the need for secure monitor their operation to protect our systems and information.
and reliable IT systems and infrastructure and careful We maintain a global system for the control and reporting of access to management of the information that is in our possession.
This is supported by an annual programme of Disruption of our IT systems could inhibit our business operations testing of access controls.
in a number of ways, including disruption to sales, production and Hardware that runs and manages core operating data is fully backed up cash flows, ultimately impacting our results.
with separate contingency systems to provide real time back-up There is also a threat from unauthorised access and misuse of operations should they ever be required.
Unilevers information systems could be We have standardised ways of hosting information on our public subject to unauthorised access or the mistaken disclosure of websites and have systems in place to monitor compliance with information which disrupts Unilevers business and or leads to appropriate privacy laws and regulations, and with our own policies.
BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION Successful execution of business transformation projects is All acquisitions, disposals and global restructuring projects are sponsored by a member of the Unilever Leadership Executive.
Regular key to delivering their intended business benefits and progress updates are provided to the Unilever Leadership Executive.
avoiding disruption to other business activities.
Sound project disciplines are used in all acquisitions, disposals and Unilever is continually engaged in major change projects, including organisational transformation projects and these projects are acquisitions, disposals and organisational transformation, to drive resourced by dedicated and appropriately qualified personnel.
continuous improvement in our business and to strengthen our portfolio and capabilities.
Unilever also monitors the volume of change programmes under way in an effort to stagger the impact on current operations and to ensure Failure to execute such transactions or change projects successfully minimal disruption.
could result in under-delivery of the expected benefits.
Furthermore, disruption may be caused in other parts of the business.
ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL INSTABILITY The breadth of Unilevers portfolio and our geographic reach help to Unilever operates around the globe and is exposed to mitigate our exposure to any particular localised risk.
Our flexible economic and political instability that may reduce consumer business model allows us to adapt our portfolio and respond quickly to demand for our products, disrupt sales operations and or develop new offerings that suit consumers and customers changing impact the profitability of our operations.
Adverse economic conditions may affect one or more countries We regularly update our forecast of business results and cash flows within a region, or may extend globally.
and, where necessary, rebalance investment priorities.
Government actions such as foreign exchange or price controls We believe that many years of exposure to emerging markets have can impact on the growth and profitability of our local operations.
given us experience of operating and developing our business In 2016, more than half of Unilevers turnover came from emerging successfully during periods of economic and political volatility.
markets which can offer greater growth opportunities but also expose Unilever to related economic and political volatility.
40 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 DESCRIPTION OF RISK WHAT WE ARE DOING TO MANAGE THE RISK TREASURY AND PENSIONS Currency exposures are managed within prescribed limits and by Unilever is exposed to a variety of external financial risks in the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
Further, operating relation to Treasury and Pensions.
companies borrow in local currency except where inhibited by local The relative values of currencies can fluctuate widely and could have a regulations, lack of local liquidity or local market conditions.
We also significant impact on business results.
Further, because Unilever hedge some of our exposures through the use of foreign currency consolidates its financial statements in euros it is subject to exchange borrowing or forward exchange contracts.
risks associated with the translation of the underlying net assets and Our interest rate management approach aims to achieve an optimal earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
balance between fixed and floating rate interest exposures on expected We are also subject to the imposition of exchange controls by net debt.
individual countries which could limit our ability to import materials We seek to manage our liquidity requirements by maintaining access to paid in foreign currency or to remit dividends to the parent company.
global debt markets through short-term and long-term debt Unilever may face liquidity risk, ie difficulty in meeting its obligations, programmes.
In addition, we have high committed credit facilities for associated with its financial liabilities.
A material and sustained general corporate purposes.
shortfall in our cash flow could undermine Unilevers credit rating, Group treasury regularly monitors exposure to our banks, tightening impair investor confidence and also restrict Unilevers ability to counter-party limits where appropriate.
Unilever actively manages its raise funds.
banking exposures on a daily basis.
We are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations on our floating rate We regularly assess and monitor counter-party risk in our customers debt.
Increases in benchmark interest rates could increase the interest and take appropriate action to manage our exposures.
cost of our floating rate debt and increase the cost of future borrowings.
Our pension investment standards require us to invest across a range In times of financial market volatility, we are also potentially exposed to of equities, bonds, property, alternative assets and cash such that the counter-party risks with banks, suppliers and customers.
failure of any single investment will not have a material impact on the Certain businesses have defined benefit pension plans, most now closed overall value of assets.
to new employees, which are exposed to movements in interest rates, The majority of our assets, including those held in our pooled investment fluctuating values of underlying investments and increased life vehicle, Univest, are managed by external fund managers and are expectancy.
Changes in any or all of these inputs could potentially regularly monitored by pension trustees and central pensions and increase the cost to Unilever of funding the schemes and therefore investment teams.
have an adverse impact on profitability and cash flow.
Further information on financial instruments and capital and treasury risk management is included in note 16 on pages 115 to 120.
ETHICAL Our Code of Business Principles and our Code Policies govern the Acting in an ethical manner, consistent with the expectations of behaviour of our employees, suppliers, distributors and other third customers, consumers and other stakeholders, is essential for parties who work with us.
the protection of the reputation of Unilever and its brands.
Our processes for identifying and resolving breaches of our Code of Unilevers brands and reputation are valuable assets and the way in Business Principles and our Code Policies are clearly defined and which we operate, contribute to society and engage with the world regularly communicated throughout Unilever.
Data relating to such around us is always under scrutiny both internally and externally.
breaches is reviewed by the Unilever Leadership Executive and by Despite the commitment of Unilever to ethical business and the relevant Board Committees and helps to determine the allocation of steps we take to adhere to this commitment, there remains a risk resources for future policy development, process improvement, that activities or events cause us to fall short of our desired training and awareness initiatives.
standard, resulting in damage to Unilevers corporate reputation and business results.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY Unilever is committed to complying with the laws and regulations of Compliance with laws and regulations is an essential part of the countries in which we operate.
In specialist areas the relevant Unilevers business operations.
teams at global, regional or local levels are responsible for setting Unilever is subject to national and regional laws and regulations in detailed standards and ensuring that all employees are aware of such diverse areas as product safety, product claims, trademarks, and comply with regulations and laws specific and relevant to their copyright, patents, competition, employee health and safety, the roles.
environment, corporate governance, listing and disclosure, employment and taxes.
Our legal and regulatory specialists are heavily involved in monitoring and reviewing our practices to provide reasonable assurance that we Failure to comply with laws and regulations could expose Unilever to remain aware of and in line with all relevant laws and legal civil and or criminal actions leading to damages, fines and criminal obligations.
sanctions against us and or our employees with possible consequences for our corporate reputation.
Our Global Tax Principles provide overarching governance and we have a Tax Risk Framework in place which sets out the controls Changes to laws and regulations could have a material impact on the established to assess and monitor tax risk for direct and indirect cost of doing business.
Tax, in particular, is a complex area where laws taxes.
We monitor proposed changes in taxation legislation and and their interpretation are changing regularly, leading to the risk of ensure these are taken into account when we consider our future unexpected tax exposures.
International tax reform remains a key focus business plans.
of attention with the OECDs Base Erosion & Profit Shifting project and further potential tax reform in the EU and the United States.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Governance 41
