RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT IDENTIFYING AND UNDERSTANDING KEY RISKS TO THE BUSINESS We operate within a complex regulatory environment, which is This section provides an overview of our risk management process, subject to change, and the nature of pharmaceutical development the key risks currently faced by the business and the actions that exposes us to a number of risks and uncertainties.
Our ability to we have taken to mitigate them.
Not all the risks identified as part meet our goals and objectives may be affected by a number of of our risk management processes are detailed in this section: these risks, which could impact our strategy, business model and instead this report focuses on the risks that the Directors believe operating environment.
are the most important and material to the business.
As with all businesses operating in such a dynamic environment, some risks We have developed and implemented a risk management process may not yet be known while other low level risks could become which is designed to ensure that significant risks are identified, material in the future.
assessed, managed and reported to relevant stakeholders in a concise and timely manner toinform and support decision making.
1 Strategy 6 2 Risk Reporting identification 5 3 Executing and Risk monitoring assessment 4 Risk mitigation Objectives of the Vectura risk management process: to ensure that the risk appetite of the Board is embedded to control systematic risks within the organisation by throughout the organisation and fully understood by those maintaining and improving a system of internal controls to who are responsible for managing risk and making key manage risks in decision making, legal contract management, decisions across the business: quality and regulatory processes and the processing offinancial transactions: and to identify and assess the likelihood and potential impact ofthe risks that Vectura faces in the execution of its strategy to ensure that identified risks are reported to relevant and the operation of its business model, and ensure that stakeholders in a timely manner to facilitate effective appropriate mitigating actions and controls are in place decision making.
suchthat the residual risk is aligned to the riskappetite ofthe Board: 20 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Vecturas Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and risk management process on behalf of the Board.
In reviewing the canonly provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against effectiveness of the process, the Audit Committee recognises that material misstatement or loss.
such a process is designed to understand and mitigate, rather than Setting the tone Designing the system Completing the review The Board Executive Leadership Team Heads of departments andprojects Accountable for ensuring that a Responsible for ensuring that the risk soundsystem of risk management management and internal control Responsible for updating department andinternal control is in place systems are appropriately designed and project risk registers and reporting and implemented significant risks to the Executive Responsible for conducting an annual Leadership Team effectiveness review of the Groups Responsible for ensuring that the risk appetite of the Board is appropriately Responsible for implementing riskmanagement and internal control systems.
This review covers all understood by risk owners and key andmonitoring any mitigating decision makers actionsandcontrols materialcontrols, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
Responsible for reviewing the Responsible for training and The scope of this review extends to a business-wide and project risk registers educatingdepartment and project review of the Groups principal risks team members about Vecturas risk Responsible for conducting an annual management process Following this review having been assessment of strategic risks for carried out and reported to the Board, discussion at Board level the Board continues to believe that the Groups risk management and internal control systems are appropriate and operating effectively.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the most recent review by the AuditCommittee Responsible for reporting to shareholders about the Groups riskmanagement Review of process Review of high risk areas Risk registers and outputs Read more on our principal risks and uncertainties overleaf Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 21 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Our principal risks and uncertainties During the year, a robust assessment of the principal risks facing principal risks.
The underlying analysis that has been performed has Vectura has been carried out.
These include the principal risks that included stress testing of different scenarios ofthese principal risks.
could threaten the execution of Vecturas strategy, achievement Certain risks, notably risks 2, 4, 7, 9 and 10, are risks that have ofobjectives, future performance, business model, solvency and been newly identified or escalated to be principal risks in the liquidity, and are outlined below.
Some of these risks are specific past year and reflect the dynamic nature of the risk environment tothe Group and others are more generally applicable to the in which Vectura operates, as well asthe ability of our risk pharmaceutical industry or specific markets within which Vectura management system to detect and respond to such changes.
The risks are considered within the timeframe of three A number of principal risks from 2015 have also been fide-escalated years, which is the same time period that has been used in the or are no longer relevant.
The Viability Statement takes into account the Increased risk Decreased risk No change STRATEGIC RISKS 1.
Product exposure to generic competition before anticipated patent expiration date could erode value ofon-market branded products or future value of development programmes Risk Mitigating activities Trend Generic drug manufacturers seeking marketing approval for products Vectura owns a portfolio of patents and patent applications 2016 protected by Vectura or partner patents could be successful andis the authorised licensee of other patents.
Dedicated internal inattacking the validity or enforceability of Vectura or partner resource, supplemented with external expertise where required, patents.
This would result in the product being exposed to generic continually reviews the intellectual property landscape relevant competition before the anticipated expiration date ofthe patent, to our products, development programmes and manufacturing 2015 materially affecting Vecturas revenues or the anticipated value activities.
Risks are communicated to the business and any ofprogrammes currently in development.
challenges to Vectura patents are rigorously defended.
The IP team ensures that changes in patent laws and regulations are Other competitors routinely challenge Vectura patents, which incorporated into processes for obtaining, maintaining and could impact on current and future revenue streams if successful.
Processes are in place to ensure that patent applications are filedin a timely manner and are prosecuted diligently.
Robust processes are in place to automate patent renewals.
Internal controls are in place to avoid disclosure ofpatentable material prior to filing patent applications to protect know-how.
Third-party patents could limit the Groups freedom to operate FTO Risk Mitigating activities Trend A third-party patent could be granted with broad claims that read The Group is very diligent in carrying out freedom to operate 2016 on to a Vectura technology, device or product, which could result searches to identify potential third-party IP.
In some cases this in Vectura or a partner potentially having to take licence, or even responsibility is with Vectura partners, with appropriate strategies being unable to commercialise a product, materially affecting and action plans agreed with Vectura partners where necessary.
22 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Increased risk Decreased risk No change STRATEGIC RISKS CONTINUED 3.
C orporate inexperience of late phase development could result in delays to programmes or missed financialtargets Risk Mitigating activities Trend The Group has not previously taken a product to market onits Individuals with the necessary skills and experience havebeen 2016 own: however, it is now focusing on a number of late-stage wholly recruited into the Group to lead and oversee thedevelopment of owned development programmes which may ultimately provide the Groups late-stage assets.
The Group continues to work with a the Group with the opportunity to self-commercialise.
Failure to network of experienced consultants and contractors who 2015 complete development activities to plan may impact the Groups provide additional support and expertise as required.
The changing ability to bring products to market on time, which may further resource requirements of the Group are fully considered as part erode the potential value of such programmes and would hinder of the people strategy in place.
the Groups ability todeliver its stated strategy.
The Group has an established governance process to oversee theconduct and delivery of all development programmes and toensure that any potential changes to the development plan or budget are identified and discussed in a timely manner such that mitigating activities or actions can be put in place as required.
Failure to successfully integrate post-merger may lead to increased costs, loss of key personnel, delaysindelivering strategic objectives and failure to deliver communicated cost synergies Risk Mitigating activities Trend Corporate inexperience in large M&A could result in the suboptimal Structured post-merger integration plans have been established 2016 management of the proposed merger with Skyepharma PLC, to help ensure that the integration is executed successfully.
resulting in loss of key personnel, cost reduction synergies not Vectura also has access to, and support from, external subject being delivered and failure to achieve desired return on capital.
The internal team has grown and the team has Loss of key personnel could have a material impact on the gained experience from the successful integration of Activaero.
A range of benefits, including long-term incentive plans, areutilised to encourage retention of key personnel.
Loss of, or reliance on, a strategically important partnership may materially impact the Groups current andfuture revenues and costs Risk Mitigating activities Trend Vectura currently has a number of strategically important Vectura has an agreed process for managing and entering 2016 partnerships, collaborations and licensing arrangements for the agreements and this includes appropriate oversight and approval development, manufacture and commercialisation of certain at Board level.
All collaborations are performed under a suitable pipeline and commercial assets.
Loss of any one of our strategically legal agreement which is assessed by Vectura and its external important partnerships, collaborations or licensing arrangements legal advisors.
2015 could havea material impact on Vecturas future prospects.
Typically, for collaborations a joint steering committee JSC will Vectura has a number of products that are marketed by partners be established, which provides a mechanism by which Vectura and we are dependent upon those partners for obtaining regulatory can ensure that any joint project team activity is managed approval for, and the marketing and commercialisation of, those appropriately within our standard project management processes.
The marketing and commercialisation strategy taken by An alliance manager is identified for all licensing partnerships or a partner could materially impact the level of royalties earned by Vectura.
Vectura is also reliant on suppliers for the development and Vectura has a broad list of disclosed and undisclosed partners, manufacture of certain devices.
Any poor performance of the thereby mitigating the loss of any one particular partnership due thirdparties could delay or prevent devices from being successfully to strategic and or operational reasons beyond the control of Vectura.
developed and delivered to plan.
This could result in key development milestones being missed or associated payments being delayed and could also affect partners confidence in Vecturas ability to deliver.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 23 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Increased risk Decreased risk No change OPERATIONAL RISKS 6.
Operational disruption Risk Mitigating activities Trend Events such as fire or flood that lead to significant and prolonged Vectura identifies key suppliers in relation to its business 2016 disruption to a research and development or manufacturing and, where possible, alternative sources of supply are sought operation upon which Vectura relies could result in loss of royalty where this is economically feasible.
Safety stock is also typically revenues and contractual liabilities, aswell as delays to held at levels commensurate with the identified risk.
Vecturas asset management approach includes holding duplicate parts and equipment for business-critical machinery.
We have established good working relationships with the manufacturers of such equipment and we monitor our supplier relationships to ensure effective and responsive service levels.
Risk contingency is built into product development plans, and Group-wide business continuity plans have been established.
In addition, Vectura purchases comprehensive property damage and business interruption insurance to provide cover in the event of physical disruption.
Insufficient management bandwidth due to the proposed merger could lead to operational disruption andmissed operational and financial targets Risk Mitigating activities Trend The need to continue business-as-usual activities and drive As described above, structured post-merger integration plans 2016 strategic growth at the same time as executing the merger have been established to help ensure that the integration is anddelivering integration synergies could impose unprecedented executed successfully.
Vectura also has access to, and support time pressure and capacity constraints onmanagement bandwidth from, external subject matter experts.
The internal team has and challenge its ability toeffectively deliver on all responsibilities grown and the team has gained experience from the successful andlead to failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Exposure to foreign exchange risk could materially impact the Groups reported results Risk Mitigating activities Trend A substantial proportion of the Groups income from collaborative Where known foreign currency liabilities arise, foreign currency 2016 agreements is received in US dollars and euros but expenditure revenue receipts are retained on deposit in the appropriate ispredominantly incurred in pounds sterling.
To the extent that currency in order to offset the exchange risk onthese liabilities.
Vecturas foreign currency assets and liabilities are not matched, As at 31 March 2016, the Group had sufficient euro and US dollar fluctuations in exchange rates between pounds sterling, the US reserves to cover its immediate and short-term liabilities in 2015 dollar and the euro may result in realised or unrealised exchange respect of these currencies.
gains and losses on translation of the underlying currency into our Where a substantial net foreign currency liability exists, Vectura presentational and functional currency of pounds sterling.
Such will consider hedging against it to minimise foreign currency expense.
gains or losses may increase or decrease Vecturas operating margin However, such hedging is based on estimates of liabilities and and may adversely affect Vecturas financial condition.
Inaddition, future revenues and will not fully eliminate future foreign currency if the currencies in which the Group earns its revenues and or holds exchange fluctuations.
its cash balances weaken against the currencies in which it incurs its expenses, this could adversely affect profitability and liquidity.
Increasing royalty revenues and the impending referendum on the UKs membership of the EU will further affectthe magnitude of this risk.
24 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Increased risk Decreased risk No change FINANCIAL RISKS CONTINUED 9.
An unexpected tax liability could materially impact the Groups reported results Risk Mitigating activities Trend Adverse interpretations or rulings on the tax effect of specific The Group uses external tax advisors in each of the jurisdictions 2016 transactions or changes in tax rulings which have been granted within which it operates to ensure continued compliance with could give rise to substantial costs in dealing with the appropriate relevant legislation and to ensure that the impact of potential tax authorities and or unfavourable tax treatments and tax liabilities future changes is fully understood and incorporated within not currently envisaged or accrued, resulting in negative effects on business plans.
the financial condition or prospects of theVectura Group.
Historically, the Group has been loss making and therefore this risk is increasing in profile as the Group moves towards a tax-payingposition.
BROADER RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY 10.
Changes to regulations and operational restrictions due to Brexit Risk Mitigating activities Trend A referendum will be held in the UK on 23 June 2016 on whether Due to the nature of this risk, no mitigating activities are inplace 2016 the UK will remain in the EU, and the Group faces arange of risks at the current time.
associated with a vote to exit the EU.
For example, as a significant proportion of the regulatory regime applicable to the Vectura Group is derived from EU directives and regulations, a vote in favour of the UK exiting the EU could lead to material changes inthe regulatory framework applicable to the Vectura Groups operations.
In addition, a UK exit from the EU could result in restrictions on the movement of capital and the mobility of personnel, for instance.
Any of these risks could result in higher operating costs and could have a material adverse effect on the Vectura Groups business operations and financial conditions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 25 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Increased risk Decreased risk No change BROADER RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY CONTINUED 11.
Regulatory approvals Risk Mitigating activities Trend The international pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated We work closely with expert regulatory advisors and, 2016 bygovernmental authorities in the UK, the US and Europe whenappropriate, seek advice from regulatory authorities andbyregulatory agencies in other countries where Vectura onthe design of key development plans for pre-clinical oracollaborator intends to test or market products they andclinical programmes.
In respect of our collaborations and partnerships, we work These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining witha number of blue-chip pharmaceutical partners, such whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product asNovartis, Sandoz, Baxter and GSK, who have significant and the amount of time and expense associated with such regulatory expertise.
There can be no assurance that Vecturas, or a collaborators, products will receive and maintain regulatory approvals.
Even if products are approved, they may still face subsequent regulatory difficulties.
Such difficulties may result infinancial loss and reputational damage.
Unforeseen side effects Risk Mitigating activities Trend All drugs have a risk of adverse reactions and side effects Vectura and its collaborators conduct extensive pre-clinical and 2016 andtherefore unforeseen side effects may result from the use clinical trials designed to test for and identify any adverse side ofVecturas, or a collaborators, products or product candidates.
In addition, there is a significant amount of safety data This is an inherent risk which may be identified atany time, available regarding existing marketed products to which our evenafter a product has been approved and sold commercially.
2015 Discovery of unforeseen side effects, other than those acceptable to the regulators, may result inasubstantial loss of royalty revenues, other liabilities, asignificant delay to a development programme or withdrawal or suspension of regulatory approval.
26 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Increased risk Decreased risk No change BROADER RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY CONTINUED 13.
Pricing and reimbursement Risk Mitigating activities Trend Vectura or our collaborators may not be able to sell its products Where appropriate, products may be out-licenced to partners 2016 profitably if reimbursement from third-party payors, including who have the expertise to commercialise products and negotiate government and private health insurers, is unavailable or limited.
pricing structures with third-party payors, especially in disease indications that require large sales forces.
Should Vectura A significant portion of Vecturas future revenue is likely to depend self-commercialise, this would be targeted commercialisation 2015 on payments by third-party payors, including government health forniche products with significant unmet need, which requires administration authorities and private health insurers.
As such, asmall sales force to target specialist physicians.
Vectura may be adversely affected by third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment initiatives.
Our business model includes bringing highly innovative products to address unmet needs and we are also involved in a number Vectura may not be able to sell its products profitably if of generics programmes which support government initiatives reimbursement from these sources is unavailable or limited.
This adds balance to our business model in an Third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain era of increasing cost containment.
healthcare costs through measures that are likely to impact theproducts Vectura is developing, including: challenging the prices charged for healthcare products, limitingboth coverage and the amount of reimbursement fornew therapeutic products, and denying or limiting coverage for new products that are approved by the regulatory agencies: and refusing to provide coverage when an approved drug is used ina way that has not received regulatory marketing approval.
In addition, in many European countries there has been an increasing trend towards reference pricing, where the amount ofreimbursement is determined in light of reimbursement levels for comparable drugs in other European countries.
Thisis likely to severely restrict the potential per unit price for many new drugs unless such drugs can be significantly differentiated from existing products.
If products developed by Vectura or its partners are not covered by government orother third-party reimbursement schemes, are reimbursed at prices lower than those expected by Vectura, or become subject to legislation controlling treatments or pricing, Vectura and or its partners may not be able to generate significant revenue or attain profitability for any product candidates which are approved for marketing.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 27 RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT continued Our principal risks and uncertainties continued Increased risk Decreased risk No change BROADER RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY CONTINUED 14.
Competition Risk Mitigating activities Trend Our business faces intense competition from a range of Vectura performs detailed reviews of the development process 2016 pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.
Technological and progress of projects through trials.
For programmes managed changes could overtake the products being developed by Vectura in house, Vectura has an established project management or by its collaborators.
The potential commercial opportunities for each project are assessed at the end of each stage of the project.
2015 Our competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical Projects are assessed using widely accepted valuation metrics industries may have superior research and development capabilities, based upon discounted cash flows.
These cash flows are discounted products, manufacturing capability or sales and marketing using a hurdle rate that is in line with industry standards and the expertise.
Many of our competitors have significantly greater expected return of each project is further risk adjusted by its financial and human resources and may have more experience phase of development.
Vectura has experienced development inresearch, development and commercialisation.
Asa result, and commercial teams who all contribute to this assessment.
ourcompetitors may develop safer or more effective products, This in-house review is supplemented by well regarded disease implement more effective sales and marketing programmes area reports and, where appropriate, bespoke market research.
orbeable to establish superior proprietary positions.
In addition, weanticipate that we will face increased competition in the Under this framework, research and development programmes futureas new companies enter Vecturas markets and alternative will only be approved by the Board if it can be shown that the products and technologies become available.
expected benefits outweigh the expected costs.
All programmes are subject to a stage-gate approval process and, in the event that it was no longer considered that future revenues would be higher than future costs, the Board would consider terminating or redefining the programme.
Where appropriate, the Group looks to mitigate the development and commercial risk of its product pipeline by partnering drug candidates at an appropriate stage.
The partnering event crystallises part of the programmes value, with the goal of retaining an attractive proportion of the commercial upside through future milestones and an ongoing royalty interest from commercial sales.
Vecturas current royalty-generating products are expected to continue to provide royalties until patent expiry or until Vectura is no longer entitled to receive royalties in accordance with a licence agreement.
Vectura works closely with its advisors and obtains, where necessary, opinions on the intellectual property landscape relevant to the Groups product development programmes andmanufacturing activities and processes.
In addition, Vecturaworks with a number of key licensing partners who have significant expertise in the research, development and commercialisation of pharmaceuticals.
These licensing partners have access to significant financial and human resources.
28 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Increased risk Decreased risk No change BROADER RISKS SPECIFIC TO THE PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY CONTINUED 15.
Product liability Risk Mitigating activities Trend In carrying out its activities Vectura will potentially face contractual and Vectura maintains an appropriate level of product liability 2016 statutory claims, or other types of claims fromcustomers, suppliers insurance and operates quality systems relating to the and or investors.
Vectura is exposed to potential product liability manufacture of products.
Vectura has a pharmacovigilance risksthat are inherent in the research, the pre-clinical and clinical system to monitor safety events arising with respect to products 2015 evaluation, pre-clinical study, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing sold.
Vecturas insurance portfolio also includes other third-party and use of pharmaceutical products.
Consumers, healthcare liability insurances which would provide cover in the event of producers orpersons selling products based on Vecturas and its certain other contractual or statutory claims.
collaborators technology may be able to bring claims against Vectura based on the use of such products in clinical trials and thesale of products based on Vecturas technology.
Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Based on the Groups current position, principal risks and the analysis Code the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the outlined above, the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable Group over the three-year period ending 31 March 2019.
Given the expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation nature of Vecturas business and the competitive environment within andmeet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period which it operates, the Directors consider that this assessment period oftheirassessment.
represents a period for which costs and revenues associated with the Groups current portfolio and pipeline can be reasonably projected.
Going concern At the time of approving the financial statements, the Directors The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its strategic have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company planning process, which is led by the Chief Executive Officer and will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
involves representatives from relevant business functions within Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting theGroup.
The Board conducts a robust assessment of the strategic inpreparing the 2015 16 Annual Report.
plan in light of the principal risks facing the Group and the potential impact these risks could have on the Groups business model, future The basis of preparation is explained in note 1 to the performance, solvency or liquidity over the assessment period.
Although the strategic plan reflects the Directors best estimate ofthe future prospects of the Group, they have also tested the potential impact of a number of scenarios over and above those included in the plan: this includes modelling the impact of certain key sensitivities, relating to both revenues and costs, on the financial forecasts.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 Vectura Group plc 29
