Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 133 I The Groups approach to risk management 133 Risk management framework 135 Emerging risks 136 Risk classes 139 Full analysis of risk classes 140 2 52 73 193 The Groups approach to risk management Risk management is at the heart of the Groups strategy to deliver sustainable growth, quality and returns.
This is achieved through a prudent risk appetite and informed risk decision-making, supported by a consistent risk-focused culture across the Group.
Risk culture and values Accountability The Group has a customer-focused business model built The Group uses a Three Lines of Defence model which on a prudent risk culture.
The risk culture is aligned to the defines clear responsibilities and accountabilities ensuring Groups EBO philosophy and reinforces accountability.
The effective independent assurance activities over key Groups risk values, outlined below, describe how it expects all business activities.
colleagues, suppliers and partners to operate.
line management first line have primary responsibility for risk decisions: measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability.
They are required to establish effective controls in line with policy, to maintain 6OEFSTUBOE %P UIF $IBMMFOHF ZPVS appropriate risk management skills, practices and tools, and SJHIU UIJOH UIF TUBUVT RVP SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT to act within Board-approved risk appetite parameters.
All Executives certify a monthly control effectiveness review and a quarterly risk and control attestation: the Risk function second line provides proactive advice and constructive challenge on the effectiveness of risk decisions Risk appetite taken by management.
It is responsible for the design and Risk appetite is the amount and type of risk that the Group development of the risk management framework and for is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
It is reflected promoting the implementation of a strategic approach in frameworks and policies that either limit or, where to risk management.
It provides a view of the Groups appropriate, prohibit activities that could be detrimental to risk profile while proposing and reporting against risk the Group.
The Groups strategy is developed in conjunction appetite to the Board.
It also oversees the Groups internal with risk appetite.
A Risk Appetite Statement is approved by stress testing framework and maintains a good working the Board with each strategic planning cycle.
relationship with regulators: and Internal Audit third line provides independent, objective Governance and control assurance to improve operations.
It helps the Group Delegation of authority from the Board to Executive achieve its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined Committees and management establishes governance and approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk control.
Issues are escalated promptly and remediation plans management, control and governance processes.
The key responsibilities of the Board and senior management include setting risk appetite, agreeing the risk management framework, and approving policies and practices.
134 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk Management Report The Groups approach to risk management Board Chairman: Glen Moreno 1 Board Committees Risk Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman: Colin Keogh Chairman: Norman McLuskie Chairman: Marilyn Spearing Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Executive Committees Risk Management Committee Asset and Liability Committee Chairman: Chief Risk Officer Chairman: Chief Financial Officer Identifies and recommends risk appetite, manages risk within Responsible for management and monitoring of liquidity, funding, agreedlimits, monitors key risk exposures in relation to risk strategy capital and asset and liability management within agreed risk and recommends the approach to managing all types of risk.
Management Committees Operational Risk, Conduct Risk Credit Risk Treasury Risk andCompliance Committee Committee Committee 1 In addition, there is a Board Nomination Committee.
