136 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk Management Report Emerging risks The Group considers the following to be risks that have Regulatory and competition authorities continue to review the potential to increase in significance and affect the key banking markets.
Market inefficiencies and consolidation performance of the Group.
within the banking sector could change the competitive landscape and possibly impact market structures and margins.
Macro-economic environment Key mitigating actions The UKs decision to leave the EU has introduced a significant degree of uncertainty for the economy.
While there has been the Board is focused on responding effectively and no evidence of material changes in customer behaviour efficiently to changes in the regulatory environment: to date, adverse developments in the macro-economic the business planning process incorporates the Groups environment may affect the Groups earnings and profitability view of emerging capital requirements: as they are exposed to risks relating to credit conditions and stress and scenario testing forms an integral part of the the housing and savings markets.
Groups strategic and capital planning: and The Bank of England BoE reduced the Bank Base Rate in August 2016.
Lower for longer interest rates will put pressure the Group actively participates in a range of regulatory on banking sector net interest margins and may impact the developments, engaging with HM Treasury, the PRA, the financial performance of the Group.
FCA and the BoE on the evolving UK regulatory framework and the impact of EU directives.
Key mitigating actions Balance sheet risk the Group regularly reviews earnings in light of economic forecasts and tests its readiness to respond to future Credit changes in the economy: The UK has been experiencing strong credit conditions and historically low arrears emergence.
However, should there the BoEs Term Funding Scheme TFS is designed to be a rise in interest rates, unemployment, or an economic mitigate the impact of the reduction in interest rates: slow-down, there is the risk that retail consumers disposable the Group ensures there is an appropriate balance between income will come under pressure.
This could lead to further profitability and customer outcomes: and increases in defaults and impairments.
Additionally, the implementation of IFRS 9 in 2018 will change the basis the Group monitors its credit and liquidity positions of provisioning to a view of expected loss.
More details operational capability and risk of disruption to payment and relating to IFRS 9 can be found in note 38 to the financial other systems.
Macro-structural landscape Key mitigating actions There is a wide range of incoming regulatory changes which the Group remains resilient to this risk as a result of its will impact the Group.
strong asset quality: Changes to capital requirements include an increase to the the Group has tightened credit scores for new card countercyclical buffer, implementation of the ring-fencing applications following the EU referendum to protect the regime and the introduction of Minimum Requirements for credit quality of new card lending: and Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
Further information regarding these changes can be found on page 188. the Group has a fully mobilised IFRS 9 programme and has adjusted plans for the estimated impact.
The outcome of the EU referendum brings uncertainty in relation to regulation derived from EU legislation.
Material items of regulatory change deriving from EU legislation include the EU Market Abuse Directive, Payment Services Directive 2 PSD2 and General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
Financial Statements Risk Management Report Governance Financial Results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 137 I The Groups approach to risk management 133 Risk management framework 135 Emerging risks 136 Risk classes 139 Full analysis of risk classes 140 2 52 73 193 Cyber-crime Key mitigating actions The external threat of cyber attack continues with reports the Group develops its supplier partnership and oversight of data and security breaches increasing in frequency and capability to minimise the risk of service disruption caused severity across all industries.
Cyber-crime continues to be by the failure of a third party: cited as a material risk by the FPC.
the Group engages specialist third parties to undertake targeted reviews of supplier performance as required: and Key mitigating actions the Group outsources the administration of its unit the Group has a Cyber Security Strategy to enhance IT trust and pension business to IFDS.
During 2016, IFDS resilience and information security capability, taking initiated a significant programme of remediation relating account of both the external threat environment and the to compliance with client asset regulations which will changing risk profile of the business: continue into 2017.
The Group continues to strengthen its oversight of IFDS.
the Group monitors the changing external threat landscape, invests to enhance its control environment and improve resilience: and increased focus on digital capability and IT resilience.
Supplier partnerships The Group manages outsourced relationships with third parties who support the credit card, investment and insurance business lines.
The Group has strategic suppliers for key components of its infrastructure.
Reliance on key corporate partners and strategic suppliers gives rise to the potential risk of disruption.
138 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk Management Report Exposure to risk by business activity The table below provides a high-level illustration of how the Groups business activities are reflected in risk-weighted assets.
POFZ SPVQ 5PUBM SJTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT b N. PSUHBHFT 'JOBODJB M $SFEJU DBSET BOE TBWJOHT TFSWJDFT $VSSFOU BDDPVOUT 1FOTJPOT 3FTJEFOUJBM NPSUHBHFT OTVSBODF $SFEJU DBSET #VZ UP MFU NPSUHBHFT OWFTUNFOUT $VTUPNFS EFQPTJUT 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT bN bN bN $SFEJU SJTL $SFEJU SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL 0QFSBUJPOBM SJTL $FOUSBM GVODUJPOT 4IBSFE TVQQPSU GVODUJPOT OUFSFTU 3BUF 3JTL JO UIF #BOLJOH #PPL 33## 3JTL XFJHIUFE BTTFUT bN $SFEJU SJTL $SFEJU WBMVF BEKVTUNFOUT 1 Virgin Money does not have a trading book and, as such, does not have material exposure to market risk.
Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book is captured as part of Pillar 2 capital and therefore does not give rise to risk-weighted assets.
Principal risks The Board have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Groups principal risks are shown in the Risk overview on pages 48 to 51.
The Groups emerging risks are shown on pages 136 and 137.
Full analysis of the groups risk classes is shown on pages 140 to 192.
