44 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk overview Risk management Effective risk management is a core part of our strategy.
Secured 3 arrears levels were 0.15 per cent at the end of 2016, compared to 0.22 per cent in 2015: substantially below The Board-approved risk appetite reflects our tolerance for the latest Council of Mortgage Lenders industry average of risk in pursuit of our strategic objectives.
It is designed to 1.00 per cent.
Additionally, the proportion of secured assets achieve an appropriate balance between risk and reward.
classified as neither past due nor impaired improved by 0.1 Risk appetite is embedded in the business through delegation per cent during 2016, to 99.1 per cent.
of authority from the Board to the Executive.
Our risk management approach is fully aligned with Board risk appetite, Our impairment provision coverage improved to 11.4 per regulatory requirements and industry good practice.
Risks are cent during 2016, compared to 10.3 per cent in 2015. identified, managed and mitigated using our risk management The consistent application of our lending criteria and robust framework see page 135. underwriting give us confidence that our mortgage book would be highly resilient in the event of a downturn.
In H2 We use a Three Lines of Defence model which describes 2016, we further strengthened our lending criteria in relation clear accountabilities, appropriate segregation of duties and to buy-to-let lending.
The principal risks which could impact the delivery of our strategy are outlined on The portfolio LTV remained broadly stable at 55.4 per cent at pages 48 to 51. the end of 2016, compared to 55.0 per cent in 2015.
Risk culture The quality of our credit card business was reinforced in 2016.
Our risk culture and values are aligned to our EBO philosophy Following the EU referendum, we further strengthened our and emphasise accountability.
A strong and independent Risk credit card underwriting standards in H2 2016.
As a result, function helps to ensure adherence to our risk management 86 per cent of new accounts during the year were in the high framework.
Our risk culture is founded on a clear articulation or very high credit score range, reflecting the strong credit of risk appetite, an effective governance structure, rapid quality of our cards portfolio.
escalation of threats and the sharing of information Unsecured book quality continued to improve with a 0.4 across the Group.
per cent increase in the percentage of the book currently Risk as an enabler of growth, quality and classified as neither past due nor impaired to 98.7 per cent.
Unsecured 2 arrears levels continued to fall, reducing by returns 18bps compared to 2015.
As a UK retail bank we are focused on serving domestic customers.
We are subject to risks arising from macroOur low unsecured cost of risk of 1.7 per cent reflects a economic conditions in the UK, geopolitical uncertainty and rigorous approach to underwriting, account management new structural and regulatory changes which will come into and credit decisioning, supported by the benign force over the next few years.
The way in which we manage risk through the economic cycle Capital and funding strength is a core part of our strategy and an enabler of growth, quality Maintaining a well-capitalised business supports stable and returns.
Our ongoing focus on maintaining a high-quality balance sheet growth, our credit rating and regulatory balance sheet is supported by our prudent risk appetite and our requirements.
Our capital structure is managed to ensure that robust approach to risk management.
the business is well placed to react to current and forecast economic and regulatory conditions, as well as material Achievements in 2016 downturns in the economy.
The emphasis placed on protecting a high-quality balance Our funding strategy is retail deposit led and we fund before sheet, with focus on credit quality, was maintained in 2016. we lend.
We hold high quality liquid assets HQLA appropriate The application of strict affordability requirements and to our view of liquidity risks in the business and this level is prudent underwriting standards across our mortgage and approved by the Board.
credit card lending ensured that our lending continued to be high quality and within our asset quality guardrails.
We strengthened our balance sheet further with the successful issuance of 230 million Additional Tier 1 Credit AT1 capital.
The high quality of our mortgage business is reflected in our low arrears levels.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 45 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 We maintained our strong capital position and, as at Priorities in 2017 31 December 2016, our Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio Macro-economic environment was 15.2 per cent, our total capital ratio was 20.4 per cent The outcome of the EU referendum in June 2016 has created and our leverage ratio was 4.4 per cent, positioning us well a period of economic uncertainty in the UK and Europe and for continued growth.
this is likely to continue until the UKs exit strategy is clear.
We completed two issues of Residential Mortgage Backed Whilst we continue to see strong customer demand and no Securities RMBS, totalling 1.3 billion, which extended evidence of material changes in customer behaviour, the our reach in the wholesale markets beyond Sterling and potential risks around inflation, a slowing housing market and Euro into US Dollars.
Wholesale funding supplements our rising unemployment remain.
We are subject to inherent risks core retail deposit base, extends tenor, ensures we have arising from macro-economic conditions in the UK, including appropriate diversification in the funding base and optimises geopolitical uncertainty and the lower for longer interest funding costs.
During the final quarter of the year, we made three The current low interest rate environment is unprecedented drawings from the Bank of Englands BoE Term Funding and as such further reductions to central bank rates or Scheme TFS totalling 1.3 billion.
This low-cost funding rapid rises from current levels both represent risk to future creates additional lending capacity and supports our financial performance.
We have an ongoing programme overall funding plan.
of stress testing to assess our vulnerability to changing macro-economic conditions.
The results are used to inform Our strong funding position is reflected in a liquidity the strategic planning process and ensure that adequate coverage ratio of 153.7 per cent as at 31 December 2016. resources are available in the event of a downturn.
Regulatory change 2017 is likely to bring further political uncertainty across The findings from the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Europe and we remain alert to the business impact that final Credit Card Market Study were published during may have.
We will continue to monitor key exposures and 2016.
We endorsed these and will implement the limited regularly review earnings in light of the prevailing economic changes required for us to achieve full compliance with their outlook.
We have implemented additional oversight recommendations.
activities, alongside contingency plans, which are designed We achieved compliance with the rules and guidance relating to respond to and mitigate the impact of adverse macroto the FCAs Cash Market Study, which came into force in economic conditions that may emerge.
Management of the credit card portfolio The processes, controls and ongoing management training During 2016, our credit card book grew substantially, required for the Senior Managers and Certification Regime increasing our market share to 3.5 per cent.
We will continue have been designed and implemented.
to focus on strong credit management of these exposures, particularly in light of the current uncertain economic Full compliance with the Deposit Guarantee Scheme environment, where a rise in unemployment could result Directive was achieved and we received full regulatory in pressure on disposable incomes leading to increased permissions under the FCA Consumer Credit impairments.
Although we are resilient to these risks as a Sourcebook CONC.
result of our strong asset quality, we will monitor this closely Cyber-crime in 2017, supported by our strong risk management and We have a well-developed Cyber Security Strategy to analytical capability.
manage the increasing risk of cyber-crime.
In addition to Macro-structural changes this, during 2016: Our strategic planning fully addresses the new structural We enhanced our Cyber Operations Centre, which monitors and regulatory changes which come into force over the next suspicious activity in real time, and launched a new Security several years.
We will continue to work with our regulators as Zone on our intranet, providing detailed security advice requirements evolve.
These changes include: to colleagues.
Capital buffers: CRD IV introduced new capital limits We became members of the Global Cyber Alliance: a broad and buffers for banks, and includes a requirement to hold international community of organisations working together CET1 capital to account for capital conservation and to tackle cyber-crime.
A capital conservation buffer of 46 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk overview Risk management 0.625 per cent was introduced on 1 January 2016.
This implement the changes required to ensure compliance will increase each year to a maximum of 2.5 per cent in with the requirements of GDPR prior to its implementation 2019, in line with regulations.
The countercyclical buffer date in May 2018. applied to UK exposures is currently 0 per cent, however, Fourth Money Laundering Directive: The EUs Fourth this could grow to a maximum of 2.5 per cent by 2019.
We Money Laundering Directive 4MLD requires European understand our position and the strategic plan has been member states to update their money laundering laws assessed against this.
and transpose the new requirements into local law by Minimum Requirements for Own Funds and Eligible June 2017.
We are working to ensure compliance with this Liabilities MREL : will be fully phased in by 1 January 2022. directive prior to its implementation date.
The BoE provided our MREL guidance, including transitional Cyber-crime arrangements, during 2016.
Prior to 31 December 2019 Cyber-crime remains a material risk for all banks and MREL will be equal to our minimum regulatory capital we recognise the pace of change in the external threat requirements.
From 1 January 2020 until 31 December 2021, environment.
We will continue to monitor this changing MREL will be equal to 18 per cent of our risk-weighted external threat landscape and develop our capability to assets.
This guidance has been fully reflected in our strategic protect against cyber-crime through enhancement of our planning process.
The Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013: will Stable balance sheet growth result in the ring-fencing of retail and commercial banking Our focus on asset quality and balance sheet stability will operations to separate them from investment banking continue as the business grows.
Credit policy and decision activities.
We are in the process of agreeing our detailed systems are regularly reviewed and tested to ensure they ring-fence compliance plans with the Prudential Regulation develop in response to changes in customer and competitor Authority PRA and do not anticipate any material change behaviours, maintaining the quality of the portfolios.
This toour structure or business model as a result.
IFRS 9: will be implemented in 2018 and will result in Buy-to-let new calculations of expected credit loss and additional During 2016, the Financial Policy Committee sought disclosure requirements.
We are in the process of further powers of direction over buy-to-let mortgage developing new models and business practices to meet lending.
Buy-to-let lending accounts for 18 per cent of our these requirements.
mortgage portfolio, focusing on retail customers rather EU legislation: the outcome of the EU referendum than portfolio landlords.
Our affordability and rental cover introduces uncertainty in relation to regulation derived requirements are prudent.
The material items of regulatory Third party administration change deriving from EU legislation include the EU Market Outsourced relationships with parties which support the Abuse Directive, Payment Services Directive 2 PSD2 and credit card, investment and insurance business lines, such General Data Protection Regulation GDPR.
as IFDS for Unit Trust Management and TSYS TMS for our Regulatory change programmes credit card business, are fundamental to the success of the The delivery of the following regulatory change programmes business and remain a significant area of management focus.
will be a core focus in 2017: Reliance on key corporate partners and strategic suppliers involves the potential risk of disruption to service arising FCA Asset Management Market Study: The FCA is from the failure of a third party.
Thorough risk assessment consulting on a package of proposed remedies designed during the onboarding process, and robust ongoing to improve the way asset management services oversight, are key to managing this risk.
and products could work better for both retail and institutional investors.
General Data Protection Regulation: TheGeneral Data Protection Regulation GDPR provides an updated EU data protection framework to replacetheexisting 1995 Data Protection Directive the Directive.
We will Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 47 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 The Red Start.
The Virgin Money London Marathon.
Photo: Virgin Money London Marathon 48 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk overview Principal risks Key mitigating actions Credit risk credit risk is managed through risk stress and scenario testing allows us We provide residential and buy-to-let mortgages and credit appetite and risk limits reflected in to confirm portfolio resilience: cards to customers across the UK.
There is a risk that any approved credit policy: credit risk metrics are benchmarked adverse changes in the macro-economic environment and a robust credit risk framework helps against competitors and industry or the credit quality or behaviour of borrowers results in ensure that the credit quality and averages: and additional impairment losses, thereby reducing profitability.
composition of the portfolios remain credit risk arising from derivatives within risk appetite limits.
This is Wholesale exposures arise through our liquid asset portfolio and from securities financing monitored and reported through and the use of derivative instruments to manage interest transactions is mitigated by governance committees regularly: raterisk.
collateralising exposures on a daily basis.
Market risk market risk is managed through stress and scenario testing focuses Market risk is the risk that unfavourable market movements Board-approved risk appetite limits on the impacts of differing interest lead to a reduction in earnings or value.
We do not trade or and policies: rate environments.
Interest rate risk in the banking book is the exposures are mitigated through only material category of market risk.
the use of natural offsets and derivatives: and Operational risk risk appetite is focused on maturing we continue to invest in and develop Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or the control environment and risk management frameworks, failed internal processes, people and systems or from external therefore managing operational risk: systems and processes: and events, including legal risk.
The management of third party a programme of investment in we monitor external events relationships, cyber-crime and information security remain a security infrastructure is in place to impacting other financial services key focus for Virgin Money.
mitigate threats including cybercompanies to inform stress testing.
attack: Conduct risk and compliance compliance is maintained through we continue to invest in and develop an effective and timely response risk management frameworks, Conduct and compliance risk is defined as the risk that our to changes in the regulatory systems and processes: and operating model, culture or actions result in unfair outcomes environment: for customers.
This could result in regulatory sanction, we focus on training to ensure material financial loss or reputational damage if we fail to the customer is placed at the heart colleague performance is aligned design and implement effective operational processes, of decision-making by ensuring fair with the regulatory responsibilities systems and controls which maintain compliance with all outcomes through comprehensive and enable an awareness of good applicable regulatory requirements.
risk assessment and testing: customer outcomes.
Board focus is on ensuring alignment active focus is on asset origination Strategic and financial risk of business development and and portfolio management Strategic risk is the risk of significant loss or damage arising planning with risk appetite: to eliminate inappropriate from business decisions that impact the long-term interests concentration risk: and of stakeholders or from an inability to adapt to external we invest in processes, systems, developments.
recruitment and training to support regular validation and review of Financial risk is focused primarily on concentration risk.
Credit new business developments: models is performed.
concentration risk is managed for retail and wholesale credit we use robust risk and project exposures at portfolio, product and counterparty levels.
management disciplines to ensure that implementation is delivered safely: Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 49 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Key risk indicators Commentary Future focus 1.7% Impaired loans as a percentage We will continue to deliver 0.33% 1.3% 0.31% of overall balances has remained strong asset quality aligned to stable in 2016. growth of the mortgage and 2016 2015 2016 2015 credit card books.
Impaired as a % of total Impaired as a % of total secured balances unsecured balances 40.0% 97% 95% 35.6% Wholesale credit quality We will maintain our no loss remains strong with 97% position for the wholesale of debt security counterparties credit portfolio.
2016 2015 Provisions as a % of impaired balances Debt securities % AA or above 34.2m Capital at Risk has remained We will look to refine our 32.2m stable in a positive rate shock interest rate risk management scenario and has reduced as a systems and approaches to proportion of our capital base.
reflect the evolving regulatory 2016 2015 The interest rate risk exposure landscape.
IRRBB - Capital at Risk 3.4m As expected, the absolute We will continue to invest in 2.2m amount of losses has increased, cyber-crime defence, fraud as the balance sheet has grown, and anti-money laundering but has remained low.
2016 2015 Operational losses 3.65 3.66 Complaints per 1,000 accounts We will focus on our have remained stable, despite Complaints Transformation significant book growth.
project to continue to improve the volume of complaints resolved at point of contact.
2016 2015 Total complaints per 1,000 accounts The average LTV in Greater Focus will be on the Greater London London 49.3 per cent and development of our customer 28% 28% South East South East 53.8 per cent proposition and digital 33% 33% Scotland is lower than the average capability.
South West portfolio LTV of 55.4 per cent.
8% 8% 24% Other Regions 25% 6% 7% Mortgage concentration Mortgage concentration 2016 2015 50 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Risk overview Principal risks Key mitigating actions Board-approved risk appetite stress and scenario testing Funding and liquidity risk and funding and liquidity policies considers threats to funding Liquidity risk represents the inability to accommodate liability define a limit structure: plans and changes in consumer maturities and withdrawals, fund asset growth, and otherwise behaviour.
meet contractual obligations to make payments as they fall due.
liquid resources are maintained in adequate quantity and quality to Funding risk represents the inability to raise and maintain meet stressed outflows: sufficient funding in quality and quantity to support the delivery of the business plan.
a prudent mix of funding sources is maintained with a maturity profile set in risk appetite and policy limits: and Board-approved risk appetite capital procedures are subject to Capital risk ensures we are holding sufficient independent oversight: and Capital risk is defined as the risk that we have a sub-optimal capital within regulatory amount or quality of capital or that capital is deployed stress and scenario testing requirements: inefficiently across the Group.
assesses capital adequacy under the capital management policy a range of severe market wide sets out minimum standards for stress scenarios and idiosyncratic the management of capital: stress events.
Financial statements Risk management report Governance Financial results Strategic Report Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 51 I 2012-2016 Highlights 2 2016 Highlights and strategic priorities 4 Business overview 12 Chairmans statement 14 Chief Executives review 18 Women in Finance Charter 26 Market overview 30 Business model and strategy 32 Delivering to our stakeholders 34 Risk overview 44 52 73 132 193 Key risk indicators Commentary Future focus Improved diversity of funding We will continue to improve 5% 5% Customer accounts has been achieved through balance sheet efficiency and 4% 11% Wholesale TFS 10% RMBS issuance and TFS resilience through measured Wholesale Other drawings.
diversification of wholesale Total equity funding.
81% 84% Funding mix 2016 Funding mix 2015 Our total capital and leverage We will continue to maintain 2016 2015 Capital metrics ratios have increased as a result a high-quality capital base of the AT1 capital raise with ratios in excess of CET 1 15.2% 17.5% in November 2016. regulatory requirements.
Total capital ratio 20.4% 20.2% Leverage ratio 4.4% 4.0% 52 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2016 I Financial results 53 Summary of Group results 62 Divisional results Virgin Money Lounge, Sheffield.
