Strategic report Principal risks Principal risks The Groups strategic objectives can only be achieved if certain risks are taken and managed effectively.
We have listed below the most significant risks that may affect our business, although there are other risks that may occur and impact the Groups performance.
Risk area and description Mitigation Change Safety, health and environment Delivery of our strategy is dependent on us We employ a dedicated Safety, Health and Environment SHE department conducting our business safely.
Given the to assist line management and to provide expert guidance.
natureof our various manufacturing facilities, We have policies and procedures to efficiently, safely and compliantly asignificant operational disruption could manage all our operations: protect the safety and health of our employees, adversely affect the safety of people on or close contractors and visitors: and both manage our environmental responsibility to our sites.
Disruption could also impact our and continually improve our resource efficiency.
ability to make and supply products.
As our manufacturing facilities are regulated, we are subject to close The environment in which Victrex operates is review, for example by the Environment Agency under the Environmental subject to numerous legislative and regulatory Permitting Regulations.
A failure to comply could Further detail is contained in the Sustainability report on pages 25 to 36. adversely impact the local environment, our employees, our manufacturing capability, or the attractiveness of our business or products to various stakeholders.
Technological change Innovation and product leadership are key We are future thinkers, continually assessing and identifying market needs tothe success of our business.
We provide and capturing value as product leaders.
We serve a diverse range of markets innovative solutions to help our customers and work directly with our customers, end users, OEMs and industry-leading overcome their technological challenges.
decision makers to develop a pipeline of new differentiated applications, newproduct forms and new grades and leveraging our know-how and Continuing innovation, beyond polymer protectable IP.
manufacturing, will help us move downstream, further differentiating ourbusiness but with With long-term megatrends in our favour, we have a diverse mix of new the potential to increase risk.
Further information can be found on pages 4 to 5.
Innovation failings could result in a lack of We actively invest to advance our technology skills and knowledge, in competitive advantage and relevant new commercial and technical specialists and global technical centres, to underpin products, erosion of margin, failure to deliver our growth and deliver sustainable earnings growth for our shareholders.
new business or achieve sustainable earnings Through our portfolio steering committee we regularly review and monitor or deliver our strategy.
the projects that will enable us to move downstream to ensure that any increased risks are being addressed.
Recruitment and retention of the right people Our success depends on recruiting and We have strategies in place collectively our People Strategy to attract retaining the right people in all areas of our andretain the best talent, provide opportunities for personal development, business.
Victrex relies heavily on the skills, encourage diversity and recognise and reward excellence.
The People Strategy experience and competence of our people to is discussed at Board, ELT and functional levels.
Our employees have clear comply with internal procedures and external objectives and development plans, aligned to our strategy, and participate regulations, to drive business in existing informal and informal training programmes and reviews to assess their andnew markets, to deliver our strategy, performance and effectiveness.
tooperate our manufacturing assets safely We have succession plans in place for key roles and develop our future leaders andwith a strong regard to the environment so that we are able to promote internally as well as bringing in new talent from and to successfully execute our the outside.
Where necessary, we will supplement the skills of our own employees with those of third parties in order to deliver our downstream strategy.
We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a commitment tomake full use of the talents and resources of all our employees.
22 Victrex plc Annual Report 2016 Strategic report Key RISK CHANGE VIABILITY STATEMENT LINKS Risk focused on in No change Risk increased Risk decreased Risk considered sensitivity analysis Risk area and description Mitigation Change Foreign currency risk The Group exports the majority of its product The Group adopts a hedging policy to mitigate short-term currency risk.
out of the UK, but has a significant Sterling Currencymovement can have either a positive or a negative impact on the Group.
Fluctuations in exchange rates The Currency Policy is managed by a dedicated Currency Committee, including between Sterling and US Dollar, and Euro whether the impact of major events, like the UKs referendum on EU andYen could cause profit and balance membership, requires any modification to that Policy.
Business continuity and supply chain It is essential to ensure continuity of supply and It is our policy to keep capacity ahead of demand by continual investment service to our customers and that we can in our supply chain so that our customers can be confident that we can operate even if a significant event did occur.
meet their requirements today and in the future.
Our sales and operations planning process, together with our stocks of Failure to maintain a secure supply of high finished goods, which are held in a number of locations worldwide, is quality products to our customers by, for intended to enable us to maintain supplies to our customers during any example, an unexpected upsurge in demand or short-term disruption.
Additionally we work with our key suppliers to delays in the implementation of major capital maintain appropriate stocks of key raw materials.
expenditure programmes, could lead to a capacity shortage or insufficient inventory and We have business continuity plans in place that are regularly reviewed loss of earnings.
Network and IT systems and security A significant failure or interruption in our IT We continue to review and invest where appropriate in the development networks and systems could have a and maintenance of our IT infrastructure, systems and processes and detrimental impact on our business.
Implementation of our new ERP system commenced during FY 2016 and Cyber attacks are becoming more frequent and will complete roll-out in FY 2017. could result in denial of service or data theft.
Data security is very important to us, as failure We operate a firewall, antivirus software and third-party penetration to appropriately process, store or share testing, monitor any attempted breaches and take action where necessary information could result in the loss of IP toensure our infrastructure remains robust and appropriate.
ortheloss of data, whether it be our data, We have in place recovery plans and business continuity plans, which are orthat of our employees or customers.
Product liability We sell into highly demanding end use VICTREX PEEK polymer is manufactured within a quality management applications and regulated markets.
Any systemapproved to ISO 9001:2008. failure to supply our products in accordance Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA polymer is additionally manufactured within a with the specification could lead to loss of quality management system approved to ISO 13485:2003, a system of business which would impact revenue and good manufacturing practice often used by the pharmaceutical industry give rise to a potential product liability claim.
VICTREX pipes for the Aerospace market are manufactured within aqualitymanagement system approved to AS9100 RevC.
We have also attained ISO 17025:2005 General Requirements for Competence of Testing and Calibration Laboratories certification.
All of our products are supplied to an agreed specification.
Supply contracts are used to mitigate the risk where practicable and in addition the Group maintains appropriate levels of product liability insurance.
