A I C D T E I N O A E T N K I R H S S F E T I A Y R Y R N I E F F Q D I S T S U F C N I O U R O A R E R N U D G T T Q R H O E L R S T S H Q Y E K U F S I N A I T E Strategic Report How We Manage Risk M ANA GIN G R I S K EFFE C T I V EL Y We operate in a complex global environment, where risks offer opportunities as well as challenges.
Our objective is to allow our people to be decisive, so we can take advantage of attractive opportunities whilst ensuring we are not exposing the organisation to excessive risk.
The risk agenda the risk parameters within which we Risk Management During the year, the Board has reviewed expect our people to work.
The risk The management of risks is at the core of the effectiveness of the systems of risk appetite is all of the risk assertions and the the internal control framework.
We have a management and internal control and parameters taken together.
The parameters risk management policy which defines how conducted a robust assessment of the can apply to more than one risk assertion, we expect risks to be identified, assessed principal risks affecting the Group in line and therefore the individual risk assertions and managed throughout the organisation.
with the Risk Appetite Statement.
These should not be read in isolation.
Compliance activities meet the Boards responsibilities with the Risk Appetite Statement is Risks are assessed, and quantified, in connection with Risk Management and monitored through the Groups standard in terms of impact and likelihood of Internal Control set out in the UK Corporate monitoring and reporting mechanisms.
occurrence, both before and after control Governance Code.
The Board will continue to review and mitigation.
Assessing the gross risk before update the Risk Appetite Statement on control mitigation allows the business to The aim of the Risk Appetite Statement an annual basis.
review the relative impact of the existing remains to highlight the risks that we controls by comparing the gross and net should be willing to take, as well as those Details of the review of the internal control risk assessment.
This also allows the which are unacceptable.
The statement and risk management systems undertaken business to avoid wasting resources on includes a series of risk assertions which during the year are contained in the Audit mitigating controls and actions which have are aligned to our strategy, together with Committee Report on page 83. a negligible impact on the risk assessment.
The impact of risks is quantified across Figure 1: Risk Management Cycle a range of factors including: financial: strategy: reputation: people and property: ability to perform services: regulation: safety, health and environment: and investors and funding.
The risk management policy includes defined criteria for each risk impact factor, supporting a consistent measurement approach.
Risk management takes place at the grassroots level, for example in individual projects, all the way up to Group level assessments, thereby providing an integrated bottom-up and top-down approach to risk management.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 36 R N N T T E E I R D F H I I S Y T K I D E M I N E T T R I A I T G U N F R A S D Y T O S I C T A P N O, E H G N R R E T O A E R D T C O I X N T N L I I A S S O O T N M I S N G Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report The specific risks identified across the Risk Appetite Statement business generally fall under one of the The Weir Group is strategically positioned in markets with good long-term growth prospects.
categories within the Risk Universe as We will pursue ambitious growth targets, and we are willing to accept a higher level of risk shown below.
to increase the likelihood of achieving or exceeding our strategic priorities, subject to the parameters below.
Figure 2: Risk Universe Risk assertions Risk parameters Strategic risk 1.
Organic growth: We will rigorously pursue Investment of resources will be Industry and market volatility.
divisional organic growth strategies to meet our consistent with divisional strategies and market growth objectives.
expected divisional compound annual Technological advances.
growth rates over five year plans.
Mergers and acquisitions M&A : We Post-tax returns should exceed our Planning and resource allocation.
will actively pursue M&A opportunities that cost of capital within three years of enhance our strategic platform subject to the acquisition.
Hazard risk Political and social instability.
Returns and profitability: We will not Short term margin dilution is acceptable pursue growth at all costs, and expect high in gaining market entry but over the cycle Natural disasters and other major incidents.
margins, strong returns on capital and working we aim for top quartile operating margins capital discipline together with cash generation.
External and internal fraud and corruption.
Capital allocation: We will encourage Local country cash flow projections capital expenditure in pursuit of our growth for investment appraisal purposes Operational risk ambitions subject to Internal Rate of Return discounted at country specific rates.
IRR and achievement of Group free cash flow targets.
Capital structure: We are prepared to use We will seek to maintain the ratio of net Commercial.
leverage in pursuit of our growth agenda and debt EBITDA below two times current Communication.
will actively seek low cost debt to fund the financial covenants 3.5 times and will IT.
Group but, recognising cycliality in our end retain adequate headroom within our markets, will maintain significant headroom debt facilities at all times.
Reputation and brand image: We will No tolerance for breaches of: Laws and regulations.
avoid manage situations or actions that could Legislative statutory requirements.
have a negative impact on our reputation and Weir Code of Conduct.
We aim to be transparent with all of International sanctions.
our stakeholders unless prejudicial to our Delegated authority levels.
Safety, Health and Environment SHE : No tolerance for breaches of We will not undertake or pursue activities that Weir Group Safety, Health and Financial risk pose unacceptable hazard or risk to our people, Environment Charter.
the communities in which we operate, or the Active community and environmental Credit.
Country presence: We are prepared to No tolerance for breaches of: enter new countries which offer opportunities Legislative statutory requirements.
for growth consistent with our overall strategy.
We will not enter, or will exit, countries which International sanctions.
present a high risk of harm to our people, Delegated authority levels.
damage to our reputation, or breach of Group and divisional policies.
Not all risks are controllable or foreseeable, international sanctions.
a key example being natural disasters.
Our response to such risks is having controls 9.
Innovation: We will invest in technology, Target research and development spend which lessen the impact to our business research and development to innovate our 2% of revenues.
For example, in the case customer offering allowing us to maintain of natural disasters, we have controls in and expand our market share.
place to reduce the risk of harm to our people, as well as response planning protocols, with clear accountability, to minimise disruption to operations and our customers.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 37 Policies and decisions Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Risk responsibilities and reporting Ultimately, the Board is responsible for The Risk Committee monitors quarterly meeting.
The Board obtains assurance the Groups risk and internal control risk dashboard reports from the divisions.
over risks and risk management through framework.
It has set out the decisions, In addition, the Risk Committee has the internal control framework.
More and hence the level of risk, which can oversight of the Group Risk Dashboard, information on the internal control be delegated to the Group Executive, along with a routine review of key controls framework can be found within the divisional and operational company identified to manage each risk and the Corporate Governance Report on management without requiring sources of controls assurance, providing page 59 and within the Audit Committee escalation.
This is articulated in a an update to the Board at each Board Report on page 79. series of Group policies and delegated authority matrices, as well as the Figure 3: Risk Responsibilities and Reporting parameters within the approved Risk Appetite Statement.
The Board and committee structure can be viewed on page 66.
The bottom-up risk reporting approach requires key risks identified, and reported, at project level to be escalated to the operating company management, which in turn may be escalated to divisional management, and ultimately to the Risk Board and Committee and the Board.
This is achieved sub-committees through risk dashboard reports, which are maintained at operating company, divisional and Group levels.
The dashboards Group Executive provide a summary of the major net risks at each respective level, as well as a summary of the key mitigating controls and actions, Risk Committee and further control actions required.
Divisional management Operating company management Case study Our Code of Conduct provides a clear reporting system.
Each case is then C OD E OF framework for conducting business to assigned to an appropriate senior the highest ethical standards.
The Group manager and a follow-up investigation is committed to an environment where is conducted.
The Company Secretary C ON DU C T open and honest communications are and General Counsel reports to the Board the expectation, not the exception.
We and Group Executive on all cases, trends, want our staff to be able to challenge outcomes and lessons learned.
and report any behaviour they feel is inconsistent with the Code of Conduct, Throughout 2016 we continued to or where they believe violations of policies promote the Ethics Hotline.
We have or standards may have occurred.
also continued our programme of compliance training and awareness In situations where an employee across the business.
In 2016 we issued prefers to place an anonymous report a Work Place Harassment training in confidence, we have engaged with module to all relevant employees an independent external company that and also delivered both online and specialise in operating a confidential, face-to-face Code of Conduct and multilingual telephone and web based Compliance related training.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 38 Reporting Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report The key roles and responsibilities for risk management are set out below: Group Risk management responsibilities Board Annual review and ongoing monitoring of the effectiveness of the risk management and Overall responsibility for the Groups internal control frameworks.
risk management and internal control Annual review of the Groups risk appetite.
frameworks, and strategic decisions On a biannual basis, receive a report from the Risk Committee which sets out the within the Group.
current assessment of each principal risk, the effect of mitigating controls on each risk, the direction of travel of each risk versus the prior year, the extent to which each could potentially impact the Groups strategic goals and any relevant findings relating to significant control failings or weaknesses which have been identified.
Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Audit Committee Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Delegated responsibility from the Board control frameworks.
to review the effectiveness of the Groups Review of reports from the internal and external auditors.
risk and internal control frameworks.
Review of the results from the six-monthly self-assessment compliance scorecards.
Risk Committee Review of the design and operation of the Group Risk Management Policy and Framework.
Management committee responsible Identification and assessment of the key risks facing the Group, identification of the key for governance of the Groups Risk controls mitigating those risks and identification of further actions where necessary.
Review of the Divisional Risk Dashboards, considering the appropriateness of managements responses to identified risks and assessing whether there are any gaps.
Reporting key Group and divisional risks to the Board.
Group Executive Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the Groups Executive committee with overall strategic objectives.
responsibility for managing the Group to Monitoring business performance, in particular key performance indicators relating ensure it achieves its strategic objectives.
Taking strategic decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Board as required.
Chief Executives Safety Committee Executive Committee representation to drive improvements in our safety performance Established in 2016. throughout the Group.
Excellence Committees Monitoring the management of key risks across the Group associated with the Engineering respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
Safety, Health & Environment Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards Finance related to the respective remits of the Excellence Committees.
HR Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Group Information Services Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Value Chain Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Management committees with representatives from across the Group in their respective areas of focus.
The committees govern activities and performance in the individual functional areas.
Divisional management Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of the divisions Responsible for managing the businesses strategic objectives.
within the divisions to ensure divisional Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards strategic objectives are achieved and there within the divisions with regard to the outputs from the Excellence Committees.
is compliance with Group policies and Taking decisions in accordance with the delegated authority matrices.
Escalating issues to the Group Executive as required.
Reviewing the results from relevant assurance activities.
Operating company management Managing risks which have the potential to impact the delivery of their companys Responsible for ensuring company strategic objectives.
objectives are achieved and business Monitoring performance and compliance with Group objectives, policies and standards activities are conducted in accordance within their company.
with Group policies and standards.
Escalating issues to divisional management and Excellence Committees as required.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 39 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties As in any business, there are risks and The Directors reviewed the Groups risk The principal risks set out below are those uncertainties which could impact the register, reassessed the validity of the which we believe to have the greatest Groups ability to achieve its objectives principal risks identified in the prior potential to impact our ability to achieve in the future.
However, we believe year and considered whether any new the Groups strategic objectives or which the Groups risk management and principal risks have emerged or a risk is have the greatest potential impact on the assurance framework makes this no longer considered a principal risk.
The Groups solvency or liquidity.
identified principal risks were subjected to a detailed assessment based on the The Board has conducted a robust following considerations: assessment of the principal risks, alongside the Risk Appetite Statement Severity of each risk: set out on page 37, meeting the Boards Existence and effectiveness of actions responsibilities in connection with Risk and internal controls which serve to Management and Internal Control detailed mitigate the risk: in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The overall effectiveness of the Each of the principal risks is assigned an Groups control environment, including owner from amongst the Board or Group assurance and any identified control senior management team and is either weaknesses or failings: and a standing agenda item at each Board The extent to which each of the principal meeting or subject to formal periodic risks could impact upon the Groups review by the Board.
A summary viability, in financial or operational terms, of principal risks and the Groups due to their potential effects on the mitigating controls is presented business plan, solvency or liquidity.
TEC HNOLOGY AND INNOVATION We fail to drive innovation or to react to emerging technology developments, and therefore fail to ensure that the business continues to deliver sustainable and attractive solutions for our customers.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 The strength of our business is built Continual investment in research and The pace of technological innovation continues upon a history of delivering innovative development, including the Weir Advanced to increase as we and our competitors seek to provide and sustainable solutions for our Research Centre WARC in conjunction customers with solutions that improve the efficiency customers.
If we fail to keep abreast of with the University of Strathclyde.
To ensure we continue to retain market needs or to innovate solutions, competitive advantage in this area, our existing We have a dedicated governance team we are at risk of losing market share to research and development initiatives within the Engineering Excellence Committee focused our competitors and lowering margins business, at WARC, are enhanced through partnerships on the delivery of our strategic objectives as demand will reduce.
with certain leading universities around the world.
for technological advances and innovation These partnerships are designed to help the Group to meet the needs of our customers.
develop game-changing solutions to our customers challenges.
During 2016, the Weir Technical Advisory Weir Technical Advisory Board comprising Board met four times.
The Board provided guidance highly regarded experts to ensure Weir and advice which positively influenced our digital and continues to be at the leading edge advanced manufacturing technology strategies.
of technology development in our chosen industries.
We are also devoting additional resources to reviewing and responding to developing technologies, with our agreements with Microsoft and Dell Corporations to develop Internet of Things IoT technology.
Recognising the strategic importance of technology and innovation, the recruitment process of a Chief Technology Officer began.
Further information on progress made in this area is set out in the Products and Technology section of the Sustainability Review on page 57.
Key to symbols Risk increasing Risk unchanged Risk decreasing Considered as part of Viability Statement assessment The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 40 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report POLITICAL AND SOCIAL RISK Adverse political action, or political and social instability, in territories in which we operate may result in strategic, financial or personnel loss to the Group.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 We operate across the globe and Regular review of market attractiveness.
In response to increased security risks, arising therefore have to work within a wide from changes in the political environment in Monitoring travel by Weir employees to range of political and social conditions.
certain countries where the Group has operations, higher risk locations.
Adverse events may occur in the enhancements have been made to the Groups territories in which we operate that access to expert risk assessments and plans to External expert risk assessments and may require us to act swiftly to protect respond to adverse events in higher risk locations.
regular monitoring in higher risk locations.
our people and our property and The Weir Group travel policy was updated in Contingency plans and exit strategy regulatory changes could impact November and designed to provide a consistent planning.
We need to Group wide approach to ensure that travel risks be flexible and able to anticipate Our strategic planning assists in forecasting are managed appropriately.
potential political and social instability in From a security perspective the environment in regions.
Expansions into new territories are only which a number of the Groups businesses operate undertaken after rigorous assessment Proactive monitoring of evolving policy continued to be challenging and uncertain during of the risks, including the social and and development of contingency plans the year.
political situation within the territory.
Material changes in the policy environment in the UK and USA following the EU referendum and Presidential election could have an impact on our trade and taxation position and continue to be monitored.
GLOBAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS Changes in key markets, including commodity prices affecting mining and oil and gas, have an adverse impact on customers expenditure plans.
This may include delaying existing expenditure commitments.
As markets improve we fail to effectively upscale operations to meet customer needs.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 We need to remain sufficiently flexible We maintain regular engagement with Market conditions have remained challenging to allow us to anticipate downturns, our customers to understand their needs during 2016.
Necessary adjustments have been to allow us to adjust our operations and challenges, and ensure our business made to our operations to accommodate our accordingly, and equally to meet is appropriately aligned.
customers responses to these market conditions.
growth in demand when our There have been signs through the latter part of the Our strategic planning utilises extensive customers markets are buoyant and year that our core markets have started to improve, market intelligence to assist in forecasting therefore capital investment is high.
with customers starting to plan for higher activity opportunities and dips in markets.
Otherwise, we are at risk of incurring levels next year.
unnecessary costs during downturns, We maintain contingency plans for and not maximising our potential for downturns.
In challenging market conditions, our supply chain risks are increased.
These are described in more detail on page 43.
Key to symbols Risk increasing Risk unchanged Risk decreasing Considered as part of Viability Statement assessment The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 41 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued SAFETY, HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT SHE Failure to adequately protect our people and other stakeholders from harm associated with a breach in SHE standards.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 We operate in hazardous environments, The Weir Behavioural Safety system is in The Group is never complacent in relation and therefore have a fundamental duty to place to reduce the risk of safety incidents.
During 2016 a new protect our people and other stakeholders Chief Executives Safety Committee was In addition, there are initiatives to prevent the from harm whilst conducting our business.
Committed to achieving the most common accident types.
The Weir global As well as the personal impact on our highest of standards, the Group continues to SHE standards are continually reviewed.
people resulting from a failure to meet this set higher benchmarks for SHE compliance obligation, we would also be at risk of: and roll out cohesive programmes to address The SHE Excellence Committee is responsible SHE risks and drive safe and sustainable for monitoring performance and compliance Reputational damage leading to a loss working practices.
Improvements have been with Group objectives, policies and standards of customers: made throughout the year to our SHE Board relating to SHE.
Legal action from regulators, including reporting and assurance activities and our fines and penalties: and There is a formal SHE assurance programme key performance indicators in place to Exclusion from markets important for with issues escalated as required through the measure our success in mitigating SHE our future growth.
risks continue to show improvement.
IT SECURITY AND CONTINUITY Failure to maintain business systems or technical infrastructure that serves the business needs.
Failure to successfully execute changes to these business systems or technical infrastructure: together with failure to minimise disruption and maintain business as usual activity during technical infrastructure or business system changes.
Failure to adequately protect the business operations from cybercrime.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 Up-to-date data allows us to make informed We continually review the effectiveness of IT security and continuity continues to decisions about our business.
Therefore, our key IT security controls in consultation be a matter of strategic priority for the Group we require reliable and efficient IT systems with external experts.
There is regular in an environment of ever increasing cyber and infrastructure to provide our data reporting of unplanned outages and potential security threats.
Progress to strengthen the requirements.
Breaches of our IT security security breaches, with lessons learned Groups defences in this respect is being could have serious consequences for our across the Group.
made, including the Weir Cloud programme business, including: interruption to business which aims to rationalise our IT infrastructure We have an IT Governance Framework operations: and loss of intellectual property and service.
with a focus on structured change management and other sensitive data.
techniques, including setting project The Group is investing in a significant IT governance levels in line with risk.
If this is not External assurance being obtained on the managed effectively, the consequences could Tier 1 IT transformation projects.
include interruption to business operations if data is unavailable due to unsuccessful Policies, procedures and baseline standards execution of change, impacting our ability to in relation to cyber risk and IT security more compete and our reputation in the market.
generally are continuously updated and rolled out to operations.
A programme of At present, the Groups principal exposures user training in relation to cyber risk is inplace.
to cybercrime relate to the misappropriation of cash and data.
Our revenue streams are largely protected as our products are not currently electronic in nature and we do not, as a rule, transact over the internet.
Key to symbols Risk increasing Risk unchanged Risk decreasing Considered as part of Viability Statement assessment The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 42 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Failure to achieve supply chain management improvements and the associated reduction in costs and enhanced flexibility.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 If we fail to improve our supply chain Regular KPI monitoring of the supply chain Supply chain remains an area of strategic focus management, we risk: throughout the organisation.
Supply chain improvements continue to be recognised year on year as Losing the opportunity to The Groups operations are implementing the Group realises benefits from its focused invest capital into alternative Value Chain Excellence initiatives amongst approach to these matters.
value creating opportunities: other business improvement objectives.
Damaging our reputation and as A programme of Value Chain Excellence Established Centres of Excellence drive cost a consequence losing customers initiatives has been operating throughout the savings, efficiencies and enhance delivery and market share: Group to drive supply chain improvements.
Losing market position if the Group fails Initiatives to expand production in bestto demonstrate to customers the value The Groups forward purchase commitments cost locations are reviewed and the of our products and services: are being closely monitored to manage procurement function continues to drive Incurring penalties as a result of late inventories at levels appropriate to market cost and quality improvements through delivery contractual clauses: conditions.
Reducing margins by incurring Our credit risk management procedures unnecessary additional costs associated are under continuous appraisal and review.
with late remedial actions taken to avoid missing delivery targets: and We regularly monitor market activity to ensure Holding excess inventory in the event we remain competitive.
ETHICS AND GOVERNANCE Interactions with our people, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders are not conducted with the highest standards of integrity which devalues our reputation.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 We are unwilling to accept dishonest The Code of Conduct, supplemented with The governance and legislative environment or corrupt behaviour from our people, Group policies on related topics, provides in which the Group operates continues to or external parties acting on our behalf, a clear benchmark for how we expect our evolve and become more complex.
The whilst conducting our business.
If we business will be conducted.
Group has further developed and grown fail to act with integrity, we are at risk of: its operations in geographies where ethical Regular training is provided using a range standards may not be as well established Reputational damage leading to of mechanisms including Town Hall style as in other countries.
a loss of customers: sessions, online and induction training.
Increased scrutiny from regulators: The Group has reinforced its commitment The financial control framework is continually Legal action from regulators including to high standards of ethics and governance monitored for effectiveness.
fines, penalties and imprisonment: and through the Code of Conduct and completed Exclusion from markets important a programme of training for key individuals.
Internal Audits remit includes regular review for our future growth.
of the anti-bribery and corruption and financial Compliance procedures adopted for Market controls across the Group.
The Group Legal Abuse Regulations with training given to We expect all areas of the business to do team is responsible for monitoring compliance the Board and Group Executive.
A new the right thing and conduct business in with the Code of Conduct.
Disclosure Committee is now in place.
compliance with procedures, applicable laws, Weir Group operating policies and A number of unprovided liabilities were the highest ethical standards.
identified in the China business during the year.
This followed an Internal Audit report in October 2016 and local management reorganisation.
Further information is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 72.
Key to symbols Risk increasing Risk unchanged Risk decreasing Considered as part of Viability Statement assessment The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 43 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued STAFF RECRUITMENT, DEVELOPMENT AND RETENTION Failure to recruit, develop or retain key management and staff may lead to disruption to the Groups operations, functions and processes.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 Our people represent our biggest asset Promotion of the Weir Group Values & We continue to focus on these key areas and failure to attract, develop and retain Behaviours, Code of Conduct and HR Policies including obtaining feedback through staff key management and staff would have a sets the standards and expectations for all our surveys and measuring the success of our detrimental impact on the Groups ability staff, reinforcing our stated commitment to Leadership and Development Programmes.
to deliver our key strategic objectives.
attracting and retaining the very best people.
Recognising the importance of effective ongoing staff communication we continue High performer assessments are undertaken to provide information and updates through to identify and develop our very best talent.
our Global Intranet, Town Hall meetings and team briefings.
Succession plans are in place and periodically reviewed for all of our key management.
Recruitment of a Group Head of Reward and Recognition complete.
Personal Development Plans are set and reviewed for the effective development of all of our staff.
Continue to offer competitive compensation and benefits packages.
Personal development programmes including Weir University and the Weir Leadership Programme are open to participation by high potential staff members and these continue to attract high calibre individuals.
Key to symbols Risk increasing Risk unchanged Risk decreasing Considered as part of Viability Statement assessment The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 44 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report CONTRACT RISK We fail to adequately manage contract risk and as a result commit to obligations which the Group is unable to meet without incurring significant unplanned costs.
In addition, failure to follow Group policies and procedures may lead to commitments without the desired level of contractual protections.
Why we think this is important How we are mitigating the risk Changes during 2016 We operate in an increasingly complex and The Group has policies and procedures for Contract management continues to be competitive environment where customers contract acceptance and approval.
an area of focus for the Group, given the are not only highly focused on price and competitive environment.
Group policies These are under continuous review and service but are also more challenging in and procedures continue to be reviewed improvement to ensure they are adequate contract negotiations.
and refreshed to provide employees with for current and future circumstances.
improved tools to assist them in their As we offer a broader range of products contract management activities.
The tools and training available to employees and services to our customers, including responsible for contract management are those that are more technologically similarly under continuous review.
advanced, we risk exposing the Group to reputational and financial loss should our contract acceptance, negotiation and approval processes fail to protect the Group accordingly.
Key to symbols Risk increasing Risk unchanged Risk decreasing Considered as part of Viability Statement assessment The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 45 Strategic Report How We Manage Risk continued Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the While the review has considered all the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the principal risks identified by the Group, the directors have assessed the viability of the following were focused on for enhanced Group over a three year period, taking into stress-testing: technology and innovation: account the Groups current position and political and social risk: global economic the potential impact of the principal risks conditions: safety, health and environment: documented on pages 40 to 45 of the supply chain management: and contract Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, risk.
This resulted in scenario planning for the directors confirm that they have a further market downturn in relation to reasonable expectation that the Company commodity prices, plus a combination will be able to continue in operation and of one-off shocks to the financial results meet its liabilities as they fall due over the of the Group.
The geographical and sector diversification The directors have determined that a three of the Groups operations helps minimise year period to 31 December 2019 is an the risk of serious business interruption appropriate period over which to provide or catastrophic damage to our reputation.
While the Group While the Group remains exposed to operates a five year strategic planning the cyclicality of the markets in which it process, subject to annual review by the operates, it continues to have a strong Board, volatile market conditions and the balance sheet that provides capacity in related lack of visibility over commodity which to operate.
In addition, our ability prices in particular indicate that a period to flex our cost base to reflect our existing of three years is appropriate.
We believe markets as evidenced by our current and that this approach presents the Board prior year cost reduction programmes and readers of the Annual Report with protects our viability in the face of adverse a reasonable degree of confidence over economic conditions and or additional this longer term outlook.
In making this statement, the Board carried While this review does not consider out a robust assessment of the principal all of the risks that the Group may face, risks facing the Group, including those that the directors consider that this stresswould threaten its business model, future testing based assessment of the performance, solvency or liquidity.
Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent The strategic plan is a bottom up analysis uncertainty involved.
prepared annually and submitted to the Board for consideration.
The output of this plan is used to perform central debt and headroom profile analysis, which includes a review of sensitivity to business as usual risks, such as profit growth, working capital variances and return on capital investment.
This has provided the basis for the viability model in which we have overlaid a number of severe but plausible events to reflect our risk assessment.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 46
