40 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing our risks An active approach Our Group risk appetite acknowledges the need to proactively balance risk with opportunity, and knowingly taking an approved level of risk is essential to allowing the Group to advance in its strategic aims.
Effective management of these risks is an inherent part of our operations.
Principal risks across the Group are We continue to assess how best to Our approach managed on a day-to-day basis by the conduct risk management throughout the The Board is responsible for oversight Group Executive and steps are taken to Group.
Whilst current processes are fit for andapproval of appropriate responses assess whether the business is within the purpose, we are currently investing with topotentially significant risks in pursuit Groups risk appetite as set by the Board.
the Group Executive in a programme of risk ofthe Groups strategic objectives.
Regular operational reporting from the analysis and data capture to enhance our During the year the Board re-affirmed the executive and independent assurance capabilities to support decision-making.
existing risk appetite as being appropriate.
provided on the Board's behalf to the This process is supported by the Board and The Board confirms that its assessment Audit and Risk Management Committee already forms a mandatory component of of the principal risks facing the Company, ensure that the Board is regularly our investment appraisal process through including those that would threaten appraised on how risks are being managed.
itsbusiness model, future performance, Particular focus is given to those risks which Set out below is the Boards view of key solvency or liquidity, and which are set may threaten our strategic priorities or risks currently facing the Group, along with out in this Managing our risks section, regulatory compliance.
commentary on how this directly affects was robust.
Setting these risks out Local business units consider their own in priority order, we provide a view on the risk profiles and a consolidated view is likelihood of these risks crystallising in the presented to the Board, highlighting both coming year and the potential impacts, perceived material changes in risk and along with an indicator of the change in risk also any common themes for further compared to the prior year assessment.
The Group Executive are charged An explanation of how the Group manages with managing risk and undertake these its various financial risks is provided in duties through specific review of the risk note23 to the financial statements.
assessment in the Committee as well as formally considering risk as part of the investment appraisal process, Group and regional capital expenditure and project appraisals, review of key changes and through discussion with the Board as part of Group strategy days.
Key: High Stable Increasing Medium Decreasing Low New risk 41 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Regulatory compliance and change High High Stable efficient and effective manner.
We actively Impact on strategy location.
Our Compliance processes engage with the UK Government and and controls across the Group are well William Hill is committed to upholding significant other parties to discuss the established and the compliance functions the British Gambling Commissions core measures by which we fulfil our obligations operate independently of operational licencing objectives and adhering to the under the licensing objectives in the UK.
management to both support regulatory standards required in all of our managements compliance obligations licensed territories as they continue to We provide ongoing support and continued and to provide ongoing assurance over evolve.
Holding licences in key markets, adherence to the voluntary ABB Code, and the adherence to local requirements.
A such as with the Nevada Gaming Board, remain a committed member of the Senet bi-monthly Group Compliance Committee is an essential part of our growth strategy Group, which aims to promote responsible provides all compliance officers with and therefore the risk of breaching local gambling standards and to hold its direct access to senior Group leadership licensing regulations is a clear risk and members to account.
including the Interim CEO and ensures must be managed.
This multi-territory We maintain a dialogue with regulators compliance issues are shared across the licensing drives a need to continually Group to allow for the identification of and other key stakeholders in our licensed update processes and controls to ensure trends and common issues.
territories internationally, continually compliance, and to review the ongoing monitor the changing legal landscape changes to our business to assess We also engage with governments and and adapt our strategy on a country-bythe impact on our licensing position.
regulators on a pro-active basis when country basis to changes in regulation.
Changes to regulations in each of our changes to regulation are proposed A high proportion of Onlines revenues are licensed markets may have a negative and we actively contribute to public derived from licensed territories, which impact on Group results.
This is designed to mitigates risks associated with operating promote the consideration of the on a non-locally licensed basis.
What are we doing to address interests of the Group and the industry theissue?
The Group We have well-resourced in-house We remain wholly confident that compliance functions and have compliance Risk and Audit function also considers regulatory compliance as a core part of sustained investment in our compliance officers in all of our strategic business and other assurance functions allows units who are a core part of the local audit delivery, reporting directly to the Audit and Risk Management Committee, us to identify, understand and address management teams, ensuring compliance changing regulatory requirements in an has a voice at the top table in each as an independent third line of defence.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Cyber crime and IT security High High Increasing Impact on strategy What are we doing to address As well as working with a range of theissue?
specialist security firms to enhance, The ability to provide a market review and test our defences against leading offering to retain and attract During the year a significant DDoS attack these threats, we continue to invest customers, and the associated complex on a previously unheard of scale was significantly in our in-house capabilities.
back-office functionality we require, successfully addressed and customer This includes appointing a new Chief is wholly underpinned by significant impact minimised.
The ability to scale our Information Security Officer with deep investment in proprietary technology and defence capability and work with mitigation experience at a national infrastructure carefully selected third-party offerings.
partners to swiftly and successfully address level, to enhance our team and to ensure rapidly emerging threats proved the value Increasing threats to these technologies our defences remain fit to address the from cyber-crime or malicious activities of investments made in this area.
requires sophisticated protection Our technology security arrangements techniques and growing investment The threat continues to change and it have prevented any material data security to mitigate against them.
The sports is clear that no company or sector is breaches or financial loss.
However, the betting and online gaming industries, immune.
We believe our exposure is being scale and complexity of the DDoS attack and the increasing digital footprint of our well managed and continue to be vigilant referred to above serves as a reminder as global operations, means that this risk is a and not complacent.
to the continually evolving and growing material threat facing the Group.
42 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing our risks continued Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Transformation programme Medium High New risk What are we doing to address Impact on strategy Each initiative is sponsored by a member theissue?
of the Group Executive and led by a We recognise the benefits to be gained member of the senior management team Working with a leading global consultancy through a transformation programme to within the relevant business to ensure full firm who have a depth of experience in increase efficiencies and establish more visibility of the impacts of change.
delivering wide-reaching programmes of effective ways of working in ensuring this type, we have produced both topwe can continue to invest in longerAn independent programme of assurance down and bottom-up efficiency models term growth.
and risk management will report directly and are working with the leadership teams to the Interim CEO and Audit and Risk Delivering widespread change through within our business to prioritise a delivery Management Committee for the duration such a programme has the potential programme.
The programme has the of the programme.
to impact core business processes, full support of the Board and the Group disrupt staffing models and adversely Executive, both of which regularly discuss affect existing development roadmaps and monitor progress.
A fully resourced or business-as-usual activity if not programme office is in place to manage properly managed.
the delivery timelines, dependencies and resourcing requirements in order to minimise delivery risk and impact on existing plans.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Competitive landscape Medium Medium Stable Impact on strategy What are we doing to address Aligned to this, our high-street presence theissue?
and a change in the tone-of-voice of The challenge to acquire, retain and our marketing communications will service customerscontinues tointensify The keys to success in an increasingly ensure our brand is able to stand out asrecentmergers within the UK gambling fragmented market are new product in a crowded marketplace.
Whilst we industry begin to embed and entrants developments which are easy focus largely on our core brand, William from overseascontinueto invest in the to use and which are marketed Hill, we are also able to flex according to region.
We must ensure our strategy such that both new and existing local market needs, as demonstrated acknowledges and responds to this customers feel valued and rewarded.
by the use of Centrebet in Australia across all areas of our business, but All of these elements involve providing tocomplementour mass-market specifically with respect to product .
development, user experience and The combination of the flexibility provided .
by our front-end platform with investment Further, the appointment of Board into our back-office, data and trading members and key senior managers with Failure to differentiate and meet the platforms provides the tools required to deep industry experience during the year needs of our customers may lead to a understand and service our customers leaves us well placed.
'race to the bottom' on pricing, this being needs.
Steps taken in the year include the a natural outcome for those who serve launch of our proprietary SSBTs in Retail, commoditised offerings.
investments in NYX, improved access to development resource with the acquisition of Grand Parade andthedevelopment of our UNO single customer data warehouse, providing us with other opportunities to differentiate.
43 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Delivery of IT strategy Stable Medium High What are we doing to address Impact on strategy Grand Parade has already been theissue?
integrated into William Hill and The ability to deliver change through the has significantly enhanced our development of our IT infrastructure During the period, the Board sanctioned development capabilities with several and platforms is key to differentiating major investments in order to support of the enhancements to our mobile ours from commodity-driven offerings, our IT strategy and ensure we are fit for experience being the direct result of enhancing customer experience through purpose for future needs.
Our investments Grand Parade development work.
A clear our time to market, front-end, customer in NYX and acquisition of Grand Parade roadmap is in place to utilise existing analytics and personalisation.
are key enablers in our technology strategy development resource alongside Grand alongside our internal investments in our Our global technology footprint Parade to enhance user experience and front-end platform, SSBTs and other key comprises a sophisticated combination increase personalisation.
initiatives, which in turn underpin several of core central services and capabilities other strategic goals.
These investments and more targeted, more localised and enhance both our infrastructure and our business-specific capabilities, delivered ability to develop and support future from multiple locations, to meet specific capabilities.
Our investment in NYX local business needs.
supported its acquisition of Openbet, which positions us well to partner with them to deliver our next-generation back-end platform.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Talent Medium Medium Stable Impact on strategy In addition, following a review of the arrangements during the year.
composition of the Board see the All employees are encouraged to We operate in a highly competitive report from the Nomination Committee become owners of the business landscape with operations in multiple on page 66 we have appointed three through a Sharesave programme.
Delivery of our additional Non-executive Directors who The Board has visibility of key leadership strategy relies on the maintenance and bring significant digital, multi-channel and remuneration arrangements through the development of a focused leadership gambling industry experience.
team and access to a number of highly skilled specialists across the Group.
As well as looking to strengthen with Following investment into the HR external appointments, we also recognise function, robust appraisal and goalWhat are we doing to address the need to do more to retain and develop setting processes are being rolled out for theissue?
the talent we have in-house.
By making 2017 and annual talent reviews will be significant investments in our Human conducted with the senior management During the year the Board made a change Resources leadership, and outsourcing team.
The Group regularly reviews at the CEO level and Philip Bowcock much of the administrative work to a third the levels of employee engagement was appointed Interim CEO, supported party, our HR function is able to focus on through an annual employee survey by Mark Summerfield as Interim CFO.
talent development, robust performance and implements specific action plans to Whilst the roles are interim a clear focus appraisal and the alignment of reward address areas of improvement.
of this leadership team has been to to performance.
strengthen our senior management cohort and align leadership skills to the Overall, the Group provides competitive needs of the business.
Several senior salary and benefits packages, including hires with a depth of betting, gaming and short-term bonuses and long-term technical specialist experience have been share-based incentives, having taken appointed to the Online business and steps to review and enhance reward critical support functions.
44 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing our risks continued Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Business continuity management High Low Stable As we look to drive efficiencies across the Impact on strategy A BC management system is in place Group we continue to consider whether our which includes a programme of rolling With key operational offices in ten location strategy is aligned to our needs reviews of our Group-wide BC plans countries, supported by a network and where our exposures are unfavourable.
and we continue to evolve these of operational hubs, licensed betting plans in line with our wider business offices and sports books, disaster The Group now has access to business evolution.
This is owned by a full-time BC recovery facilities and business critical continuity BC sites in our core UK Manager, with appointed BC champions third-party locations, a comprehensive locations, multiple sites or bespoke BC in all key locations, as well as named business continuity plan in the event facilities in key overseas locations, or the BC plan owners in all business units.
of disruption to any of our key sites is ability to rely on flexible ways of working We continue to test and rehearse required.
Business continuity events in other locations.
We have established our people, technology and building include disruption to our people and a Brexit Working Group to consider the services infrastructure to ensure that BC locations which may impact the business' implications as we move towards the capability and readiness is embedded in ability to service customer needs.
triggering of Article 50 and beyond, the culture of the business and that our specifically considering the potential business is safe and secure and available What are we doing to address implications financially, operationally and for colleagues and customers.
This includes particular focus will be given to assessing ensuring suitable arrangements are in place Whilst we have successfully dealt with BC capabilities across our supply chain.
should there be disruption to the Gibraltar significant issues across our estate in the crossing or the availability of any services BC readiness forms part of the regular recent past, minimising the impact of any offered through Gibraltar, and validation reporting to the Group Audit and Risk business interruption on our customer of these arrangements by undertaking Management Committee, to ensure group and the ability to serve their needs BC testing.
adequate oversight of our plans is essential.
Likelihood Impact Change Area of risk Low High N A IT disaster recovery Impact on strategy What are we doing to address For our US and Australian businesses, theissue?
separate local IT Disaster Recovery As a global business sharing elements facilities, plans and processes are also in of our trading platforms across different Minimising the impact of any platform or place and indeed have been improved time zones, and with a global sporting online service interruption on our customer over the last 12 months.
calendar generating round-the-clock group and the ability to serve their needs is activity, any significant disruption to core essential.
We therefore continue to work We continue to monitor the status of our platforms or online services is likely to on refreshing our IT Disaster Recovery IT Disaster Recovery capabilities across have a significant impact on our ability solution for the Online business, as well as the Group to ensure that our protections to service customer needs regardless of leveraging next-generation technologies are in line with business requirements, its timing.
It is therefore important that to continuously improve the underlying and that remedial action is taken where we establish robust disaster recovery resilience of core services.
The status of our IT Disaster mechanisms for such services, to ensure we look to drive efficiencies across the Recovery solutions have been regularly that any visible downtime is minimised in Group, we continue to consider whether monitored by the Group Audit and Risk the event of disruption.
our current data centre strategy is fully Management Committee.
aligned to our needs, including whether Previously considered as part of opportunities exist to benefit our IT BusinessContinuity Disaster Recovery posture.
45 Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report Governance Financial statements A number of reasonable assumptions Viability statement are included within these assessments, The following statement is made in including: accordance with Code provision C2.2.
that funding facilities willcontinue to After considering the current position of be available or renewed on the same the Company, the directors have assessed or similar basis throughout the period the prospects and viability of the Company under review: over a three-year period to December 2019. that, following a material risk event, In making this statement, the Board has the Group would adjust strategic performed a robust assessment of the capital management to preserve cash, principal risks facing the Company, including but would not curtail normal capital those risks that would threaten William investment or adjust dividend policies: Hills business model, future performance, and solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks that the Group will be able to effectively facing William Hill and how the Company mitigate risks through enacted or addresses such risks are described in this available actions, as described in this Strategic Report and the key risks are section Managing our risks.
summarised in this section Managing our risks.
The sensitivity analysis considers all of our principal risks, although our assumption Although longer-term forecasts are that we will be able to effectively mitigate prepared to support the strategic some of our risks leads to a greater planning process, the nature of the risks emphasis on those risks that are beyond and opportunities faced by the Group in our control such as regulatory changes.
particular, the possible impact of future fiscal and regulatory changes and the Through this analysis, the directors have pace of technological change limits the concluded that we do not face a risk to directors ability to reliably predict the our viability except in the event of highly longer term.
Accordingly, a three-year improbable combinations of material horizon is used to allow for a greater degree events within the three-year window.
Based on this conclusion, the directors The directors assessment includes a have a reasonable expectation that financial review, which is derived from the the Company will be able to continue in Groups annual medium-term strategic operation and meet its liabilities as they forecasts and identifies the expected cash falldue over the period of the assessment.
flows, net debt headroom and funding covenant compliance throughout the three years under review.
These forecasts also incorporate severe but plausible downside case scenarios, illustrating the potential impact upon viability of one or more of the Groups principal risks crystallising during the period, both individually and in combination.
