WH Smith PLC 20 Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties Risk monitoring processes Board review of principal risks anduncertainties The Groups risk management framework is designed so that The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal material business risks throughout the Group can be identified, risks and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that assessed and effectively managed.
All principal business would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency functions compile risk registers and summary risk maps, to or liquidity.
Those principal risks are described below, along with identify key risks, assess them in terms of their likelihood and explanations of how they are managed and mitigated.
The Group potential impact, and determine appropriate control strategies recognises that the profile of risks constantly changes and taking account of risk appetite.
This ongoing monitoring additional risks not presently known, or that may be currently framework is overseen by the respective Business Risk deemed immaterial, may also impact the Groups business Committees and the Group Audit Committee.
Our risk management framework is therefore designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk During the year, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the of failure to achieve business objectives, and, as such, can only Groups risk management and internal controls systems.
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against these This review included the discussion and review of the risk principal uncertainties impacting on business performance.
registers and the internal controls across all business functions, as part of an annual exercise facilitated by the Internal Audit Changes in principal risks compared to lastyear team.
During the year, the Board also received presentations Following the Boards review, the Group has included international from management on specific risk areas such as cyber risk, the expansion as a separate risk heading this year reflecting the risks relating to the EU referendum, international expansion, Groups growing international business.
We have also added and the ongoing risk monitoring processes and appropriate further information relating to the movement in the level of mitigating controls.
risk exposure during the year, to highlight whether, in our view, exposure to each of the principal risks is increasing, decreasing orremains broadly the same.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 21 report governance statements information Key: Change in risk level higher level lower Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level Economic, political, competitive and market risks The Group operates in highly competitive markets The Groups performance is dependent upon effectively and our failure to compete effectively with travel, predicting and quickly responding to changing consumer convenience and other retailers may affect revenues demands.
The Group conducts customer research to obtained through our stores.
Failure to keep abreast understand current demands and preferences in order to There are a number of of market developments, including the use of new help translate market trends into saleable merchandise.
additional uncertainties technology, could threaten our competitive position.
relating to the UKs The Group continues to monitor the implications arising impending exit from the Factors such as the economic climate, levels of from the process of exiting the European Union and is a European Union.
member of a number of key industry bodies which provide household disposable income, seasonality of sales, changing demographics and customer shopping insight and updates on the this process.
patterns, and raw material costs could also impact on profit performance.
The Group may also be impacted by political developments such as exiting the European Union, regulatory and tax changes, increasing scrutiny by competition authorities and other changes in the general condition of the retail and travel markets.
Brand and reputation The Group monitors the Companys reputation, brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset and failure to protect it from unfavourable publicity standards and key service and compliance measures to ensure the maintenance of operating standards and could materially damage its standing and the wider reputation of the business, adversely regulatory compliance across all of our operations.
We undertake regular customer engagement affecting revenues.
to understand and adapt our product, offer and As the Group continues to expand its convenience store environment.
food offer in travel locations, associated risks include compliance with food hygiene and health We operate a framework for monitoring compliance with and safety procedures, product and service quality, all regulatory, hygiene and safety standards, encompassing environmental or ethical sourcing, and associated supplier and store audits and clearly defined sourcing legislative and regulatory requirements.
Our corporate responsibility programme monitors our performance in respect of our key themes of the Marketplace, Workplace, Environment and impact on the Community.
Key suppliers and supply chain management The Group has agreements with key suppliers in the The Group conducts risk assessments of all its key UK, Europe and the Far East.
The interruption or suppliers to identify alternatives and develop contingency loss of supply of core category products from these plans in the event that any of these key suppliers fail.
All suppliers have to comply with the conditions laid out suppliers to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
Quality of supply issues may also impact the Groups in our Supplier Code of Conduct, which covers areas such as production methods, employee working conditions reputation and impact our ability to trade.
The Group has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
None of these arrangements alone are individually considered to be essential to the business of the Group.
WH Smith PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2016 Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio The Group undertakes research of key markets and are key contributors to the Groups strategy.
demographics to ensure that we continue to occupy prime Retailing from a portfolio of good quality real estate locations and identify appropriate locations to acquire in prime retail areas and at commercially reasonable new space.
rates remains critical to the performance of We maintain regular dialogue and good relationships the Group.
with all our key landlords.
The Group also conducts All of High Streets stores are held under operating extensive customer research and analysis to gather leases, and consequently the Group is exposed to feedback on changing consumer requirements, that is the extent that any store becomes unviable as a shared with landlords as part of this ongoing relationship result of rental costs.
Most Travel stores are held management programme.
under concession agreements on average for five to ten years, although there is no guarantee that concessions will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid successfully for new contracts.
Business interruption An act of terrorism or war, or an outbreak of a The Group has a framework of operational procedures pandemic disease, could reduce the number of and business continuity plans that are regularly reviewed, customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing updated and tested.
The Group also has a comprehensive a decline in revenue and profit.
In the past, our insurance programme covering our global assets, Travel business has been particularly impacted by providing cover ranging from property damage and product geopolitical events such as major terrorist attacks, and public liability, to business interruption and terrorism.
which have led to reductions in customer traffic.
Back-up facilities and contingency plans are in place and Closure of travel routes both planned and unplanned, are reviewed and tested regularly to ensure that business such as the disruption caused by natural disasters interruptions are minimised.
or weather-related events, may also have a material The Groups IT systems receive ongoing investment to effect on business.
The Group operates from three ensure that they are able to respond to the needs of the distribution centres and the closure of any one of business.
Back-up facilities and contingency plans are in them may cause disruption to the business.
place and are reviewed and tested regularly to ensure that In common with most retail businesses, the Group data is protected from corruption or unauthorised use.
also relies on a number of important IT systems, where any system performance problems, cyber risks or other breaches in data security could affect our ability to trade.
Reliance on key personnel The performance of the Group depends on its The Group reviews key roles and succession plans.
ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain key The Remuneration Committee monitors the levels and head office and store staff.
The retail sector is very structure of remuneration for directors and senior competitive and the Groups personnel are frequently management and seeks to ensure that they are designed targeted by other companies for recruitment.
to attract, retain and motivate the key personnel to run the Group successfully.
WH Smith PLC Strategic Corporate Financial Other Annual report and accounts 2016 23 report governance statements information Risk description Mitigation Change in risk level International expansion The Group continues to expand internationally.
The Group utilises three business models to manage New risk heading, introduced In each country in which the Group operates, the risk in our overseas locations: directly run, joint venture to reflect the Groups growing Group may be impacted by political or regulatory and franchise.
developments, or changes in the economic climate The Group uses external consultants to advise on orthe general condition of the travel market.
compliance with international legislative and regulatory requirements, to monitor developments that may impact on our operations in overseas territories and to conduct reputational due diligence on potential new business partners.
Our geographical spread of activity mitigates against the concentration of risk in any one area.
Treasury, financial and credit risk management The Groups exposure to and management of capital, The Groups Treasury function seeks to reduce exposures liquidity, credit, interest rate and foreign currency to interest rates, foreign exchange and other financial risk are analysed further in Note 23 on page 89 of the risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet financial statements.
The Group also has credit risk foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and in relation to its trade, other receivables and sale or profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative return contracts with suppliers.
trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The value of any deposit that can be placed with any approved counterparty is based on short-term and long-term credit ratings.
The Groups Treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee and are subject to Group Internal Audit review.
The Group has a committed facility with a number of financial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
This facility matures in June 2019.
Cyber risk and data security The Group is subject to the risk of systems breach The Group employs a framework of IT controls to protect or data loss from various sources including external against unauthorised access to our systems and data, hackers or the infiltration of computer viruses.
encompassing the monitoring of developments in Theft or loss of Company or customer data or cyber security.
This control framework encompasses The external threat level is potential damage to any systems from viruses or the maintenance of firewalls and intruder detection, ever changing.
There has other malware could result in fines and reputational encryption of data, regular penetration testing been a general increase in damage to the business that could negatively impact conductedby our appointed external Quality Assurance the number of externally our sales.
provider and the engagement with third party reported cyber attacks specialists, where appropriate.
We have a Steering Group overseeing our programme of ongoing monitoring and compliance with the Payment CardIndustry Data Security Standard.
