Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Principal risks and uncertainties Viability statement Understanding and responding to risks The Corporate Governance Code requires that the directors in our operations means we can make have considered the viability of the Group over an appropriate informed decisions that enhance our period of time selected by them, in this case a threeyear period.
In making this assessment the directors took into capacity to build value.
account the current financial and operational positions of the Group and the potential impact of the risks and uncertainties Risk management as outlined on pages 48 and 49.
Risk arises from the operations of, and strategic decisions taken by, every business.
It is not something that can be The business planning process reviewed by the Board, avoided but should be harnessed in pursuit of business as part of the annual strategic planning process, is over objectives.
a fiveyear timeline, with the Board acknowledging that there is significantly more certainty over the first three The Board has ultimate responsibility for risk management years of the plan in light of fluctuations in the global economy, throughout the Group and determines the nature and the entry of new competitors and customer preferences.
extent of the risks Whitbread is willing to take to achieve Therefore the directors have determined a threeyear its objectives to determine its risk appetite.
Risk is managed period is an appropriate period over which to provide its proactively by the business unit executive committees and viability statement.
In making the viability statement, the the Executive Committee.
Certain responsibilities, such as Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks overseeing the systems of risk management and internal and uncertainties facing the Group, including those that would control, have been delegated to the Audit Committee, threaten the business model, future performance, solvency which completes an annual review of the effectiveness and liquidity.
Scenario modelling and sensitivity analysis was of these processes.
applied to forecasted cash flows to model the potential effects should the principal risks actually occur and consideration was The structure and governance of the risk management given to the availability and likely effectiveness of mitigating process at Whitbread is shown on page 47, and during actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact the year, a robust bottomup assessment of risks was or occurrence of the identified risk.
In particular, it should be noted that the Group is currently Both the Hotels & Restaurants and the Costa businesses spending a substantial part of its cash from operations complete an annual review of the risks to the achievement on discretionary growth capital c. 50% on average which of their strategic goals, whilst also taking into account the gives the Group considerable flexibility to manage cash key operational risks, which are updated quarterly.
A top flows and would provide significant mitigation if required.
down risk assessment is also completed to capture the Boards views on the principal risks facing Whitbread, Based upon this assessment the directors confirm that they considering risk appetite.
Actions required to manage have reasonable expectation that the Group will be able these risks are monitored and reviewed on a regular basis.
to continue in operation to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the threeyear assessment period.
The principal risks identified, together with a summary of key mitigations, are summarised on pages 48 and 49.
Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 and uncertainties 46 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Group risk framework Board Audit Committee Accountable for strategic Oversight and challenge risk management of the e ectiveness and ensuring a sound system of risk management of internal control and and mitigating controls risk management is in place Executive Committee Internal Audit Review, challenge and Coordination approval of Group risks and analysis Whitbread Hotels Group Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants Costa functions & Restaurants International Accountable for risk management in the respective business and risk submissions to the Executive Committee Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 and uncertainties 47 Risk management reporting and escalation Governance, strategy, oversight and communications Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Principal risks and uncertainties continued P rincipal risks Risk Key mitigations Winning Teams Engagement and retention The success of our businesses relies upon the passion and commitment of our teams Failure to maintain staff and their engagement is fundamental.
We closely monitor our teams engagement engagement and retention both through our annual Your Say survey, and reporting on team turnover a key in tightening labour market.
component of our WINcard Annual Incentive Scheme.
Team turnover continues to be a challenge for us as the labour market tightens with the economic recovery.
We have a number of training and progression programmes in place to address this, both at a site and support centre level.
For our team members we will continue to review our pay structures to ensure that their reward reflects their increasing skills through our pay for progression programme.
At a support centre level we are implementing a new performance management framework with a focus on supporting all employees to reach their potential.
For all senior management positions we have succession plans in place and talent gaps are being actively addressed through recruitment, training and development.
Health and safety The safety of our guests and employees is of paramount importance and is monitored Death or serious injury closely at every level of the business.
It is a measure on the WINcard as a hurdle for as a result of Company incentive payments and regular updates are reported to the Board.
Our key health and safety risks are our construction sites, fire safety and food hygiene standards.
We monitor these through internal brand standard checks, compliance audits, and risk based reviews.
This year, these have resulted in refreshed fire safety training in our hotels and updated training manuals for our international coffee shops to better address local training requirements.
We also engage with thirdparty health and safety assurance provider NSF, who visit every site at least annually and support us in achieving consistent standards globally.
Customer Heartbeat Innovation and brand strength Protecting our brands requires not only delivering consistently excellent customer A longterm decline in the experience, but also finding new and innovative ways to engage our customers.
customer perception of our We closely monitor customer perception through market research, focus groups, brands would impact our net guest scores and TripAdvisor ratings to help us focus investment where it ability to grow and achieve matters most to our customers.
As a result of this, we are strengthening our existing brand proposition including increasing refurbishments of our estate and improving our customers online experience.
We are also investing in a number of new formats including hub by Premier Inn, Beefeater Bar Block, Premier Inn Germany, Costa Pronto, Costa Fresco and an expanded Costa loyalty offering.
Pandemic terrorism The safety and security of our customers, staff and suppliers is of critical importance The risk of a pandemic or and therefore ensuring we are ready to respond appropriately in the event of a threat terrorism on the safety and materialising is a key priority.
We have crisis management procedures in place and security of our customers, management undertake training and simulations to assess our readiness and response staff and the consequent capabilities should an event arise.
We are implementing specific training for our hotel impact on trading.
team members and embedding training policies and procedures will remain a focus for the coming year.
Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 and uncertainties 48 Overview p1 3 Strategic report p4 61 Governance p62 96 Consolidated accounts 2015 16 p97 149 Company accounts 2015 16 p150 165 Risk Key mitigations Profitable Growth Cyber and data security We have a series of IT security controls in place including network system monitoring Inadequate systems and and regular penetration testing to identify vulnerabilities.
We continue to invest in data security reduces the new skills and capabilities.
A security improvement programme is in place improving effectiveness of our systems network security, data breach controls, procedures and ensuring accountabilities are or results in a loss of data.
This in turn could result in loss of income and or reputational damage.
IT infrastructure We are investing heavily in our systems infrastructure.
This will increase the capacity, IT infrastructure is unable resilience and stability of our core systems and digital propositions.
We have a strong to adequately support our IT leadership team in place to manage this transformation and have implemented business growth objectives.
clear governance structures to prioritise, coordinate and deliver it efficiently with minimal disruption.
Economic climate The ability to rapidly respond to changes in the economic environment requires a lean Changes in the economic and agile cost base.
To this end, we are implementing a number of efficiency initiatives climate, Brexit, fall in GDP, to ensure we leverage technology and maximise synergies across our Restaurants, RevPAR or property inflation Premier Inn and Costa brands.
These include reviewing our labour management could impact returns and processes, and upgrading our systems to ensure our teams are structured and our growth plans.
equipped to work flexibly and efficiently.
Economic developments are factored in to our business planning at both a macro and micro level.
Our investment appraisal process includes modelling a diverse range of scenarios to ensure we continue to achieve a good level of return for all new openings.
Our debt and gearing levels are monitored closely using our financial framework to ensure they are well within our financial covenants and headroom requirements.
Good Together Food safety and hygiene Food safety continues to be an area of considerable investment for us, both in The preparation or storage employee training, and in enforcing our stringent sourcing policies, traceability and of food and or supply testing requirements as we expand our product offering and continue to grow both chain failure results in food in the UK and internationally.
Independent food safety audits are completed at least poisoning and reputational annually across all our brands in addition to internal brand standard checks and damage.
This will remain a key focus and priority going forward, as we look to increase the frequency and coverage of outlet visits.
Whitbread Principal risks Annual Report and Accounts 2015 16 and uncertainties 49
