William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee The Committee maintained a comprehensive approach to risk management and monitoring the internalcontrol environment throughout 2016, focusing attention on key matters duringthe year.
David Lowden Chairman, Audit and Risk Management Committee Committee also meets with the external review the major risks affecting the Membership and meetings auditor and the Director of Risk and Audit Group and assist the Board with Set out below is the current membership without executive management present reviewing the effectiveness of the of the Audit and Risk Management on a regular basis.
The Committee met on controls operating over the Groups Committee.
During the year, all the five occasions during 2016 and details of financial and non-financial risks: members of the Committee were attendance at Committee meetings are set review the nature and scope of the independent Non-executive Directors.
out on page 54. work to be performed by the external Director and internal auditors, the result of that The Chairman of the Committee, David work, managements response, and David Lowden, Chairman Lowden, has recent and relevant financial their effectiveness: experience.
He is a chartered accountant Sir Roy Gardner and has previously held senior financial oversee the relationship with the Georgina Harvey positions within other international external auditor including making Ashley Highfield companies.
Sir Roy Gardner, Georgina recommendations to the Board Imelda Walsh Harvey, Ashley Highfield, and Imelda regarding their appointment or removal Walsh are all financially literate and have and developing a policy regarding Mark Brooker significant general business experience the provision of non-audit services with effect from 3 April 2017 of executive roles in both private and to the Group.
The Committee is also John OReilly public organisations, as have the newly responsible for overseeing the rotation with effect from 2 January 2017 appointed Non-executive Directors taking or tender of external audit services in Robin Terrell office in 2017.
The Committee's sector accordance with applicable legislation or with effect from 2 January 2017 experience is also further strengthened good governance: with the appointments of John O'Reilly meet with the executive directors and The Company Secretary acts as secretary and Mark Brooker.
Details of each directors management, as well as privately with to the Committee.
Other individuals significant current and prior appointments both the external and internal auditors: attend at the request of the Committee are set out on pages 46 and 47. and Chairman and during the year this report to shareholders annually on its included: representatives of the external Committee remit role and responsibilities.
auditor, the Chairman, the Interim CEO, the Interim CFO, the Director of Group A full copy of the terms of reference for the A formalised whistle-blowing policy and Legal Services, the Director of Risk and Committee can be obtained via the website procedure for staff to raise issues regarding Audit, the Head of Internal Audit, and the www.
com or by request to possible improprieties in matters of Group Financial Controller.
In addition the Company Secretary.
The Committees financial reporting or other matters is in members of the management team, principal responsibilities are to: place and operated during the year.
It is the including the Group Chief Information responsibility of the Committee to monitor review and advise the Board on the Officer, attend by invitation to report to its effectiveness and any notifications Groups half yearly and annual financial the Committee on key matters raised and made.
No material issues arose as a statements and its accounting policies to provide clarification and explanations result of whistle-blowing during the year, and monitor the integrity of the financial where appropriate.
and further information can be found on statements and announcements page57.
In view of the regulated nature of the relating to financial performance: Companys business, the Group Money assist the Board as necessary in The Committee has access to the services Laundering Reporting Officer also attends ensuring that the Companys Annual of the Group Risk and Audit function two meetings each year in order to provide Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and Company Secretarial departments a formal report on anti-money laundering and understandable in accordance and is authorised to obtain independent to the Committee.
In addition, the with applicable legislation and professional advice if it considers governance recommendations: it necessary.
Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 61 Governance a clear and cohesive framework Main activities during 2016 Standing items at each facilitates integrated key messaging, Committee meeting Financial The calendar of Committee activities below market and segment reviews, statements provides an overview of the key areas of Review of reports from Group performance overviews, and principal specific focus for the Committee in 2016.
Risk and Audit function on: key risks to the business.
Sufficient forwardoperational controls, internal audits looking information is also provided and undertaken since the last Committee 2016 calendar of Audit a balance is sought between describing meeting, key open internal audit potential challenges and opportunities: Committee activity actions, whistle-blowing reports and the Committee had received briefings February 2016 status of business continuity planning during the year on the material reporting and disaster recovery Review of 2015 full year results, changes which would be required to Annual Report and Accounts, and Review and approval of external be observed or which would represent external audit report auditor non-audit fees good practice: Review of the control environment in Review and update of a 12-month management also reported to the Online Gaming rolling plan for the Committee Committee regarding steps taken in the Review of operations in Manila year to ensure that the Annual Report Approval of previous Committee and Accounts remains FBU for users of Annual effectiveness and risk meeting minutes and follow-up on the presented financial information: management assessment outstanding actions the Annual Report and Accounts was Discussion of the Anti-Money subject to final approval by the Board, Laundering Officers Report also Approach to core remit following review and comment by both October meeting the Committee and individual Board Financial statements Private meetings of the Committee members: and with the Group Risk and Audit team During the year, the Committee and the external auditor Deloitte improvements have been made to reviewed and discussed the financial without management present the Annual Report to improve the disclosures made in the full year results explanation and presentation of announcement, the Annual Report and May 2016 adjusted results.
Accounts, and the half yearly results Online Security presentation together with any related management Technology Security update also Internal control and risk letters, letters of representation and October meeting detailed reports from the external auditor.
management Corporate Governance updates Significant financial reporting issues The Committee closely monitored and judgements were discussed and July 2016 the Groups internal control and risk reviewed.
There were no material changes management systems and received regular Review of 2016 half year results and to significant accounting policies during reports and presentations from senior half year external auditor report the year.
management covering the major risks NYX Open Bet The UK Corporate Governance Code and events faced by the Group, and the post-investment review requires the Board to confirm that they procedures established to identify, assess, Policy regarding the Investment consider the Annual Report and Accounts, manage, monitor and mitigate these risks.
ofSurplus Cash taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and The calendar of Committee activities on understandable FBU and that it provides this page provides further information October 2016 the information necessary for shareholders regarding the specific areas covered by Update on post investment to assess the Companys position and the Committee.
reviewfor NYX Open Bet and performance, business model and strategy.
post-investment review of The Committee, in conjunction with the Grand Parade A robust process is operated whereby Group Risk and Audit function, took direct the Committee assists the Board in the responsibility for reviewing and approving Online disaster recovery update discharge of this duty.
The Committee the statements on internal controls on Annual tax update provided assistance to the Board by pages 57 and 58 on behalf of the Board.
Approval of the external audit plan overseeing the process by which the The statements specifically applied any for the 2016 financial year Annual Report and Accounts is prepared.
developments in practice regarding internal In particular the Committee noted that: control and risk management to the Approval of a revised Policy on the disclosures within the Report.
Independence of the External Auditor guidance is initially issued to the project team regarding FBU obligations: December 2016 Oversight of the external all content is subject to rigorous review Online disaster recovery update auditor by both the contributors and by the Review of significant risk and Senior Executive team: The Committee has responsibility control issues for overseeing the relationship with the Interim CFO, the Company Secretary Approval of 2017 internal audit plan the external auditor and continues and the Director of Investor Relations Grand Parade 100-day to review and monitor the external perform a review to ensure that the post-investment review auditors independence, objectivity and Report promotes consistency and the effectiveness of the audit process.
PwC review of Online Gaming controls balance between the narrative front half A revised policy on the Independence of and the financial notes: Deloitte benchmarking review of the External Auditor was discussed and annual report disclosures approved by the Committee during the William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 62 Report of the Audit and Risk Management Committee continued year, to implement the Statutory Auditors including a formal written report dealing independence and objectivity of the and Third Country Auditors Regulations with the audit objectives, the auditors external auditor, Deloitte was not impaired 2016.
The policy broadly covers the qualifications, expertise and resources, at any point during the year, on the basis appointment, tendering and rotation of the procedures and policies for maintaining that significant other assurance services, auditor: restrictions on the employment independence and compliance with the being reporting accountant services, were of former staff of the auditor: ongoing ethical standards issued by the Auditing performed in connection with their position independence criteria: and the supply of Practices Board.
The Committee also as the external auditor and were approved non-audit services.
assessed the effectiveness of the audit in advance by the Audit Committee.
In addition, the external auditors The Audit Committee does not anticipate As a result of the Statutory Auditors and management letter was reviewed, as was that non-audit fees will exceed audit fees in Third Country Auditors Regulations 2016, all managements response to issues raised.
provision of non-audit services by external auditors will be restricted to a 70% cap In accordance with the policy on the Deloitte has been the external auditor of the Group for more than 20 years, of the audit fees over a rolling three-year Independence of the External Auditor, period.
The first three-year measurement the Committee regularly considers the having been originally appointed to the Company in December 2001 on the Group period, covering the 2017, 2018 and 2019 relationship with the external auditor.
financial years, will end and be subject to In line with the policy, at each meeting listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Deloitte provided audit services to other reporting in 2020.
The Committee already the Committee considered and approved has arrangements in place to monitor as appropriate any non-audit work group entities prior to their appointment in 2001, their relationship with the Group compliance with the non-audit services cap undertaken by the external auditor under the revised policy.
involving fees in excess of 25,000. commencing on 22 January 1991.
A tender in respect of the external audit has not Where no Committee meeting was The revised policy also explicitly prohibits a scheduled within an appropriate time been sought since William Hill was listed range of non-audit services in accordance on the London Stock Exchange in 2002. frame, approval was sought from the with relevant legislation, examples of Committee Chairman and subsequently There are no contractual obligations prohibited services include projects with restricting the Groups choice of external ratified at the next meeting.
All non-audit contingent fee structures: accounting and services provided by the external auditor auditor.
The Committee confirms that payroll services: legal services and provision it continues to be satisfied with the are reported to the Committee at its of internal audit services.
next scheduled meeting and a record performance of the external auditor and with the policies and procedures The Committee approved the external is kept and reviewed by the Committee on a cumulative basis so that the total in place to maintain their objectivity auditors engagement letter, audit fee and independence.
The Committee and the annual audit plan including the aggregate costs regarding non-audit work during a financial year is monitored recommended that Deloitte be planned levels of materiality as usual.
reappointed at the forthcoming Annual Letters of representation were reviewed carefully.
Audit and non-audit fees paid to the external auditor are set out in note 5 to General Meeting and the Board accepted during the year, prior to signature by and endorsed this recommendation.
the financial statements and can be found on page 111.
The Committee notes and confirms The external auditor regularly attended During 2016 the Audit Committee compliance with the other provisions of the Committee meetings in 2016 and receives approved the provision of certain non-audit Competition & Markets Authority Order all reading papers and minutes in respect assurance services by the external auditor.
2014 in respect of statutory audit services of the meetings of the Committee.
The majority of the approved services, for large companies.
The external auditor met at least for which fees totalled approximately once during 2016 with the Committee After further consideration during the year, 828,000, related to external assurance for without executive management present.
the Committee has re-affirmed that its a 350 million bond issuance, and both the The Chairman of the Committee has also current intention is to change the external response to the proposed offer from The met privately with the external auditor.
auditor by no later than the expiry of the Rank Group plc and 888 Holdings plc, and five-year term of the external audit partner, In 2016 the Committee reviewed both the the Amaya, Inc. merger proposal.
Paul Franek of Deloitte, i. e. by 2019 in Audit Quality Inspection Report published Other non-audit services provided by the accordance with current ethical guidance by the Financial Reporting Council in external auditor during the year related regarding the rotation of audit partners.
respect of the Groups external auditor, to the provision of specific consultancy, Hence, on that basis, a competitive Deloitte LLP, and their publicly available technical and tax advice to the group and tendering process will commence prior response.
The Report showed Deloitte its subsidiaries, and were also approved to the expiry of the five-year term.
had further improved the quality of its by the Committee for fees totalling The Committee has scheduled a review in auditing, again comparing favourably with approximately 110,000.
The tax services the 2017 financial year to outline plans for its immediate market peers.
pre-dated introduction of the new external the competitive tendering process, and to auditor independence policy.
also consider introductory presentations The external audit from potential tender participants on the engagement The Committee is satisfied in each basis that the formal tender process will case that the external auditor was best Deloitte LLP are the Companys current commence in the 2018 financial year.
placed to undertake the relevant project.
external auditor and the Committee The nature of each advisory project meant The Committee will continue to monitor monitors the ethical guidance regarding that it was most timely and cost-effective any further legislative developments and rotation of the external audit partner.
to select Deloitte to provide the advice.
will review its conclusion and any other Paul Franek is the current audit associated matter with regard to the partner, having been appointed in 2014.
In the current year the level of non-audit external auditor, again at least annually in During 2016, the Committee received fees in the period exceeded the audit the intervening period.
regular reports from the external auditor, fee.
The Committee is satisfied that the Strategic William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 report 63 Governance interim results stage and again in respect the disclosures and supporting analysis Internal audit of the annual results.
in respect of the viability statement.
Financial William Hill has a Group Risk and Audit The Committee reaffirmed the statements In addition, each year the external auditor function which includes an Internal Audit reasonableness of the assumptions prepares a comprehensive forward plan team.
The Group Risk and Audit function and viability period of three financial in respect of their audit.
Towards the has unrestricted access to all Group years as a part of a recommendation to end of 2016, the Committee reviewed documentation, premises, functions and the Board: the plan and discussed it with Deloitte.
employees as required to enable it to an annual assessment by the directors The plan explained: perform its functions.
The appointment that it is appropriate to prepare the and removal of the Director of Risk the scope and approach of the financial statements on a going and Audit and Head of Internal Audit audit, including consideration of concern basis: is the responsibility of the Committee.
materiality thresholds: the steps taken by management to The Director of Risk and Audit and Head any key areas of change in the focus of ensure that the Annual Report was fair, of Internal Audit have direct access to the audit: and balanced and understandable: the Board and Committee Chairman.
areas of significant audit risk which would During 2016 the Director of Risk and Audit the accounting basis applied to the be subject to particular audit focus.
and Head of Internal Audit continued Group's pension schemes, in particular to meet regularly with the Committee in respect of the valuation of assets The Committee endorsed Deloittes plan Chairman without executive management.
and liabilities: inrespect of 2016. the accounting treatment and During the year the Committee approved The Committee pays particular attention disclosures in respect of the investment the annual audit plan and it monitored to the matters which it considers may in NYX Gaming Group Limited and the progress against the plan.
The annual audit affect the integrity of the Groups financial purchase of Grand Parade Limited: and plan is amended during the year if needed statements, with a view to satisfying to ensure it addresses emerging key areas the effectiveness of key controls within itself that each matter has been treated of control identified by management or by the business, which appears on page 57. appropriately.
The Committee found the Group Risk and Audit function and any that there was a good level of alignment Part of the Committees role is to provide material changes to the plan are reported between the key areas identified by constructive challenge to management to and discussed with the Committee.
management and the areas highlighted on the above issues and on other matters Audit reports were made available to the for review by Deloitte.
The Committee related to financial reporting.
This is Committee members after each audit, assessed each matter, which included particularly important where underlying and the Committee monitored progress reviews of: assumptions need to be made by against actions identified in those reports management as part of their assessments.
the Group's compliance with guidelines and the external auditors management In respect of this, the Committee continued letter.
During the year and in particular on the disclosure and explanation of to question management as necessary Alternative Performance Measures regarding the approval of the internal on the treatment of the items and the audit plan for the forthcoming year the which appear in the Annual Report.
Committee received appropriate responses In particular, the Committee noted Committee enquired as to the adequacy from management.
of the resources of the Group Risk and changes made to the presentation of adjusted results and recent FRC Audit function and received assurances The significant issues were also the that appropriate resources were available.
publications highlighting best practice in subject of review by the external auditor this area: Where necessary, the work required to be and the Committee noted that, where undertaken by the Internal Audit function needed, the external auditor had the carrying value of goodwill and is supported by external professionals to confirmed managements treatment was intangibles across the Group.
This review ensure that the planned work is completed.
appropriate and that management had included an assessment of the impact of made reasonable assumptions.
As noted weaker trading performance during 2016 Disclosure of significant issues above, the Committee was satisfied that in Online.
Following review it was agreed the judgements made by management that no impairment charge was required: considered by the Committee were reasonable and that appropriate items which had been categorised An important part of the Committees disclosures had been included in the as exceptional items for 2016.
It was responsibilities is to assess key issues in accounts.
The Committee also noted that agreed with the Executive team that respect of published financial statements.
Deloitte have issued an audit opinion, certain items should be treated which can be found on pages 94 to 98 This process is primarily focused on the as exceptional items and further of this Annual Report and Accounts, in key issues identified by management information is provided in note 3 to the respect of the annual financial statements.
However, each financial statements: Further details in respect of accounting Committee member as a member of matters relating to taxation.
In particular treatments and assumptions are also the Board receives regular updates on the Committee assessed the recognition, provided as appropriate in the notes to the the performance of the business and derecognition and valuation of tax financial statements.
in particular on material issues which provisions.
The Committee concluded may affect the finances of the business.
that appropriate treatments had been Other activities This gives the Committee additional applied in each case: perspective to consider and to be familiar Summaries of key agenda items can also the existence and disclosure of actual with significant issues which need to be be found in the calendar of Committee and contingent liabilities.
In respect of the 2016 financial activities on page 61. was satisfied, following review of year, the Committee reviewed and management disclosures, that such David Lowden discussed with management the key issues Chairman, Audit and Risk Management Committee liabilities had been treated appropriately which had been identified, both at the within the financial statements:
