Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 17 Risk Managing our risks Recognising the effect of uncertainty on our business means that we are in a better position to achieve our objectives, respond to emerging risks and create opportunities.
The principal risks are monitored every month Risk management approach Principal risks by the Executive Committee using key risk The achievement of our six priorities depends The Directors have carried out a robust indicator reporting, supplemented by specific on our ability to make sound, risk-informed deep dive reviews as appropriate.
assessment of the principal risks facing the decisions.
Managing risk and uncertainty is an Group, including those that would threaten its The Risk and Internal Audit function facilitates integral part of doing business.
We manage business model, future performance, solvency the preparation of both functional and increasing uncertainty as we respond to or liquidity.
It supports the Audit changes in our industry by maintaining a This assessment of principal risks has resulted Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of business wide understanding of our key in some changes from those risks disclosed risk management and internal control systems.
risks and how to manage them.
Business strategy has been removed Where weaknesses are identified, Risk and in delivering our promises to customers as a separate risk but the key elements are Internal Audit work with the business to agree and shareholders.
included in the other risks listed, notably the actions to mitigate these.
newly added risks of customer and supplier The Audit Committee supports the Board The risk management process relationships.
The supply chain management in establishing a robust risk management and integrity risk has been removed and framework by approving the risk management Our risk management framework has been incorporated into the supplier relationships process and reviewing the Groups principal built to identify, evaluate, mitigate and monitor and food and product integrity risks.
The IT risks and key risk indicator reporting.
those risks which threaten the achievement of systems upgrade risk has been removed as this our six priorities.
The framework incorporates Read more on risk governance in the Audit project is substantially complete.
The regulation both a top down approach to identify the Committee report on pages 28 to 31. risk has also been removed and key elements Groups principal risks and a bottom up of it are covered in the health and safety, approach to identify operational risks.
food safety and product integrity and supplier Key areas of focus relationships risks.
At the core of the risk management process are Key activities and developments during the risk registers for each function.
These detail The principal risks identified by the Board and 2015 16 include: the key operating risks and are used to assess corresponding mitigating controls are set out update of the Group risk register the gross level of risk likelihood and impact, on the next page in no order of priority.
by the Executive Committee: mitigating controls, the resultant net level of embedding of risk register reviews by functions risk, risk mitigation plans and target level of and sub group of Executive Committee: risk.
The risk registers are owned and managed development of Group risk reporting using key risk by operational management, with the head indicators: and of each function certifying annually that alignment with recent changes to the these have been reviewed and action plans UK Corporate Governance Code, including are in place where required.
The risk registers development of a viability statement.
are formally reviewed by a sub group of the Our priorities for 2016 17 include: Executive Committee.
reviewing and updating the controls framework to further develop key controls monitoring and A Group risk register is reviewed and updated at performance at a functional level: and least twice a year by the Executive Committee.
developing the Groups risk appetite framework.
It details the Groups principal risks, owners, the level of risk and mitigating actions.
The Executive Committees assessment of these risks takes into account the operating risks, strategic risks, external factors and any emerging risks.
