Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Strategic report 18 Principal risks RISK TYPE DESCRIPTION MITIGATION There is a risk that a major incident, We have recovery plans in place covering our stores, depots, factories and offices: Business such as a natural disaster or strike These plans include, where appropriate, secondary locations which would be interruption action, could cause significant used as backup in case of an incident: disruption to business operations.
# A Crisis Management Group is in place to oversee these plans and to manage and The Groups response must be respond to any major incidents: and appropriate to minimise disruption and reputational damage.
We conduct supplier risk assessments and have contingency plans in place, where possible, to manage the risk of loss of supply.
If we do not effectively manage our We have continued to invest heavily in price and to emphasise Morrisons point Competition trade plan to remain competitive there of difference through the Made by Morrisons campaign: 1 is a risk that we will not achieve our We review and actively manage our price points, sales proposition, financial targets.
and promotional and marketing campaigns: The Grocery sector continues to Competitor pricing positions and market trends are reviewed on a weekly be challenging with high levels of basis: and competitive activity, food price Our strong balance sheet and proven ability to generate cash will allow deflation and enhancement of service us to further invest in our proposition.
This leads to an increase in this risk.
There is a risk that we dont meet We have focused the business on six priorities see pages 8 to 9 which puts the Customer the needs of our customers in respect customer at the centre of our decision making: 1 2 3 of price, range, quality and service.
We have implemented a large scale programme of customer listening groups If we dont provide the shopping trip 4 6 to gain a deep understanding of what our customers want and, where we can that the customer wants, we could improve, these have informed our store refresh programme: lose sales and market share.
We closely monitor customer perceptions research and respond quickly where possible: and We have continued to expand the geography covered by our online offering meaning more people are able to shop online with us.
A security breach leading to loss We have an Information Management Steering Group which has the responsibility Data of customer, colleague or Group for overseeing data management practices, policies, awareness and training: # confidential data is a key aspect of this Information security policies and procedures are in place, including encryption, principal risk.
A major data security network security, systems access and data protection: and breach could lead to significant This is supported by ongoing monitoring, reporting and rectification reputational damage and fines.
Increased regulation and financial penalties in addition to increased incidents of cyber attacks on corporates has led to the increase in this risk.
The main areas of this principal The Groups treasury function is responsible for the forward planning and Financial risk are the availability of funding management of funding, interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and and treasury and management of cash flow to commodity price risks see note 7.
They report to the Treasury Committee and meet business needs.
In addition, operate within clear policies and procedures which are approved by the Board: and # fluctuations in commodity prices and For livestock and produce, we track prices and forecasts and enter into long term foreign exchange rates could impact contracts where appropriate to ensure stability of price and supply.
There is a risk that the products we Strict standards and monitoring processes are in place to manage food safety Food safety sell are unsafe or not of the integrity and product integrity throughout the Group and supply chain: and product that our customers expect.
It is of Regular assessments of our suppliers and own manufacturing facilities are integrity utmost importance to us and to the undertaken by a dedicated team to ensure adherence to standards: confidence that customers have in our # Our vertical integration model gives us control over the integrity of a significant business that we meet the required proportion of our fresh food: standards.
If we do not do this it could impact business reputation Management regularly monitors food safety and product integrity performance and compliance as well as conducting horizon scanning to anticipate emerging and financial performance.
issues: and The process is supported by external accreditation and internal training programmes.
Annual report and financial statements 2015 16 19 RISK TYPE DESCRIPTION MITIGATION The main aspect of this principal risk We have clear policies and procedures detailing the controls required to manage Health and safety is of injury or harm to customers or health and safety risks across the business: # colleagues.
Failure to prevent incidents An ongoing training programme is in place for frontline operators and management: could impact business reputation A programme of health and safety audits is in place across our stores, depots, and customer confidence and lead factories and offices with resource dedicated to manage this risk effectively: and to financial penalties.
Management regularly monitors health and safety performance and compliance.
Our colleagues are key to the We have competitive employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages: People achievement of our plan, particularly A new Group wide reward framework has been introduced and roles are evaluated # as we make changes to the business.
against an external framework, driving stronger consistency of rewards: There is a risk that if we fail to attract, Our training and development programmes are designed to give colleagues the retain or motivate talented colleagues, skills they need to do their job and support their career aspirations: we will not provide the quality of service that our customers expect.
Line managers conduct regular talent reviews and processes are in place to identify and actively manage talent see more in our people section on page 14 : and Business change and the challenging Colleague engagement surveys, listening sessions and networking forums are used trading environment may impact to understand and respond to our colleagues needs.
on colleagues leading to an increase in this risk.
There is a risk that if we fail to engage We work closely with our suppliers to build joint business plans, ensuring Supplier effectively with our suppliers we a competitive customer offer and a resilient supply base: relationships will not be able to deliver the right We have a GSCOP compliance framework in place including training for relevant 1 5 proposition for our customers.
colleagues and processes to monitor compliance: and Maintaining strong and effective Additionally we have a channel for suppliers to provide feedback and relationships with our suppliers will a Code Compliance Officer.
be key as we develop a sell for less culture and simplify our ranges.
Additionally we need to ensure compliance with Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP regulation.
Key Link to six priorities 5 To simplify and speed up the organisation Increase in residual risk 1 To be more competitive No change 2 To serve customers better 6 To make the core supermarkets strong again Decrease in residual risk 3 To find local solutions Underpins all six priorities # 4 To develop popular and useful services Viability statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the As part of the strategic planning process, Key metrics in the plan, such as cash flow, Group over a three year period to January 2019. the Directors make a number of assumptions interest cover, liquidity and ability to raise debt about business performance and the ability financing, were subject to sensitivity testing The Groups business model is not dependent of the Group to raise debt financing.
The Group by flexing a number of the main financial on any particular contract or resource with carefully plans and reviews the maturity profile assumptions in order to assess the impact of fixed end dates: the period was selected of debt facilities to avoid coterminous maturity principal risks in severe but plausible scenarios.
because the Groups forecasts associated with dates and liquidity forecasting gives visibility of the detailed strategic and financial plans are Based on this assessment, and taking into headroom under committed facilities over the prepared over this period and were considered account the Groups current position, the period of the financial plans.
to be the most robust and appropriate means Directors have a reasonable expectation that to support its viability statement.
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their assessment.
