Principal risks and their management Risk management at Wolseley Monitoring risk throughout the Group The Board is ultimately accountable for the system of risk management at Wolseley.
The Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee review risks and controls in the context of the Groups strategic plan and objectives.
Throughout the year, information is provided directly from front line operations, via corporate functions and independent audits.
Board, Audit Committee and Executive Committee Fourth level Principal risks formally reviewed every six months by the Board and Executive.
Thresholds for principal risks agreed.
Overall system of risk management reviewed by the Audit Committee on Audit reports behalf of the Board.
throughout the year Employee whistleblowing line Performance reports Risk reports in March and September 1.
Independent operations and assurance Corporate functions Audit findings inform Group and subsidiary level, line management analyse risk and assessments of e. g. risk, treasury, finance, Internal audit, external control data, control effectiveness e. g. branches and set policies and legal and IT by Group Risk team auditors and other procedures distribution centres independent experts.
Reports from Group Second level Operations report Risk inform audit First level Third level on risk and control priorities and plans Set policies and status and submit for the coming year Business operations procedures.
Test the design and performance reports, e. g. injury statistics implement policies.
effectiveness of Monitor risks and controls.
Employees act in line procedures and controls.
Collate and submit risk with Wolseleys Code reports.
of Conduct and Group policies.
Wolseley plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Risk analysis during theyear Longer-term viability of the Group Building on this risk analysis, the Directors have assessed the 2015 16 risk and control assessments Groups prospects and viability in light of its current financial Wolseley formally reviews its principal Group and business unit position, strategic plan and principal risks.
The Board believes that risks every six months at the half-year and at the year-end.
a three-year viability assessment period to July 2019 is appropriate In January and July 2016, the Board provided its perspective on as this timeframe aligns with the Groups planning horizon.
risks relating to the Groups strategy for 2016 17 and beyond.
Strategic plans have been prepared by all business clusters The Boards assessment was then combined with bottom-up risk and financial forecasts and budgets have been reviewed by reports received from business units in February and August 2016 the Board.
The principal risks to the Companys strategy were to produce an overall risk prole for the Group.
formally reviewed by the Board in January and July 2016.
This risk report, listing principal and emerging Group risks and Consideration has also been given to the strength of the key business unit risks, was reviewed, amended and nalised Companys balance sheet and its credit facilities.
with the Executive Committee in March and September 2016.
The Board considered the potential consequences of the UK The control frameworks in place for each principal risk were then referendum result to leave the European Union.
The Board reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
considered the impact on the UK and Group-wide operations and Throughout the year, members of the Board, Audit Committee funding, taking into account the risks as currently understood and and Executive Committee have received updates on the Groups the fact that many aspects of the terms of the eventual exit of the principal risks, as follows: UK from the European Union remain unknown.
Risk Updates provided Financial forecasts have been tested against an unlikely, but realistic, worst-case scenario.
This incorporates a material a Strategic change, downturn occurring simultaneously in all the Groups major new business models Monthly performance reviews with markets, combined with the materialisation of one of the Groups b Pressure on margins CEO and CFO.
CEO update to the principal operational risks.
The material assumptions used in this Board at each Board meeting.
analysis were based on a hypothetical market downturn resulting c Market conditions in a 20 per cent shortfall in forecast Group revenue in 2017, andgrowth lasting for one year, followed by annual growth rate of 5 per cent d Commodity price Included in monthly performance thereafter.
In addition, the materialisation of a severe operational volatility reviews with CEO and CFO.
incident was considered such as a major product quality issue or an information security breach leading to unexpected expenditure e New competitors and Updates provided to the Executive of 50 million.
The testing took account of mitigating actions technology Committee in November 2015 and available to the business to respond to the market downturn to the Board in January 2016. for example, a reduction in working capital, acquisitions and f Information security Updates were provided to discretionary expenditure.
the Executive Committee, the Based on these assumptions, and considering the Groups Board and the Audit Committee financial position, strategic plans and principal risks, the Directors throughout the year.
have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to g Litigation The Group General Counsel continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over regularly provides updates to the thethree-year period of their assessment.
Executive Committee and the Board The Directors statement regarding the adoption of the going on changes in legislation and any concern basis for the preparation of the financial statements can material litigation or exposures.
Updates on the Groups Product Integrity programme were provided to the Executive Committee in UK referendum result June 2016 September 2015 and to the Board The UK referendum result of a vote to leave the European in March and July 2016.
Union has resulted in some market uncertainties including a material weakening of sterling against the Groups principal h Regulation The status of the Groups antitrading currencies, of which the most significant is the US dollar.
bribery programme was reported to The weakening of sterling has had a translation impact on the the Audit Committee in March 2016.
Groups financial statements with a beneficial impact on results.
Since the large majority of the Groups profit is derived from activities outside of the UK and Europe, the Group does not, atthis point in time, envisage a material adverse impact in the future.
The Company will continue to monitor developments.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 35 Principal risks and their management continued The chart shows managements assessment of Principal risks Heat map before controls material risks before mitigation.
Various strategies Strategic change, new a The heat map below illustrates the relative are employed to reduce these inherent risks to business models positioning of our principal risks by severity an acceptable level.
and likelihood, before controls are applied.
Pressure on margins b The effectiveness of these mitigation strategies Without controls can change over time, for example with the Market conditions c e a acquisition or disposal of businesses.
Some of andgrowth these risks remain beyond the direct control h b Commodity price volatility of management.
The risk management d c programme, including risk assessments, can New competitors and e therefore only provide reasonable but not d technology absolute assurance that risks are managed to an acceptable level.
Information security f f g The Group faces many other risks which, g Litigation although important and subject to regular review, have been assessed as less significant and Regulations h are not listed here.
These include, for example, certain financial risks, which are summarised on pages 30 to 33, 93 to 94 and 108 to 112.
People-related risks and opportunities, including employee development and retention and Less likely More likely health and safety risks are described in the Likelihood Sustainability section starting on page 26.
Crystallisation of these risks could have an adverse effect on the Groups results or financial condition.
If more than one of these risks occur, the combined overall effect of such events may be compounded.
a Strategic change, new business models Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Inherent risk level High To respond to changing customer Execution of key strategic initiatives Each business unit has a clear needs the Group is introducing new in each market continues.
Close strategy for continuously developing Trend business models and changing attention is paid to the execution of its business model and a dened No change traditional ways of working.
these programmes at all levels of the programme of work to execute organisation.
These changes are underway in all of our key markets and will continue To support faster execution, greater The Group Chief Executive and for several years.
focus has been paid to a smaller ChiefFinancial officer discuss number of initiatives capable of progress with each business unit The Group must successfully delivering the greatest value.
implement these changes without disrupting existing operations.
The Board reviews progress during regular updates from the Group The Groups ability to successfully Chief Executive and as part of its execute these changes will affect its six-monthly review of principal risks.
ability to grow profitably in the future.
Risk is rising Risk is unchanged Risk is falling Issue has been added to the list of top Group risks this year Wolseley plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Severity Low Medium High Strategic report Governance Financials Other information b Pressure on margins Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High Wolseleys ability to maintain Pressure on margins remained high The Groups strategy for tackling attractive profit margins can be during the period under review, this issue remains unchanged.
This Trend affected by a range of factors.
primarily due to levels of competition.
includes continuous improvements in No change These include levels of demand Commodity price deation was customer service, product availability and competition in our markets, the significant and adversely impacted and inventory management.
arrival of new competitors with new margins see risk d below.
Revenues from e-commerce and business models, the exibility of other growth sectors continue to In response, the Company continues the Groups cost base, changes in expand and the Company has made to manage its cost base in line with the cost of commodities or goods acquisitions in these areas during changes in expected growth rates.
purchased, customer or supplier 2015 16. Business unit performance, including consolidation or manufacturers margins achieved, were monitored The performance of each business shipping directly to customers.
unit is closely monitored and There is a risk that the Company corrective action taken when may not identify or respond appropriate.
effectively to changes in these Resource allocation processes factors.
If it fails to do so, the amount invest capital in those businesses of profit generated by the Company capable of generating the best could be signicantly reduced.
c Market conditions and growth Denition and impact Changes this year Mitigation Inherent risk level High This risk relates to the Companys End markets have been more The Group cannot control market exposure to short term macroturbulent during the year.
The Group conditions but believes it has Trend economic conditions and market has seen a notable downturn in effective measures in place to No change cycles in our sector i. e. periodic industrial markets in North America respond to changes.
and European markets have continues to reinforce existing remained weak.
The UKs vote measures in place, including: Some of the factors driving market to leave the European Union has growth are beyond the Groups the development of our created additional uncertainty.
control and are difficult toforecast.
businessmodel: The Group has maintained a strong balance sheet throughout the year cost control, pricing and gross and other measures have been margin management initiatives, taken to manage the cost base in including a focus on customer line with forecast growth.
service and productivity improvement: The Group has again tested its financial forecasts, including cash resource allocation processes: and ow projections, against the impact of a severe market downturn.
d Commodity price volatility Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes this year Mitigation High Prices of commodities such as This year has seen material deation The Companys ability to mitigate copper, plastic oil and steel have in the prices of certain commodities, this risk is limited.
Inventory levels Trend fallen as global demand weakened.
The are managed by each business and New increased There is a risk that further sharp falls Companys ability to fully mitigate the low to normal levels are maintained duringtheyear or rises in these commodities may impact of this volatility is limited and at times of price deation.
Large occur too quickly for the Company to there has been a resulting impact on forward purchases are subject to adjust its inventory levels, impacting the margins achieved by the Group.
The Company does not actively hedge commodity prices using financial instruments.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Principal risks and their management continued e New competitors and technology Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation High medium Wholesale and distribution An updated analysis of this risk was The Company continues to develop businesses in other industry sectors conducted and presented to the and invest in new business models, Trend have been disrupted by the arrival Executive Committee and the Board including e-commerce, to respond New of new competitors with lowerduring the year.
to changing customer and consumer cost business models or new buying patterns and needs.
The Group made a number of technologies to aggregate demand acquisitions of online businesses The development of such away from incumbents.
competitors continues to There has to date been limited bemonitored.
competitor activity in this area: however the nature of Wolseleys industry is such that its markets could be disrupted by newentrants.
f Information security Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Inherent risk level High medium Technology systems and data are This risk has remained material, The Group operates an IT fundamental to the future growth as a greater proportion of the governance framework including Trend and success of the Group.
These Groups revenue is derived from a set of dedicated IT policies, No change digital assets are threatened by e-commerce.
The level and procedures and standards aligned increasingly sophisticated security sophistication of IT security threats is to known security and operational threats, including hacking, viruses, constantly developing.
These include behavioural phishing or inadvertent errors.
procedures for employees and During the year under review, the technical controls for IT systems.
The Company is reliant on a number Group has reassessed high risk These are reviewed annually and are of different legacy technology data types, their location and has subject to continuous improvement.
systems, some of which have been reconrmed ownership for that data.
in place for many years or have been Mitigation plans have been updated Certain of these controls are tested subject to in-house development.
for all businesses to address this risk.
by business units and the Group IT These include improving security and internal audit functions.
External Data breaches in our industry awareness amongst employees specialists are also employed sector and others indicate that such and continuing to enhance data asappropriate to test thesecurity events are highly likely and difficult ownership and classication.
of ourtechnology systems, to prevent.
Technical IT projects are in progress e. g. penetration tests.
to deliver enhancements to the Sensitive employee, customer Core IT systems and data centres Groups digital security systems or other data may be stolen and for the Groups material businesses, andinfrastructure.
distributed or used illegally, leading to including the Groups principal increased operating costs, litigation Briengs on this topic were provided e-commerce businesses, have and fines or penalties.
to the Board, the Audit Committee documented disaster recovery plans and the Executive Committee which are tested annually.
Crisis These technology systems, on which throughout the year.
management and communications our branches, distribution centres plans are regularly updated.
and e-commerce businesses rely, The Group reviewed the adequacy of may be disrupted for several hours its cyber insurance arrangements.
Insurance coverage is in place, or days.
As a result, Wolseley could including coverage for cyber risks.
forego revenue or profit margins if we are unable to trade.
Risk is rising Risk is unchanged Risk is falling Issue has been added to the list of top Group risks this year Wolseley plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information g Litigation Inherent risk level Denition and impact Changes this year Mitigation Medium The international nature of the During the year, there has been Levels of litigation are monitored by Groups operations exposes it no material change in the level individual operating companies.
A Trend to the potential for litigation from of litigation to which the Group monthly report of potential exposures No change third parties and such exposure is isexposed.
and current litigation is submitted by considered to be greater in the USA all businesses and reviewed by the An improved management than in Europe.
information system was introduced Material levels of litigation may arise to improve the reporting and analysis Contracting procedures are from many of the Groups activities.
of actual and potential litigation.
continuously reviewed and improved significant levels of litigation in our against a good practice framework A review of policies and procedures industry sector have in the past used by all Wolseley businesses.
relating to product liability was related to products, employees or undertaken in 2016 and the findings The Group periodically re-assesses major contracts.
were reported to the Board.
Internal the level of product-related risk in Acquisitions and disposals and the audits have been undertaken all business units.
Due diligence restructuring of under-performing in all major businesses to test is conducted on products and businesses may also give rise procedures.
Improvements are suppliers considered to be high tolitigation.
Product testing is carried out in certain businesses supplying For more information on specic The level of contractual protection product to industrial customers.
litigation affecting the Group, see afforded to the Company under pages 79, 95 to 96 and 105. product and employee-related KPIs are used to measure the level of contracts has improved during contractual and other protection.
In the case of claims related to Contracting procedures continue to exposure to asbestos, Wolseley be improved in all businesses.
continues to employ independent professional advisers to actuarially determine its potential gross liability.
Wolseley has insurance which exceeds the current estimated liability relating to asbestos claims.
h Regulations Denition and impact Changes during the year Mitigation Inherent risk level Medium The Groups operations are affected There has been no major change The Group monitors the law across by various statutes, regulations in the level of regulation applying to its markets to ensure the effects Trend and standards in the countries and theCompany.
of changes are minimised and No change markets in which it operates.
The the Company complies with all Anti-bribery and anti-corruption amount of such regulation and the applicable laws.
practices in all businesses were penalties can vary.
reviewed during the year and the The Groups Code of Conduct sets While the Group is not engaged in a findings reported to the Executive out the behaviours expected of highly regulated industry, it is subject Committee and to the Audit Wolseley employees.
This includes to the laws governing businesses Committee.
Improvements are being clear statements that the Company generally, including laws relating to implemented.
does not permit bribery or the competition, product safety, timber giving or receiving of improper gifts, Further information on the sourcing, data protection, labour and that it does not tolerate fraud and Companys ethics and compliance employment practices, accounting that employees must comply with programme can be found on and tax standards, international anti-trust laws.
trade, fraud, bribery and corruption, The Group aligns Company-wide land usage, the environment, health policies and procedures with its and safety, transportation, payment key compliance requirements and terms and other matters.
Breach of any legal or regulatory Briengs and training on legal and requirement could result in significant regulatory topics and compliance fines and penalties and damage to requirements, including anti-trust, the Companys reputation.
anti-fraud and anti-corruption, are undertaken.
Where appropriate, tests are conducted to ensure that the Company would respond appropriately to a regulatory investigation.
The Strategic report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: John Martin Group Chief Executive Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 41 Governance overview 42 Leadership 42 Board of Directors 45 How the Board operates Governance 47 Effectiveness 49 Accountability and relations withshareholders 50 Accountability 50 Audit Committee 54 Nominations Committee 55 Directors Report other disclosures 58 Remuneration 59 At a glance 60 Annual report on remuneration Wolseley plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
