RISK MANAGEMENT AND KEY RISKS The Group operates a sound riskmanagement approach The Group operates three functionally based risk committees which areresponsible for formally identifying and assessing theirrisks.
Our approach to risk management The Board recognises the need and importance matters related to risk and control and The risk structure is reinforced by the Groups of identifying and actively managing existing reviews the timeliness and effectiveness continuous process to design and embed and potential risks to allow the business to ofcorrective action taken by Management.
sufficient internal controls across all areas of deliver successfully against its strategic goals.
the business as we grow and evolve.
This is The Group operates three functionally based As such, the Board is accountable for ensuring supported through the work of internal audit risk committees which are responsible for a robust assessment of all the risks, both reports, the Groups dedicated compliance formally identifying and assessing their financial and non-financial, facing the Group team and the engagement of third parties risks.
The Executive Management Team meets as well as continually reviewing the overall asappropriate to assess specific risk areas formally at least once a year for a Group-wide process for identifying and assessing business see also page 50.
The Group also considers risk workshop, taking a combined view of the risks and managing their impact on the Group.
the findings and recommendations of its risks identified at a functional level, measuring external auditor throughout the year to The Group operates a sound risk management identified risks against a clearly defined set of design and implement effective financial approach to manage and mitigate risks and criteria, and considering the potential impact andnon-financial controls.
the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, to the Group and their likelihood of occurring.
also keeps under constant review the adequacy During the year the Directors also assess the The top risks, based on likelihood and impact, and effectiveness of the Groups internal control long-term viability of the Group in the context form the basis of our overall Group risk profile.
and risk management systems and processes.
of its principal risks and their potential impact These risks are shared with the Audit Committee on the business.
The inclusion of a viability To comply with the UK Corporate Governance and the Board for review and challenge, before statement in the Annual Report is a requirement Code, the Audit Committee considers and being approved and then subject to Board of the UK Corporate Governance Code, and is updates its risk management procedures at review over the course of the year to drive designed to encourage the Board to focus on each Audit Committee meeting throughout ongoing improvement across the Group.
The statement can be found the year.
It receives and analyses regular onpage 29. assurance reports from Management on Risk management framework THE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROLS, EXTERNAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM COMPLIANCE AUDIT AND INTERNAL AUDIT ACTIVITIES PRODUCT AND COMMERCIAL AND FINANCE, HR ANDLEGAL TECHNOLOGY RISK MARKETING RISK RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 24|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report Risk management process 3.
Evaluating The Group has a robust risk management methodology and process All of the risks identified by the functional risk committees are then which is set out below: considered by the Executive Management Team and other key team members at a Group risk workshop, which occurs at least annually.
The Groups most recent risk workshop was held in September 2016.
Each of the risks are discussed in turn and then the likelihood of the 1 risk occurring and the magnitude of any potential impact are rated on Setting a scale of 15.
Once each risk has been evaluated, the most significant the strategy risks are incorporated into the Groups risk register, which is reported to the Audit Committee.
The principal risks arising from the September 2016 workshop are provided on pages 26 to 28.
Design and implementation ofmitigations reassessing andassessing Each risk on the Groups risk register is assigned to a member of the Groups Executive Management Team, who is thereafter responsible for developing and maintaining internal controls to reduce the Groups risk exposure.
This process is supported by the Groups finance, compliance and legal teams, the recommendations of the external auditor and the 4 3 Groups own internal audit reviews.
Design and Evaluating implementation ofmitigations 5.
Monitoring and reassessing Management holds meetings regularly throughout the year with each of the risk owners and the functional risk committees to provide an update on the status of the risks identified, any additional risks and the implementation and effectiveness of associated controls.
Setting the strategy is provided to the Audit Committee at each Audit Committee meeting.
The strategy for the Group is set out on pages 14 to 15.
The strategy is reviewed regularly and is communicated to the Executive Management Our principal risks Team and other key team members at frequent intervals, helping to drive The results of the Groups annual risk workshop are included on the the Groups budgeting, forecasting, KPIs and strategic decision-making following pages, showing the risks which are considered to have the including the assessment of risk.
most significant potential impact on the Group together with the respective mitigating activities in place to address them.
Identifying and assessing appetite of theGroup is considered in light of these principal risks During the year Management held workshops with each of the functional andtheir impact on the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives.
risk committees and key members of staff to consider the ongoing The Board considers the risk appetite of the Group in the context of risks to the business and the Groups strategy.
Each participant the regulatory environment, its culture, the sectors in which it presented their risks classified under the following headings: operates and its four strategic pillars, which are set out below: Strategic continuous innovation of the consumer experience: Reputational most effective service and best partner value: Financial maximising product data opportunities and Groupsynergies: and Governance and regulatory attracting world-class talent to the ZPG team.
People The risk factors described are not an exhaustive list or an explanation Operational of all risks.
Additional risks and uncertainties relating to the Group, Each of the risks identified are recorded on the relevant committees including those that are not currently known to the Group or that the risk register and are then assessed by the committee to establish root Group currently deems immaterial, may individually or cumulatively cause, likelihood of occurring and the potential impact on theGroup.
also have amaterial adverse effect on the Groups business, results ofoperations and or financial condition.
Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|25 Risk management and key Risks CONTINUED Risk heat map 1 Changing online landscape and consumertrends 8 2 Competitive environment 3 Regulatory environment 5 4 3 2 4 Reputational and 1 branddamage 6 5 IT systems and cyber-security 9 7 6 Retention and recruitment 7 Macroeconomic conditions 8 Debt covenants andfunding 9 Integration of acquisitions Likelihood KEY RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION The way in which consumers interact u Increasing user engagement levels by continuing a CHANGING ONLINE withbusinesses is evolving rapidly.
consumer-centric approach to product development.
LANDSCAPE AND u Regular open dialogue with our partners to ensure CONSUMERTRENDS There is a risk that consumer engagement and that we continually develop our products to meet traffic may decline if the Group does not keep The Group participates in their needs.
fast-moving marketplaces which u Continual optimisation of all our websites and are subject to rapid technological Furthermore, the Groups partners are constantly products across all platforms and devices.
developments and changes in developing their business models and the way in consumer trends which may u Maintaining organisational flexibility, allowing which they interact with consumers directly.
impact the Groups ability to offer fastresponses to new business opportunities Failure of the Group to adapt to meet the needs the best products and services orthreats.
ofits partners could lead to a fall in the number toits partners and consumers.
u Monitoring and regularly reviewing search engine optimisation and digital marketing spend.
Risk increased The Group is also subject to changes in policies set by search engine providers.
Failure to keep pace with these changes may lead to the Groups websites receiving less exposure to consumers and result in a fall in visitor numbers.
If competitors can provide, or are perceived u Ensuring partners understand the value COMPETITIVE toprovide, an enhanced partner or consumer proposition of advertising on the Groups websites ENVIRONMENT service then there is a risk to the Groups and the unique benefits of its recent acquisitions.
The Group operates in forecasted traffic, partner numbers, revenue u Offering attractive and competitive pricing marketplaces which are highly and other KPIs.
The actions of the The Group invests significantly in marketing Groups competitors can have u Continuing to develop and extend the Groups tobuild brand awareness and drive traffic adirect impact on the Group.
innovative product offering and improve the value to its websites.
Increased digital marketing provided for partners.
No change expenditure by competitors, or general price u Developing and maintaining a number of strong increases, may cause the Group to incur consumer brands through marketing.
additional marketing spend to ensure that u Continuous optimisation of our websites, software itcan continue to compete effectively.
and the consumer and partner experience to There is the risk of competitors entering or create a barrier to entry.
targeting the Groups primary revenue markets u Diversifying risk through multiple revenue streams.
and reducing the Groups relative market share.
In addition, there is a risk that the Group may not be able to achieve significant traction in its nascent revenue channels due to the size, scale or market share of existing players in the market.
26|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Impact Strategic report KEY RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION There is a risk that changes to the regulatory u Maintaining regular open and constructive REGULATORY environment could force the Group to revise dialogue with all significant regulatory bodies.
ENVIRONMENT itsstrategy, operations or business model.
u Implementing processes to ensure compliance The Group operates in a number with all mandatory reporting obligations.
Changes in regulation may also impact the of regulated environments.
Groups profitability via increased compliance u Employing a dedicated Regulation Certain revenue streams within costs or a fall in revenues as a result of andComplianceManager.
the Comparison Services division subsequent changes in consumer or are regulated by the FCA.
The u Regular monitoring of regulatory risks partnerbehaviour.
Comparison Services division bytheBoard, the Audit Committee, the alsovoluntarily complies with legalfunction and throughout the business.
Non-compliance with regulations set by a theOfgem Confidence Code regulatory body, including data protection andis involved in regular regulations, may also have both reputational communication with Ofcom.
Risk increased Damage to any of the Groups brands could u Embedding a culture of transparency, social REPUTATIONAL AND lead to a fall in consumer confidence, reducing awareness and ethical behaviour throughout BRANDDAMAGE traffic and leads for the Groups partners theGroup.
The Group operates a number of andinturn impacting the Groups revenue.
u Regularly reviewing the Groups risks and reviewing identifiable and respected brands and developing internal controls to mitigate the There is also a risk that the Groups partners which could be damaged by risk of error or fraud.
may choose to terminate their existing factors such as unethical or relationship with the Group as a result of any u Executing the Groups strategy, which has both unlawful activity, poor customer reputational damage, which would directly consumers and the Groups partners at its core.
u Employing a dedicated public relations team.
Risk increased u Continually investing in the Groups brands.
Any failure of the Groups IT infrastructure u Regularly testing the security of the IT systems IT SYSTEMS AND through error or attack could impair the operation and platforms, including penetration testing and CYBERSECURITY of the Groups websites, the processing and testing of Distributed Denial of Service DDoS A number of the Groups IT storage of data and the day-to-day management attack procedures.
systems are interdependent and a of the Groups business.
u Maintaining separate platforms for the Property failure in one system or a security Services and Comparison Services businesses.
In addition, any theft or misuse of data held breach may disrupt the efficiency within the Groups databases could have u Restricting access to data, systems and code and and functioning of the Groups bothreputational and financial implications ensuring all systems are secure and up to date.
The Group may also forthe Group.
u Providing training for staff on data protection and compliance and operating a Group-wide The Group holds consumer and data policy.
partner data which could be susceptible to loss or theft.
No change Competition for qualified talent is intense and u Building a strong employee brand in the recruitment RETENTION AND an inability to attract highly skilled employees market and building strong talent pipelines.
RECRUITMENT could adversely impact the Groups operations, u Operating a structured approach to recruitment Success depends on the financial condition or prospects.
using specialist teams to ensure timely recruitment continued service and of high quality employees.
Similarly, an inability to motivate, develop and performance of the Groups retain key team members could adversely Executive Management Team and u Investing in succession planning and improving impact the Groups operations, financial other key employees.
Skilled learning and development, giving opportunities condition or prospects.
development, technical, foremployees to upgrade skills.
operating, sales and marketing u Investment in a new head office and The Group has a track record of growth personnel are also essential for teamenvironment.
through acquisition integration of these the business to meet its strategic diverse businesses could increase the risk u Providing competitive reward and compensation goals.
packages to all staff, comprising a blend of short and long-term incentives for managers.
Risk decreased u Instilling the culture of the Group to build andmaintain staff loyalty.
Link to strategy Consumer experience Partner value Group synergies ZPG team Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|27 Risk management and key Risks CONTINUED KEY RISK AND DESCRIPTION IMPACT MANAGEMENT AND MITIGATION Changes in the UK economy could lead u Regularly reviewing market conditions andindicators.
MACROECONOMIC tochanges in average property prices, the u Building consumer and partner brand loyalty.
CONDITIONS number of mortgage approvals and the volume u Maintaining a flexible cost base that can respond The Group derives all its material of transactions in the UK housing market.
revenues from markets within Subsequently the marketing budgets of the theUK.
The Group is therefore u Diversifying risk by maintaining a balance between Groups partners could decrease, which could dependent on the macroeconomic different revenue streams, including diversification reduce demand for the Groups services.
conditions in the UK and macro through the acquisition of uSwitch and Property The Group is also exposed to changes in factors within each of its Software Group, in order to provide protection consumer and partner behaviour and pricing keymarkets.
against volatility within our different markets.
driven by fluctuations within the energy, See separate section below on the u Developing revenue streams in other related broadband and mobile markets, which could result of the UKs EU referendum.
impact demand for the Groups services.
u Communicating the effectiveness of digital media Risk increased versus alternative mediums such as print.
u Promoting the benefit and potential savings forconsumers of home services switching.
Failure of the Group to comply with its existing u Negotiating sufficient headroom within the DEBT COVENANTS debt covenants may lead to a default on the Groups existing facility, including renegotiation ANDFUNDING Groups borrowings and a requirement for the on the acquisition of Property Software Group.
The Group holds external debt Group to repay any amounts outstanding or u Consideration of current debt covenants embedded and therefore must ensure torenegotiate the terms of its facility.
into budgeting and forecasting processes.
compliance with its covenant The level of debt within the business and the ratios.
The Group also needs to u Regularly monitoring compliance with current covenants in place may also restrict the amount ensure that it has the funding debt covenants and available headroom.
of funds available for future growth, including required to deliver on its strategy u Proactive cash management.
and future growth plans and that u Consideration of additional or alternative it manages its debt and cash fundingshould significant opportunities balances effectively.
Risk decreased Failure to realise the Groups strategy to become u Executing the integration strategy and plan INTEGRATION OF the consumer champion at the heart of the developed on acquisition.
ACQUISITIONS home and in building an integrated and u Oversight of the enlarged Group by the Executive The Group is highly acquisitive, optimised consumer product offering may Management Team to ensure harmonisation including the acquisition of adversely affect the consumer experience ofstrategy and objectives across the Group.
uSwitch in 2015 and Property witha resulting impact on the Groups u Experienced Executive Management Team Software Group in 2016. futurerevenues.
The integration of new businesses Similarly, failure to integrate the Groups u Clear communication of the Group vision presents inherent operational, partner offering, particularly considering andstrategy to align the team.
the acquisition of Property Software Group, u Harmonisation of benefits and practices and leverage the Groups unique position Risk decreased acrosstheGroup.
could lead to a failure to generate synergies and future revenues.
u Relocation of all London-based staff to a single location to encourage greater integration.
The challenges surrounding integrating different u Communicating the benefits of acquisitions cultures and working practices could also toboth partners and consumers.
impact team retention and performance.
u Forming functional teams across the Group wherepossible.
Link to strategy Consumer experience Partner value Group synergies ZPG team 28|The consumer champion at the heart of the home Strategic report THE EU REFERENDUM The result of the UKs EU referendum the Property Services division is largely the Group has minimal exposure to foreign hasincreased the level of macroeconomic subscription based and is therefore less exchange, although a weaker Pound may uncertainty and could increase the likelihood susceptible to short-term shocks or lead to higher price inflation inareas such of the impacts outlined under macroeconomic variations in the property market as energy bills, which may benefitour conditions above.
orwidereconomy: Comparison Services division: and a large proportion of our Property partners the Group has external debt with a During the year, the Group considered the are engaged in both sales and lettings, variable interest rate and therefore any impact of this result on the business and its which reduces the risk of any downturn in decrease in interest rates should reduce potential implications.
The Directors believe the property market on theirbusinesses: the Groups finance costs.
that the Groups multi-channel, multi-brand strategy creates a diverse revenue base which an economic downturn increases the means it is well placed to minimise any propensity for consumers to search negative impacts.
Inparticular: ourComparison Services platform for thebest deals to save money on their household expenses: Viability statement As detailed above, the Directors have the Group operates within the online estimated impact of the principal risks identified conducted a robust assessment of the digital marketing space, a sector which above, including challenges to revenue and principal risks facing the Group and believe issubject to rapid technological, consumer costs across both Property Services and that the Group is well placed to successfully and market changes: Comparison Services: the financial impact of manage these risks.
Therefore, in accordance a cyber-attack and the resulting reputational the Group is a relatively young enterprise, with the 2014 revisions to the UK Corporate damage: and macroeconomic factors, including which was founded in 2007 and listed Governance Code, the Directors confirm that the potential impact of the UKs EU referendum.
inJune 2014: and they have a reasonable expectation that the The analysis considered the Groups ability to the Group has changed rapidly over its Group will continue in operation and meet meet its operational and financial obligations relatively short lifetime and has engaged itsliabilities as they fall due for the next three throughout the period, including compliance in several significant acquisitions.
The Directors continue to believe that with the Groups existing debt covenants.
In arriving at their conclusion the Directors athree year viability period is appropriate Based on the analysis performed, the Directors considered the Groups forecast financial toensure that forecasting is reasonable and confirm that they have a reasonable performance and cash flows over the three year that the Group can conduct a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in viability period.
The forecast has then been identification and assessment of its principal operation and meet its liabilities as they fall subject to sensitivity analysis.
The following factors, which were identified due for the next three years.
scenarios were considered which reflect the in the prior year, continue to be relevant: Zoopla Property Group PlcAnnual Report 2016|29
