Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2016 Risk management Identifying and managing our risks We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, both at an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive to the ever-changing environments in which we operate.
Our risk management framework Vodafone needs to take risks and assume exposures to achieve its Vodafone has recently introduced an enhanced global framework strategy.
Risk, within agreed and defined parameters, is essential to the designed to identify risks: set risk appetite: put in place appropriate success of Vodafone.
Equally, failure to suitably manage risk may have measures to ensure risks are properly managed and monitored: an adverse impact upon Vodafones strategic goals and objectives.
and facilitate informed decision making.
The framework, as set out in the diagram, ensures we have one, company-wide approach to risk management, with local oversight and approvals.
Identify Measure Manage Monitor Report a Risks identified a Risk appetites set a Controls and a Integrated assurance a Inform the Board in each Vodafone by the Board for all mitigating mapping identifies all and Executive local market principal risks and actions identified levels of control and Committee on how and entity cascaded down and measured oversight in place effectively risks are being managed a Strategic risk a Standardised scoring a Risk action plans a Effectiveness versus appetite reviews with and categorisation created to control of control and Senior Leadership allows consolidation risks outside oversight is tested a Group-wide, and escalation of appetite across the three consolidated a Group principal risks 1 across Group lines of defence views shared with reviewed and agreed risk managers with the Board Strengthening our approach to risk management To support the implementation of this framework, the following actions have been put in place during the 2016 financial year.
a Created a Group Risk function reporting to the Group Risk & Compliance Director a Brought together a global risk community from local markets and specialist risk areas to support the delivery of the framework and share best practices a Completed an Integrated assurance mapping project to identify and enable oversight into the mitigations and level of assurance in place for the key risks in all local markets and entities a Assigned Executive Committee owners and Senior Leadership champions for each principal risk Further enhancements are planned during the 2017 financial year, including the implementation of a Risk & Integrated Assurance platform that can 1 bring the framework to life and support the ongoing development of integrated assurance across the three lines of defence.
Note: 1 A term used to describe the systematic approach to how we manage risk and provide assurance to the Board that risks are managed effectively.
The first line of defence typically sits in the business operations e. g. Technology, the second line of defence has oversight over the first line of defence e. g. Compliance or Risk Management, and the third line of defence are the 22 independent assurance providers e. g. Internal Audit.
