Risk management Effective risk management is crucial indelivering our strategic objectives Risk management is the responsibility Control risk by clear management Committee reports to the Audit Committee, of the Board which sets the risk controls and Board reporting which regularly monitors riskmanagement appetite and tolerances for the and internal control systems and reports Gearing risk we maintain an business, determines the natures tothe Board.
appropriate range of lenders and debt andextent ofthe principal risks the maturities with variable rate debt being Company is willing to take in achieving The Board has carried out a robust restricted to one third of our loan book, its strategic objectives and ensures assessment of the principal risks facing on gearing up to 50% loan to value that risk management and internal the business.
These are the risks which Political risk which could limit future controls are embedded in the would threaten its business model, future growth but does not affect the current businesss operations.
performance, solvency or liquidity and business assets.
are summarised on pages 33 to 37.
We target above market, risk adjusted A formal Risk Committee was established returns in our chosen healthcare real The Board has also considered which during the year and all staff were interviewed estate assets, by developing assets ofthe Groups strategic objectives may to check that every risk was captured.
The ourselves as opposed to purchasing be affected by these risks and their materiality and severity of each risk were onlycompleted developments and using findings are set out in the table below.
assessed as to their likelihood of happening debt to gear returns up to 50% loan to in the next 12 months and likely financial value.
However, we seek to avoid, trap impact.
Key risk indicators how we trap orheavily mitigate risks in all other areas risks and assurance that effective controls ofthe business including: were in place were noted for each risk.
Property event risk by full insurance The Risk Committee meets at least four cover, full due diligence and committed times a year, to review the risk register, funds for acquisitions identify emerging risks and conduct deep Development risk by only undertaking dives into individual risks to ensure that developments where there is already sound assurance is in place.
TheRisk an agreement for lease in place Strategic objective Focus Expertise Culture Effectiveness Changes to government policy Competitor threat Reduction in investor demand Failure to deploy capital Failure to communicate Reduction in availability and or increase in cost of finance Failure to maintain capital structure and gearing Development overspend Key staff dependency Underperformance of assets 30 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Principal risk Operational Financial Strategic Strategic report Governance Financial statements TOP-DOWN BOTTOM-UP Strategic risk management Operational risk management BOARD AND AUDIT Review external environment COMMITTEE Assess effectiveness Set risk appetite and parameters of risk management systems Determine strategic Report principal risks action points SENIOR LEADERSHIP Consider completeness of identified TEAM risks and adequacy Direct delivery of of mitigating actions strategic actions Consider aggregation of risk exposures Monitor key risk indicators across the business RISK COMMITTEE Report priority and emerging risks Execute strategic actions Identify, evaluate, prioritise, Report on key risk indicators mitigate and monitor operational risks recorded in risk register www.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 31 Risk management continued Having made reference to the principal Viability statement risks facing the Company, as laid out on In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the pages 33 to 37, sensitivities which are UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, considered severe but within the realms the Board has conducted a review of the of possibility have been applied to the Companys current position and principal assumptions to review the potential risks to assess the Companys longerimpact on the Company results and term viability.
Specific sensitivities applied include increases in interest A five-year period is considered appropriate rates, a prolonged downturn in property for this review as this corresponds with the investment valuations, an increased Companys strategic planning timeframe.
In riskof tenant default and a sustained addition, the long-term nature of leases and absence of rent review growth.
This debt facilities supports an assessment over assessment has not assumed any thisperiod.
significant changes to government policywith respect to NHS Estates Company forecasts are prepared using strategy or the GP reimbursement model.
acomprehensive financial model which projects the income statement, balance Based on this consideration of principal sheet, cash flows and key performance risks and the forecasting exercise indicators over the relevant timeframe.
completed, the Board has a reasonable The model allows various assumptions expectation that the Company will be tobe applied and altered in respect ableto continue in operation and meet its offactors such as level of investment, liabilities as they fall due over the five-year investment yield, availability and cost period assessed.
The Board considers offinance, rental growth and potential thatthe long-term nature of the leases movements in interest rates and andfinancing arrangements in place propertyvaluations.
means that the business model would remain viable in the event that further growth ofthe business was not achieved.
32 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements New No change Low Medium High Strategic risks Changes to government policy Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Reduced funding for The Group proactively The Board monitors No change primary care premises engages with the changes in government expenditure could lead Government over policy policy and management to a reduction in our that could impact the reports to the Board at development pipeline business, both directly every meeting.
and through the Healthcare Committee A change to the of the British Property reimbursement Federation.
mechanism for GPs could lead to a change in the risk profile of our underlying tenants.
Comment The increased provision of healthcare services in the community is a stated policy objective of the current Government and soareduction in funding to this sector is considered unlikely.
The reimbursement mechanism is not currently under review.
Any change would probably result in an increased cost to the NHSin the future supply of primary care properties, reducing healthcare opportunities in the community.
Competitor threat Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Increased competition We maintain our The Board receives The market is No change from new purchasers specialist knowledge, regular property increasingly competitive could lead to a team structure reports, highlighting and every proposed reduction in our ability to andstrong brand where wehave lost transaction is reviewed acquire new properties recognition with GPs.
outto competitors by our Investment Medium and a general increase andwhen new entrants Committee to ensure in prices across are identified.
Comment A further significant increase in asset prices increases the risk of these returns not achieving our required level and our rate ofacquisitions slowing significantly.
We have made substantial additions to our portfolio during the year and we remain confident in our ability to continue to do so.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 33 Risk management continued Strategic risks continued Reduction in investor demand Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Reduced investor We are open in The overall economy We successfully raised No change demand for UK primary communicating our and its impact on the 300 million, net of care property could strategy to investors Groups operations are expenses, in the market lead to a reduction in andmaintain a loan regularly assessed and during the year.
asset valuations and a tovalue range which considered in reviewing Medium The dividend yield and fall in future profits.
This could arise from: The Board receives of the cash flows regular reports on supporting it remain Changes in investor relations and attractive relative to NHSpolicy thedevelopment of otherasset classes.
Health of the UK ourshare register.
economy Availability of finance Relative attractiveness of other asset classes.
Comment The fundamentals for our sector remain very strong and the longevity and security of our cash flows has continued to generate strong investor demand for our shares in the past year.
Failure to deploy capital Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating A shortage of Our specialist The Board reviews the Management bonus New development or knowledge, team development and schemes reward acquisition opportunities structure and strong acquisition pipeline at successful new could result in a drag brand recognition with every Board meeting.
developments onoperating cash and GPs reduce this andacquisitions.
Comment We have made substantial additions to our portfolio during the year and we remain confident in our ability to continue to do so.
We are well advanced in implementing our plan to use the proceeds from the recent fund raise.
34 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements New No change Low Medium High Failure to communicate Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Failure to adequately Strategic priorities The Board receives Investor communication, No change communicate the areclearly articulated regular reports on particularly through Companys strategy incorporate investor attitudes faceto face meetings, and explain communications andthe market.
performance may andthe Groups Low The Group maintains resultin an increased performance is close links with its disconnect between transparently reported.
twobrokers, who investors perceptions We communicate communicate investor ofvalue and actual regularly with investors thoughts and concerns.
Comment Some 119 meetings have been held during the year, including 19 meetings with potential investors.
Financial risks Reduction in availability and or increase in cost offinance Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating A reduction in The Group has The Group regularly The Group actively No change availablefinancing predominantly monitors and manages engages with a range couldadversely affect long-term facilities its refinancing profile offunders to ensure a the Groups ability to which reduce these and cash requirements.
breadth of funder and source new funding refinancing risks.
Low andrefinance We continue to explore existingfacilities.
financing options with This could delay other lenders as well orprevent the asmaintaining strong development of relationships with newpremises.
Increasing financing costs could increase the overall cost of debt to the Group and so reduce underlying profits.
Comment The current appetite for lending into the sector is very strong, given the quality of the underlying cash flows.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 35 Risk management continued Financial risks continued Failure to maintain capital structure and gearing Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Property valuations are Valuations and The Group engages No change inherently uncertain and yieldsare regularly twoexternal valuers subject to significant benchmarked against toreview property judgement.
Low A fall in property The Board has The valuations are valuesor income established a target formally reviewed by couldadversely affect range for a net loan theBoard twice a year.
tovalue ratio over the Covenant headroom medium term of 40% Breach of covenants and gearing are to50%.
The current could lead to forced regularly monitored with position of 30% is lower asset disposals which reference to possible than our target range could reduce the valuation movements and will increase as Groups net assets and future expenditure.
The Board regularly short-term pipeline.
reviews the capital All financial forecasting, structure of the Group.
including for new acquisitions, considers gearing and covenant headroom.
Comment Following the successful equity fund raising last year the level of gearing has reduced significantly and thus improved covenantheadroom.
Operational risks Development overspend Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Development risk could The Group has A high level of due We remain confident No change diligence is undertaken ofour ability to manage adversely impact the adedicated performance of the andexperienced before works commence this risk through our and detailed designs are experienced team of Group as a result of development costoverruns and management team.
negotiated to prevent development surveyors Medium variations.
and reduce the potential delays on new projects.
The Groups policy risk through the use of istoengage in Regular reviews are fixed price contracts developments that are conducted of latest cost and the use of substantially pre-let with estimates as each performance bonds.
fixed price orcapped project progresses.
Aperformance bond price build contracts.
insures against therisk of the main contractor becoming insolvent.
Comment The potential impact of this has not changed during the year as the number of developments remains at a historically low level.
36 Assura plc Annual Report 2016 www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements New No change Low Medium High Key staff dependency Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Failure to recruit, Competitive salary Succession planning, No change developand retain andbenefit packages team structure and staffand Directors are aligned with skillset are regularly withthe right skills and appropriate peer evaluated and planned.
experience may result groups and periodically Medium An enhanced inunderperformance.
performance Professional appraisalprocess development and wassuccessfully training are encouraged implemented during and costs are met by theyear and this two theGroup.
way discussion forum identifies employee Succession plans aspirations and any areinplace for each dissatisfaction.
All employee Long-term incentive resignations are plans span five-year reported to each periods to encourage Boardmeeting.
Comment Eight members of staff are currently working towards a professional qualification.
Staff turnover is very low, currently running at 3%.
Underperformance of assets Movement in year Risk Avoid Trap Mitigate and netrisk rating Not all rent reviews The Group engages Leases are carefully The Group targets New areupwards only and experienced third reviewed on acquisition RPIreviews for new challenges to reviews parties to conduct and the Group does not leases but if this is and appeals could lead rentreviews.
acquire leases with a unachievable then open to lack of rental growth.
tenant right to trigger a market upwards only Medium downward rent review.
reviews oropen market landlord trigger only reviews areaccepted.
Comment Approximately 26% of leases have fixed uplifts or are linked to RPI.
com Assura plc Annual Report 2016 37
