Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk Board Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, management governance, performance, internal controls and risk management Defines the Groups appetite for risk and monitors Effective risk management is fundamental to risks to ensure they are effectively managed, including agreeing actions where necessary the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Risk management controls are integrated into all levels of our business and across all Audit Nomination Remuneration Safety, Health and of our operations.
We continually assess our Committee Committee Committee Environmental Committee exposure to risk and seek to ensure that risks Reviewing the effectiveness Ensuring an appropriate Assessing the appropriate Responsibility for the of internal controls, including balance of skills, knowledge incentivisation of the stewardship of safety, are appropriately mitigated.
systems to identify, assess and experience on the Board Executive Directors and health and environmental and monitor risks Senior Management performance Executive Committee Roles and responsibilities Monitoring business and operational performance and changes in key risks facing the business and providing regular reports to the Board The Board is responsible for the overall stewardship of our Responsible for ensuring that the risk management policy is implemented and system of risk management and internal control.
It has embedded within the business and appropriate actions are taken to manage risks undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks in our business and has established the appropriate level of risk that is acceptable in the pursuit of our strategic objectives and has set appropriate policies to govern this.
It has also set delegated Operations Risk Treasury Operating Land Health and Safety authority levels to provide the executive framework for assessing Committee Committee Committee Committee Operating Committee risks and ensuring that they are escalated to the appropriate Reviewing regional Consideration of Management of liquidity Reviewing and Reviewing the levels of management, including up to the Board where operating performance identified risks and and counterparty risk authorising all proposed effectiveness of health appropriate, for consideration and approval.
their mitigation and ensuring that land acquisitions to and safety policies and treasury policies are manage land acquisition establishing controls Identification of new The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and implemented and risk and procedures to and emerging risks all levels of management from a risk management perspective embedded within manage these risks the business are summarised on this page: Regional and Divisional Management Responsible for risk identification, management and control within their region or division Site Management Maintaining an effective system of risk management and internal control at their site including construction risks, sub-contractor risks and health and safety Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk management continued 2015 2016 Why and how our principal risks change Managing risk health and safety Medium High Medium High Principal risks probability Maintaining high standards of health and safety is an integral element of the Groups principles Whilst the Principal Risks for the Group and is the number one priority for all our business Economic environment, activities.
We have implemented a detailed related to the execution of its business A including housing demand strategy for continuous improvement in this area strategy have not changed since 2015, and mortgage availability which is supported by our well established policy thelikelihood of the risk factors occurring and procedures.
The diagram on The Group Board Safety, Health and this page shows the estimated residual Environmental SHE Committee which is chaired B Land Purchasing by one of our Non-Executive Directors and likelihood of each risk following our risk attended by our Deputy Chief Executive, provides mitigation strategies in both 2016 and oversight and stewardship of our operational 2015.
The diagram does not consider the performance.
Refer to the SHE Committee report on page 74 for further information.
relative size of the associated financial Liquidity C The SHE Operations Committee reports directly orreputational impacts for each Principal to the SHE Board Committee and is responsible Risk item.
for implementing the overall SHE improvement strategy for the Group.
Attracting and retaining D The Group employs an internal team of 23 SHE high-calibre employees Managers who assist with operational compliance and monitor our sites at least once per month.
They work independently of our operational Availability of raw Divisions and carry out over 6000 monitoring visits to our sites every year.
They report on levels of E materials, sub-contractors compliance to operational management and an and suppliers overview of the performance of each operational Division including reportable injuries and near misses, is provided on a monthly basis to our Government regulation Group Board.
F and planning policy All our operational units are accredited to the international standard OHSAS 18001 and as part of the compliance process are audited internally each year by our in-house team and Construction and externally audited by our accreditation body G new technologies Ocean Certification.
The Group has for the second year arranged for the British Safety Council to carry out a comprehensive review of our management Joint ventures H systems and associated arrangements.
The audit and consortia model evaluates leadership at all levels of the business and continuous improvement which are continually assessed throughout the audit process.
The Group achieved a compliance score Safety, health of 96% and was again awarded the highest five I and environmental star status.
This is an excellent achievement and reflects on our approach to health and safety management throughout the business.
J IT 42 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information New risks Viability Statement No new principal risks have emerged during the financial year In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK The Group is subject to a number of Principal Risks Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors as set out in more detail in pages 44 to 45, and its Increased risk profile Why?
have assessed the prospects and financial viability Viability Statement review considers the impact of the Group, taking into account both its current that these risks particularly those related to the Economic environment, including Following the vote to leave the European Union EU in the recent referendum A position and circumstances, and the potential economy and to mortgage availability might have housing demand and mortgage there is increased uncertainty within the UK economy and it is too early to say impact of its principal risks.
The Directors on its ability to meet its targets.
This is undertaken availability what the impact of this will be.
consider that a three-year period is appropriate for through the performance of sensitivity testing, Attracting and retaining There is high competition for skilled employees within the housebuilding industry this assessment.
using appropriately challenging scenarios which D high-calibre employees which has been driven by both the growth in industry volumes and the skills reflect severe but plausible impacts based on The Groups objective is for a shorter than sector shortage within the industry.
current market conditions and applying estimates average land bank reflecting its focus on return for the impact of these risks to ensure that the Availability of raw materials, A significant proportion of the skilled sub-contractors upon our sites are on capital and a rapid asset turn.
Our target is a E quantified mitigation actions available to it are sub-contractors and suppliers nationals of other EU countries.
Following the vote to leave the EU in the recent regionally balanced land portfolio with a supply sufficient.
This process involves consideration of referendum, it is too early to say what impact this will have upon the availability of owned land of c. 3.5 years and a further 1.0 the impact of our chosen scenarios on key business ofsub-contractors.
Accordingly, we consider drivers, including the volume of legal completions it appropriate that our viability review period is Whilst the majority of our raw materials are sourced from UK suppliers, some achieved, average selling prices and build costs.
broadly aligned with the expected longevity of our such as timber, are sourced from outside the UK.
In addition, some components Several scenarios are modelled to ensure that the owned land supply.
contain materials sourced from outside the UK.
The decrease in the value of Board can carefully evaluate the range of plausible By using a three-year timeframe, the Viability the pound following the EU referendum may, subject to other factors such as outcomes being assessed and mitigation factors Statement review period is also aligned with demand, lead to an increase in the cost of these materials and components.
are based on those identified and successfully the Groups bottom up three-year planning and deployed during the previous downturn in 2007- IT There has been an increased level of attempted cyber-attacks against the Groups forecasting cycle, during which a wide range J 2008 following the credit crisis.
IT systems during the year.
of information relating to present and future Based on this review, the Directors confirm that business conditions is considered, including those Decreased risk profile Why?
they have a reasonable expectation that the Group impacting on expected profitability, cash flows, and will be able to continue in operation and meet its Liquidity The Groups average debt decreased to 60.0m 2015: 271.3m for the year, funding requirements.
C liabilities over this three-year period.
resulting in more headroom against the Groups committed facilities.
Managing risk Addressing the skills shortage We continue to invest in our people to ensure that We have launched a schools career toolkit which This supports our diversity and inclusion campaign to attract young women professionals they can maximise their potential, but we are includes six housebuilding activities linked to the programme which aims to attract talent from more into careers in housebuilding: developing a equally focused on the need to attract new talent school curriculum, a teachers and parents guide diverse backgrounds.
housebuilding app game: and relaunching an into our business to address the skills shortages and a student guide to promote our professions.
In the short term we are actively seeking to inour industry.
Many of our regionally based employees, including We are working closely with Construction Industry recruit talent from other industry backgrounds, our Apprentice Champions, have visited schools For the medium to long term, we have our Future and providing transitional training for a career in Training Board CITB through the Go Construct and use the toolkit as a way of demonstrating the housebuilding.
We have signed up to the Armed project, providing many case studies for them and Talent strategy.
Our annual intake of apprentices many careers within housebuilding.
The toolkit trade and professions and graduates continues.
Forces Covenant and have launched a site the HBF which helps to improve the image of our educates young people on roles and careers advice manager transitional training programme for sector as a career choice.
This work also includes We have made good progress against our 2020 and provides teachers with material to embed aspiration and have recruited over 900 graduates, armed forces personnel which allows them to support to the House Building Skills Partnership and reference the industry within the curriculum.
undertake a years transition programme whilst which aims to provide new training and trainees and apprentices including those that will This is a completely new initiative for the industry join us in 2017.
Numbers on our foundation degree working as an Assistant Site Manager.
We currently qualifications to more than 45,000 new entrants and is intended as a resource for influencers employ 28 armed forces personnel and plan to toour sector.
in residential development and construction teachers, careers advisers, governors and introduced three years ago continue to grow and significantly grow this over the period ahead.
The toolkit is intended to: last year we became patrons of the West Midlands We advertise our vacancies on diversityjobs.
co. uk challenge industry perceptions, misconceptions Construction UTC.
Providing mentors from and launched a profile page on thebigidea.
co. uk and stereotyping, promote the industry as a diverse our West Midlands division and Group Support which promotes us as an organisation from a organisation, challenge the underrepresentation Centre.
This is the first UTC to offer a construction diversity perspective.
We have launched numerous of females in the industry, address the lack of curriculum and provide students with a work programmes to help appeal to a wider audience diversity in the workforce, challenge teacher based mentor.
For example, teaming up parent attitudes towards careers in construction.
with RICS, CBRE and others on our Built by Both Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Risk management continued Principal risks A B C D E Risk Economic environment, Land Purchasing Liquidity Attracting and retaining Availability of raw materials, including housing demand and high-calibre employees sub-contractors and suppliers mortgage availability Potential Changes in the UK and European The ability to secure sufficient consented Unavailability of sufficient borrowing Inability to recruit and or retain Shortages or increased costs of impact macroeconomic environments, including land and strategic land options at facilities to enable the servicing of employees with appropriate skill sets or materials and skilled labour, the but not limited to unemployment, flat appropriate cost and quality to provide liabilities including pension funding and sufficient numbers of such employees.
failure of a key supplier or the inability or negative economic growth, buyer profitable growth.
the inability to refinance facilities as they to secure supplies upon appropriate confidence, availability of mortgage fall due, obtain surety bonds, or comply credit terms could increase costs and finance particularly for higher loan to with borrowing covenants.
values including government backed there are risks from management of schemes, interest rates, competitor working capital such as conditional pricing, falls in house prices or land contracts, build costs, joint ventures and values, may lead to a fall in the demand the cash flows related to them.
or price achieved for houses, which in turn could result in impairments of the Groups inventories, goodwill and intangible assets.
Mitigation Board, Executive Committee, regional All potential land acquisitions are Committed bank facilities and private Comprehensive Human Resources Centralised team procures the majority and divisional management review subject to formal appraisal and placement notes of around 850m with programme including apprenticeship of the Groups materials from within the approval by the Land Committee maturities ranging from 2016 to 2021 schemes, a graduate development UK including sub-contractor materials, Quarterly site valuations programme, succession planning ensuring consistent quality and costs Divisional, regional and Group review of Regular forecasts of working capital Comprehensive sales policies and and training academies tailored to and security of supply land currently owned, committed and and cash requirements and compliance procedures including transparency each discipline identified against requirements with banking covenants Seek to establish and maintain long towards mortgage lenders Monthly monitoring of employee term supplier and sub-contractor Policy requiring minimum headroom statistics including turnover partnerships with all of our significant of 150m of drawings against and absence supply agreements fixed in advance, committed facilities usually for 12 months Exit interviews Group policies include tendering, the Annual employee engagement survey requirement for multiple suppliers for Remuneration benchmarked against both labour contracts and material industry competitors supplies and establish contingency plans should any key supplier fail The The majority of our customers Securing more sites that at least meet Availability of sufficient committed and Skilled employees are critical to deliver Sufficient material and skilled subopportunity require mortgages to purchase their our hurdle rates of 20% gross margin surety facilities ensures that the Group the Groups strategy of disciplined contractor availability will enable new home.
Buyer confidence, the and 25% ROCE will enable disciplined can manage changes in the economic growth, improving key financial metrics disciplined volume growth.
availability of mortgages and mortgage volume growth.
environment and take advantage of through a focus on efficiency and interest rates are affected by the appropriate land buying and operational the continued delivery of attractive economic environment.
opportunities and deliver sustainable cash returns.
Business 1 3 4 1 3 1 1 2 3 4 5 3 5 model link 1 Targeted land buying and effective planning.
44 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principal risks F G H I J Risk Government regulation and planning policy Construction and new technologies Joint ventures and consortia Safety, health and environmental IT Potential Inability to adhere to the increasingly Failure to identify and achieve key Large development projects, some of Health and safety or environmental Failure of the Groups IT systems impact stringent and complex regulatory construction milestones, due to factors which involve joint ventures or consortia breaches can result in injuries to whether due to cyber-attacks or other environment, including planning and including the impact of adverse weather arrangements and or commercial employees, sub-contractors and site causes in particular those relating to technical requirements affecting conditions, the failure to identify developments, are complex and capital visitors, delays in construction or surveying and valuation, could adversely the housing market and regulatory cost overruns promptly, design and intensive and changes may negatively increased costs, reputational damage, impact the performance of the Group.
construction defects, and exposure to impact upon cash flows or returns.
criminal prosecution and civil litigation.
environmental liabilities, which could delay construction, increase costs, reduce selling prices and result in litigation and uninsured losses.
There are also risks associated with climate change and the use of new technology in the build process e. g. materials related to carbon reduction.
Mitigation Considerable in-house technical Executive Committee, regional and All potential joint ventures are subject Health and safety team Centrally maintained IT systems and planning expertise devoted divisional reviews to formal appraisal and approval by the Regular health and safety audits and Fully-tested disaster to complying with regulations Groups Land Committee and the Board Any alternative forms of construction development monitoring visits recovery programme and achieving implementable and building technologies and the Once operational, the performance of Group health and safety and Regular reviews to seek to reduce planning consents quality of materials are subject to joint ventures and consortia are subject environmental policies and procedures therisk of successful cyber-attacks Rigorous design standards for the evaluation by external and internal to regular review Board health and safety visits reinforce homes and places we develop technical experts, including the NHBC, the importance of Health, Safety and to ensure compliance with all building Policies and technical guidance Environmental compliance and other regulations manuals for employees on regulatory compliance and the standards of Quarterly site valuations business conduct expected Monitoring of environmental impact indicators Maintenance of appropriate insurance cover The Securing sufficient, appropriate planning Modern construction methods are Securing more joint venture sites that Continued focus upon health and Integrated IT systems enhance business opportunity permissions upon new sites will being assessed and implemented at least meet our hurdle rates of 20% safety to seek to reduce injury rates control and drive efficiency.
enable the Group to deliver disciplined where appropriate to reduce the risks gross margin and 25% ROCE will enable and manage the risks inherent in the volume growth.
inherent in the construction process and disciplined volume growth.
to help address the shortage of skilled trades people.
Business 1 2 2 3 1 2 3 1 3 4 5 model link 1 Targeted land buying and effective planning.
The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 45 was approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: 2 Outstanding design.
David Thomas 5 Industry leading customer experience.
Chief Executive 6 September 2016 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45
