Strategic Report continued Financial Review continued Armadillo Self Storage The Armadillo Partnerships made a combined operating profit of The Group has a 20% investment in Armadillo Storage Holding Company 4.3 million in the year, of which Big Yellows share is 0.9 million.
Limited and a 20% investment in Armadillo Storage Holding Company After net interest costs, the revaluation of investment properties 2 Limited.
In the consolidated accounts of Big Yellow Group PLC, our valued by Jones Lang Lasalle, deferred tax on the revaluation surplus investments in the vehicles are treated as associates using the equity and interest rate derivatives, the profit for the year was 5.6 million, accounting method.
of which the Groups share was 1.1 million.
The combined occupancy of the portfolios is 477,000 sq ft, against a total Big Yellow has a five year management contract in place in each capacity of 673,000 sq ft, with growth of 14,000 sq ft over the year.
For the year to 31 March 2016, the Group earned The stores occupancy at 31 March 2016 was 70.9% 31 March 2015: management fees of 0.7 million.
The Groups share of the declared 68.8%.
The net rent achieved at 31 March 2016 by the Armadillo stores dividend for the year is 0.4 million, representing a 10% yield on our is 15.59 per sq ft, an increase of 3% from the same time last year.
Revenue increased by 5% to 9.0 million for the year to 31 March 2016 2015: 8.6 million.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The section below details the principal risks and uncertainties that are considered to have the most material impact on the Groups strategy and objectives.
These key risks are monitored on an ongoing basis by the Executive Directors, and considered fully by the Board in its annual risk review.
Risk and impact Mitigation The UK economy is projected to grow at approximately 2% in 2016, and is now ahead of the level Self storage market risk of output last achieved in 2007 before the global financial crisis.
Self storage has proved There is a risk to the business that the relatively resilient through the crisis, with our revenue and earnings increasing over the last six self storage market does not grow in line years.
As the economy has recovered in the past few years, the market risk has fallen in line with with our projections, and that economic increasing occupancy.
growth in the UK is below expectations, Self storage is a relatively immature market in the UK compared to other self storage markets which could result in falling demand and such as the United States and Australia, and we believe has further opportunity for growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth of branded self storage on main roads in good locations has historically been limited by the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining planning consent.
The lack of availability of credit within the economy has further reduced this rate of growth since the start of the downturn, and new store openings within the sector have slowed to an average of 11 stores per year over the past six years, down from a peak of 34 per year in 2005-2009.
Our performance during the downturn was relatively resilient, although not immune.
We believe that the resilience of our performance is due to a combination of factors including: a prime portfolio of freehold self storage properties: a focus on London and the South East and other large metropolitan cities, which have proved more resilient during the downturn and where the drivers in the self storage market are at their strongest and the barriers to competition are at their highest: the strength of operational and sales management: continuing innovation to deliver the highest levels of customer service: the UKs leading self storage brand, with high public awareness and online strength: and strong cash flow generation and high operating margins, from a secure capital structure.
We have a large current storage customer base of approximately 50,000 spread across the portfolio of stores and many thousands more who have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month, customers move in and out at the margin resulting in changes in occupancy.
This is a seasonal business and typically we see growth over the spring and the summer months, with the seasonally weaker periods being the winter months.
The Groups like-for-like occupancy has increased by 3.5 percentage points in the year from 73.2% to 76.7%.
34 Property risk Our management has significant experience in the property industry generated over many years There is a risk that we will be unable to and in particular in acquiring property on main roads in high profile locations and obtaining acquire new development sites which planning consents.
We do take planning risk where necessary, that said, the availability of land, meet managements criteria.
This would and competition for it makes acquiring new sites challenging.
impact on our ability to grow the overall The planning process remains difficult with some planning consents taking in excess of twelve store platform.
Our in-house development team and our professional advisers have Given the recent acquisitions of sites in significant experience in obtaining planning consents for self storage centres.
London, the risk to the Group from failure We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The building of each site is handled to obtain planning has increased from through a design and build contract, with the fit out project managed in-house using an the prior year.
established professional team of external advisers and sub-contractors who have worked with us for many years to our Big Yellow specification.
We carried out an external benchmarking of our construction costs and tendering programme in the year, which had satisfactory results.
Valuation risk The valuations are carried out by independent, qualified external valuers who value a significant The valuations of the Groups investment proportion of the UK self storage industry.
properties may fall due to external The portfolio is diverse with approximately 50,000 customers currently using our stores for a pressures or the impact of performance.
Lack of transactional evidence in the There is significant headroom on our loan to value banking covenants.
self storage sector leads to more subjective valuations.
Treasury risk Our financing policy is to fund our current needs through a mix of debt, equity and cash flow to allow us to selectively build out the remaining development pipeline and achieve our strategic The Group may face increased costs from growth objectives, which we believe improve returns for shareholders.
We have made it clear that adverse interest rate movements.
we believe optimal leverage for a business such as ours should be LTV in the range 20% to 30% and this informs our management of treasury risk.
We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium-term facilities in place to finance our committed development programme, secured against the freehold portfolio, with debt serviced by our strong operational cash flows.
We have a fixed rate loan in place from Aviva Commercial Finance Limited, with 11 years remaining.
In the year, the Group drew down on a seven year 70 million loan from M&G Investments, which is 50% fixed and 50% floating.
For our bank debt, we borrow at floating rates of interest and use swaps to hedge our interest rate exposure.
Our policy is to have at least 45% of our total borrowings fixed, with the balance floating paying margin over LIBOR.
At 31 March 2016 50% of the Groups total borrowings were fixed or subject to interest rate derivatives.
The Groups interest cover ratio for the year to 31 March 2016 was 6.2 times, which has increased from 5.4 times in the prior year.
The Group reviews its current and forecast projections of cash flow, borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management accounts.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis assuming movements in interest rates and occupancy in the stores on gearing and interest cover.
This sensitivity testing underpins the viability statement below.
The Group regularly monitors its counterparty risk.
The Group monitors compliance with its banking covenants closely.
During the year it complied with all its covenants, and is forecast to do so for the foreseeable future.
Credit risk Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent a self storage room and are The Group is exposed to a credit risk from also required to pay in advance for their four-weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not its customers.
exposed to a significant credit risk.
81% of our current customers pay by direct debit: however of new customers moving into the business in the last year 83% have paid by direct debit.
Businesses often prefer to pay by cheque or BACS.
Since 2007 we have not seen an increase in the levels of bad debts and arrears.
In the year to 31 March 2016 our bad debt expense represented 0.08% of revenue in the year, a reduction from 0.15% in the prior year.
35 Strategic Report continued Financial Review continued Taxation risk We regularly monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our professional The Group is exposed to changes in the tax advisers, through direct liaison with HMRC, and through trade bodies to understand and, if regime affecting the cost of corporation possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT, The Government announced a review of property rates last year.
This is a significant cost to the for example the imposition of VAT on self business, and we are monitoring any potential impact from a revision in the basis of assessment storage from 1 October 2012. or taxation.
Real Estate Investment Trust The Group has internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the appropriate rules and REIT risk legislation are complied with.
To date all REIT regulations have been complied with, including The Group is exposed to potential tax projected tests.
penalties or loss of its REIT status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
Human resources risk We have developed a professional, lively and enjoyable working environment and believe our Our people are key to our success and as success stems from attracting and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our staff to build such we are exposed to a risk of high on their skills through appropriate training and regular performance reviews.
We believe in an staff turnover, and a risk of the loss of accessible and open culture and everyone at all levels is encouraged to review and challenge key personnel.
accepted norms, so as to contribute to the performance of the Group.
With the economy improving and We were pleased to be ranked 80th in the Sunday Times Best 100 Companies to Work For survey unemployment falling, the risk of higher in 2016. staff turnover and difficulty in finding the right employees increases.
Security risk The safety and security of our customers, their belongings, and stores remains a key priority.
The Group is exposed to the risk of the To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control systems, individual room alarms, damage or loss of store due to vandalism, digital CCTV systems, intruder and fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of all our stores fire, or natural incidents such as flooding.
outside of our trading hours.
We are the only major operator in the UK self storage industry that This may also cause reputational damage.
has every room in every store individually alarmed.
We have implemented customer security procedures in line with advice from the Police and continue to work with the regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through training and routine operational procedures.
We have continued to run courses for all our staff to enhance the awareness and effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security.
Cyber risk The Group receives specialist advice and consultancy in respect of cyber security and we have There have been a number of high profile dedicated in-house monitoring and regular reviews of our security systems.
We also limit the cyber-attacks data security breaches retention of customer data to the minimum requirement.
over the last 12 months and the Group During the year we have continued to invest in digital security, implementing new intrusion considers the risks to the website and detection systems as well as the replacement of existing systems such as firewalls.
Policies and internal systems to have increased over procedures are under regular review and benchmarked against industry best practice by our the year.
These policies also include defend, detect and response policies.
This risk hasnt increased any faster for the Group than anyone else: we consider that the threats in the entire digital landscape continue to increase.
The results of any breach may result in reputational damage, or customer compensation, causing a loss of market share and income.
