MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Risk management is integral to our strategy of delivering long term sustainable returns Lucinda Bell British Land Core Strengths Chair of the High quality commercial property Risk Committee focused on regional and local multi-let retail assets around the UK and London office campuses Placemaking strategy of creating Places People Prefer Customer orientation enables us to develop a deep understanding of the people who use our places Strong and diverse occupier base High occupancy and long lease lengths provides stable, secure cash flows Mixed use development expertise Ability to source and execute attractive investment deals For British Land, effective risk management is The Executive Directors are responsible Efficient capital structure with good a cornerstone of our strategy and fundamental for delivering the Companys strategy and access to capital and debt markets to the achievement of our strategic objectives managing risk.
The Risk Committee which Sustainability credentials in delivery of long term sustainable returns.
We is Chaired by the Chief Financial Officer focus on the management of the principal risks and consists of all Executive Directors is facing our business, including those risks that responsible for managing strategic and Our Risk Appetite could threaten the Groups solvency and liquidity operational risk in achieving the Groups The Groups risk appetite is reviewed annually as well as identifying emerging risks, whilst at performance goals.
in the context of the core strengths of our the same time making the most of our business model and approved by the Board.
Whilst responsibility for oversight of risk This evaluation guides the actions we take in management rests with the Board, the effective executing our strategy.
The most significant Our Risk Management Framework day-to-day management of risk is embedded in judgements affecting our risk appetite include Our integrated approach combines a top-down all areas of our business and forms an integral our assessment of prospective property strategic view with a complementary bottompart of our core values and how we work.
This returns: our asset selection and investment up operational process outlined in the diagram bottom-up approach ensures potential risks strategy: the level of development exposure on page 58. are identified at an early stage, escalated as and our financial leverage.
appropriate and mitigations are put in place The Board takes overall responsibility for to manage such risks.
Each business unit We have identified a suite of Key Risk Indicators risk management with a particular focus on maintains a comprehensive risk register which KRIs to monitor our principal risks, which determining the nature and extent of principal is reviewed quarterly by the Risk Committee, are reviewed quarterly by the Risk Committee, risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic with significant and emerging risks escalated to ensure that the activities of the business objectives.
This is set in the context of the to the Audit Committee for consideration remain within our risk appetite and that our external environment in which we operate this as appropriate.
risk exposure is well matched to changes in is our risk appetite.
The Audit Committee takes the business and operating environment.
responsibility for overseeing the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems as outlined on page 81 on behalf of the Board, and also advises the Board on the principal risks facing the Group including those that would threaten its solvency or liquidity.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 57 Strategic Report MANAGING RISK IN DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED The Board has considered the Groups risk Our Risk Management Framework appetite and it is considered appropriate to achieve our strategic objectives.
Our business Top-Down Bottom-Up is both resilient and well placed for the long Strategic risk management Operational risk management term.
Our portfolio is modern and nearly fully let to quality occupiers on long leases.
We Review external environment have maintained our capital discipline, with Assess effectiveness of risk Robust assessment of principal risks investment and development being broadly management systems BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE balanced by asset disposals, and reduced Set risk appetite and parameters Report on principal risks our proportionally consolidated LTV to 32%.
and uncertainties Determine strategic action points Development continues to remain a core part of our business, and whilst our current commitment has reduced as our 2010 programme has recently completed, we are Identify principal risks progressing an attractive future pipeline Direct delivery of strategic actions RISK COMMITTEE Consider completeness of identified risks of development opportunities, with the in line with risk appetite EXECUTIVE and adequacy of mitigating actions flexibility to move forward when the time DIRECTORS is right.
Monitor key risk indicators Consider aggregation of risk exposures across the business Execute strategic actions Report current and emerging risks BUSINESS UNITS Report on key risk indicators Identify, evaluate and mitigate operational risks recorded in risk register Assessment of Prospects The assumptions underpinning these forecast Downturn in economic outlook: Key The Groups annual corporate planning cash flows and covenant compliance forecasts assumptions including occupancy, void process includes the completion of a were sensitised to explore the resilience of the periods, rental growth and yields were strategic review, reassessing the Groups risk Group to the potential impact of the Groups sensitised to reflect reasonably likely levels appetite and updating the Groups forecasts.
significant risks, or a combination of those risks.
associated with an economic downturn.
Restricted availability of finance: Based The Groups strategy provides the focus The principal risks table which follows on on the Groups current commitments and for our annual priorities and is formally pages 60 to 63 summarises those matters available facilities there is no requirement reviewed annually.
This process is led that could prevent the Group from delivering to refinance for four years.
In the normal by the Chief Executive through the on its strategy.
A number of these principal course of business, financing is arranged in Executive Committee and includes the risks, because of their nature or potential advance of expected requirements and the active engagement of the Board.
Part of impact, could also threaten the Groups ability Directors have reasonable confidence that the Boards role is to consider whether to continue in business in its current form if additional or replacement debt facilities the strategy takes appropriate account of they were to occur.
The latest updates to the strategic plan and Group risk appetite The Directors paid particular attention to the Viability Statement were approved by the Board in March 2016. risk of a deterioration in economic outlook which Having considered the forecast cash flows would impact property fundamentals, including and covenant compliance and the impact of The strategy and risk appetite drive the investor and occupier demand which would have the sensitivities in combination, the Directors Groups forecasts.
These cover a five year a negative impact on valuations, and give rise confirm that they have a reasonable period and consist of a base case forecast to a reduction in the availability of finance.
expectation that the Group will be able to which includes committed transactions The remaining principal risks, whilst having an continue in operation and meet its liabilities only, and a forecast which also includes impact on the Groups business model, are not as they fall due over the period ending non-committed transactions the Board considered by the Directors to have a reasonable 31March 2021. expects the Group to make in line with likelihood of impacting the Groups viability over the Groups strategy.
the five year period to 31 March 2021.
Going Concern The Directors also considered it appropriate Assessment of Viability The sensitivities performed were designed to to prepare the financial statements on the The period over which the Directors consider be severe but plausible: and to take full account going concern basis, as explained in the it feasible and appropriate to report on the of the availability of mitigating actions that Governance Review.
Groups viability is the five year period to could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact 31March 2021.
This period has been selected or occurrence of the underlying risks: To read more information on going because it is the period that is used for the concern go to page 77 Groups medium term business plans and individual asset performance forecasts.
58 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risk Focus in the Year We continue to drive improvements in our risk The principal risks facing British Land are The Board has undertaken a robust assessment management process and the quality of risk summarised across the following pages, of the principal risks facing British Land and information generated, whilst at the same time including an assessment of potential impact our principal risks have evolved as a result maintaining a practical approach.
During the and likelihood together with how they relate of the uncertainty as to the outcome of the year, we introduced an enhanced Information to our strategic priorities.
pending referendum on the UKs membership Security Policy with the aim of providing greater of the EU, increased geopolitical instability and protection of British Lands electronic data by cyber security.
External factors, such as the mandating increasingly secure processes, macro-economic environment, continue to appropriate controls and operations and dominate the risk landscape.
Whilst we cannot promoting awareness of cyber security.
We control the external environment, we continue have also reviewed and refreshed our Antito actively monitor leading indicators on the Bribery and Corruption policies and controls.
Our risk assessment Principal Risks Key Strategic Change in Priorities affected year External risks Economic outlook Political 2 outlook 3 Commercial property investor 1 demand 5 Occupier demand and 8 tenant default 6 7 11 10 Availability and 9 13 4 cost of finance 12 Development cost inflation Catastrophic business event Internal risks Impact Investment strategy Note: The above illustrates principal risks which by their nature are those which have the potential to significantly impact the Groups strategic objectives, financial position or reputation.
Development Key exposure Strategic priorities Change year-on-year Income sustainability Customer Unchanged Orientation Capital Increased Structure Right Places Reduced Capital Finance Strategy Efficiency Expert People People British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 59 Likelihood Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS External Risks Risks and How we monitor Change in the period impacts and manage the risk Economic The economic climate and The Risk Committee reviews the economic The UK economy has remained robust outlook projections for interest rates environment in which we operate quarterly to however there is continued economic present risks and opportunities in assess whether any changes to the economic and political uncertainty and concerns property and financing markets and outlook justify a re-assessment of the strategy over the forthcoming EU referendum.
the businesses of our occupiers.
or risk appetite of the business.
Uncertainty remains over when interest rates will rise, albeit consensus has Indicators such as forecast GDP growth, pushed back their expectations for employment rates, business and consumer interest rate rises and expects the confidence, interest rates and inflation deflation increase will not be steep.
are considered, as well as central bank guidance and government policy updates.
We focus on prime assets and sectors which we believe will deliver outperformance over the medium term, benefiting from continuing occupier demand and investor appetite.
Political Significant political events Whilst we are not able to influence the outcome Uncertainty remains as to the outcome outlook including the pending EU of significant political events, we do take the of the pending referendum on the UKs referendum and policies, bring uncertainty related to such events and the range membership of the EU.
We maintain risks both in terms of uncertainty of possible outcomes into account when making support for remaining in the EU.
until the outcome is known and the strategic investment and financing decisions.
There is uncertainty over the new impact of policies introduced We engage public affairs consultants to ensure that Mayor of Londons approach to planning principally in two areas: we are properly briefed on the potential policy and and housing.
reluctance of investors and regulatory implications of political events.
Where businesses to make investment appropriate, we act with other industry participants The geopolitical environment remains decisions whilst the outcome to influence the debate on these policies.
unstable with immigration issues remains uncertain: and resulting from the ongoing unrest in on determination of the outcome, the Middle East putting pressure on the impact on the case for state resources in Europe.
investment in the UK, and on specific policies and regulation introduced, particularly those which directly impact real estate.
Commercial Reduction in investor demand for The Risk Committee reviews the property market There has continued to be a high level property UK real estate may result in falls in quarterly to assess whether any changes to the of investor demand for UK commercial asset valuations and could arise market outlook present risks and opportunities property, both from domestic and investor from variations in: which should be reflected in the execution of our international investors during the year.
The Committee considers indicators such However, since the turn of the year, the health of the UK economy: as margin between property yields and borrowing there has been a slowdown in the attractiveness of investment costs and property capital growth forecasts which transactions in part due to heightened in the UK: are considered alongside the Committee members global uncertainty and investors availability of finance: knowledge and experience of market activity and concerns over the pending EU trends.
The market for the most relative attractiveness of other attractive assets remained highly liquid, asset classes.
We focus on prime assets and sectors which we however investors are becoming believe will deliver outperformance over the increasingly discerning with some medium term, benefiting from continuing occupier softening in demand for more secondary demand and investor appetite.
Strong relationships with agents and direct investors active in the market.
Development Cost inflation presents a risk to the For each project we make a judgement about There are signs that construction cost cost inflation profitability of our development apportionment of construction risk.
Where we inflation is moderating, reflecting lower projects and has the potential to retain this risk we aim to fix costs early in the raw material costs.
However, tender adversely affect our cash position process, subject to other market factors, with key prices still reflect the limited capacity and overall return on investment.
contractors subject to financial covenant review.
in the industry with contractors seeking to rebuild margins and limit their risk We factor in construction cost inflation for our exposure.
We factor cost inflation into projects as part of the investment appraisal our development appraisals and for process to assess the viability of each development.
our projects under construction We are working with our supply chain on initiatives substantially all our costs are fixed.
to address skills shortages and to understand how resource constraints could impact development costs in the long term.
60 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risks and How we monitor Change in the period impacts and manage the risk Occupier Underlying income, rental growth The Risk Committee reviews indicators of occupier The London occupational market has demand and and capital performance could be demand quarterly including consumer confidence remained strong through the period with adversely affected by weakening surveys, employment and ERV growth forecasts, healthy take-up and record low vacancy tenant default occupier demand and occupier alongside the Committee members knowledge rates: occupiers are increasingly failures resulting from variations and experience of occupier plans, trading thinking about requirements several in the health of the UK economy performance and leasing activity in guiding years in advance.
The market has, and corresponding weakening execution of our strategy.
however, slowed since the turn of the of consumer confidence, year, as occupiers delay decisions until We have a diversified occupier base and monitor business activity and investment.
after the pending EU referendum.
concentration of exposure to individual occupiers Looking forward the development Changing consumer and business or sectors.
We perform rigorous occupier pipeline indicates that office supply will practices including the growth covenant checks on an ongoing basis so that remain constrained in the near term, of internet retailing, flexible we can be proactive in managing exposure to and potentially longer, if proposed working practices, and demand weaker occupiers.
developments continue to be delayed.
for energy efficient buildings, Ongoing engagement with our occupiers.
Through new technologies, new legislation our Key Occupier Account programme we work In retail, the occupational market and alternative locations may together with our occupiers to find ways to best remains robust with increasing result in earlier than anticipated meet their evolving requirements.
requirements from new entrants and obsolescence of our buildings if Our sustainability strategy links action on occupier for new store formats, particularly at evolving occupier and regulatory health and wellbeing, efficiency, community and the most attractive locations.
Retailers requirements are not met.
sustainable design to our business strategy.
Our are continuing to focus their portfolios social and environmental targets help us comply on fewer, better stores which suits their with new legislation and respond to customer omni-channel strategies.
Challenges to demands: for example, we expect all office retailer profitability include the living developments to be BREEAM Excellent.
wage, business rates revaluation and the increasing cost of omni-channel platforms, including distribution.
Availability and Reduced availability of property Market borrowing rates and real estate credit There continues to be good overall cost of finance finance may adversely impact availability and activity are monitored by the Risk market appetite for real estate finance, ability to refinance debt and drive Committee quarterly and reviewed regularly in depending on quality of the borrower, up cost.
This may also result in order to guide our financing actions in executing project and specific lender weaker investor demand for our strategy.
Overall, while there real estate.
has been market volatility, financing We maintain good relationships with our key costs remained relatively low.
However, Increasing finance costs would financing partners and advisors.
macro-economic uncertainties could reduce Underlying Profits.
We maintain a diverse range of sources of finance adversely impact future liquidity to provide access to funding as required.
always to have a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving facilities to ensure we have adequate financing availability to support business requirements and opportunities.
We work with industry bodies and other relevant organisations to participate in any debate of emerging banking regulations where our interests are affected.
Catastrophic An external event such as a civil We maintain a comprehensive crisis response plan The Home Office threat level from business event emergency, including a large-scale across all business units as well as a head office international terrorism remains terrorist attack, cyber crime, business continuity plan.
Our business continuity plans extreme weather occurrence or and asset emergency procedures have The Risk Committee monitors the Home Office environmental disaster could been reviewed and enhanced where terrorism threat levels and we have access to severely disrupt global markets appropriate.
including property and finance Asset emergency procedures are regularly and cause significant damage During the year, we introduced an reviewed and scenario tested.
Physical security and disruption to British Lands enhanced Information Security Policy measures are in place at properties and portfolio and operations.
with the aim of providing greater development sites.
protection of British Lands electronic data by mandating increasingly secure Asset risk assessments are carried out e. g. processes, appropriate controls and security, flood, environmental, health and safety.
operations and promoting awareness Our cyber security systems are backed up by of cyber security.
incident management, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, all of which are regularly reviewed to be able to respond to changes in the threat landscape and organisational requirements.
We also have appropriate insurance in place across the portfolio.
KEY Change from last year: Risk exposure has increased No significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced Our principal Key Risk Indicators are highlighted within How we monitor and manage the risk.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 61 Strategic Report PRINCIPAL RISKS CONTINUED Internal Risks Risks and How we monitor Change in the period impacts and manage the risk Investment In order to meet our strategic Our investment strategy is determined to be We are focusing the business around Strategy objectives we must invest in and consistent with our target risk appetite and is based long term trends and continue to see exit from the right properties on the evaluation of the external environment.
the benefits of the investments we at the right time.
Significant made in recent years.
In line with our Responsible Progress against the strategy and continuing underperformance could priorities set out last year, we have executives: alignment with our risk appetite is discussed result from inappropriate focused our investment on London Chris Grigg, at each Risk Committee with reference to the determination and execution and the South East, and investing Charles Maudsley, property markets and the external economic of our property investment around transport infrastructure: Tim Roberts environment.
strategy, including: weve achieved some key development Individual investment decisions are subject to milestones and are also getting closer sector selection and weighting: robust risk evaluation overseen by our Investment to our customers.
In Retail, we made timing of investment and Committee including consideration of returns 420 million of disposals as we increase divestment decisions: relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates.
our focus on the multi-let portfolio exposure to developments: where we can put our placemaking Review of prospective performance of individual skills to work to drive rental growth.
sector, asset, tenant, region assets and their business plans.
concentration: Our investment strategy is We foster collaborative relationships with our co-investment arrangements.
co-investors and enter into ownership agreements outlined on pages 24 to 25 which balance the interests of the parties.
Development Development provides an We maintain our levels of total and speculative Development is an important part exposure opportunity for outperformance development exposure as a proportion of the of our business and a key driver of but this brings with it elevated risk.
investment portfolio value within a target range returns.
We have assembled an The care with which we make our taking into account associated risks and the impact attractive pipeline of development Responsible decisions around which schemes on key financial metrics.
This is monitored quarterly opportunities which gives us growth executives: to develop when, as well as our by the Risk Committee along with progress of into the future, and where we are able Chris Grigg, execution of these projects, developments against plan.
to make timely decisions to reflect Charles Maudsley, must reflect this.
These Tim Roberts Prior to committing to a development, the Group include exciting opportunities across Development risks could adversely undertakes a detailed appraisal overseen by our our three existing London campuses, impact underlying income and Investment Committee including consideration the potential to create a new London capital performance including: of returns relative to risk adjusted hurdle rates.
campus at Canada Water, alongside development letting exposure: Pre-let targets are used to reduce development significant investment opportunities construction timing and costs: letting risk where considered appropriate.
in our existing Retail assets.
major contractor failure: We actively engage with the communities in which For more on our development we operate, as detailed in our Local Charter, to adverse planning judgements.
programme, see pages 37 to 39 ensure that our development activities consider the interests of all stakeholders.
We manage environmental and social risks across our development supply chain by engaging with our suppliers, including through our Sustainability Brief for Developments and Health and Safety Policy.
A number of critical business Our HR strategy is designed to minimise risk through: Having expert people is one of the four People processes and decisions lie core focus areas of our business model.
informed and skilled recruitment processes: in the hands of a few people.
We provide a strong corporate culture Responsible talent, performance management and succession committed to our people, a great Failure to recruit, develop and executive: planning for key roles: working environment, competitive retain staff and Directors with Chris Grigg highly competitive compensation and benefits: benefits and career development the right skills and experience opportunities.
We empower our people people development and training: may result in significant to make the most of their potential with underperformance or impact the The risk is measured through employee engagement us.
Our high level of staff engagement effectiveness of operations and surveys, employee turnover and retention metrics was recognised by maintaining a One decision making, in turn impacting and regular people review activities.
Star rating in the Sunday Times Best business performance.
Companies to Work For survey.
We monitor this through the number of unplanned executive departures in addition to conducting exit For more on our expert people, interviews.
see page 23 We engage with our outsourced suppliers to make clear our requirements in managing key risks including health and safety, fraud and bribery and other social and environmental risks, as detailed in our Supply Chain Charter.
62 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Risks and How we monitor Change in the period impacts and manage the risk Capital We maintain a capital structure We manage our mix of equity and debt Balance sheet metrics in the year Structure which recognises the balance financing to achieve the right balance between remained strong.
We have maintained enhancing returns for shareholders and the between performance, risk our capital discipline with investment leverage and flexibility.
and development being broadly balanced by asset disposals, and Responsible Leverage magnifies returns, We monitor our LTV to manage leverage levels reduced our proportionally consolidated over the property cycle and seek to ensure that executive: both positive and negative.
LTV to 32% in line with our strategy to Lucinda Bell LTV should not exceed a maximum threshold if An increase in leverage increases not increase leverage solely on the basis market yields were to rise to previous peak levels.
the risk of a breach of covenants of an improvement in market yields.
This means we will not increase our LTV if asset on borrowing facilities and may values increase only as a result of market For more on our financial increase finance costs.
policies, see pages 54 to 56 We manage our investment activity, the size and timing of which can be uneven, as well as our development commitments to ensure that our LTV level remains appropriate.
We leverage our equity and achieve benefits of scale while spreading risk through joint ventures and funds which are typically partly financed with debt without recourse to British Land.
Finance Our strategy addresses risks both We have five key principles guiding our financing We continue to achieve attractive strategy which together are employed to manage the risks to continuing solvency and the financings which improve earnings stability of our profits.
in this area: diversify our sources of finance, phase and liquidity.
We have completed over execution maturity of debt portfolio, maintain liquidity, maintain 1 billion of financing activity during Failure to manage the refinancing flexibility, and maintain strong balance sheet metrics.
the year, including a zero coupon 350 Responsible requirement may result in a See page 55 for further details.
million senior unsecured convertible executive: shortage of funds to sustain bond due 2020 which provides further Lucinda Bell the operations of the business We monitor the period until refinancing is diversification of our sources of or repay facilities as they fall due.
required, which is a key determinant of financing finance, and includes flexible activity, and regularly evaluate the likelihood of settlement options.
Based on current This and a breach of financial covenant breach.
commitments and our current available covenant limits are considered to We are committed to maintaining and enhancing facilities, the Group has no requirement be significant risks to the continuing relationships with our key financing partners.
to refinance for four years.
operation of British Land as a going concern.
We are mindful of relevant emerging regulation For more on our financial policies, which has the potential to impact the way that see pages 54 to 56 we finance the Group.
Income We must be mindful of maintaining We undertake comprehensive profit and cash The quality of our portfolio and sustainability sustainable income streams in flow forecasting incorporating scenario analysis environments enables us to attract order to continue to generate to model the impact of proposed transactions.
some of the strongest occupiers to returns for our shareholders our properties: this, together with our Responsible Pro-active asset management approach to and provide the platform from high occupancy levels and long lease executives: maintain strong occupier line-up.
We monitor which to grow the business lengths, provides security of income.
Lucinda Bell, our market letting exposure including vacancies, through development and We are increasing the diversity of our Charles Maudsley, upcoming expiries and breaks and tenants in capital appreciation.
occupier mix and no single occupier Tim Roberts administration as well as our weighted average accounts for more than 5.7% of We consider sustainability lease length.
In delivering our investment of our income streams in: We have a diversified occupier base and monitor strategy we are mindful of the impact execution of investment concentration of exposure to individual occupiers on our income security.
strategy and capital recycling, or sectors.
notably timing of reinvestment We are proactive in addressing key lease breaks of sale proceeds: and expiries to minimise periods of vacancy.
nature and structure We actively engage with the communities in of leasing activity: which we operate, as detailed in our Local Charter, nature and timing of to ensure we provide buildings that meet the needs asset management and of all relevant stakeholders.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 63 Governance and remuneration Board of Directors 66 Board of Directors biographies 68 Chairmans governance review 70 Our governance structure 72 Governance review 74 Report of the Audit Committee 80 Report of the Nomination Committee 84 Remuneration report Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 86 Remuneration Policy 90 Annual Report on Remuneration 99 Directors report and additional disclosures 111 Directors responsibility statement 113 Photo taken by Sonni Modi 64 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2016 65
