60 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management Derwent London aims to deliver its strategic objectives whilst operating within a risk envelope defined by the Groups risk appetite.
The Board recognises that risks are inherent in running any business and uses the Groups risk management system to ensure that risks to the Groups strategy are identified, understood and managed.
Risk organisational structure Board The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and the Groups system of internal Overall responsibility controls.
To assist with carrying out this task, for risk management and the Board has delegated responsibility to the internal control Audit Committee and the Risk Committee.
Executive Management is responsible for developing and operating the Groups risk management system and for designing, implementing, maintaining and evaluating the system of internal control.
The diagram Risk Committee Senior Audit illustrates the Groups risk management structure.
Management Committee Responsible for Risk management and culture Team non-financial Responsible The Board is responsible for managing the Groups internal controls Provides input to for financial risk profile in an environment that reflects the Committees internal controls culture and management structure of the business.
Monitors and review processes Key factors to note in this regard are: reviews the Monitors and Groups risk reviews the Senior management encourages an open and register external audit transparent culture throughout the business.
process and the The close day-to-day involvement of the Directors Auditors report in the business allows any system weaknesses to be identified quickly.
The Group operates mainly from a single office in central London which is within close proximity to most of its properties.
Executive Committee The senior management team is experienced and stable and overall staff turnover is low.
See page 68 Maintains the Groups for more information on Our People.
risk register The Group has a whistleblowing policy which is Manages the Groups risk supported by an independent advice line.
management system The Group has clearly defined levels of responsibility Reviews the operation and and authority.
effectiveness of key controls STRATEGIC REPORT 61 The Groups risk management framework consists 2016 major risks of its Risk Management Policy, Risk Appetite Increasing risk Statement and Risk Management Process Document.
The framework is designed to identify and manage High 9 5 the risks faced by the business recognising that not all risks can be eliminated at an acceptable cost and that there are some risks that, given its experience, 6 3 the Board will choose to manage and accept.
7 2 In compliance with Code Provision C. 2.1 of The UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has carried 4 out a robust assessment of the principal risks and 8 1 10 uncertainties facing the Group.
The core element of this assessment is the Groups risk register which is prepared by the Executive Committee in accordance with the Risk Management Process Document.
The first stage in its preparation is for the Committee to identify the risks facing the Group.
An assessment is then made collectively by the Committee of the Low Impact High following matters: Increased risk Unchanged risk Decreased risk The likelihood of each risk occurring.
The potential impact of the risk on each different area of the business.
Increased The strength of the controls operating over the risk and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
Unchanged 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 This approach allows the final assessment to reflect the effect of the controls and any mitigating Strategic Operational Financial procedures that are in place.
If the controls and Includes new risks.
mitigating actions over a risk are deemed inadequate, the Committee will agree a target risk profile together with additional controls actions and a timetable for Average risk level by category their implementation.
The register and its method of preparation have been High reviewed by the Risk Committee.
In order to gain a more comprehensive understanding of the risks facing the business and the management thereof, the Risk Committee periodically receives presentations from senior managers and external advisers.
The Risk Committee has also monitored the Companys risk management and internal control systems primarily by regularly reviewing the set of key risk indicators that were implemented in 2015.
This was supplemented by reviews of the top ten risks on the Groups risk register and the adequacy Low of the controls operating over these risks.
Further 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 information on the work of the Risk Committee can Strategic Financial Corporate Property be found on page 105.
Following these reviews, the Risk Committee has confirmed to the Board that it is satisfied that the Risk profile Groups risk management and internal control systems operated effectively throughout the period.
The Groups risk register includes 47 risks split Strategic between strategic risks, corporate risks, property risks together, operational risks and financial risks.
One new risk has been added to the Groups list of principal risks this year: That the negotiations to leave the European Union result in arrangements that are damaging to the UK economy and or central London.
Financial Corporate The Board considered whether the overall increase in the level of risk faced by the Group in 2017, as illustrated by the graphs, was reasonable.
It noted that only a few of the risks had abated during the year, whilst the risk surrounding Brexit was a significant new factor and cyber risk continued to increase.
Taken with the general increase in both political and economic uncertainty, the Board Property concluded that the increase was justified.
2016 2015 2014 2013 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 Average weighted risk score Probability 62 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group in 2017 are set out on the following pages together with the potential effects, controls and mitigating factors.
Strategic risks That the Groups business model does not create the anticipated shareholder value or fails to meet investors expectations.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 1.
Inconsistent strategy The Group carries out an annual five-year The last annual strategic review was strategic review and also prepares a budget carried out by the Board in June 2016.
The Groups strategy is inconsistent with the state of its market.
and three rolling forecasts which cover the This considered the sensitivity of six key next two years.
In the course of preparing measures to changes in underlying 2.
Inconsistent development programme these documents the Board considers the assumptions, including interest rates and The Groups development programme is not sensitivity of the Groups KPIs and key ratios borrowing margins, timing of projects, level consistent with the economic cycle.
to changes in the main assumptions of capital expenditure and the extent of Both these risks would affect the Groups underlying the forecast thereby modelling capital recycling.
ability to deliver four of its strategic objectives.
The three rolling forecasts prepared during The Groups plans are then set so as to best the year focus on the same key measures but may consider the effect of varying different realise its long-term strategic goals given the most likely economic and market conditions assumptions to reflect changing economic Throughout most of 2016, the Group and market conditions.
and the Groups risk appetite.
This flexibility is continued to benefit from a resilient central largely derived from the Groups policy of London market.
However, following the EU The timing of the Groups development maintaining income from properties for as referendum vote, sentiment became more programme and the strategies for individual long as possible until development starts.
fragile and the likelihood of the London market properties reflect the outcome of these being adversely affected by one or more of a The level of future redevelopment considerations.
number of high-level economic factors opportunities in the Groups portfolio enables Approximately 43% of the Groups portfolio remained high.
If this were to occur, it would the Board to delay marginal projects until has been identified for future redevelopment.
reduce the value of the Groups portfolio and market conditions are favourable.
During the year the Groups loan-to-value the returns from its developments.
This would The Board pays particular attention, when ratio remained at approximately 18%, its net affect two of the Groups KPIs total return setting its plans, to maintaining sufficient interest cover ratio was above 370% and the and total property return.
headroom in all the Groups key ratios, REIT ratios were comfortably met.
The Board sees the level of both these risks to financial covenants and interest cover.
Pre-lets were secured over 439,100 sq ft be broadly unchanged from last year.
Pre-lets are sought to fide-risk major projects.
The Groups strong financing and covenant At the year end, the Group had undrawn 3.
Adverse Brexit settlement headroom enables it to weather a downturn.
Negotiations to leave the European Union result in arrangements that are damaging to The Groups diverse and high-quality See page 8 for an analysis of the Groups the UK economy and or central London.
tenant base provides resilience against tenant base.
This risk would affect the Groups ability to tenant default.
Income is maintained at future developments deliver all of its strategic objectives.
The Groups development pipeline has until the scheme is ready to start.
a degree of flexibility that enables the The Groups average topped up office rent is strategy for individual properties to be only 45 per sq ft. changed to reflect the prevailing Negotiations will take at least two years and economic circumstances.
the operating framework facing UK businesses Financially strong and reputable contractors thereafter cannot be predicted.
are used with good access to available labour.
This is a new principal risk and it would The Groups focus on good value, middle primarily affect the Groups total return and total property return KPIs.
market properties makes it less susceptible to reductions in tenant demand.
Link to business model Key Risk increase Acquire properties and unlock their value Risk unchanged Maintain strong and flexible financing Risk decrease Create well-designed space New risk Optimise income Recycle capital STRATEGIC REPORT 63 Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action All new members of staff benefit from an The Group employs a Head of Investor 4.
Reputational damage The Groups reputation is damaged through induction programme and are issued with and Corporate Communications and retains the Groups Staff Handbook.
the services of an external PR agency.
unauthorised and inaccurate media coverage.
Both maintain regular contact with external Social media channels are monitored by This risk would impact on the Groups delivery media sources.
the Groups investor relations department.
of three of its strategic objectives.
The Company engages with a number of local The Group takes advice on technological community bodies in areas where it operates changes in the use of media and adapts as part of its CSR activity.
It would most directly impact on the Groups total shareholder return one of its key There is an agreed procedure for approving metrics.
Indirectly it could impact on a number all external statements.
The Board considers the risk to have remained constant over the year.
Financial risks That the Group becomes unable to meet its financial obligations or finance the business appropriately.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action The impact of yield changes on the Groups The Group produces three rolling forecasts 5.
Increase in property yields financial covenants and performance are each year which contain detailed sensitivity Increased property yields, which may be a monitored regularly and are subject to analyses, including the effect of changes consequence of rising interest rates, would sensitivity analysis to ensure that adequate to yields.
cause property values to fall.
Quarterly management accounts report the Interest rates have remained low for an extended period and are expected to rise The impact of yield changes is considered Groups performance against covenants.
when potential projects are appraised.
within the next two years.
Though there is no Project appraisals are regularly reviewed direct relationship, this may cause property The Groups move towards mainly and updated in order to monitor the effect yields to increase in due course.
unsecured financing over the past few of yield changes.
years has simplified management of its If this risk were to occur, three of the Groups financial covenants.
strategic objectives would be affected.
It would affect the following KPIs: Interest cover ratio.
The risk was assessed as high last year and the Board considers it to have marginally increased this year.
Operational risks The Group suffers either a financial loss or adverse consequences due to processes being inadequate or not operating correctly.
Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 6.
Reduced development returns Standardised appraisals, which include The procurement process used by the Group contingencies and inflationary cost increases, includes the use of highly regarded firms of The Groups development projects do not produce the targeted financial return due are prepared for all investments and quantity surveyors and is designed to sensitivity analysis is undertaken to ensure minimise uncertainty regarding costs.
to one or more of the following factors: that an adequate return is made in all Delays on site.
The Groups style of accommodation circumstances considered likely to occur.
remains in demand as evidenced by the Increased construction costs.
63 lettings achieved in 2016 which totalled Adverse letting conditions.
Development costs are benchmarked to ensure that the Group obtains 547,500 sq ft.
The risk would affect delivery of four of the competitive pricing and, where appropriate, The Group has often secured significant Groups strategic objectives.
fixed-price contracts are entered into.
pre-lets of the space in its development Procedures carried out before starting work on programme which significantly fide-risks site, such as pre-work investigations, historical those projects.
27 pre-lets were secured This would have an effect on the Groups research of the property and surveys etc, in 2016 over 439,100 sq ft. A further total return and total property return KPIs.
conducted as part of the planning application, 161,000 sq ft has been pre-let in 2017. reduce the risk of unidentified issues causing The Board considers this risk to have remained delays once on site.
broadly the same over the past year.
The Groups pre-letting strategy reduces or removes the letting risk of the development as soon as possible.
Post-completion reviews are carried out for all major developments to ensure that improvements to the Groups procedures are identified and implemented.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016 64 STRATEGIC REPORT Risk management continued Operational risks continued Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 7.
Cyber attack The Groups IT systems are protected by Independent internal and external anti-virus software and firewalls that are penetration tests are regularly conducted The Group is the victim of a cyber attack that results in it being unable to use its IT systems.
to assess the effectiveness of the Groups security.
No matters were raised as a result The Groups data is regularly backed up and The risk would affect the delivery of all the of the 2016 test.
The switchover of the IT system to the The Groups Business Continuity Plan was Groups backup facility was successfully revised and tested during 2015. tested in 2016.
This would lead to an increase in costs and Multifactor authentication has been Staff awareness programmes and introduced for both internal and external a diversion of management time.
Increased presentations are delivered to make staff costs would have an impact on the Groups access to the systems.
aware of the techniques that may be used total return KPI whilst a significant diversion of The Groups IT department has access to to gain unauthorised access to the management time would have a wider effect.
cyber threat intelligence and analytics data.
Although controls and procedures over the Incident response and remediation policies Security measures are regularly reviewed by Groups IT infrastructure continue to be are in place.
improved, the elevated profile of such risks Cyber insurance is being evaluated.
means that the Board considers the risk to The Head of IT regularly reports to the have increased over the year.
An independent benchmarking review of the Groups cyber security has been carried out.
Each year the Groups Risk Committee A Health and Safety report is presented at all 8.
Regulatory non-compliance receives a report prepared by the Groups Executive Committee and main Board The Groups cost base is increased and lawyers identifying legislative regulatory meetings.
management time diverted through a breach changes expected over the next 12 months of any of the legislation that forms the The Executive Committee receives regular and reports to the Board concerning regulatory framework within which the reports from the Head of Sustainability.
The Group pays considerable attention It would impact on the delivery of four of the The Group employs a Head of Health and to sustainability issues and produces Safety who reports to the Board.
The Group employs a Head of Sustainability No incidents were reported under the Groups who reports to the Sustainability Committee whistleblowing policy in 2016. which is chaired by Paul Williams.
An increase in costs would directly impact The Group has considered the requirements on the Groups total return KPI.
A significant The Companys policies including those of the Modern Slavery Act and revised its diversion of management time could affect on the Bribery Act, Health and Safety, policies where appropriate in order to comply a wider range of key metrics.
Equal Opportunities, Harassment and with the legislation.
Whistleblowing are available to all staff The Board considers this risk to be unchanged The Groups Health and Safety processes on the Company intranet.
were reviewed and improved in 2016 and Members of staff attend external a new external consultant was appointed.
briefings in order to be updated on regulatory changes.
Link to business model Key Risk increase Acquire properties and unlock their value Risk unchanged Maintain strong and flexible financing Risk decrease Create well-designed space New risk Optimise income Recycle capital STRATEGIC REPORT 65 Risk, effect and progression Controls and mitigation Action 9.
Contractor sub-contractor default Whenever possible the Group uses As the size of the Groups projects has contractors sub-contractors that it has increased so the chosen contractors have Returns from the Groups developments are reduced due to delays and cost increases previously worked with successfully.
caused by either a main contractor or major The resilience of a projects critical path The financial accounts of both main sub-contractor defaulting during the project.
is improved by establishing procedures contractors and major sub-contractors to manage any sub-contractor default are reviewed.
The risk would affect the Groups delivery of one of its strategic objectives.
The Groups development managers Key construction packages are acquired early are regularly on site and conduct in the project.
This would primarily affect the Groups total Performance bonds are sought if property return KPI.
The risk is considered to have remained at the Regular on-site supervision by Derwent same level in 2016.
London personnel increases the likelihood of identifying any problems at an early stage, thereby enabling remedial action to be taken sooner.
Shortage of key staff The Nominations Committee consider The Group recruited 13 new members of staff succession matters as a standing during 2016.
The Group is unable successfully to implement its strategy due to a failure to recruit and retain agenda item.
Staff turnover during 2016 was low at 11%.
key staff with appropriate skills.
Requirements for senior management The average length of employment is succession are considered as part of the It would reduce the Groups ability to deliver 7.3 years.
all of its strategic objectives.
The remuneration packages of all employees are benchmarked regularly.
This risk could impact on any or all of the Six-monthly appraisals identify training Groups KPIs.
requirements which are fulfilled over the next six months.
The risk is seen to be unchanged over the year.
Viability statement The five year strategic review considers In addition the Board reverse stress In accordance with provision C. 2.2 the Groups cash flows, dividend cover, tested its business model for a fall in of the 2014 Code, the Directors have REIT compliance and other key financial property values and established that, assessed the prospects of the Company ratios over the period.
The Board all other assumptions remaining over a longer period than the 12 subjects these metrics to sensitivity unchanged, it would take a fall in values months required by the Going Concern analysis to assess the impact of the in excess of 65% to cause the Group to provision see page 84 taking account principal risks to the Groups ability to breach its financing covenants.
of the Groups current position and the deliver its strategic objectives, which The Board also reviewed the potential impact of its principal risks.
are set out on pages 62 to 65, both financing requirements of the Group The Board conducted this review over individually and in unison.
However, for over the period of the review having a period of five years to 31 December the purpose of the viability assessment, regard to the level of unutilised facilities 2021, which was considered the model was stress tested to consider at the year end and the assumptions in appropriate for the following reasons: its resilience specifically to those risks the five year review concerning that, if they occurred, were likely to i The Groups strategic review covers capital recycling.
have a significant impact on the a five year period.
Based on this assessment, the Directors Groups solvency and liquidity over the ii For a major scheme five years is a have a reasonable expectation that the five year review period.
These risks reasonable approximation of the Company will be able to continue in were identified as those that would maximum time taken from operation and meet its liabilities as they affect property values, the availability obtaining planning permission for a fall due over the five year period of of finance or the Groups cash flow and development to letting the property.
a scenario was modelled that assumed a severe decrease in property values iii Most leases contain a five year rent combined with significant letting delays review pattern and therefore five at the Groups developments and a years allows for the forecasts to decrease in rentals.
The assumptions include the reversion arising from were considered extreme but none of those reviews.
the key metrics were breached with LTV remaining below 50% and net interest cover staying above 280%.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2016
