STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Implementation and compliance responsibility RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Effective risk management The assessment and management of risk underpins our operating, financial and governance activities.
This activity is becoming ever more important to ensure the effective management of the business during periods of heightened uncertainty.
Risk overview Risk management responsibilities Effective risk management is integral to the delivery of our strategy The responsibility for risk management rests ultimately with the and underpins our business model.
Our risk management policies Board.
However, the foundations of our approach are instilled in are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss, protect our the Groups culture and values see Our People section on page 40. reputation whilst supporting the growth of the wider business and The relatively low number of personnel across the Group supports acting on opportunities when they arise.
and encourages effective collaboration and the flat management structure means that the senior team is actively involved in The Board determines the Groups risk appetite and assesses ensuring adherence to the Groups risk management policies and theresidual risk for each of the Groups nine principal risks procedures, including risk identification and mitigation actions.
usingthe Groups Risk Management Framework document and Risk Dashboard.
The risk review and assessment process is further Chart 41 summarises the key roles and responsibilities for explained on page 54 and the Risk Management Framework the Groups risk management strategy and demonstrates the is summarised on pages 55 to 58.
The Board is able to confirm interaction between the Board and management teams in ensuring that it carried out a robust assessment of the Groups principal effective risk management is applied across the Groups activities.
risks during 2016, which are presented in this section of the Annual Report.
Chart 41 Key roles and responsibilities for the Groups risk management strategy Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, Board internal controls and risk management Defines the Groups appetite for risk and monitors risks to ensure these are effectively managed, including agreeing actions where necessary Reviews effectiveness of the Risk Management Framework and internal Audit Committee controls on behalf of the Board Ensures compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations Oversees effectiveness of the Groups internal audit arrangements Group Executive Management of the business and delivery of strategy Committee Reviews the Risk Management Framework and prioritises actions and allocates resources to effectively manage risk Responsible for integration of the Risk Management Framework Risk and Controls throughout the business Committee Monitors compliance with the Groups internal control systems Management of the internal audit arrangements Oversight of Health and Safety Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation actions and Divisional management: monitoring compliance with internal controls and procedures at the UK, France, Ireland and operational level of the business Premium outlets Reviews the Risk Management Framework to identify risk trends and recommend actions Oversight of project level risk management activities HAMMERSON.
COM 53 Monitoring and reporting responsibility Risks and uncertainties continued Risk review process Risk appetite and assessment TheRisk Management Framework RMF document is structured As part of its risk management activities, theBoard assesses around the Groups nine principal risks, although it also contains a theresidual risk for each of the Groups nine principal risks.
This number of other less material operational risks.
The RMF sets out is done by assessing both the overall level of risk and impact of mitigating actions, management responsibility and recent internal specified mitigation actions.
The level of residual risk is then and external audit reviews for each risk area and is summarised on considered within the context of theBoards risk appetite, which pages 55 to 58.
To further aid risk assessment we produce a Risk reflects its combined attitude to financial, operational and Dashboard which contains both current and forward-looking risk reputational risks across the business.
metrics for each of the principal risk areas and which is updated The residual risk levels at 31 December 2016 are shown on the quarterly.
As well as being regularly reviewed by management, the Risk Heat Map on chart 42, with the red-coloured area in the RMF is available to all staff via the Groups intranet.
top right-hand corner of the diagram being an assessment which As in 2015, we undertook a formal six-monthly management would exceed the Boards risk appetite.
The heat map also shows review of the RMF, with comments and proposed changes from the movement in the residual risk level during 2016.
This shows each Committee beingreported to the July and November Audit that the general risk environment in which the Group operates Committee meetings.
A key change to our risk reporting during has increased during the year, with a number of the Groups 2016 was to increase the number of principal risks from eight principal risks moving towards the red area on the heat map.
This to nine, by splitting the Business strategy risk into Macrotrend is due to the heightened level of uncertainty associated economic and Retail market risks to better reflect the nature of with major political events in the countries in which the Group the individual risks previously within Business strategy.
Key risk operates including the future impact of the UKs exit from the EU, topics discussed during 2016 included: election results and political developments in the rest of Europe, and the associated volatility in financial markets.
Not all of the The impact on the business, both before and after the EU Groups risks have increased during 2016.
Property development referendum in June, particularly in respect of Macro-economic, and People risks having reduced in line with the low level Property investment and Treasury risks.
of committed development expenditure and the successful Catastrophic events such as terrorism or a cyber security attack.
integration of the new Irish operations.
Risks associated with the conversion of the Irish loan portfolio As adverse risk events rarely occur in isolation, this increased and recent Irish tax changes.
general level of risk was discussed at the 2016 Board Strategy Day The RMF is also used to determine the annual internal audit in October and factored into the Groups 2017 five-year Business plan see page 76, which is structured to ensure an appropriate Plan.
Additional mitigation steps introduced in2016 include asset coverage of the Groups principal risks, as well as review areas of disposalsto control leverage and tighter senior management change within the wider business and risks which have not been approval processes over capital expenditure commitments subjected to recent audit review.
Chart 42 Risk Heat Map Macro-economic 1 6 Partnerships Retail market Tax and regulatory 2 7 1 Property investment Catastrophic event 3 8 5 2 People Property development 9 4 8 5 Treasury 3 7 4 Risk appetite Exceeds Groups risk appetite 6 In line with Groups risk appetite 9 Lower than Groups risk appetite Low Probability High 54 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Low Impact High STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Link to our strategy Change in residual risk assessment in 2016 Focus on growing consumer markets Impact Probability Higher No change Lower Create differentiated Promote financial efficiency destinations and partnerships Risk Management Framework Further details of the Groups nine principal risks as summarised in our Risk Management Framework are shown below.
Risk Mitigation actions Change during 2016 and outlook Impact Probability 1.
Macro-economic Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium High We own and operate retail Our strategy of investing across a number Economic growth has been mixed in 2016, with property in a number of property of property sectors and European countries a strong performance in Ireland, and a good sectors and European countries.
provides diversification which limits the performance in the UK.
The French economy impact of adverse macro-economic trends in a has remained more subdued.
Our financial performance is single market.
There is heightened uncertainty associated with directly impacted by the macrothe UKs future exit from the EU, the outcome economic environment in these We commission and evaluate research into of a number of major European elections and countries.
Key factors impacting macro-economic trends and evaluate this the impact of the change in the US presidency.
our retailers and shoppers are at the annual Board Strategy Day and when This has resulted in a wide spectrum of opinion disposable income growth, preparing our annual Business Plan.
unemployment levels, business We stress test our Business Plan projections Stock and foreign exchange markets have been and consumer confidence, against a severe downside economic scenario volatile and are highly sensitive to a range of interest rates and foreign to verify that our current and projected conflicting economic data and external shocks.
financial position is sufficiently flexible and Interest rates are forecast to remain low for robust to cope with these scenarios.
Link to strategy the foreseeable future, although following the We have a resilient business model, with reduction in sterling in 2016, UK inflation is modest gearing, effective foreign currency forecast to increase in 2017. hedging, long-term secure income streams, Against this backdrop we believe that we can a spread of debt maturities and the flexibility continue to generate stakeholder value by to phase or halt our future expenditure focusing on our business model.
We will also commitments, which provide protection ensure we retain operational and financial against market shocks.
flexibility and remain vigilant to any significant macro-economic events.
See Business Review on pages 22 to 33 2.
Retail market Impact Probability Executive responsibility: David Atkins Residual risk assessment: Medium We own and operate physical We believe our prime retail portfolio is bestWe delivered strong like-for-like NRI growth of property in a dynamic placed to continue to attract both retailers and 2.2% in 2016, and have a proven track record in retail marketplace.
Failure consumers as the retail marketplace evolves.
growing rental income over the past decade.
to anticipate and address Leasing volumes have remained stable across We differentiate our destinations by applying developments in consumer and our portfolios throughout the year and we have our Product Experience Framework to ensure occupational markets, such been encouraged by the continued retailer our portfolio remains attractive to both as multichannel retailing and demand after the UKs EU referendum decision.
digital technology, would result Each of our portfolios is able to support retailers We actively retenant our portfolio to introduce in financial underperformance multichannel strategies, for example through relevant brands and increase the amount and and future obsolescence.
accommodating flagship stores in our shopping quality of catering, leisure and events available centres and click & collect at our retail parks.
Retailer profitability is under to our shoppers.
We continue to enhance our properties to pressure, particularly in the Favourable tourist trends across Europe ensure they are able to offer and fulfil both UK due to increased costs stimulate growth in premium outlet revenues.
shopping and leisure requirements with an associated with business Our people have a wealth of retail experience increased focus on catering and events.
rate changes, adverse foreign which benefits our internal teams and This strategy is key to continuing to attract exchange movements, the enables us to understand and address retail both retailers and shoppers in an evolving introduction of the living wage market trends.
Through our Plus app we are able to communicate directly with our shoppers and Link to strategy gain detailed consumer insight.
See Our strategy on page 4 HAMMERSON.
COM 55 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation actions Change during 2016 and outlook Impact Probability 3.
Property investment Residual risk assessment: Medium Executive responsibility: David Atkins Peter Cole Poor investment decisions All significant investment decisions are We have continued to recycle our portfolio involving acquisitions approved by the Board.
during 2016, with acquisitions of Grand Central, and disposals result in Birmingham and a number of centres in VIA Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated and suboptimal returns.
Outlets towards the end of the year.
We have supported by detailed research, financial also completed 635 million of disposals.
Opportunities to divest of appraisals, due diligence and risk assessment.
Our Irish loan portfolio acquisition is currently properties are missed, or are We commission and evaluate research into performing in line with our initial expectations limited by market constraints, investment and occupational markets and also with future ERV growth forecast.
which reduces financial returns benchmark the performance of our properties Real estate investment volumes have reduced in and adversely impacts the against both industry and target returns.
2016, influenced by the uncertainty associated Groups funding strategy.
Properties are held ready for sale, which with the EU referendum, with some sectors Property valuations fall due enables swift transaction execution.
such as UK retail parks having suffered falling to poor market conditions Our portfolio is high-quality and diversified by valuations.
However, demand in the Groups adversely impacting the Groups market sector and geography which reduces other sectors: prime shopping centres in the financial position and delivery of the impact on the Group of a downturn in a UK, France and Ireland and European premium future plans.
Independent valuations are completed Link to strategy Property valuations are forecast to be broadly twice yearly and thoroughly reviewed stable in 2017.
Valuations should be supported by management.
by the continuing low interest rate environment Management monitor valuation performance and investor demand for the secure income and the annual Business Plan includes stress yield provided by prime retail property.
tests to verify the Groups ability to withstand adverse valuation changes.
See Business Review on pages 22 to 33 Impact Probability 4.
Property development Residual risk assessment: Low Executive responsibility: Peter Cole Property development is We have a proven track record of successful The completion of our two shopping centre inherently risky, with long development delivery.
schemes in Leeds and Southampton in late delivery times, high levels 2016 has reduced our short-term development Development exposure is included in annual of complexity with multiple exposure.
At 31 December 2016 committed business planning approval and all major milestones and is management capital expenditure was 68 million 2015: commitments are approved by the Board.
Unsuccessful projects 108 million and our development portfolio There are regular reviews of development result in adverse financial and represented only 5% 2015: 5% of our total projects by management, including project reputational outcomes.
risks are heightened for major During the year we continued to progress with Clear project ownership and resourcing plans retail schemes which often our major development schemes.
There are with multi-disciplinary teams are agreed in involve wider area regeneration.
still a number of further milestones to achieve advance and supported by external expertise.
in terms of planning and leasing before we can Over-exposure to developments An enhanced expenditure approval process commence on-site.
We also need to ensure the increases the potential financial has been introduced in 2016, including financial viability of the schemes is appropriate impact of an economic downturn increased pre-letting thresholds.
to reflect the risks associated with the macroand construction price inflation Detailed analysis is undertaken prior to the economic and retail market conditions at the which could overstretch the project approval with clear milestones agreed.
Cost risk is managed through fixed Link to strategy price contracts, cost benchmarking and appropriate contingencies.
Post-completion reviews are undertaken to capture key lessons for future projects.
See Business Review on pages 30 and 31 56 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk Mitigation actions Change during 2016 and outlook Impact Probability 5.
Treasury Residual risk assessment: Medium high Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith Poor treasury planning or The Board regularly monitors financial ratios, Our borrowing levels have increased during external factors, including debt maturity, liquidity, interest rate exposure 2016 to 3.4 billion, principally due to the failures in the banking system, and our hedging strategy.
acquisition of Grand Central, Birmingham, the may lead to the Group having conversion of the Irish loans to property assets The annual Business Plan includes a financing insufficient liquidity.
and adverse foreign currency movements.
plan and stress tests to assess the Groups However, at 31 December 2016, our balance The Groups financial position ability to withstand market shocks.
sheet and financial ratios remain robust, with is unable to support the delivery Capital is provided by a diverse range of gearing of 59% and liquidity of 592 million.
of our strategy, particularly counterparties, including banks, bond We have access to a wide range of funding major developments.
investors and joint venture partners.
sources including bank lending, bond and Deterioration in our financial All major investment approvals are supported equity marketsand private placements.
During position due toproperty by a financing plan.
2016 we refinanced 1.2 billion which has valuation declines could result in Our high-quality and diversified portfolio reduced future refinancing risk.
provides protection against valuation changes We expect to maintain a strong financial Significant fluctuations in in single countries or sectors.
position during 2017 and reduce debt levels sterling or euro or a significant At 31 December 2016 we estimate that through further property disposals.
increase in interest rates could property values including premium outlets Interest rates are forecast to stay low and result in financial losses.
could fall by 35% and net rental income by the financial markets remain supportive for 64% before our most stringent borrowing Link to strategy companies in a strong financial position.
However, the weaker macro-economic outlook We operate a hedging programme to mitigate could adversely impact future liquidity the impact of currency changes.
See Financial Review on pages 51and 52 Impact Probability 6.
Partnerships Residual risk assessment: Low Executive responsibility: Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith A significant proportion of We have a diverse range of joint venture We continue to have a long and successful track the Groups portfolio is held partners and maintain strong working record of working effectively with a variety jointly with third parties.
These relationships to ensure strategic alignment.
Joint ventures provide capital to structures can limit the Groups support our strategy of owning primeproperty, Joint venture contracts provide liquidity for control and may reduce liquidity.
At 31 December 2016, the proportion of Operational effectiveness may Annual joint venture business plans ensure properties held within joint ventures or also be adversely impacted if operational and strategic alignment.
1 associates was 53%, compared with 49%at the joint venture partners are not We have an increasingly close working beginning of the year.
The key change during strategically aligned.
relationship and have formal influence over 2016 was the formation of the Grand Central Our premium outlet investments strategy and governance through board joint venture in December.
are externally managed and representation for both Value Retail and We are confident that our joint venture this reduces control and VIA Outlets.
ownership structures do not adversely impact transparency over performance Our investment in VIA Outlets contains liquidity with a number of joint venture stakes and governance.
provisions to enable effective joint governance successfully traded in the investment market and control.
Link to strategy over recent years.
Our premium outlet investments are both subject to external audit and the properties are independently valued by Cushman See notes 12 and 13 to the accounts on pages and Wakefield.
Includes Irish loan assets held in joint venture.
COM 57 Risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation actions Change during 2016 and outlook Impact Probability 7.
Tax and regulatory Residual risk assessment: Medium Executive responsibility: Timon Drakesmith There is an increasing burden We maintain alow-risk tax status in the UK In addition to the regulatory and tax from compliance and regulatory and have regular meetings with HMRC.
uncertainty associated with the UKs exit from requirements which can act to the EU, there are a number of tax changes which We have held a number of meetings with Irish impede performance.
have adversely impacted the Group.
These officials and advisors to discuss the potential include increases in UK and French stamp duty There is a rising tax burden impact of future Irish tax changes.
in 2016, the implementation of the Base Erosion aimed at the real estate sector Regular monitoring of compliance with taxand Profit Shifting BEPS legislation and which adversely impacts exemption rules.
amendments to Irish real estate tax in 2017.
We financial performance and Planning undertaken ahead of future believe the Group is appropriately structured to may threaten the Groups tax regulatory and tax changes in conjunction mitigate the impact of these future tax changes, exempt status.
although continue to reviewthedetailed The UKs future exit from We participate in policy consultations and in legislation.
the EU creates uncertainty industry-led dialogue with policy makers.
Also, changes in the UK associated with the over the future UK tax and living wage, apprenticeships and business rates, regulatory environment.
whilst not having a significant direct impact Link to strategy on the Group, are predicted to have an adverse financial impact on the wider retail sector.
See Financial Review on page 47 Impact Probability 8.
Catastrophic event Residual risk assessment: Medium Executive responsibility: David Atkins Our operations, reputation or Continuity plans at both corporate and The threat level of a major incident at one of the financial performance could individual property levels are in place, Groups properties has increased during 2016. be significantly affected by a including a core crisis group for dealing with a Also, the wider use of digital technology across major event such as a terrorist major incident.
the Group increases the risks associated with or cyber attack, power shortage Enhanced physical security measures have cyber security.
been implemented at our properties.
We regularly review and continue to implement Also, climate change could We have regular dialogue with security improvements to our processes and procedures adversely impact our operations, agencies to assess threat levels and best to counter the threat of a major incident.
However, it is not possible to fully mitigate incident such as flooding.
Internal audits were conducted in 2016 on these risks and the related impacts.
Business Continuity and Cyber Security with Link to strategy improvement plans being implemented.
Insurance cover is in place for property damage, including from terrorism and flooding.
Our sustainability strategy addresses environmental risks.
People Impact Probability Residual risk assessment: Low Executive responsibility: David Atkins The Group has a relatively The annual Business Plan contains a human During 2016, we have successfully integrated small headcount which could resources plan, covering team structures, our new Irish platform with our existing act to curtail the achievement training and talent management initiatives.
of business objectives, We have widened our succession planning We recognise the importance of motivating particularly in times of activities across the Group with plans for all and developing our staff and have introduced significantactivity.
a number of new initiatives during the year, A failure to recruit and Significant changes to the management including a diversity and inclusion programme.
retain key executives and structure are approved by the Board.
Also, towards the end of the year we have staff with appropriate skills The annual appraisal process assesses repeated the Great Place to Work survey would also adversely impact management capabilities and recommends and the results show high levels of employee corporate performance.
We monitor staff turnover and employee Link to strategy engagement across the Group and act on trends and feedback.
See Our people section on page 40 to 42 58 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES In addition, the Plan contained more severe stress tests to Viability statement understand how far values and rental income would have to decline The Directors have considered the future viability of the Group to breach the tightest financial covenants and force the Company taking into account its current position, principal risks and future to negotiate with its lenders.
The calculations for the 2016 year-end prospects.
As explained on pages 4 to 7, the Groups strategy position are disclosed in the explanation of the Groups Treasury and business model are designed to adapt to structural trends principal risk on page 57. in property and retail markets and create long-term value for our stakeholders.
Conclusion Based on the assessment of the prospects and viability of the Assessment of prospects Group, the Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable As explained on page 64, the Board held its annual Strategy expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation Day in October 2016 at which it reviewed the Groups strategy, and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a five-year period performance and principal risks, taking into account macroto 31 December 2021.
This five-year period is unchanged from economic and retail market projections from a number of external theperiod adopted for the 2015 Viability Statement.
commentators including Oxford Economics, OECD, PMA and the Companys banking advisors.
The output from this event Going Concern Statement was incorporated into the Groups 2017 Business Plan which was The Directors have reviewed the current and projected financial reviewed and approved by the Board in December 2016. position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about The five-year Plan is structured around the Groups strategy future trading performance, property valuations and capital and includes financial projections, funding plans and portfolio expenditure plans.
The review considered the Groups current strategies, including acquisitions, disposals and developments.
It liquidity position, its debt maturity profile, future commitments is compiled on a property-by-property basis and the key base case and forecast cash flows.
Based on this review the Directors are assumptions included: able to conclude that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Forecast economic conditions, including broadly stable GDP operational existence for at least the next 12 months and continue growth and future interest and foreign exchange rates to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial Stable property market conditions, including modest yield and statements for the year ended 31 December 2016.
ERV movements 2016 Strategic Report Financial markets remaining available to the Group to refinance maturing facilities and bonds Pages 1 to 59 of this Annual Report constitute the Strategic Report.
It has been approved and signed on behalf of the Board on Assessment of period 17 February 2017.
There are a number of factors which influence the period of assessment: David Atkins The Groups annual Business Plan covers a five-year period Director The Group has a stable, diverse, secure income stream with the majority of leases containing five-year, upward only, rent reviews with an average unexpired lease term of six years at Timon Drakesmith 31 December 2016 The time-scale for the delivery of the Groups major Director development schemes is approximately five years and currently extends beyond 2021 The Groups has diverse sources of funding with an average maturity of 5.5 years Assessment of viability The Plan contains downside scenarios, including modelling significant reductions in property values and rental income.
These are consistent with adverse changes to the Groups principal risks which are most likely to impact the viability of the Group, being: Macro-economic, Retail market, Property investment and Treasury risks.
These scenarios, when combined with mitigation actions available to management associated with flexibility over future capital expenditure and disposals plans, demonstrated the Groups expected ability to overcome these adverse economic and property market conditions over the forecast period.
