Principal risks and uncertainties The Board recognises that effective risk management is essential to Hansteen achieving its objectives and has carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board, senior management and staff in detail the significant risks faced by the and the risks related to the availability of continually monitor the significant risks Group and the adequacy of the controls in capital, the probability of which the Board which they believe the Group is facing.
Further details regarding the Groups considers to have reduced.
Information and will always be some risk when undertaking internal control and risk management cyber security threats are currently a priority property investments and the control process procedures are set out in the Report of the across all industries.
The Group recognises is aimed at mitigating and minimising these Audit Committee on pages 29 to 32. that Hansteen has exposure in this area risks where possible, rather than eliminating and has added this as a new principal risk.
Appropriate controls are established Having refreshed its assessment of the to mitigate newly identified risks, parameters principal risks facing the Group, the Board The current key risks identified by the Board, are set under which management can considers them to be consistent with the their potential impact and the steps taken operate and, where necessary, action is prior year with the exception of the risks to mitigate them are presented below.
taken to improve existing controls.
The Audit related to foreign currency, the probability of Committee, as part of its remit, also consider which the Board considers to have increased, Principal risk Cause Impact Probability Risk management Foreign currency A significant reduction High Medium In response to this risk the Groups borrowings in Europe exchange risk in the value of the euro are in euro denominated loan facilities and therefore, to the Reduction in euro relative to sterling extent that investments are financed by debt, a selfdenominated hedging mechanism is in place.
In relation to the equity revenues and element of the Groups euro investments, the Board impairment of euro monitors the level of exposure on a regular basis and denominated considers the level and timing of when to take out financial and appropriate hedging instruments.
non-financial assets The ongoing speculation about the impact of Brexit, the forthcoming elections in certain Eurozone countries, the stability of the Italian banking sector and concerns over the Greek economy all lead to increased uncertainty and volatility in the sterling:euro exchange rate.
Management and the Board consider the impact of Brexit, the Eurozone and the European Union situation more generally on the business and markets in which the Group operates.
Further details regarding this and its impact of the Groups strategy are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 23.
Over reliance on High dependence on High Medium The Board believes such risk is to some extent mitigated keyexecutives Joint Chief Executives through the appointment and support of high-calibre employees and professional advisers.
All such appointments are approved by a member of the Board and performance is monitored regularly.
Tenant failure Over reliance on High Medium Whilst there is always a risk that recession or new legislation income from one may affect specific industry types, the Board is satisfied Recession and particular type of that Hansteens exposure is mitigated by operating in five reduced profitability tenant exposing the different countries, including some of the stronger Group to industry Eurozone economies, with an extremely diverse tenant specific periods of base without reliance on any particular tenants or recession industries.
Vacancy rates, arrears and bad debts are monitored on a monthly basis by country with trends investigated to determine any systematic problems with a portfolio or type of tenant.
22 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Principal risk Cause Impact Probability Risk management Lack of availability Banks under internal High Medium The Board acknowledges that there may be occasions ofcapital pressure to improve when banks are under internal pressures which may conflict liquidity with existing financing arrangements and it may prove more difficult to secure the more challenging properties.
Banks considering Detailed due diligence is carried out prior to the purchase of unutilised loans too each property.
Regular meetings are held with a portfolio of expensive banks to keep them fully appraised of commercial opportunities and alert to any potential issues early on.
Hansteen also considers alternative sources of finance to develop its strategy and reduce exposure.
Information and Failure to protect High Medium The Board believes this risk to be mitigated to some extent cyber security information and by the Group outsourcing much of its day-to-day breaches resulting information systems processing to reputable third party organisations.
Due indata leakage, from unauthorised diligence designed to assess the integrity of third party financial loss, access, misuse, processes and systems is undertaken by management as reputational disruption, part of the tendering and appointment process and is damage or business modification or maintained on an ongoing basis.
Internally, the Group has disruption destruction developed policies and procedures designed to mitigate information and cyber security risk as far as possible, these including: the secure encryption of all payroll and personal data, rigorous use of passwords and firewall defences, externally facilitated staff training programmes, bulletins to raise risk awareness and encourage good practice, development of secure mobile working policies, incident response and disaster recovery procedures and the establishment of anti-malware defences.
Poor return on Overpaying for an High Low Supply and demand is reviewed continuously through direct investment and acquisition information from Hansteens network of managing agents deterioration in and managers.
Experienced members of management operating results Prices driven up by review each acquisition and due diligence is carried out by increased competition external parties.
The Board is required to approve all acquisitions and disposals over a prescribed amount.
Reduced number of investment opportunities Banking Financial difficulties at Medium Medium The Board believes such risks are reduced by adherence to counterparty institutions holding a Cash and Liquidity Management Policy that sets out how disruption significant deposits funds can be invested.
Cash balances and borrowings are maintained with a portfolio of considered counterparties.
Lack of liquidity The Group Treasurer reviews the cash balances on a daily basis, and where possible, surplus cash is put on interest bearing deposit.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23
