46 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 Our approach The identification of risk is a continual process.
In order to be the best property company Risks are identified through discussion with in the UK in the eyes of our customers, our management, external agencies, stakeholders MANAGING communities our partners and our employees and government bodies.
A full and detailed we must understand and manage the risks review of the risks is undertaken with our RISK faced by the organisation.
Risk is an inherent executive committees four times a year and part of our business model.
Our approach to from this, and the feedback from our external risk is to be risk aware, not risk averse.
advisors, the top Group risks, which form the The management of The Board has overall responsibility basis for the principal risks and uncertainties, for the monitoring of risk management and as well as emerging risks, are challenged risk is embedded in our the system of internal control.
It recognises and validated by the Executive Committee.
everyday business the importance of identifying and actively These risks are then presented to the Audit monitoring the full range of financial and Committee four times a year to ensure activities and culture, with non-financial risks facing the business.
By representatives of the Board are aware of, and regularly reviewing the risk appetite of the contribute to, the latest position.
In addition, a all our employees having business, the Board ensures that the risk risk session is held with the Board every two an important role to play.
exposure remains appropriate at any point years to ensure full Board participation in our in the cycle.
Whilst it has chosen to delegate risk management process.
Such a session was this responsibility to the Audit Committee, undertaken in 2015 16. who are responsible for providing assurance Senior management from across the over these areas, managing risk is embedded business will also attend the Executive as part of our everyday business activities Committee and the Audit Committee to discuss and culture with all our employees having specific risk areas, such as cyber threat.
Our Executive Committee are The Risk Management function, headed responsible for the day-to-day management of by the Director of Risk Management and risks, which includes the ongoing identification, Internal Audit is responsible for facilitating assessment and mitigation of risks as well as the risk discussions with the business, for for the design, implementation and evaluation providing challenge and for coordinating of the system of internal control and for the presentation of the risks to the executive ensuring its operational effectiveness.
committees, the Audit Committee and Diagram 16 sets out our approach to theBoard.
managing risk and the link to the three lines of Internal Audit reviews internal controls defence governance model for effective risk using a risk-based approach, and management management and internal control.
on a quarterly basis self-certify that the key We assess each risk on three factors: controls within its area of responsibility have likelihood: financial impact, both to income been operating effectively.
and capital values: and reputational impact, This year we have also undertaken a from the business unit through to Group level.
detailed sustainability materiality assessment We also consider the inherent gross risk to identify key risks and areas for focus.
the impact of the risk before any mitigating This has included reviewing current and action is taken and the residual net risk the forthcoming legislation, peer activity, and risk that remains after the effect of mitigating interviews with our own people and external actions and controls are taken into account.
stakeholders, including investors, customers, As a result of this analysis we identify principal supply chain partners and community groups.
risks current risks with relatively high impact The assessment has confirmed that energy and certainty and emerging risks those risks and carbon, and sustainable building design for which the extent and implications are not are our most material sustainability issues.
This also informs the Please refer to our Sustainability Report for business as to those risks that have a high more detail on our programme and priorities in dependency on the internal control systems, this area.
which then directly helps to focus the work of Diagram 17 shows our current assessment the internal audit team.
The business considers of the principal risks and the emerging risks we the full range of external and internal risks, are monitoring.
including strategic, operational, people and technology.
A risk scoring matrix is used to ensure a consistent approach is followed.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION I N T S E R L R A E P C E N I D O T I P A A L L O E L E P L P R O R I L Y O S I I G K C N O I M L E E S A O S N N & A H G T C E E R T M A I E N N Y I T T E N E F C A G O S N & O H M T I L C A E H E Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 47 RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS Diagram 16 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Identify & assess Monitoring Determine risk MANAGING & review response OUR RISKS Reporting & communication CURRENT ASSESSMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS Diagram 17 Impact Very high High Medium 8 Low 10 9 18 Increase from last year Decrease from last year Current principal risk areas 7 1 Customers 20 2 Market cyclicality 13 19 3 Development VERY HIGH HIGH MEDIUM LOW 4 People and skills 5 Liability structure LIKELIHOOD 6 Financing 17 15 7 Sustainability 4 16 8 Health & safety 9 Security 21 1 14 10 Cyber Emerging risks 2 11 Lack of UK competitiveness 12 Tax 3 13 Political unrest 12 11 14 Business rates 6 15 Demographic change 5 16 Living wage 17 Modern slavery act 18 Lack of innovation 19 R esilience of portfolio to climate change 20 Energy supply 21 Organised crime E T T T N I E M M F I M N N O A I O Y T R N N G F I C I I O D T C V N L I U E E A O N A A N N R V E L D C H A L I E N R C U T C A E A D A N T O U I O I T R L N B N C E C T T T C E O E R X R M X O E O N M E I N L A T L T T E A R E U O D I L Y T S T I R U C T E N E S S M O & N C I O A Y R L I T V E N E F L A E S G, A H L T L A E H 48 Land Securities Annual Report 2016 MANAGING RISK OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Movement in the year As set out in pages 2627, we have set ourselves clear strategic objectives against which we measure our performance: 1 Deliver sustainable long-term shareholder value Increased 2 Maximise the returns from the investment portfolio No change 3 Manage our balance sheet effectively Reduced 4 Maximise development performance 5 Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction 6 Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance individuals 7 Continually improve sustainability performance In the same way that we measure our performance against our strategic objectives, we also consider our risks and their potential impact on these objectives as well as our approach to mitigating those risks.
Our principal risks and uncertainties are set out below together with the strategic objectives that they are most likely to impact.
INVESTMENT Risk description Impact Mitigation Movement in the year Customers Shift in office and Large and diversified customer base no single customer represents more Structural changes in retailer customer than 5.2% of rents customer and demand with Of our income 75.4% is derived from occupiers who individually make less consumer behaviours, consequent impact than a 1% contribution to rent roll and pressure on on lettings, renewal of Clear retail strategy focused on dominance, convenience and experience consumer spending.
existing leases and Development programme has delivered a modern office portfolio well rental growth suited to occupier requirements Link to strategy: Retailers unable to Experienced asset management team 1 2 5 meet existing rental Strong relationships with occupiers.
Market cyclicality Reduces liquidity Large multi-asset portfolio Volatility and speed of assets and Monitor asset concentration our largest asset is only 6.1% of the total Real estate values at ofchange of asset relative property portfolio risk of fall with valuations and market performance Average investment property lot size of 119.6m increased economic conditions.
Generally favour full control and ownership of assets 11.5% of assets and political currently in joint ventures uncertainty Link to strategy: including the UKs Average unexpired lease term of 8.9 years with a maximum of 7.8% of gross 1 2 potential exit from rental income expiring or subject to break clauses in any single year.
DEVELOPMENT Development Negative valuation Amount of speculative development restricted so that the impact of failing to Occupiers reluctant movements lease the un-let element of our development programme does not exceed Market risk has toenter into the Groups retained earnings Reduction in income.
increased but as commitments to take Proportion of capital employed in development programme based on total wenow have less new space in our costs to completion will not exceed 20% of our total capital employed, save capital invested our developments.
that where a material part of the development programme is pre-let: this risk is considered to proportion can rise to 25% be lower.
Link to strategy: Monitor market cycle and likely occupier demand before committing to new 1 4 developments and secure pre-lets where appropriate Assessment of developments against hurdle rates.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Strategic Report Land Securities Annual Report 2016 49 PEOPLE Risk description Impact Mitigation Movement in the year People and skills Lack the skills Competitive remuneration plans Inability to attract, retain necessary to deliver Appropriate mix of insourcing and outsourcing Refer to our people and develop the right the business Clear employee objectives and development plans strategy on page 45. people and skills.
Clear organisation and individual accountabilities Annual employee engagement survey to identify issues early Link to strategy: Succession planning and talent management 1 6 High profile, cutting edge developments and assets to manage.
FINANCIAL Liability structure Bank debt not able The Groups Asset and Liability Committee meets three times a year to monitor Liability structure is to be drawn both sides of the balance sheet and recommend strategy to the Board unable to adapt to Unable to raise new Continuous review of level of drawn bank debt to ensure flexibility maintained changing asset strategy debt or no flexible Our principal debt funding structure benefits from financial default only being or property values.
debt to repay triggered if the Security Group interest cover ratio falls below 1.0x last Potentially reported 4.0x or Security Group LTV rises above 100% currently 23.4% Link to strategy: constrains decisions.
Aim to align length of bank facilities with our view on property cycle 1 3 The existing revolving credit facility provides flexibility as it allows debt to be drawn in certain circumstances even up to a Security Group LTV of 80%.
Financing Increased cost of 1.4bn revolving credit facility in place, which matures in 2021 and a total of Lack of availability funding 0.5bn of bilateral facilities which mature between August 2017 and An additional 125m offunding.
September 2018 Limits ability to has been added to refinance existing Access to different sources of finance with most of our funding on a long-term our existing Link to strategy: debt maturities and basis and with a spread of maturity dates.
The weighted average life of our revolving credit 1 3 fund forward cash debt at 31 March 2016 is 9.6 years facility, which has requirements.
Modest gearing Security Group LTV at 31 March 2016 of 23.4%.
also been extended by one year, now maturing in 2021.
OPERATIONAL Sustainability Increased cost base Dedicated specialist personnel Properties do not Inability to attract or ISO accredited environmental and energy management systems Refer to our comply with legislation retain occupiers Active involvement in legislative working parties Sustainability or meet customer Premature Active environmental programme addressing key areas of carbon, energy Report for more expectations.
obsolescence and and waste details.
Sustainability materiality assessment undertaken to identify key risks and Link to strategy: areas of focus.
5 7 Major health and safety Criminal civil CEO chairs Health, Safety and Security Committee incident proceedings and Regular Board reporting Accidents causing injury to resultant reputational Dedicated specialist personnel employees, contractors, damage Annual cycle of health and safety audits occupiers and visitors to Delays to building Established policy and procedures including ISO 18001 certification.
projects and can restrict access to Link to strategy: shopping centres.
5 Security threat Loss of consumer Strong relationship with the National Counter Terrorism Security Office or attack confidence with Dedicated property security teams, supported by CCTV and other physical Despite recent Failure to identify or consequent impact security measures terrorist attacks on prevent a major on new lettings, Experienced property management teams mainland Europe, security-related threat or renewal of existing Regular on-site and national training the UK threat level attack or react leases and rental of Severe has not Group insurance programme protects against losses of rent and service immediately and growth changed.
charge due to terrorism effectively.
Business continuity and crisis management practice.
Link to strategy: 5 Cyber threat or attack Negative Dedicated Information Security team, which monitors information securityrisk External and internal threat reputational impact Regular review of Information Security policy The threat is to systems and data.
Adverse operational Independent information security audit and penetration testing continuing to and financial impact.
