Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Managing risk The strategic priorities for the business continue to be the delivery of sustainable, progressive earnings and long term capital growth.
The Directors recognise that risk is Managements role in the process Risk management inherent in running the business and framework A key part of the risk management therefore the associated risks must be process is the assessment of the impact understood and managed.
and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can Boards role in the process be developed and implemented.
The Board is responsible for determining The Executive Committee is responsible Board the nature and extent of the principal for the identication of risk and the design, Audit risks that the Company is willing to take implementation and maintenance of the Committee in achieving its objectives.
It undertakes systems of internal controls and is assisted Executive a robust assessment of the principal risks Committee by senior management in this process.
facing the business at each meeting and The Company operates from one office Senior Managers has adopted a risk dashboard to assist location and has short reporting lines this process.
Its assessment covers a three ensuring the Executive Committees close year period, consistent with its statement involvement in day-to-day matters and Processes on viability on page 37.
Material issues enabling increasing risk to be identied are monitored so that key risks can be quickly and appropriate responses to be Risk identication managed appropriately and new risks put in place.
identied early on and action taken Assessment and The risk register rates the signicance quantication to remove or reduce their likelihood and probability of each risk identied by and any potential negative impact.
management as having either a high, Mitigation action plan Effective risk management has always medium or low impact.
Greater weighting been embodied within the culture of the Ongoing monitoring is applied the higher the signicance business and decision making processes.
These weightings In general the Boards appetite for risk Reporting to Board are then mathematically combined to is low where it prejudices its objectives produce an overall gross risk rating which being achieved.
is colour coded using a traffic light system.
Specic risk management safeguards Audit Committees role in the for each risk are identied, detailed and process rated as strong, medium or weak with The Board has delegated responsibility greater weighting applied the stronger for detailed assurance of the risk the safeguard.
The gross risk rating and management process to the Audit strength of safeguards against that risk are Committee.
The Audit Committee then combined to produce a resultant carries out a detailed review of the risk overall net risk.
Consideration is given register and internal controls at least to the implementation of further action once a year to consider the effectiveness to reduce risk where it is considered of the risk management and internal necessary.
Finally each risk is allocated an control processes and reports its findings owner and details of how the safeguards to the Board.
The risk register was last are evidenced is noted.
presented to and considered by the AuditCommittee in March 2016.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 37 Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision The principal risks and uncertainties that affect the of the Code, the Directors have assessed the prospect Company are those risks identied as having the of the Group over a period longer than the 12 months potential to cause material harm to the business and its required by the Going Concern provision.
The Board ability to execute the strategic objectives or exceed the conducted this review taking account of the Groups Boards risk appetite.
The risks identied and reported on long term strategy, principal risks, current position and pages 38 to 43 and matrix below are broadlythe same future plans and for a period of three years.
as those reported at the last year end but have been categorised in a manner consistent with the Boards This period was chosen for the following reasons: risk dashboard which it considers at each meeting.
The Groups financial business plan and detailed The rationale for perceived increases or decreases in budgets cover a rolling three year period.
The business the risks identied are contained within the commentary plan includes budgeted profit and cashows and for each risk category.
also considers dividend cover, loan to value, loan The matrix below illustrates the assessment of the impact covenants and REIT compliance metrics.
These are and likelihood of principal risks identied.
updated and reviewed at least quarterly against actual performance It reects the short-cycle nature of the Groups Perceived likelihood of occurrence after mitigation developments and asset management initiatives.
Rare Low Medium High Three major developments completed this year at Islip, Kirkstall and Warrington.
All three developments were completed within one year The average length of asset management initiatives involving significant reconguration of retail parks is under one year.
All other committed developments 4 in progress at the end of the year are expected to 9 complete in 2016 5 Three years is considered to be the optimum balance 2 between long term property investment and the 3 inability to accurately forecast ahead given the cyclical nature of property investment 6 10 7 The business model is stress tested to validate its resistance to principal risks including changes to property valuations 8 1 and associated asset yield curves, ERV growth, future libor and swap rates, committed capital expenditure and the ability to finance forecast transactions and renance maturing debt.
The sensitivity analysis assessed the limits at which key The Board consider this risk has increased since last year: financial covenants and ratios would be breached or deemed unacceptable.
The modelling consists of a base 2 Economic and political outlook case scenario which only includes deals under offer and 8 Valuation risk also an assumed case which factors in reinvestment.
The Board consider this risk has remained broadly unchanged from last year: Based on the results of their review, the Directors have a 1 Strategy reasonable expectation that the Company will be able 3 Human resources to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall 4 Systems, processes and financial management due over the three year period of their assessment.
5 Regulatory and tax framework 6 Investment risk 7 Development risk 9 Transaction and tenant risk The Board consider this risk has reduced since last year: 10 Capital and finance risk Potential impact Not Extreme High Medium Low significant Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate risks Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 1 Strategy That the Company The Board review and update strategy Portfolio repositioning has continued during has an unclear or andobjectives on a regular basis adapting the year towards big box logistics and unrealistic strategy for to changes in economic conditions and smaller distribution warehouses.
the current stage of opportunities as they arise.
54% of the portfolio is in the Companys the property cycle and core distribution sector including 40% in The Executive Directors are closely involved economic climate retailer-led distribution, a strong performing in the day to day management of the sector with real prospects for rental growth Impact: Company which operates from one and therefore capital growth due to a Suboptimal returns office location and has a relatively at supply demand imbalance.
organisational structure making it easier toidentify market changes.
The Company Delivery of three developments over may not be able to Management have an entrepreneurial 1.9 million sq ft of space in the year adding take advantage of approach and extensive experience in real rent of 11.7 million per annum.
opportunities and estate particularly the retail sector.
Committed and pipeline development of effectively manage Research is commissioned into consumer 2.3 million sq ft is expected to add a further threats to its success.
shopping patterns and occupational 16.1 million of rental income.
It may not be able to markets to assist in strategic decisions.
EPRA like-for-like income growth was 3.1% ensure that the people, Financial forecasts are updated in light over 55 lettings and rent reviews.
resources and systems of strategic changes and reported to the are in place to ensure These strong operational metrics supported Board and Executive Committee regularly.
another strong financial performance with The Group has a rolling three year forecast.
EPRA earnings per share increasing 18% to Appetite: Management has a substantial investment 7.8p.
The Board views this in the Company and their interests are as fundamental to Executive Directors hold 8.5 million shares aligned with external shareholders.
the business and between them and comfortably meet the its reputation.
The Companys staffing plan is focused Companys shareholding guidelines as onexperience and expertise necessary shown on page 90. todeliver its strategy.
Investment review No significant change from 2015 see page 22 Asset management and development review see page 26 Financial review see page 30 Governance see page 90 The categorisation of and Increased risk from 2015 movement in the principal risks No significant change from 2015 identied are consistent with the risk matrix reected on page 37.
Risk reduced since 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 39 Corporate risks continued Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 2 Economic and political outlook Economic and political Research is commissioned into economic Weighted average unexpired lease term factors may lead to a matters and market volatility is monitored.
of 12.8 years and EPRA vacancy rate of downturn or specic 0.7% are amongst the highest and lowest The Company only invests in the UK and has sector turbulence respectively in the industry.
little exposure to the London market.
Distribution assets represent 54% of the Impact: A significant proportion of the Companys portfolio.
Current logistics supply equates Poorer than expected portfolio is in a resilient asset class with a toapproximately six months demand.
performance, property supply demand imbalance.
values may fall, tenant 88% of development expenditure in the The Company has a high weighted demand and asset year related to forward funded and preaverage unexpired lease term reducing liquidity may reduce.
Debt markets may The Board is conscious of the uncertainty The Company has a low vacancy rate due be impacted.
which surrounds the outcome of the to its strict investment and development Appetite: European Referendum and the risks criteria.
It also has a diversied tenant base.
Acquisition due diligence considers tenant are outside of the covenant strength.
The Board is confident that these risks Companys control.
are mitigated by the makeup of the Developments and asset management portfolio with its strong focus on retailerinitiatives are predominantly undertaken led distribution and convenience and on a pre-let basis or geographically out of town retail and that the strong where a researched supply demand portfolio and financial returns outlined in imbalance exists.
this report will provide protection in the The Company has medium term, exible form of a sustainable long term income funding with headroom in covenant levels return to investors whatever the outcome and no reliance on sales.
Asset management and development review Increased risk from 2015 see page 26 3 Human resources The Company maintains an organisational The Chairmans contract was extended to An inability to attract, structure with clear responsibilities and 31 March 2017.
Further consideration will be motivate and retain high reporting lines.
given to the position of Chairman during calibre staff the course of the current year.
Impact: The remuneration structure for staff is That the Company aligned to long term performance targets The Company appointed an executive doesnt have staff with the for the business with long term share based search company, the Zygos Partnership, right skills and experience incentive arrangements in place.
to source potential Non Executive Director to deliver its business plan.
candidates for succession planning Senior management shareholdings in the purposes.
As a result of this search Andrew Appetite: Company are significant.
Livingston, Chief Executive of Screwx, The Board views it as Annual appraisals identify training will replace Charles Cayzer on the Non vitally important that requirements and assess performance.
the Company has the Specialist agencies are contracted where appropriate level of Additional staff have been employed with appropriate if there are perceived short leadership, expertise and development and logistics expertise given term skills shortfalls.
experience to deliver its increased focus on these areas.
objectives and adapt to change.
Governance No significant change from 2015 see page 68 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Corporate risks continued Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 4 Systems, processes and financial management Controls for safeguarding There is a strong control culture within A new property database was assets and supporting the Company.
implemented in the year which interfaces strategy are weak with the accounting system to provide up Systems security is in place, supported by a to date accessible information.
The external Impact: specialist advisor.
Business continuity plans auditors tested the integrity of the system Inadequate asset security.
are up to date with adequate back up which has been used to provide the key Suboptimal returns and which is tested.
portfolio metrics in this report.
decisions made on Procedures are in place to ensure inaccurate information.
The Audit Committee received and accuracy of the property database and considered a report from management on Appetite: data capture.
the implementation of the new system in The Boards appetite Assets are safeguarded with appropriate the context of internal control.
for such risk is low and levels of insurance.
management continually Appropriate segregation of duties and strives to monitor and controls over financial systems are in place.
Financial information is provided to management on a timely basis for approval and decision making purposes.
Costs are controlled with procedures to ensure that expenditure is valid, properly authorised and monitored.
Audit Committee report No significant change from 2015 see page 76 5 Regulatory and tax framework Non compliance with There is a clear focus on obligations under The Company has been affected by recent legal or regulatory the Companys responsible business tax changes.
obligations strategy and regulatory inuences on The increase in the commercial rate of the business such as Health and Safety, Impact: SDLT to 5% has impacted the whole real environmental, employment, antiFines, penalties, sanctions estate sector.
corruption related legislation and the UK and reputational The stamp duty increase reduced the Corporate Governance Code.
damage which may portfolio valuation uplift in the second half impact investor demand Responsibility for specic obligations is of the year by 10.7 million.
allocated to individuals and overseen Changes in respect of the taxation of Potential loss of REIT by the Executive Committee.
External residential property, particularly the rate of status.
specialists provide advice and support.
SDLT has, in addition to economic factors, Impact on re-letting Staff training is provided.
led to a slowdown in the London residential potential of an asset.
The Company is provided with external market to which the Company still has Appetite: specialist tax advice.
some exposure through a 40% joint venture The Board has no interest in Moore House.
Compliance with REIT legislation is appetite where non The joint venture has continued to sell down monitored on an ongoing basis for decision compliance risks injury or ats with 25 being sold in the year bringing making purposes and reported.
damage to staff, tenants, the total number of ats sold to 58.
The impact of legislative changes is assets, shareholders considered in strategic terms.
Financial review No significant change from 2015 see pages 32 and 33 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 41 Property risks Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 6 Investment risk Investment opportunities The extensive experience of management The Company acquired 187.6 million of cannot be sourced at and their strong network of connections property with a number of significant off attractive prices provide insight into the property market market transactions.
Impact: The yield arbitrage between Ability to implement Managements relationship with retailers acquisitions and disposals was 100 bps strategy and deploy capital and its ability to forward fund assets is an evidencing appropriate investment and into value and earnings important factor in generating deal ow divestment decisions.
given that it is harder to nd value in income Opportunities to acquire assets let on generating assets due to yield compression Appetite: long leases to strong covenants have in the market.
The Board aims to keep this reduced as yields have compressed.
risk to a minimum but it is Better value opportunities have been affected to a large degree identied with development and asset by matters outside of its management potential that offer good control.
The Boards focus is income growth prospects.
on having the right people and funding in place to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Investment review No significant change from 2015 see page 22 7 Development risk Excessive capital is The Company only considers short cycle Development represents 4% of the allocated to activities and relatively uncomplicated development.
portfolio at the year end compared which carry development Management have significant experience with9% last year.
Developments fail to of more complex development.
Delivery of three developments over deliver expected returns Exposure to developments and phasing 1.9 million sq ft of space in the year due to inconsistent timing on schedule.
of projects is considered as part of the with the economic cycle, quarterly financial forecasting process for Further developments in progress at adverse letting conditions, the Board.
The Companys overall level Wakeeld, Ferndown, Liverpool and increased costs, planning of exposure to development is low as a Leicester are all due to complete on orconstruction delays percentage of the total portfolio.
Impact: Standardised appraisals and cost budgets Committed development at the year Poorer than are prepared for developments with regular end totalled 1.1 million sq ft and was expected performance.
monitoring of expenditure against budget to 72.3% pre-let.
Appetite: highlight potential overruns at an early stage.
Short cycle development pipeline The Board is willing to External project managers are appointed.
of1.1 million sq ft. take some speculative The procurement process includes development and planning tendering and the use of highly regarded risk if it represents a rms with track records of delivery to relatively small proportion minimise uncertainty over costs.
of the total property Developments are only undertaken in areas portfolio and is supported of high occupier demand and significant by robust research in pre-lets are secured where possible respect of demand before development work commences and a high likelihood of tode-risk projects.
Where possible development sites are acquired with planning approval in place.
Asset management and development review No significant change from 2015 see page 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Property risks continued Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 8 Valuation risk Assets may fall in value The property cycle is continually monitored The valuation uplift in the year was with investment and divestment decisions 49.8 million.
Impact: made strategically in anticipation of Pressure on NAV growth and Asset management and development changing conditions.
activities accounted for 39.3% of Property portfolio performance is regularly yield compression.
Appetite: reviewed and benchmarked on an asset by There is no certainty that 55 letting and rent review transactions asset basis.
property values will be generated an increase in like-for-like realised.
This is an inherent Focus is on income security.
Lettings to high income of 3.1%.
quality tenants within a diversied portfolio Delivery of developments on of well located assets and a high weighted schedule and budget supported the average unexpired lease term reduces the valuation assumptions.
risk of negative movements in a downturn.
Our top ten tenants contribute 52% Acquisitions which have opportunities ofcontracted rental income.
to enhance value by undertaking asset management initiatives and playing to the strengths of the asset management team and their connections are favoured as well as assets which are considered to bemis-priced.
Valuations across the sector have reduced as a result of the increase Asset management and development review see page 26 in the rate of SDLT charged on commercial property from the date of the March 2016 budget.
Supplementary note xvii see page 141 9 Transaction and tenant risk Property purchases Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated The Company has a very low level of are inconsistent with by undertaking a detailed financial, tenant default within the industry and strategy.
Inadequate due legal and operational appraisal prior to high occupancy levels.
The EPRA vacancy rate at the year end Lettings are made to Asset management initiatives undergo costwas0.7%.
inappropriate tenants benefit analysis prior to implementation.
There were no trade debtors considered Impact: External advisors are used to ensure at risk at the year end.
Pressure on NAV, appropriate pricing of lease transactions The tenant base has been further earnings and potentially and to carry out acquisition due diligence.
diversied during the year and the loan covenants.
Tenant covenant strength and covenant strength of the top ten tenants Appetite: concentration are assessed for all has increased.
The Boards appetite to acquisitions and leasing transactions.
The Board consider that fundamentally risks arising out of poor due An experienced property management the occupational market is currently diligence processes on team work closely with tenants and strong particularly for its core asset class.
acquisitions, disposals and consider action for slow payers.
Rent collection is closely monitored and reported to the asset management team toidentify potential issues.
The Group has a diversied tenant base and limited exposure to individual occupiers in bespoke properties.
Supplementary note vi No significant change from 2015 see page 138 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 43 Financing risks Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 10 Capital and finance risk The Company has Assets which have achieved target returns Disposals of 204.1 million and insufficient funds and and strategic asset plans are sold.
Cash ow acquisitions of 187.6 million were made credit available to it forecasts are monitored closely to ensure in the year demonstrating our ability to sufficient funds are available to take recycle capital.
Impact: advantage of investment opportunities The secured Helaba facility was Implementation of strategy andmeet financial commitments.
renanced in the prior year for a seven is at risk.
Relationships with a diversied range of Appetite: banks and alternative lenders are nurtured The Board has no appetite The Company took advantage of a and loan facilities regularly reviewed.
for imprudently low levels of continuing improvement in the debt The availability of debt and the terms available headroom in its market and entered into a 400 million on which it is available is considered as reserves or credit lines.
unsecured revolving credit facility to part of the strategy and analysis for each renance its remaining balance sheet It accepts a low degree of acquisition and development.
debt on 1 April 2015 for an initial five market standard inexibility Loan facilities incorporate covenant year term.
This facility together with in return for the availability headroom, appropriate cure provisions the Helaba facility provides greater of credit.
and sufficient exibility to implement asset operational exibility and alignment with The Board has some management initiatives.
Headroom is the real estate strategy.
The facility also appetite for interest rate risk, actively monitored and incorporated into diversied the lending partners to the loans are not fully hedged.
Non financial covenants are also Company and has since been extended This follows cost benefit closely monitored.
by a further year and the credit limit assessment and takes into raised to 443.8 million.
The facility can Gearing levels are carefully considered account that not all loans be increased by a further 56 million.
and stress tested before entering into new are fully drawn all the time.
The Company maintains a At 31 March 2016, the Group had modest level of gearing overall.
593 million of derivatives in place covering 93% of total available debt The impact of disposals on secured including joint venture arrangements.
loan facilities covering multiple assets Advantage has been taken of falling is considered as part of the decision swap rates during the year and making process.
subsequently to improve the hedging Interest rate derivatives are used to prole following the unsecured x or cap exposure to rising rates.
Hedging recommendations are received The Company complied with all financial from a specialist advisor.
The Company has joint ventures with Increased diversication, scale and well funded partners particularly for reduced interest rate costs under the larger transactions.
Current joint venture new unsecured facility and hedging arrangements have no significant prole insulate the Company from credit foreseeable equity requirements.
risks associated with one off shocks from Joint venture partners are chosen with care any single asset.
to ensure that strategies are not misaligned which may impact asset value and liquidity.
Financial review Risk reduced since 2015 see page 35 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our approach to Responsible Business There has been increased legislative pressure on environmental issues and growing demand from investors forsustainability disclosure.
We have worked hardto fully integrate Responsible Business policies and procedures across our core business activities.
Our approach Importance of to Responsible Business Responsible Business Beyond driving our Our Responsible Business Policy was first Critical to managing sustainability risks ownsustainability published in 2014 following a detailed Important in generating sustainable performance, the review of the sustainability risks and value from our portfolio and workwe put in to meet opportunities which are most material enhancing profitability our annual targets toour business.
allows us also to Helps us to mitigate any potential continue to meet our Our Responsible Business Strategy sets out long term risks posed by less resource stakeholders advancing our sustainability priorities across four core efficient assets expectations.
business activities: Enables us to successfully and Martin McGann i our business operations Finance Director sustainably deliver on our developments ii our property investments Promotes excellent stakeholder iii property development relationships and assists them in For the full Responsible delivering on their own responsible iv asset management Business 2016 report business objectives see www.
com It is supported by the foundations of good risk management.
Key targets are set for each of our sustainability priority areas on an annual basis.
The delivery of these targets is Responsible Investment, Asset Management overseen by our Executive Committee andDevelopment and progress is monitored on a quarterly basis through our Responsible Business meetings, attended by key representatives from across the business.
Responsible We also receive support from our external Investment Generating real estate sustainability advisors.
sustainable value Responsible Business training is carried out across all employees annually to make sure we effectively deliver on our targets and continue to optimise our Responsible Business approach.
We actively engage with stakeholders Responsible Business investors, JV partners, occupiers, Managing stakeholder relationships and communities and local authorities risk well onResponsible Business themes andrelevant materials are included Responsible e R Responsible Development nt Ass Asse et Management ininvestor roadshows.
Future-proong ng R Responding our pipeline to occupier needs Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 45 Key achievements in the year During the year, we built on our significant progress from the previous year.
In particular we expanded our Responsible Business efforts through the introduction of our new Responsible Business Procurement Policy with contractors and suppliers and rolled out processes to better measure occupier contentment through the introduction of a satisfaction survey.
The successful rolling out of our Responsible Business Strategyhas allowed us to signicantly improve our GRESB performance and achieve anEPRA sustainability BPR Gold award.
EPRA sBPR Gold award Targets 2015 16 Independent tenant EPCs on unknown assets and signicantly satisfaction survey completed: 100% of improved GRESB score undertaken assets rated E or above 94% achieved 100% One remaining target partially achieved and good progress made See the full Responsible See page 47 See page 49 See page 49 Business 2016 Report BREEAM Very Good Solar PVs installed Full Health & Safety Established Responsible certication on 1.9m sq ft policy roll out across Procurement Policy and of developments corporate and development contractor 536 kw development projects checklist on projects 1 2 3 4 See page 48 See page 49 See page 52 See page 48 Initiated external lighting Commenced collection Community and Carbon footprint LED replacement of tenant energy Charities Working Group reduced by 11% programme across retail usage and monitoring formalised and initiatives warehouse portfolio of performance commenced on completed developments -1 1% on a like-for-like basis See page 49 See page 49 See page 50 See page 46 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Performance highlights In 2015, we established a baseline and benchmarks for measurement of the environmental performance of our portfolio.
Since then we have signicantly reduced our utilities consumption and GHG emissions, enablingus tosave around 283,000 in costs.
Energy Greenhouse gas Water Waste 1 consumption GHG emissions consumption production 3 7,080 MWh 2,808 tCO e 6,191 m 99 tonnes 2 Down 39% Down 36% Down 19% 39% recycled We have also reduced On a like for like basis, We reduced total like-for- 90% of waste generated our total like-for-like GHG emissions were like water consumption by our office asset.
Our energy consumption down by 11% as a result of by 19%.
Water saving recycling rate was 39% electricity and natural the reduction in energy measures are now and 100% of waste was gas by 8% compared consumption.
We have in place at Marlow diverted from landll.
A key initiative also reduced our Carbon International, the office Our most significant which helped us to Reduction Commitment asset which accounts waste occurs from our achieve this was lighting CRC liabilities from for 89% of our total water developments.
We have and energy efficiency 60,385 to 43,382 since footprint.
implemented procedures improvements at our last year.
to measure and reduce office asset in Marlow.
our waste impact from development.
1 Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions Mandatory GHG emissions reporting Year to Year to 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Direct greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO2e Scope 1 491 979 combustion of fuel and operation facilities Indirect greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO e Scope 2 1,049 1,796 2 purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling Total carbon footprint in tonnes of CO e Scope 1 & 2 1,540 2,775 2 Scope 1 and 2 intensity 28 59 tonnes of CO e per m net income after administration costs 2 Data qualifying notes We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used the main requirements of ISO14064 Part 1 and the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition for our methodology, using energy consumption data from our owned and occupied properties.
We have chosen to report greenhouse gas emissions under our operational control.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our consolidated financial statements.
Emissions factors are taken from the latest UK Government DEFRA conversion factors for company reporting 2015.
Data for the year to 31 March 2015 has been restated, including associated intensity metrics, as additional energy consumption data has been obtained since the previous report was published.
Scope 1 data does not include refrigerant emissions as these have been determined to not be material represent 2% of total emissions : owned eet does not apply.
For EPRA performance measurement tables see the full Responsible Business 2016 Report at www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 47 Recognition of our greater focus on sustainability We have now fully integrated Responsible Business policies and procedures across our core business activities.
The significant improvement in our sustainable performance and practices made last year was rewarded this year when we received an EPRA sBPR Gold award for environmental performance reporting as well as a substantially improved GRESB score, proving that two leading industry bodies recognise the soundness of our Responsible Business approach.
Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark 2015 Sustainability Best Practices Global Real Estate Sustainability Recommendations sBPR Benchmark GRESB 50% Framework for reporting Achieved 50% score in 2015 survey 2014: 34% standardised environmental data Up from 34% in 2014 For first time in 2015, we reported in Two points short of achieving aformat required by the EPRA sBPR green star status One of only ten listed UK companies Gap analysis undertaken to to receive a Gold award enable further improvements in Received special commendation the 2016 survey forimprovement made Performance in 2015 GRESB Survey % 100 FTSE4Good assessment Reviewed results of 2014 15 assessment prior to 2015 16 re-assessment Took actions in 2015 to respond to 50 FTSE4Goods findings and make more information publicly available Updated assessment will be published in June July 2016 A significant improvement in score isexpected for next year 0 0 50 100 Implementation and measurement This entity Peer group average Peer group GRESB average Management and policy Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Responsible Development Managing risks and future-proong our assets Development is an increasingly important activity and a key area of sustainability risk and opportunity for LondonMetric.
Creating desirable real estate is fundamental to our business, and we strive to develop assets that are compliant with the evolving financial, environmental and social requirements ofour occupiers.
upholding human and labour rights within High environmental standards supply chains see page 52.
The majority of our new build projects We created the are designed to meet BREEAM Very Monitoring our contractors Responsible Procurement Good as the minimum sustainability Having implemented our development Policy and Responsible certication standard.
checklist on all new projects, we are now Development Checklist focusing on ensuring that contractors are In 2015, we achieved three BREEAM expanding our meeting our requirements.
In addition, sustainability efforts throughout our supply we integrated a range of sustainable Benets for local communities chain with our contractors features, including solar panels and and suppliers.
Our developments typically involve Tom Pinder local contractors and suppliers.
Responsible Business Active supply chain management Once developments are complete and operational, our tenants employ Responsible Procurement Policy locally-based employees for their Supply chains are coming under retail stores or distribution warehouses.
Responsible asset increased scrutiny and, in 2015, we management Our developments, therefore, generate developed a procurement policy to and development significant employment and economic see page 29 for ensure that our supply chain and our benefit to the local area.
further details procurement practices meet good We engage extensively with the local practice standards and deliver social BREEAM Very Good community, in particular councils and andenvironmental benets.
achieved on local organisations to ensure that proper Responsible Development Checklist 1.9m sq ft consideration is given to the local area, All of our contractors are obliged to its needs and opportunities for local adhere to our development checklist, jobs and apprenticeships.
By way of BREEAM Very Good which sets minimum requirements for example, this engagement supported the expected on working on ourdevelopment projects successful outcomes seen at our Kirkstall 0.9m sq ft by and include: development see page 51.
December 2016 Requirements for on-site Health & Safety Future plans management We will focus on ensuring that Compliance with the Considerate our Responsible Development Constructors Scheme Requirements are effectively Environmental impact monitoring implemented and our developments continue to include environmental Management and reporting of progress sustainability aspects.
against the checklist We will also continue to support local Promoting employment opportunities job creation and the use of local for local people and fair remuneration suppliers to ensure that economic benets accrue to the communities UKs Modern Slavery Act near our developments.
The UKs Modern Slavery Act was introduced in 2015 and our development checklist stipulates requirements for Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 49 Responsible Investment and Asset Management Sustaining value for our business and our tenants We aim to invest in assets that have enduring occupier appeal and ensure that material sustainability risks and opportunities are integrated into the way we acquire and sell assets.
We work in partnership with occupiers to undertake mutually beneficial asset management opportunities and mitigate any material risks.
Our key Responsible Asset Management Responsible Investing EPCs on unknown assets activities in the year consisted of: completed: 100% of Material sustainability risks are addressed assets rated E or above and considered throughout the 1.
We are actively maintaining compliance and managing risks associated with key Pre-acquisition due diligence and regulatory drivers.
In 2015, we achieved decision making process include risk 100% further improvements against key assessment criteria for: environmental indicators, minimised Energy efficiency and energy costs, our EPC risk: met our obligations under andCRC liabilities the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and Car park lighting carried out audits across our portfolio EPC risks, ooding and other extreme in accordance with the Energy Savings weather events Opportunity Scheme ESOS.
65% Preparation for sale: energy reduction 2.
Energy and cost savings Following a complete portfolio review expected from ten With external car park lighting accounting of EPC ratings, all our assets now have ofour retail parks for a significant part of our energy and EPCs with ratings of E or above carbon footprint, we are initiating an LED We include key sustainability lighting upgrade in car parks across up to information into our asset ten retail parks which would deliver over marketing materials 20,000 of energy cost savings per year for our tenants through a 65% reduction in Solar PV installed To support the effective implementation lighting energy requirements equivalent of sustainability risk management, to annual energy savings of 187,740 kWh.
we deliver training to our investment 536 kw The expected payback period for the andasset management teams on investment is approximately six years.
Tenant engagement Responsible Asset Management Feasibility studies on and installation of renewable energy, for example As part of our asset management activity at our Coventry Retail Park and we focus on: Islip development Monitoring and targeting improvements For the full Responsible Independent tenant Satisfaction Survey in the environmental performance of Business 2016 report seepage 27 our assets see www.
com Collection of environmental data on Ensuring that our managing completed projects agents implement our policies and procedures properly Future plans Active engagement with our In 2016 and beyond we have set tenants, including on matters relating targets to further improve our assets to sustainability environmental performance and to engage with tenants to help them to mitigate their environmental risks.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our communities and charitable commitments We recognise the importance of supporting our local communities.
Ouractivities bring significant benets to local areas and we see engagement with all stakeholders as crucial to maximising these benets.
Our responsibilities also extend to supporting local causes andencouraging our employees to be community minded.
During the year, we supported benefiting local communities New leases signed community causes local to our assets, through our activities with 21 occupiers including: We work in close partnership with our bringing long term Sponsorship of Coventrys participation occupiers to deliver real estate that helps local employment at the International Childrens Games to full modern shopping requirements.
across 15 locations These activities benefit local communities Contributing towards improving sports in a number of ways, primarily through: facilities in Islip, Northamptonshire Investment and construction jobs Maintaining our support of the annual in the local area through our asset community festival in Kirkstall, Leeds management and development activities: the t out work of our retailers Community and charity also brings local job creation minded company 20,000 total Creation of desirable shopping charitable During the year, we formed a destinations which provide amenities, contributions in Communities and Charity Working Group diverse retail offerings and convenient theyear to formalise our approach to community shopping locations that will remain activities and charitable giving.
vibrant for the long term Long term commitment of our retailers, Future plans who typically sign 10-15 year leases As well as continuing our local bringing long term employment to the community engagement, we will local area publish a communities policy over the next year to help us achieve a number Engaging with local communities ofcharity objectives: In undertaking our activities we Increased targeted giving to understand the importance of engaging community causes local to our assets with local stakeholders including Support of LandAid events and planning authorities, local councils and New Communities one employee-led charity event highways, local residence and business, and Charity Working perannum employment organisation and charities.
Group set up On each of our assets, through our Matching by LondonMetric of procurement and development policies employee charity giving and work we require that our suppliers and Encouragement of pro bono work contractors source locally and have and employee volunteering proper regard for local communities.
Weencourage our occupiers to also employ locally.
LondonMetric charity cycle challenge arranged for June 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 51 Communities and charitable commitments Kirkstall Bridge Retail Park, Leeds Overview Taking our 120,000 sq ft development 19 retail stores local community Officially opened 30 October 2015 responsibilities BREEAM Very Good Retailer t out seriously guide implemented Commenced tenant energy datacollection There are so many great things happening across Kirkstall and this new shopping park is a fantastic addition.
Rachel Reeves Leeds West MP Community engagement Accessible to all Charity collaboration with significant road and access ReNew on staff recruitment improvements with parking for 356 cars Fifth year of sponsorship of the Kirkstall Festival Replaced and enhanced bus stop with Real Time Information Volunteering and pro bono RTI displays providing an work by LondonMetric improved waiting environment Introduction of cycle parking links and pedestrian routes Job creation and training connecting surrounding areas Training opportunities, work Green travel plan designed and experience placements and implemented into the scheme Incorporating heritage four apprenticeships As part of the development, c. 200 permanent jobs created we commissioned several from the opening ofa number items to celebrate the history of retailers including M&S, Costa, of the area, including a clock Smyths Toys, Iceland, Home tower, a heritage board and a Bargains, Outt and JD Sports commemorative board for the Abbey Light Railway.
The four metre high glass clock tower was designed to celebrate Kirkstalls rich industrial history including the blanket making and textile fulling work.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Our people, Health & Safety and human rights We aim to create safe and healthy workspaces for both our employees atour main office as well as the construction workers on our development sites.
We work with our contractors to ensure our construction sites are operated in a safe and healthy environment.
We also support our employees internally by providing a healthy and productive workplace.
We require our contractors to adhere Our people Employee gender to a number of standards including: diversity Staff development, satisfaction and paying a fair wage to their workers, wellbeing is equally important to our Directors respecting Human Rights and Labour The number of persons of business: we aim to attract, retain and Rights Legislation, and investigating their each sex who were Directors motivate high performing individuals, of the Company: own supply chains for slavery and human and recognise the importance of trafficking.
For each development, employeewellbeing in achieving this contractors are expected to provide, aim.
We actively promote healthy on request, evidence that they meet living and also encourage volunteering 110 these requirements.
and sponsorship activities to support No human rights concerns have arisen charitable causes.
within our direct operations or our supply chain during 2015 16.
Health & Safety Senior Managers In 2015 we updated our Health & Safety The number of persons of Future plans each sex who were senior policy.
The policy is designed to provide managers of the Company and maintain safe and healthy working We will continue to promote staff other than identied as conditions for all employees, providing satisfaction and wellbeing, and monitor Directors : appropriate equipment, operational compliance with our procedures for processes and safe systems of work to Health & Safety andhuman rights.
cover all of our activities.
26 In addition, the Company aims to ensure that Health & Safety is properly considered for all non-employees including visitors and contractors to the Companys premises and Employees The number of persons managed properties.
of each sex who were employees of the Company: Human rights and the UK Modern Slavery Act As a Company located and operating 17 23 solely in the UK, our exposure to human rights risks including modern forms of slavery is very limited.
Our Remuneration Policy demonstrates our commitment to transparent and fair remuneration for all employees.
For the full Responsible Business 2016 report In order to reduce exposure to slavery see www.
com and human trafficking within our supply chain, we specically address these important areas in our Responsible Procurement Policy and Responsible Development Requirements Checklist.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 53 In this section: Introduction from the Chairman 54 Governance Governance at work 55 Board of Directors 56 Leadership 58 Effectiveness 63 Nomination Committee report 64 Accountability 69 Audit Committee report 71 Remuneration 78 Remuneration Committee report 78 Report of the Directors 96 Directors responsibility statement 99
