STRATEGIC REPORT The Group makes use of an outsourced internal audit INTERNAL CONTROL function which is closely aligned with the Group Risk The Group upholds an eff ective control environment, Management function and reports independently including a comprehensive system of internal to the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
These are designed to ensure that risks each operating platform the eff ectiveness of the are mitigated and that the Groups objectives system of internal fi financial control is independently are attained.
The system includes monitoring evaluated through the internal and external audit mechanisms and ensures that appropriate actions are programmes.
In addition to these audits, the taken to correct defi ciencies when they are identifi ed.
eff ectiveness of operational procedures is examined Also included is a comprehensive system of fi financial internally through various peer review and control reporting and forecasting.
The Chief Financial self-assessment processes.
The results of these Offi cer and Group Financial Manager oversee the assurance processes are monitored by the Groups internal controls relating to fi financial information and risk management function and reported to each reporting, tax and treasury.
The Al Noor business operated its own system of Each of the operating platforms has, in addition internal controls which was being monitored for to the abovementioned assurance processes, its eff ectiveness by the previous Al Noor Boards implemented further independent assurance Audit and Risk Committee.
Their system of internal processes with professional organisations which are control included a risk management function, a set AR summarised in the table on page 28. of defi ned fi financial controls and an internal audit function.
Formal integration projects are underway The Company Secretaries at Group and operating to fully integrate the Al Noor business with Mediclinic platform level, as well as the internal legal advisors, under the guidance of the Mediclinic Middle East are responsible for providing guidance in respect of leadership.
The fi first phase, which included the compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
implementation of new organisational structures and EFFECTIVENESS OF RISK the implementation of Mediclinic policies, has been successfully completed.
The next phases will include MANAGEMENT PROCESS AND the development and integration of IT systems and SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL related processes.
The Board, via the Audit and Risk Committee, Each operating platform executed its assurance regularly receives reports on and considers the plans.
These plans comprise various assurance activities of the internal and external auditors of processes, including internal and external audit Mediclinic Southern Africa, Hirslanden and Mediclinic processes, which are in place to evaluate the Middle East and the Groups risk management eff ectiveness of key controls designed to mitigate the function.
The Board, via the Audit and Risk principal risks identifi ed in each operating platform.
Committee, is satisfi ed that there is an eff ective risk management process in place and that there were no signifi cant failings or weaknesses identifi ed in the system of internal control during the period under review within the Group.
27 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES continued ASSURANCE OUTPUT BUSINESS PROCESSES PROVIDER ASSURED External calculation of carbon footprint based Carbon footprint calculation Carbon Calculated on carbon emissions data of Mediclinic Southern Africa ISO 14001:2004 certification of 41 of Mediclinic Environmental management system British Standard Institute, as Southern Africas 52 hospitals accredited by UKAS United Kingdom Accreditation Service COHSASA accreditation of 30 of Mediclinic Quality standards of COHSASA Council for Health Southern Africas 36 participating hospitals, with healthcare facilities Services Accreditation of Southern the remaining eight hospitals undergoing the Africa, which is accredited by ISQua renewal process the International Society for Quality in Health Care BBBEE Level 4 contributor verification Broad-based black Empowerdex economic empowerment ISO 9001:2008 certification of 15 out of 16 Process and Quality management Swiss Association for Quality and Hirslanden hospitals and Hirslanden Management Systems SQS Corporate Office Self-assessment against EFQM European Assessment against the EFQM EFQM Excellence Model Foundation for Quality Management Excellence Excellence Model, a framework for Model by 15 out of 16 Hirslanden hospitals and organisational management systems Hirslanden Corporate Office aimed at promoting sustainable excellence within organisations ISO 14001:2015 certification of Hirslanden Environmental management system Swiss Association for Quality and Klinik Belair Management Systems SQS JCI accreditation of both Mediclinic Middle East Quality and safety of patient care Joint Commission International hospitals and accreditation of eight clinics in Accreditation JCIA Dubai as well as accreditation of all three Al Noor hospitals ISO 15189:2009 certification of the pathology Pathology laboratories of both International Organization laboratories of both Mediclinic Middle East Mediclinic Middle East hospitals and for Standardization ISO hospitals and all five clinics with five clinics in-house laboratories College of American Pathologists CAP rePathology laboratory of Mediclinic College of American Pathologists accreditation of the pathology laboratory of City Hospital Mediclinic City Hospital The flags indicate the operating platform where the assurance process is in place.
Key: Mediclinic Southern Africa Hirslanden Mediclinic Middle East 28 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, the Board has made an assessment of the prospects of the Group over a period extending beyond the 12 months which is the focus of the Going Concern basis of accounting.
The Board has adopted a three-year time frame for the assessment, as this is in line with the Groups loan facilities refi nancing period and the business planning period, including the fi financial forecasts.
The assessment is consequently based on each of the operating platforms business plans, which refl ect the current Group strategies and their associated risks and the directors best estimations of their future prospects.
The Al Noor business, which is in the process of being integrated into the Mediclinic Middle East platform, was included in the sensitivity analysis and stress tested in the same manner as the other platforms as discussed further in this statement.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Groups risk management process and system of internal control via a mandate from the Board see page 109.
The principal risks, as detailed on pages 24 AR to 26, were identifi ed by these systems and, for the purposes of the viability assessment, severe but plausible scenarios refl ecting these risks were identifi ed for each of the Groups operating platforms to form the basis for stress testing.
The potential impact of each scenario was modelled on each operating platforms EBITDA, profi t after tax, net debt and debt covenants over the three-year forecast period.
The key assumptions underlying the operating platforms business plans that were fl exed in the stress testing included: reductions in tariff s and fees: reductions in number of bed days sold: increased competition: the macro-economic and business environment: the shortage and availability of qualifi ed and experienced nursing staff : the investment in Group initiatives not being successfully implemented: expansion projects not achieving projections and expectations: a larger increase in accounts receivable debtor days than expected: and a delay in the opening of new branches.
The Board considered the viability of the Group both in the context of the individual risks listed above and in combination.
This analysis showed that the business would be able to withstand any of the severe but plausible scenarios by taking management action in the normal course of business.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment, ending on 31 March 2019.
Having considered the principal risks and the viability assessment, the directors also consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the fi financial statements.
29 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW FIGURE 1: HEALTHCARE ASSOCIATED INFECTIONS MEDICLINIC SOUTHERN AFRICA 2013 2015 INTRODUCTION Mediclinic provides a wide range of hospitalrelated clinical services throughout its operating platforms.
This includes outpatient consultation services and pre-hospital emergency services, hospital-based emergency centres, day case surgery, acute care inpatient services, and highly specialised services.
Support services include laboratory, radiology and nuclear medicine.
Mediclinic strives to ensure that the clinical services provided throughout the Group are efficient, effective, appropriate, evidence-based and in line with modern technological advances.
To give our stakeholders some insight into our efforts in this regard, we have been publishing this report for many years.
To get a better view of more of the information that we have available regarding this topic, we recommend that the full CSR Clinical Services Report on our website should also be read.
"Interpreting and acting on this clinical information are regarded as essential for the Company to live its slogan of ""Expertise you can trust. """
as well as for growing the Company.
Calendar Year During the year under review, the focus at Mediclinic Clinical Services has mainly been on improving safety and quality of care in support of the Mediclinic goal of Patients First, and clinical FIGURE 2: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC services development in support of the Mediclinic SOUTHERN AFRICA 2013 2015 goal of Transforming from a facility to healthcare systems provider.
Satisfactory progress has been made, and many of the initiatives will be continued in the new financial year.
2015' All indicators included in this Clinical Services Overview are reported per calendar year to ensure 2014' completeness and consistency, as a significant time lag needs to be provided for in the collection of clinical data.
2013' CLINICAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS AND CHALLENGES Mediclinic Southern Africa has improved its clinical outcomes in a number of areas.
The APACHEIV mortality index, measuring performance of critical care units, reduced from 1.45 in 2014 to 1.35 in 2015.
 infections HAIs still remain one of the highest risks to patients and the rate of HAI reduced from 2.70 per 1 000 patient days in 2013 to 2.21 per 1 000 patient days in 2015 Figure 1.
Hand hygiene compliance is an important measure in the prevention of HAIs and has increased steadily over the last three years from 67% to 76% in 2015.
Adverse Event Type 2014 2015 2013 30 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rate per 1 000 Patient Days Rate per 1 000 Patient Days 0.80 Medication 0.70 2.70 2013 Errors 0.86 1.20 Falls 1.10 2.72 2014 1.14 0.30 In-hospital Pressure 0.30 2.21 2015 Ulcers 0.26 STRATEGIC REPORT FIGURE 3: DEVICEASSOCIATED AND SURGICAL An increase was seen in the rate of medication SITE INFECTIONS HIRSLANDEN 2013 2015 errors 0.70 per 1 000 patient days in 2014 to 0.86 per 1 000 patient days in 2015 and falls 1.10 per 1 000 patient days in 2014 to 1.14 per 1 000 patient days in 2015 Figure 2.
These measures 2015' are regarded as nursing-sensitive indicators and correlate with the general concerns regarding the number and skill of available nursing staff.
The 2014' readmission rate and the extended length of stay rate have also shown an increasing trend over the last three years, from 7.3% to 7.7% and 10.28% to 2013' 10.81% respectively and are receiving attention.
Hirslanden has the highest case mix in the Group refl ecting the complexity of cases treated.
However, clinical outcomes remain excellent as is demonstrated by low infection rates and other outcome measures.
The fall rate decreased from 2.5 per 1 000 patient days in 2014 to 2.1 per 1 000 patient days in 2015.
Pressure ulcers also decreased from 1.1 per 1 000 patient days to 1.0 per 1 000 patient days.
Over the last three years the  pneumonia VAP decreased from 5.6 per 1 000 device days to 4.3 per 1 000 device days Figure 3.
The Simplifi ed Acute Physiology Score SAPS II mortality index remains well below the benchmark of 0.44 at 0.20.
The unscheduled readmission rate also decreased from 1.44% in 2014 to 1.28% in 2015.
Deviceassociated Infection Type The catheter-associated urinary tract infections 2013 2014 2015 CAUTI showed a slight decrease when compared to 2014.
However, the central line-associated bloodstream infections FIGURE 4: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC CLABSI increased signifi cantly in 2015.
The MIDDLE EAST 2013 2015 trend was visible during the fi first half of the year.
Action plans were implemented and the rate decreased in the second half of the year with further improvements expected.
The measures that are reported for United Arab Emirates refer to the outcomes of the Dubai operations only.
Al Noor indicators are in the process of being reevaluated as part of a process to standardise all indicators in the combined group.
Falls decreased from 0.5 per 1 000 patient days in 2014 to 0.3 per 1 000 patient days in 2015.
Pressure ulcers also reduced from 0.6 per 1 000 patient days to 0.5 per 1 000 patient days while medication errors remained the same at 0.6 per 1 000 patient days Figure 4.
The HAI rate increased slightly from 1.5 per 1000 patient days in 2014 to 1.6 per 1 000 patient days in 2015.
The rate of catheter-associated urinary tract infections decreased over the last three years from 0.9 per 1 000 device days to 0.3 per 1 000 device days.
The rate of CLABSI remained the same as 2014 at 2.4 per 1 000 device days.
The overall mortality rate remains low at 0.18%.
The APACHEIV mortality index is 0.42 and well below 1.
The VAP rate has increased signifi cantly from 3.8 per 1 000 device days to 7.6 per 1 000 device days.
Adverse Event Type This is due to a marked increase at Mediclinic Welcare Hospital caring for more complex cases.
2013 2014 2015 31 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Rate per 1 000 Patient Days Rate per 1 000 Patient Days 0.8 1.0 CatheterMedication associated 0.6 1.2 Errors Urinary Tract Infections 0.6 1.1 0.6 0.6 Central Line-associated Falls 0.2 0.5 Bloodstream Infections 0.3 1.7 0.8 5.6  Pressure associated 0.6 5.2 Ulcers Pneumonia 0.5 4.3 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW continued TRANSFORM FROM AN PROGRESS AGAINST CURRENT INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER TO A OBJECTIVES HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS PROVIDER PATIENTS FIRST AT MEDICLINIC Mediclinic Southern Africa focused on closer Mediclinic Southern Africa adopted a centrally collaboration with doctors, transparent sharing of integrated clinical management structure which information with funders and doctors, and patientresulted in improving teamwork.
Clinical managers were appointed at Performance Indicator KPI dashboard, that four larger hospitals, and early indications are that visually displays statistical information to hospitals these positions contribute to improved patient safety to enable management of performance and and quality of care.
Collaborative ventures with small quality improvement initiatives, was developed groups of orthopaedic surgeons and obstetricians and implemented.
Nursing specialists have been have been launched as pilot projects to improve appointed in critical care, theatre management, clinical care and efficiency.
obstetrics and neonatology to centrally coordinate a number of projects aimed at improving clinical In 2015, Hirslanden published its conceptual model of care in these areas.
a system provider in Schweizerische rztezeitung, the national journal of doctors, and received Hirslanden reaffirmed the utilisation of its critical positive feedback.
Based on this model, the existing incident reporting system and adherence to policies.
structures of anaesthesia, general internal medicine Audits on a number of indicators showed that data and accident & emergency are going to be improved was accurate and appropriate action taken when and aligned.
areas in need of improvement were identified.
A change in approach from functional nursing to An academic collaboration with Mohamed Bin Rashid patient-centred nursing has made good progress, University of Health Sciences has been signed to which resulted in a new nursing skill and grade-mix accredit Mediclinic Middle East as an external training pilot project.
The current Breast and Metabolic centres at Mediclinic City Hospital Mediclinic Middle East appointed a group patient underwent further development to streamline clinical safety officer, established a quality department processes, and clinical services planning for the new and updated its patient safety strategy.
New comprehensive cancer centre has been concluded.
clinical indicators were implemented, and a central repository created.
Standardisation and improvement of clinical information and documentation made good progress, and the development of clinical KPIs for doctors is well underway.
The clinical services departments of Mediclinic Middle East and Al Noor have been combined and initial steps were taken to integrate all activities.
