Strategic Report Risk Management NMC follows a conservative approach in risk taking and has implemented controls and mitigation strategies in order to reduce those risks.
IDENTIFICATION OF RISK maintained using both a bottom up and of authorities and succession plans, The Board consider the identification top down assessment of business and diversification in business and and mitigation of material risks and strategic risks.
The register is reviewed revenue streams.
uncertainties faced by the Group as and considered in detail every six months.
a key issue to be monitored at all levels STRATEGIC RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES of the organisation.
The Board has The initial production of the Strategic In the table of strategic risks below, the overall responsibility for the Groups Risk Register was by way of a bottom Board have set out the Groups strategic risk management and internal control up exercise of risk reviews conducted risks and the mitigating actions and systems.
The Senior Management team through discussions in each of the controls taken against those risks.
It ensure that operational management Groups businesses.
The top down should be noted that the order that these consider risk as part of their day to exercise included meetings of senior risks are expressed in the table does not day activities.
This is considered to be executives.
The output from the reflect an order of magnitude as regards particularly key for NMC as a Group due aggregated results of these exercises their potential impact on the Group.
The to both our current strategic expansion produced a list of principal risks that Board Oversight of the System of Internal program and the fact that our businesses were reviewed and agreed by the Senior Control and Risk section on pages 51 to 54 are operating in regulated environments.
Management Team before being also sets out additional details of the presented to, and discussed by, the Board.
governance framework and controls in As there are multiple risks associated place within the Groups businesses to with our businesses, particularly the The Strategic Risk Register is now monitor and control risk.
healthcare sector, the process of Risk reviewed and maintained regularly by Management is an essential mechanism management, with the Board retaining There have been no material changes to enable a risk based decision making oversight and responsibility over the made to the Groups strategic risk register process.
NMC follows a conservative Register and the risk management in 2016.
However, the Board has made approach in risk taking and has process.
The Board approved an a number of minor changes to the list implemented controls and mitigation amended Strategic Risk Register in of principal risks in the last 12 months, strategies in order to reduce those risks.
both August 2016 and March 2017. particularly having regard to the challenges faced by the Group in the The Strategic Risk Register, which is the Depending on the nature of the risk execution of its strategic growth plan basis for the list of principal risks and involved, a variety of risk mitigation and integration of acquired businesses uncertainties, was developed and is measures have been implemented into the Group, in particular given the including, for example, insurance, acquisitive nature of the Group and its standardised processes, delegation entry into new markets.
For more information see our Viability Statement on pages 83 and 84 30 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 H T L A E H L A I C N A N I F Y T P I E C O I R P T L N E E E C N 1.
Strategic Report KEY THEMATIC RISKS CUSTOMER CENTRICITY FINANCIAL HEALTH THE BIG PICTURE 2016 1.
Bad decision in relation to either 2.
Increased competition due acquisition or organic growth investments to high private and public or an inability to appropriately execute investments in the UAE integration or new facility ramp-up plans healthcare sector and may result in: associated investments Lower Return on Investment ROI : coming from new entrants Lower revenue than expected: or existing player partnerships Decreased margins and would lead to market share market share: loss and potential reduction Potential for impairment of assets: in access to future growth Potential difficulty in raising in UAE healthcare spend.
Failing to innovate and effectively deliver new services.
SERVICES EXCELLENCE Inexperience of operating in 7.
A Data Security e. g. VVIP new markets offerings leads patient records breach due to missed opportunity or poor to either intentional malicious service delivery.
cyber-attack or unintentional data or system loss resulting 4.
Potential adverse effect in reputational damage, NMCs margin as a result Investment operational disruption of unexpected regulatory or regulatory breach.
or cultural changes affecting the provision of healthcare, 8.
Failure to comply with multi the basis of the healthcare regulatory and standards insurance structure or bodies requirements could increases in medical inflation result in financial fines, inability NMC and pricing pressure and to renew licenses, as well Strategy bargaining from key insurance as NMC reputation damage.
providers in the Groups key markets, would result in 9.
Failure to comply with less profitability.
internationally recognised clinical care and quality 5.
Potential instability in standards, clinical negligence, revenue impairing cash flow Human Capital the mis-diagnosis of medical and working capital health conditions or pharmaceuticals as a result of global and and the supply of unfit regional demographic, products across both divisions.
macro economic and could result in regulatory geopolitical factors.
sanction, licence removal, significant reputational 6.
Failure to maximise the damage, loss of patient and opportunity or acquisitions customer confidence and through successful integration potential criminal proceedings.
strategies or through PEOPLE ENABLEMENT ineffective management 10.
Failure to retain acquire key professionals structure or operating model or inability to acquire sufficient Medical may result in: staff could potentially lead to inability to Increased market and deliver required healthcare services and regulatory legal obligations: execute growth strategy.
Increased culture resistance and complexity in shifting the governance model from enterprise to corporate structure: Increased operational exposure due to the complexity of integrating higher number of spokes to centralised hub of excellence: Increased investment risk due to weak due diligence and other mitigates.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 31 R A E B M L O E T M S E U N C T E C N E L L E C X Technology Compliance Product Financial Macro-eco Competition E S E C I V R E S Strategic Report Risk Management continued Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Current Mitigations Investment Bad decisions in relation to either acquisition or Board oversight in approving and monitoring organic growth investments or an inability to strategic projects.
appropriately execute integration or new facility Project management controls.
ramp-up plans may result in: Detailed market and business appraisal processes.
Lower Return on Investment ROI : Focus on integration pathway to Lower revenue than expected: improve Group revenue generation from Decreased margins and market share: intra-group business referrals and multiPotential for impairment of assets: brand facility sharing.
Potential difficulty in raising future finance.
Strategy to acquire international know-how through acquisition plan.
Re-alignment of existing assets within the Groups hub and spoke model e. g. existing specialty hospitals feeding the regional NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City.
Competition Increased competition due to high private and Integrated Hub-Spoke model.
public investments in the UAE healthcare sector Growing healthcare network.
and associated investments coming from new Partnership with Government hospitals.
entrants or existing player partnerships would The development of international lead to market share loss and potential partnerships and use of increased knowreduction in access to future growth in UAE how gained through strategic growth plan.
Financial Failing to innovate and effectively deliver new Frequent monitoring of both fixed and services.
Inexperience of operating in new variable cost.
markets offerings leads to missed opportunity Synergy tracking and reporting.
Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A transactions.
Financial Potential adverse effect NMCs margin as a Diversification of the revenue streams.
result of unexpected regulatory or cultural Increased collaboration between different changes affecting the provision of healthcare, group assets and businesses.
the basis of the healthcare insurance structure Frequent monitoring of both fixed and or increases in medical inflation and pricing variable cost.
pressure and bargaining from key insurance Good relationships with insurance providers.
providers in the Groups key markets, would Strategy to increase patient volumes and result in less profitability.
Macro-economic Potential instability in revenue impairing cash UAE is a stable and booming market to flow and working capital health as a result operate in.
of global and regional demographic, Diverse business and revenue streams.
Long Term debt facilities and unutilized working capital limits.
Strong banking and supplier relationships.
Financial Failure to maximize the opportunity of Proper due diligence.
acquisitions though successful integration Post-acquisition integration plan.
strategies or through ineffective management Rigorous analysis of value of the acquisition.
structure or operating model may results in: Focus on the corporate cultures involved.
Executive committee reporting and targets.
Increased market and regulatory legal Synergy tracking and reporting.
obligations: Acquiring the skills associated with the M&A Increased culture resistance and complexity transactions.
in shifting the governance model from enterprise to corporate structure: Increased operational exposure due to the complexity of integrating higher number of spokes to centralized hub of excellence: Increased investment risk due to weak due diligence and other mitigates.
32 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 1.
Strategic Report Risk Class Description and Potential Impact Current Mitigations Technology A Data Security e. g. VIP patient records breach ISO 27001 certified framework for IT policies due to either intentional malicious cyber-attack and controls.
or unintentional data or system loss resulting in Strict measures towards clients data reputational damage, operational disruption or and records.
Investment in new Hospital Information.
System and ERP financial system approved by the Board and implementation in progress.
Compliance & Regulation Failure to comply with multi regulatory and Quality & Standards Department monitors standards bodies requirements could result in regulatory changes.
financial fines, inability to renew licenses, as well Partnership with government.
Good relationships with regulators and accrediting organizations.
Continuous focus on delivering high levels of service.
Product & Service Failure to comply with internationally recognized Doctors subject to rigorous licensing clinical care and quality standards, clinical procedures which operate in the UAE.
negligence, the misdiagnosis of medical Healthcare division is a regulated business conditions or pharmaceuticals and the supply and five of the Groups principal hospitals of unfit products across both divisions could have achieved, or are in the process result in regulatory sanction, licence removal, of achieving, international quality significant reputational damage, loss of patient standards accreditation.
and customer confidence and potential Many aspects of the operation of the criminal proceedings.
Distribution division, including the sale of pharmaceuticals, is regulated in the UAE.
Board oversight and integrated governance structure.
Medical malpractice insurance to cover any awards of financial damages.
Continuous training and development programs.
Human Capital Failure to retain acquire key professionals or Partnership with education institutes.
inability to acquire sufficient Medical staff Effective sourcing strategies & recruitment could potentially lead to inability to deliver campaigns.
required healthcare services and execute Ongoing review of senior management growth strategy.
resources and succession plans in place for key positions.
Competitive salary packages, growth and good working conditions act as a good retention tool.
Clear career path for staff and continuous training and development programs.
As recommended by provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have considered a formal long-term assessment of the prospects and viability of the Group.
As part of this assessment, the Board considered the potential impact of three principal risk themes facing the Group.
The Boards viability statement is set out on pages 83 to 84.
The Group Strategic Report set out on pages 6 to 33 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: DR B. R. SHETTY Executive Vice Chairman & CEO NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 33 Go Gov ver ernance finance Governance 34 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
