Principal Risks and Uncertainties Financial Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Macro-economic exposure We have diversified our business by We continue to balance our permanent expanding geographically, by increasing and temporary staff in line with the ratio of Recruitment activity is driven largely by the number of disciplines we support, and our permanent to temporary business in economic cycles and the levels of business by establishing three brands to address the each of the markets in which we operate.
Businesses are less likely to different levels of the recruitment market: The temporary business tends to be more need new hires and employees are less the clerical professional sector: the qualified resilient in times of economic downturn.
likely to move jobs when they do not have professional market: and the executive confidence in the market, so leading to We maintain a relatively low fixed cost search sector.
base which allows the Group to scale up Our strategy recognises large high potential and down according to the economic A substantial proportion of the Groups markets in which we operate, principally environment.
Our information systems profit arises from fees that are contingent Germany, Greater China, Latin America, model is service based and we have upon the successful placement of a South East Asia and the US, where we centralised support activities at a Group and candidate in a position.
If the client cancels believe it is appropriate to continue to regional level to ensure we benefit from the the assignment at any stage in the process, invest through the economic cycles for the efficiencies of scale and standard processes the Group receives no remuneration.
This investment is principally in where possible.
our people in these areas and can be offset by balancing against costs in other regions where we seek to drive further efficiencies.
Foreign exchange translation risk The Group does not actively attempt to The Group does not have material exposure hedge the exposure from translation risk to foreign denominated monetary assets The majority of the Groups operating profit as this is a reporting risk only and not an and liabilities.
is derived from operations outside of the operational risk.
In 2016 the Company UK, so material changes in the strength Note 20 of the financial statements includes entered into hedges to cover its investment of Sterling against the main functional a sensitivity analysis showing the effect of a in foreign entities in the US and Canada.
currencies could have an adverse effect on 10% strengthening of Sterling against other the Groups reported Sterling profits in the key currencies.
The main functional currencies in addition to Sterling are the Euro, Australian Dollar, Swiss Franc, Chinese Renminbi and Singapore Dollar.
Strategic Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk We actively monitor developments in new Our highly trained and often specialised Shift in business model technologies and their use in the recruitment consultants maintain an extensive qualified The emergence of new technology sector, and we have a pro-active social candidate database which we use to platforms including, for example, social media strategy.
resource for our clients at an overall cost media, may lead to increased competition that they cannot match.
and pressure on margins which may We partner with the large providers, such adversely affect the Groups results if it is as LinkedIn and Facebook, to ensure that We have established a network of innovation unable to respond effectively.
we use this form of media to enhance our teams comprising senior management who value to clients.
All consultants are trained in focus on developments in the marketplace.
utilising the benefits of social media in their day-to-day activity.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 27 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information People Actions to Mitigate Risk People attraction, development We have a well established appraisal The Group targets its recruitment process process applied throughout the to attract and employ high quality and retention organisation which reviews performance individuals.
The Groups strategy of organic growth, against objectives supported by personal with nearly all senior operational We are committed to a competitive development plans.
positions being filled from within, relies pay and benefits structure and use on its ability to develop high-performing We make significant investments in benchmarking to ensure we remain individuals.
employees training and development competitive.
We incorporate a across the organisation including the performance-led culture with bonus The failure to attract and retain opportunity for international career representing a proportion of pay.
This employees with the right skill-set, development supported by a global bonus structure is based on team particularly the resignation of key mobility policy.
Training is aligned at the profitability which has been shown individuals, may adversely affect the consultant level, set at a high standard to encourage the retention of highGroups operational performance and is both broad based and individually performing individuals even in economic and financial results.
focused with a 9 step modular downturns.
programme to support leaders as they We make awards of share options linked develop through the Group.
to the Groups financial performance Key high performing individuals are to key senior employees.
This provides identified and have progression plans a long-term retention incentive and recognising their specific needs at aligns their motivations with those of our different stages of their development.
We have a strong focus on succession The Group employment contracts contain planning at all levels of the business with protection in the event of an employee particular focus on the development of leaving, which at our senior level usually high performing individuals identified as contain notice periods and provisions future team leaders.
relating to confidentiality and nonsolicitation.
We continue to have a strategy of filling senior operational positions from within We have a strong sense of pride in which is a key part of our retention everything we do, with a firm belief strategy.
Our employees observe in teamwork being core to the Group high performers being rewarded with culture.
This drives determination to promotion and know that the Group succeed both individually and as a team, provides sustainable career opportunities.
increasing the motivation of our staff and making their careers more rewarding.
Operational Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Information systems Our core operating systems are governed We select vendors through a robust on a global basis but are regionally vendor selection process which ensures technology based.
We recognise the need to ensure those chosen have the ongoing capability Our systems are an integral part of our best practice is applied throughout the to support our business requirements operations.
Loss of systems capability Group and therefore our approach is to effectively.
This is reviewed and managed would have a high impact on our ensure common platforms, standards on an ongoing basis through the services performance, impacting the quality and processes are being applied.
of service we provide to clients and regions we have developed highly candidates and our ability to deliver our We have in place a central procurement resilient IT operation environments.
team who in addition to supporting We have a dedicated security team who management in commercial negotiations Our move to the delivery of IT as a ensure our systems are protected from ensure that the relationship with third flexible service increases our reliance unauthorised access.
This includes party suppliers are appropriately defined on third party vendors for service ensuring appropriate multi-layered and operationalised.
Should one of these vendors protection at network and local levels fail we are at risk of a service disruption.
We have in place service delivery and regular monitoring and testing of contracts with our key vendors which our capabilities.
include levels of resilience appropriate to We have in place disaster recovery plans the nature of our business.
Assessed under technology in our for each of our services at global and risk appetite Our service roll-out strategy is to fully regional levels which provide a level of pilot new services to ensure they operate service agreed with the business in the effectively and achieve the benefits event of a disaster.
planned before they are deployed across We are in the process of migrating our the Group.
services to a cloud-based infrastructure which will further enhance resilience and our disaster recovery capabilities.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Actions to Mitigate Risk Operational Risks We have successfully rolled-out our Page Our systems strategy will ensure IT is System transformation and change Recruitment System to all of the Group.
The delivered on a service model managed by a The Group is in the process of implementing next stage in the programme is to ensure global IT capability which not only ensures a new suite of IT applications.
This has the business is deriving the benefits from an efficient service provision but one which now been successfully delivered to all of the enhanced capability and common is highly resilient and scalable.
We have a working application platforms.
Our back-office support activity covering suitable for our business which will deliver A programme to implement a global, cloudIT, Finance, HR and Marketing is provided benefits on a global basis.
There are still based finance system has been initiated via shared service centres to ensure we some residual risks around timing.
which will deliver common systems enabling maximise our opportunities for process As our business grows we may be unable to standard processes and efficiencies.
We are standardisation and gain the benefits of support our front end activities in an efficient using third party specialists to support our scale.
internal team in this implementation.
We have established a dedicated Group Programme Management Office which co-ordinates the delivery of Group-wide projects and ensures appropriate prioritisation of activity through regular reporting into regional and Executive Board meetings.
We have comprehensive data protection The Board reviews data security on a Data security policies and procedures in place for the regular basis and receives updates on the Confidential, sensitive and personal management of confidential, sensitive and status of our security activity and statistics data is held across the Group.
on attempted data breaches, both internal to secure and handle this data properly and external.
Security vulnerability is assessed as part of could expose the Group to loss of our IT security strategy and the remediation We continue to review our processes business, financial penalties and or of identified risks and alerts is tracked.
and resource requirements in line with reputational damage.
As stated earlier, Regular security assurance checks take developments in both how our business our move to the delivery of IT as a place across all regions and penetration operates, greater reliance on third party flexible service increases our reliance testing is undertaken by specialist third suppliers and the level of external risk.
During the year we further strengthened the also have an increased reliance on the team with additional resource to maintain third parties IT security to secure our this focus.
We have comprehensive policies for key Our marketing strategy recognises the need PageGroup brands and reputation areas including social media, data protection to engage with candidates and clients using Our brands are material assets of the and information security.
the latest media available in a way that Group and maintaining their reputation is reflects changing behaviours.
We conduct We actively monitor media to identify where key to continued success.
ongoing surveys of clients and candidates there are unusually high references to the In the short-term, any event that could to ensure that we understand their PageGroup, Michael Page, Page Personnel cause reputational damage is a risk to requirements and can adapt our processes and Page Executive trademarks.
We have the Group, such as a failure to comply and procedures accordingly.
a clear escalation reporting path so that with legislation, or other regulatory any potential incidents can be managed We train our consultants to effectively use requirements, or confidential data lost effectively.
new media, making the channels available to or stolen.
Use of new social media them as part of their day-to-day activity.
We are supported by external advisers who network sites has increased the speed of provide ongoing advice on the protection We have a programme of activity which communication and the reach, increasing and management of our brand.
ensures that we effectively communicate the the impact of an incident.
Page brands, keeping awareness high In the medium to longer term, a lack of among both current and potential clients awareness of the Group brands, or a and candidates.
deterioration in the quality of service we provide to both clients and candidates, could have a significant impact.
PageGroup Annual Report 2016 29 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Operational Risks Actions to Mitigate Risk Fiscal and legal compliance The Company Secretary and local legal The Group tax function regularly monitors and compliance teams are advised by transfer pricing requirements and The Group operates in a large number leading external advisers, as required, developments to ensure that appropriate of legal jurisdictions that have varying in regard to changes in legislation that actions are being taken and appropriate legal, tax and compliance requirements.
affect the Groups business, including documentation is being maintained to Any non-compliance with client contract employment, legislation, tax and corporate meet local reporting and compliance requirements and legislation or regulatory governance.
requirements could have an adverse effect on the Groups brands or financial Our staff receive induction training and The Group holds all normal business results.
regular updates regarding the Groups insurance cover including employers policies and procedures and compliance liability, public liability and professional with relevant legislation covering, for indemnity insurance.
example, discrimination legislation, Contracts include clauses to ensure the anti-bribery and corruption and preGroups rights are protected.
The Group has central tax and treasury functions, which manage the Groups cash position and tax compliance.
The Group has financial policies and Monthly management information Financial management and procedures that support effective is produced and reconciled, which control financial management and financial facilitates regular performance reviews.
Failure to maintain adequate financial control and reporting.
There are compliance teams located in and management processes and The Finance structure mirrors and each region which ensure revenues are controls could lead to poor quality supports the local, regional and Group appropriately recognised.
management decisions, resulting in management structure.
the Group not achieving its financial The Group operates regional share or targets, or errors in the Groups financial service centres which, as well as driving reporting.
efficiencies, enable more effective control of activities.
The Boards view of direction of travel of gross risk: Similar to prior year Lower than prior year Increased since prior year approval of these accounts.
As a result, Board through the review of monthly Going Concern the going concern basis continues to reports showing comparisons of results In adopting the going concern basis for be appropriate in preparing the financial against budget, quarterly forecasts and preparing the financial statements for statements.
the prior year, with explanations provided accounting purposes under International for significant variances.
Discussion Accounting Standard 1 Presentation around strategy is undertaken by the Viability Statement of Financial Statements, the Directors Board in its normal course of business, Assessing the prospects of the have considered the business activities as well as at an annual dedicated Company of the Group as well as the principal risks strategy day.
and uncertainties as set out on pages Our strategy and the key risks we face We also prepare longer-term projections 27 to 30.
Based on the Groups level are described on pages 7 and 27 to 30. which drive our Strategic Vision.
These of cash, the level of borrowing facilities A full business forecasting process is are typically three years.
Our Strategic available, the geographical and discipline performed on a quarterly basis, with a Vision provides a clear vision for the diversification, the limited concentration full budget for the following year created Group, aligns the Group to one clear risk, as well as the ability to manage the during October and November, being culture, provides clarity on investment cost base, the Directors are satisfied presented to the Board in December.
priorities, branding, belief in achievable that the Group has adequate resources The Board reviews the Groups strategy goals, and clarity on the goals for our to continue in operational existence for and approves an annual Group budget.
the foreseeable future, being a period Performance is then monitored by the of at least 12 months from the date of PageGroup Annual Report 2016 30 Principal Risks and Uncertainties The period over which we confirm to explore the resilience of the Group We consider that this stress testing based longer-term viability to the potential impact of the significant assessment of the Groups prospects is risks as set out on pages 27 to 30, or a reasonable in the circumstances given the Within the context of the above, in combination of those risks.
We considered inherent uncertainty involved.
accordance with provision C. 2.2 of cyber incidents, disintermediation by way the 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Confirmation of longer-term viability of innovation, changes in technology, Governance Code, the Board has movements in foreign exchange rates, The Directors confirm that their assessment assessed the viability of the Group.
We have assumed of the principal risks and uncertainties that, as in the past, as downside risks Given the inherent uncertainty involved, the facing the Group was robust.
materialise our headcount will flex through period over which the Directors consider it Based upon the robust assessment of the natural attrition in line with the drop in gross possible to form a reasonable expectation principal risks and uncertainties facing the profit, such that the impact on operating as to the Groups longer-term viability is Company and the stress testing-based profit is partially mitigated.
the three year period to 31 December assessment of the Companys prospects, 2019.
This period has been selected as it The scenarios were designed to be all of which are described above, the is short enough to present the Board and, severe, but plausible and were modelled Directors have a reasonable expectation therefore, users of the Annual Report with individually and in combination.
In that the Company will be able to continue a reasonable degree of confidence, while each case, the Group remained viable in operation and meet its liabilities as still providing an appropriate longer-term throughout.
However, it is considered they fall due over the period to 31 outlook.
While the Board has no reason to extremely unlikely that this combination of December 2019.
However, we operate believe the Group will not be viable over events would ever occur.
Controls are also in an environment of limited visibility, a longer period, the Board has taken into in place, where possible, to mitigate dependent upon confidence in the global account the short-term visibility inherent in the impact of these scenarios and these marketplace.
Further weakness in the a recruitment business with a permanent are described on pages 27 to 30. macro-economic outlook may cause us to recruitment bias.
adapt our strategy during the three-year Various events may also alert the Main and Stress testing period in response, leading to a reExecutive Boards to a potential threat to evaluation of additional risks involved which The forecasting and budgeting process viability for example, macro-events drive might impact the business model.
is also supported by scenarios that the recruitment industry, a drop in GDP in a encompass a broad range of potential particular country may lead to a reduction outcomes.
These scenarios are designed in gross profit growth rates.
