Risk Management Structure In the intervening periods the risks The Executive Board and the Board Principal Risks associated with changes in either the continue to focus on Strategic, People and The Group recognises that the effective external environment or as a result of Financial risks.
For these, we disclose KPIs management of risk is key in achieving our internal proposals are discussed as part which we use to monitor the risk impact, strategic objectives.
of our ongoing business reviews and are and the rewards and incentives we apply to responded to accordingly.
A Group risk review process is in place which identifies the strategic and We also have well established compliance See strategic framework on page 7. operational risks which could impact on teams: IT risks and security, who focus Our Operational risks are those that the our business and the mitigating actions on delivery of activity to mitigate our IT Executive Board have agreed can be required to ensure that these risks are risks and systems and data security: and managed by our people on a day-to-day controlled to an acceptable level.
Our regional revenue recognition compliance basis.
These are included within our risk agreed level of risk appetite approved by teams who ensure accurate reporting of registers and are reviewed by the Board on the Board guides the level of acceptable our revenue worldwide.
The risks around data risk.
Our Internal Audit programme of activity security cyber risk is one such area which The process of risk management is an aligns the provision of assurance to the is reviewed at Board level on an ongoing integral part of our business forming part of controls that mitigate the risks identified basis.
Previously systems transformation our strategy review, our business plans and from this process.
was also included, but with the completion the delivery of our daily activity.
of the roll-out of our Page Recruitment Our risk management process categorises System, this no longer carries the same It is supported by risk registers that are our principal risks into Strategic, Financial, level of review.
maintained locally at country and process People and Operational.
level and consolidated twice a year.
This is Our risk evaluation includes matters Within this process we assess all risks then combined with a top-down review of relating to all our key stakeholders that could have a significant impact on the risks conducted with senior management and encompasses considerations of ability of the business to deliver its shortand the summarised output formally governance, social, environmental and term plans and medium and long-term reviewed by the Executive Board and the legal requirements.
Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Our Risk and Control Framework Risk and Control Framework Controls Functions Review Business Reviews Internal Control Checklists Executive Policies and Procedures Board Revenue Compliance Teams Risk Management Board Audit Committee IT Security Team Group Financial Control Risk Registers Audit Reports Internal Audit Quarterly Updates Group Governance Framework PageGroup Annual Report 2016 25 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk Appetite Recruitment is inherently cyclical and provides limited forward visibility.
This makes it sensitive to the economic environment and thus financially volatile creating a higher risk environment.
PageGroup operates in this environment with a low risk appetite, seeking to mitigate its strategic risks, maintain Shift in business model a strong financial position and only Delivery of operational taking the operational risks it has the efficiencies People development experience and capability to manage.
Strategic People Attraction and retention Our growth model is organic, rolling out the proven disciplines for brands to a wide geographic spread.
We drive this Risk by developing and promoting our people Categories from within the business, ensuring consistency of model and business Technology culture across the Group.
System transformation and Macro-economic Financial Operational We maintain a strong sales driven, change exposure meritocratic culture with a commitment Data security Foreign exchange to operating in an ethical, legal and PageGroup brands and reputation translation risk sustainable manner.
Fiscal and legal compliance Financial management and control We will always operate a conservative financial position with a strong balance sheet, reflecting the degree of operational gearing inherent in the business.
This measured approach to taking risk ensures we are best placed for success globally.
Unacceptable to take risk Higher willingness to take risk Risk level 1.
P eople development, attraction and retention 5.
Financial management and control PageGroup actual Further planned Risk appetite range net risk assessment improvements PageGroup Annual Report 2016 26
