SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 54 Principal Risks Effective risk management is central to our long-term success Risk appetite Financial risk The Group recognises that its We have put risk appetite at the heart of our risk The Group maintains a low to moderate ability to manage risk effectively management processes.
Risk appetite is integral appetite for financial risk in general, with a very throughout the organisation both to our consideration of strategy and to our low appetite for risks to solvency and gearing medium-term planning process.
continues to be central to its also defines the criteria for assessing the potential As an income-focused REIT we have a success.
Our approach to risk impact of risks and our mitigation of them.
low appetite for risks to maintaining stable management aims to bring The Groups risk appetite is reviewed annually progression in earnings and dividends over the controllable risks within our and approved by the Board in order to guide long term.
We are, however, prepared to tolerate management.
As well as qualitative descriptions, fluctuations in dividend cover as a consequence appetite, and to enable our decision the risk appetite defines specific tolerances and of capital recycling activity.
making to balance uncertainty targets for key metrics.
It is equally applicable to We also seek long-term growth in net asset against the objective of creating wholly-owned operations and joint ventures.
Our appetite for risks to net value for our shareholders.
While our appetite for risk will vary over time asset value from the factors within our control and during the course of the property cycle, in is low, albeit acknowledging that our appetite general the Group maintains a fairly low appetite for moderate leverage across the cycle amplifies for risk, appropriate to our strategic objectives the impact of asset valuation movements on net of delivering a sustainable progressive dividend asset value.
stream, supported by long-term growth in net Corporate risk asset value per share.
We have a very low appetite for risks to Property risk our good reputation and risks to being We recognise that, in seeking outperformance well-regarded by our investors, regulators, from our portfolio, the Group must accept a employees, customers, business partners, balanced level of property risk with diversity suppliers, lenders and by the wider communities in geographic locations and asset types and and environments in which we operate.
an appropriate mixture of stabilised income Our responsibilities to these stakeholders include producing and opportunity assets in order to compliance with all relevant laws: accurate provide opportunities for superior returns.
and timely reporting of financial and other Our target portfolio should deliver attractive, low regulatory information: safeguarding the health risk income returns with strong rental and capital and safety of employees, suppliers, customers growth when market conditions are positive and and other users of our assets: safeguarding show relative resilience in a downturn.
We aim the environment: compliance with codes of to enhance these returns through development, conduct and ethics: ensuring business continuity: but we seek both to ensure that the drag and making a positive contribution to the associated with holding development land does communities in which we operate.
not outweigh the potential benefits and also to mitigate the risks including letting and construction risks inherent in development.
In line with our income focus, we have a low appetite for risks to income from customers, and accordingly seek a diverse occupier base with strong covenants and avoid over-exposure to individual occupiers in specialist properties.
Strategic Report 55 Overview Governance Financial Statements Our framework for risk governance Board Chief Executive Risk Executive Oversees the Groups management risk owner risk management and function internal controls.
Risk Responsible for Determines the manager risk management.
Assigns responsibility Owns risk in domain.
for risks to senior Assigns accountability Manages the process.
for risks to senior Responsible for Manages reports risk managers.
ensuring the risk is risk register.
Ensures that risks are within appetite.
Provides assistance identified, assessed and Regularly reviews and in assessing and adequately controlled.
assesses existing risks documenting risks with risk management.
Drives design and Provides quality assurance implementation and challenge to risk of controls.
Audit Executive Monitoring Committee Committee Committees Group Risk Committee Monitors effectiveness Monitors strategic and Regularly identify, assign of the Groups risk other risks.
accountability for, and Establishes, monitors management and internal monitor the significant Delegates accountability and reports on the control systems.
risks and corresponding for risk management and Groups approach to controls within monitors performance.
Oversees the work of the Report status to risk risk management function.
Challenges individual risk owners and managers.
Executive risk owner Monitoring committee Risk manager Risk management function Strategic Chief Executive Executive As assigned by executive Provides information, assists in riskowner documentation and provides Financial Chief Financial Officer Finance quality assurance to risk managers, executive risk owners Operational Chief Operating Officer Operations and committees.
Others as appropriate Business Information Systems Executive Investment Chief Investment Officer Executive Investment Compliance As appropriate As appropriate SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 56 Principal Risks Our integrated and robust approach to risk management An integrated approach to managing risk Communication across a relatively small management is documented and formalised in a policy, reviewed annually by the Executive The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring management team, and regular consideration that risk is effectively managed across the Group.
of risk at key management committees, allows Committee and approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness management to respond quickly to changing The Executive Committee considers emerging of the Groups risk management process on events so as to reduce adverse effects on the risks and their impact on the Group Risk behalf of the Board.
Further information on Groups risk profile.
Register formally four times per year.
compliance with the risk management provisions Risks are assessed in both unmitigated of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be Brexit assuming that no controls are in place and found in the Governance section on pages 62 A special Group Risk Committee meeting was residual with mitigating controls operating to 105. held in July to consider our response to the UK normally states.
This assessment directly relates referendum decision.
The risk management process is designed to potential impact to risk appetite so that it is identify, evaluate and mitigate the significant clear whether each risk is comfortably within Since then we have monitored the situation risks that the Group faces.
The process aims to appetite, tolerable, intolerable or below appetite.
closely and the matter is considered at understand and mitigate, rather than eliminate, We also formally assess the velocity of the most Executive Committee and standing committee the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, significant risks to better understand how quickly meetings each month to identify and monitor and therefore can only provide reasonable and they might cause an intolerable impact on us.
In addition to reports detailing risks individually A robust assessment Accountabilities for the Groups risk and in aggregate, in 2016 we produced a In order to robustly assess the principal risks management are outlined in the diagram on monthly Key Risk Indicator dashboard to show facing the Group, the Board has taken a page 55. actual and forecast performance against risk number of measures.
The Board has formally appetite metrics.
reviewed the principal risks twice during the Appetite towards risk is considered at Board year.
The Board has also completed its annual meetings whenever significant strategic, financial The most significant risks and mitigating controls review and approval of the Groups risk or operational decisions are made, and is a key are detailed in the Group Risk Register.
appetite, and has approved the Groups risk part of ongoing discussions about strategy.
Controls relevant to each risk are also management policy.
Risk appetite is also formally reviewed by the documented and monitored in the Group Risk Board annually.
Furthermore, the Audit Committee receives Register.
The risks and controls in the Register a report twice a year on how the Group Risk The Board recognises that it has limited control are used as a key input to determine priorities for Register has been compiled.
over many of the external risks it faces, such as the Groups internal audit assurance programme.
the macro-economic environment, but it reviews Managements annual assessment of control Viability statement the potential impact of such risks on the business effectiveness is driven by the risks and controls The Groups principal risks, and its approach and actively considers them in its decisiondrawn from the Groups Risk Register.
to managing them, as described in this section, making.
The Board also monitors internal risks have formed the basis of our assessment of The Group has a Risk Management Committee and ensures that appropriate controls are in longer term viability.
The process for conducting responsible for regularly reviewing the Group place to manage them.
this assessment is summarised in the Audit Risk Register, monitoring the most important Committees Report on page 80.
Risks are considered within each area of the controls and prioritising risk management business to ensure that risk management is activities.
The Groups approach to risk The Directors confirm that they have a embedded within the Groups decision-making reasonable expectation that the Group will be processes and culture.
Each risk in the Group able to continue in operation and has adequate Risk Register is owned by a member of the resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due Executive Committee who works with a senior over the next five years.
manager who is responsible for the monitoring The five year assessment period is the same and mitigation of that risk to within appetite.
time horizon as covered by the Groups annual Each risk is reviewed regularly throughout the rolling five year strategic financial plan.
This is year at relevant management committees and considered to be the optimum balance between each risk is also reviewed in depth with its risk our need to plan for the long term as property manager and risk owner at least twice a year.
investment is a long-term business and the progressively unreliable nature of forecasting in later years, particularly given the historically cyclical nature of the property industry.
The Directors confirm that they have no reason to expect a step-change in the Groups viability immediately following the five year period assessed.
Strategic Report 57 Overview Governance Financial Statements In addition to the robust ongoing assessment Principal risks The direction of change in the level of the and management of the risks facing the Group, The principal risks have the potential to affect risk during the course of 2016, along with as already set out in this section, the Group SEGROs business materially either favourably an assessment of whether the risk is within has stress tested its five year strategic financial or unfavourably.
Risks are classified as principal our appetite following the application of our plan.
This stress test has considered the risks according to their potential to intolerably exceed mitigating controls, is indicated along with links that could either individually, or in aggregate, our appetite considering both inherent and to further relevant information provided in other threaten the viability of the Group.
The process residual impact and cause material harm to sections of this report.
for conducting the Groups assessment is the the Group.
The principal risks that the Group reported last responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and is Some risks that may be unknown at present, as year have evolved in nature, as has the Groups overseen by the Audit Committee.
well as other risks that are currently regarded as response to them.
No new additional risks have In particular the stress test has considered the immaterial and therefore not detailed here, could been classified as principal since 2015, and no potential impacts of: turn out to be material in the future.
principal risks have been fide-classified since that time.
The current principal risks facing the Group are A systemic crisis, such as a major dislocation or failure of capital markets or a failure of the summarised in the diagram below and described insurance market: across the following pages.
An acute deterioration in occupier or property The descriptions indicate the potential areas of investment market conditions: impact on the Groups strategy and the principal activities that are in place to mitigate and Significant movements in interest rates and manage such risks.
foreign exchange rates: A sustained interruption to the Groups business continuity: and An inability to refinance maturing debt.
Residual Risk In stress testing we assessed the limits at which key financial ratios and covenants would be breached, causing a threat to the Groups UK EU Exit viability.
We then assessed the likelihood of that limit being reached as a result of the individual event or combination of events occurring, using a combination of historic data for example the acute property valuation decline in 20072009 and forward-looking probability analysis where available.
In the case of an inability to refinance maturing Market cycle debt, we have assumed that we would reduce development and investment levels and or sell assets in order to avoid the need for refinancing Portfolio strategy during the assessment period.
The short development lead times for both urban and big European economic environment box warehouse assets and the proven liquidity Execution of investment plans of these assets make this an effective measure in reducing our financing requirements.
Operational delivery Financial leverage Within the above stress testing we have included Interest rates a Brexit scenario that resulted in a systemic crisis and an acute deterioration in investment Health & safety and occupier conditions.
Counterparty default Regulatory environment Solvency & covenant breach Below appetite Within appetite Intolerable IMPACT Property risks Financial risks Corporate risks Movement since 2015 Key: Low PROBABILITY High SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 58 Principal Risks Property risks Risks to achieving above average rental and capital growth from our portfolio, including external market and competitive conditions, portfolio strategy, and execution of acquisitions and disposals.
Market cycle Portfolio strategy Execution of investment plans The property market is cyclical and there The Groups Total Property and or Shareholder Decisions to buy, hold, sell or develop assets is a continuous risk that the Group could Returns could underperform in absolute or could be flawed due to uncertainty in analysis, either misinterpret the market or fail to react relative terms as a result of an inappropriate quality of assumptions, poor due diligence appropriately to changing market conditions, portfolio strategy.
This could result from: or unexpected changes in the economic which could result in capital being invested or oroperating environment.
Holding the wrong balance of prime or disposals taking place at the wrong price or time secondary assets: Our investment decisions could be insufficiently in the cycle.
Holding the wrong amounts or types of land, responsive to implement our strategy effectively.
leading to diluted returns and or constraints This is continuous risk with a moderate This is continuous risk with a moderate on development opportunities: likelihood.
likelihood as changing investment and occupier Holding the wrong level of higher risk market conditions require constant adaptation.
Mitigations opportunity assets or too many old or The Board, Executive Committee and Investment obsolete assets which dilute returns: and Committee monitor the property market cycle on a Mitigations Holding assets in the wrong geographical Asset plans are prepared annually for all estates to continual basis and adapt the Groups investment markets: missing opportunities in divestment strategy in anticipation of changing determine where to invest capital in existing assets and to identify assets for disposal.
new markets or lacking critical mass inexisting markets.
Locally-based property investment and operational Independent diverse sources of investment and teams provide market intelligence and networking to occupier market intelligence are regularly received This is continuous risk with a source attractive opportunities.
Upside and downside scenarios are incorporated into Policies are in place to govern evaluation, due diligence, Mitigations approval, execution and subsequent review of Investment Committee papers to assess the impact of The Groups portfolio strategy is subject to regular differing market conditions.
review by the Board to consider the desired shape The Investment Committee meets frequently to review of the portfolio in order to meet the Groups overall investment and disposal proposals and to consider objectives and to determine our response to changing appropriate capital allocation.
Investment hurdle rates are regularly reappraised The Groups disciplined capital allocation is informed by taking into account estimates of our weighted average comprehensive asset plans and independent external costof capital.
assessments of market conditions and forecasts.
Major capital investment and disposal decisions are Regular portfolio analysis ensures the portfolio is subject to Board approval.
correctly positioned in terms of location and asset type, and retains the right balance of core and opportunity assets.
The annual asset planning exercise provides a bottom-up assessment of the performance and potential for all assets to identify underperforming assets that are considered for sale.
Impact on strategy Impact on strategy Impact on strategy Change in2016 Change in2016 Change in2016 Residual risk within appetite?
Further information Further information Further information The market outlook is detailed in the Chief Further information is contained in the Chief Further information is contained in the Chief Executives Review on pages 22 to 31.
Executives Review on pages 22 to 31.
Strategic Report 59 Overview Governance Financial Statements Financial risks Risks to the revenues, costs, cash flows, equity capital and solvency of the Group resulting from the capital structure of the Group and changes in external factors such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and the creditworthiness of the Groups major financial counterparties.
Solvency and UK exit from the EU European economic covenant breach environment A substantial fall in the Groups property asset The uncertainty associated with the UKs The risk of a significant adverse impact to the values or rental income levels could lead to a decision to exit the EU may impact investment, Groups earnings, net asset value, financial breach of financial covenants within its debt capital, financial including foreign exchange covenants or investor confidence arising funding arrangements.
This could lead to a and occupier markets in the UK during the from a major disruption to the economic and cancellation of debt funding which could, in turn, transition period as the terms of exit and future business environment in Europe, sustained poor leave the Group without sufficient long-term relationships are negotiated, and in the long economic performance in the Eurozone, or the resources solvency to meet its commitments.
In the long term, exit from the EU could exit of a significant economy from the Eurozone.
reduce levels of investor and occupier demand This is a medium-term risk with a low likelihood.
These are shortto medium-term risks with a as a result of reduced trade and or the relocation medium likelihood.
of corporations and financial institutions away Mitigations Future funding requirements and covenant headroom, from the UK, and London in particular.
Mitigations including sensitivity to asset valuation declines, are We remain alert to the potential financial and The likelihood of severe adverse impact on the closely monitored by the Group Treasury function, operational risks to the business arising from a variety the Finance Committee which reports to the Groups Group is judged to be low.
of global, regional and national factors which may cause Executive Committee and the Board.
Group Treasury a deterioration in the general business environment.
calculate actual levels and headroom with sensitivities Mitigations We continue to maintain a high level of currency to financial covenants on a quarterly basis and review We continue to monitor a range of indicators across translation hedging against the impacts of FX volatility non-financial covenants on an ongoing basis.
occupational, investment and capital markets and and to closely monitor our exposure to major tenants in have not observed significant adverse factors to date.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups going the Eurozone.
Structural drivers of demand appear to have continued concern status biannually.
to outweigh any Brexit-related uncertainties.
Geographically, the portfolio is located predominantly In line with its Treasury policy, the Group maintains in the relatively stronger European economies Nevertheless, in the light of increased uncertainty, appropriate undrawn headroom under committed bank and regions.
the Group has adopted a cautious approach to land facilities which are generally refinanced well ahead acquisition and speculative development.
The Groups high quality portfolio of prime industrial assets is diverse in terms of geography 28percent of GAV at share is in Continental Europe and sector exposure.
The Groups existing strategy for resilience through the market cycle also provides mitigations.
As well as the underlying quality and diversity of the portfolio, these include substantial covenant headroom, access to diverse sources of funding, and FX and interest rate hedging.
In addition, our short development lead-times enable a quick response tochanging market conditions.
Further information Further information Further information Significant headroom exists against all financial The Groups response to Brexit is described on Germany represents 9 per cent, France 8 per cent, page 56. covenants.
Further details of Treasury policy, funding Netherlands Belgium 3 per cent and Italy 2 per cent headroom, financial covenant ratios, headroom and of the Groups assets.
Poland, which also involves sensitivities are provided in theFinancial Review on exposure to the Euro, represents a further 6 per cent pages48 to 53. of the Groups assets.
The Groups viability statement is on pages 5657.
Treasury policies are outlined in the Financial Review on pages 48 to 53.
Disciplined Operational Efficient capital and Increased Similar Decreased Key capital allocation excellence corporate structure risk risk risk SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 60 Principal Risks Financial risks continued Financial leverage Interest rates Counterparty default The Group could maintain an inappropriate A significant adverse movement in interest A bank or other counterparty could default capital structure.
Financial leverage usually rates could have an unacceptable impact on while holding SEGRO deposits or derivative expressed as the LTV ratio, but in financial the Groups earnings, on investment market assets, resulting in a significant financial loss covenants defined as gearing needs to be conditions or on tenant covenant strength.
This could also include the loss managed depending on the direction of the of solvency headroom from lost undrawn This is a long-term risk with a economic and property market cycle.
If gearing committed bank facilities.
is too high when property valuations are falling, This is considered to be a long-term risk with a net asset value movements can be exacerbated Mitigations low likelihood.
and financial covenants put at risk.
Equally, if In accordance with the Groups Treasury policy, fixed interest cover is maintained between 50 per cent gearing is too conservative, there is a risk that Mitigations and 100 per cent of net look-through debt in order attractive growth opportunities could be missed Counterparties are accepted based on a strict credit to balance the cost and certainty of interest rates.
Compliance with the policy is monitored and the benefits ofleverage not maximised.
The position is formally reviewed biannually by the daily by both front and back-office staff within Finance Committee.
This is a mediumto long-term risk with a low likelihood.
Mitigations The Group has targeted a mid-cycle look-through LTV ratio of around 40per cent.
Gearing levels are also tracked and forecast internally to monitor headroom against financial covenants.
The LTV target is regularly considered in strategic planning and in asset recycling decisions.
Further information Further information Further information Gearing is discussed in the Financial Review At 31 December 2016, fixed interest cover was Treasury policies are outlined in the Financial Review on pages 48 to 53.
80 per cent of the net borrowings of the Group on pages 48 to 53. including the Groups share of borrowings within jointventures.
Interest rate hedging is detailed in the Financial Review on page 53.
Strategic Report 61 Overview Governance Financial Statements Corporate risks Risks to business performance, legal and regulatory compliance, health and safety, environmental impact, reputation and business continuity arising from external factors or inadequate internal processes, people or systems.
Operational delivery Health and safety Regulatory environment and compliance The Groups ability to protect its reputation, Health and safety management processes could The Group could fail to anticipate legal or revenues and shareholder value could be fail, leading to a loss of life, litigation, fines and regulatory changes, leading to a significant undamaged by operational failures such as: serious reputational damage to the Group.
forecasted financial or reputational impact.
environmental damage: failing to attract, This is a continuous risk with a low likelihood In general, these are mediumto long-term risks retain and motivate key staff: a breach of of causing significant harm to the Group.
with a low likelihood of causing significant harm anti-bribery and corruption or other legislation: Nevertheless, we note that this risk is somewhat to the Group.
Some, such as the OECDs Base majorcustomer default: supply chainfailure: the increased by the scale of the Groups Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project, could structural failure of one of our assets: a major development activity.
high-profile incident involving one of our assets: or a cyber-security failure.
Mitigations Mitigations The Group manages an active health and safety Emerging risks in this category are reviewed regularly Compliance failures, such as breaches of joint management system, with a particular focus on by the Executive Committee, Finance Committee and venture shareholders agreements, secured loan managing the quality and compliance to good Group Risk Management Committee.
health and safety practice of construction and agreements or tax legislation could also damage Corporate heads of function consult with external maintenance contractors.
reputation, revenue and shareholder value.
advisers, attend industry and specialist briefings, and sit A published Health and Safety policy is backed up by on key industry bodies such as EPRA and BPF.
This is a continuous risk with a low likelihood of independent site inspections of both existing assets as A number of potential risks were identified, assessed causing significant harmtothe Group.
well as development projects against SEGROs Health & and managed during the course of the year.
None were Safety Construction Standard.
considered to be material enough to be classified as Mitigations A new online Health & Safety system, named Safety principal risks.
The Group maintains a strong focus on Operational Matters, has been launched to enhance tracking, trend Nevertheless, we continue to maintain a close interest Excellence.
The Executive, Operations and Information analysis, and compliance monitoring against agreed Systems Committees regularly monitor the range in the BEPS project.
Our current assessment is that safety standards.
the direct impact on the Group is likely to be low, but of risks to property management, construction, compliance, business continuity, organisational we will monitor the potential indirect impacts on the investment market and on valuations if BEPS affects effectiveness, customer management and cyber security.
more highly leveraged property investors.
The Groups tax compliance is managed by an experienced internal tax team.
REIT and SIIC tax regime compliance is demonstrated at least biannually.
Compliance with joint venture shareholder agreements is managed by experienced property operations, finance and legal staff.
The SELP JV additionally has comprehensive governance and compliance arrangements in place, including dedicated management, operating manuals, and specialist thirdparty compliance support.
Further information Health and safety in our supply chain is discussed on page 40.
Disciplined Operational Efficient capital and Increased Similar Decreased Key capital allocation excellence corporate structure risk risk risk e e e e t t t i t i m m m o C m s n o o i t C a r e n p I O o n v i t e s a t m n e i n t m C o o m N m A i t t e u e e e t d t i i t m m C o o C SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2016 62 Governance Our approach to governance Long-term business success and good governance go hand in hand.
The Board, as custodian of the business, seeks to secure the long-term future of the Company.
We are responsible to our shareholders, customers, employees and other stakeholders for the performance of the Company and for promoting its long-term success.
Board In this section: Chairmans Introduction 63 Board of Directors 64 Governance Framework 66 Governance Report 67 Nomination Committee Report 73 Audit Committee Report 77 Remuneration Committee Report 85 Remuneration Policy 98 Directors Report 103 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 105 m e v i t m u i c t e t x e E e R e i s e k t t C i o m m m i m t t e o e C e n e t t i o m i t m a o r C e e c n n a u n i F m e R
