RISK MANAGEMENT THE BOARDS ATTITUDE TO RISK MANAGEMENT IS CONSISTENT WITH ITS LOW OVERALL APPETITE FOR RISK.
THIS REPORT SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE VIABILITY STATEMENT ON PAGE 71.
OVERVIEW We have an established and experienced The Boards attitude to risk is embedded in management team, based in one the business, with executive directors The Board structures the Groups operations location, close to all our holdings having close involvement in all aspects of to minimise exposure to investment, operations and significant decisions.
operational and financial risks, and to ensure We manage our balance sheet on a Non-executive directors approve capital that there is a rigorous, regular review of conservative basis with moderate and non-routine transactions over a risks and mitigation across its activities.
leverage, long-term finance, a spread of specified level.
loan maturities, good interest cover and Important factors in the relative low risk of with the majority of interest costs fixed.
Senior management, below Board level, is our business include: incentivised in the same way as executive The Group invests only in Londons West MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE directors to achieve the Groups strategic End, where there is a long history of goals of delivering long-term growth in rental As a foundation to effective day-to-day resilience, stability and sustained occupier income, capital values and shareholder risk management, we encourage an open demand for our principal uses: returns.
Decisions are made for long-term and honest culture within which staff can restaurants, leisure and retail.
benefit, rather than short-term gain.
Our team, based in one office, Succession planning across the management With a diverse tenant base, there is within fifteen minutes walk of all our team is monitored by the Board.
limited exposure to any single tenant holdings, comprises four executive directors and 23 staff.
The senior management team, The nature of our portfolio does not with an average tenure of 16 years, has an expose us to risks inherent in material in-depth knowledge of our business and speculative development schemes the West End property market.
RESPONSIBILITIES EXECUTIVE AUDIT BOARD MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Day-to-day management Assurance of the internal Overall responsibility for of risk.
Design and controls and risk risk management.
Reviews implementation of the management process.
principal risks and uncertainties necessary systems of regularly, along with actions internal control.
taken, where possible, to mitigate them.
STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 63 SEPTEMBER S M T W T F S 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 CARNABY LONDON FASHION WEEK Carnaby was the only place in Londons West End that visitors could watch live streaming, on a giant screen, direct from the catwalk showing the latest trends.
Throughout the five days, complimentary fashion and beauty services were offered within a pamper-van.
64 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL A comprehensive system of financial PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTROL reporting and forecasting, which is The Board has carried out a robust updated on a quarterly basis and The Board reviews the nature and extent of assessment of the principal risks and includes forecast liquidity requirements the Group's principal risks and uncertainties, uncertainties which might prevent the and loan covenant compliance and monitors the risk management Group achieving its goal of long-term framework and internal control systems.
growth in rental income, capital values and The day-to-day management of the Such systems are designed to manage, shareholder returns.
These risks and Groups portfolio is outsourced to three rather than eliminate, the risks faced uncertainties are largely consistent with managing agents.
The Group monitors by the business and can provide only those reported in 2015.
We no longer the performance of each managing agent reasonable, not absolute, assurance against consider meeting the requirements of and has established extensive financial material misstatement or loss.
Their adequacy legislation to improve environmental and operational controls to ensure that and effectiveness are monitored through performance of buildings to be a principal each maintains an acceptable level of the risk management and audit processes risk or uncertainty.
This is because the service and provides reliable financial which include financial and property legislation has become more clear and, and operational information.
through our rolling refurbishment activities, managing agents share with the Group we are able to meet its requirements their internal control assessments.
The The Group has established processes and without significant cost.
Group periodically uses the services of procedures to identify, assess, and manage, an external consultant to review the the principal risks and uncertainties it To date we have seen no adverse impact managing agents operational processes faces.
These processes and procedures on occupier demand, footfall or trading as and controls.
were in place throughout the year and a result of political and economic remained in place up to the date of the uncertainties following the EU referendum.
RISK ASSESSMENT approval of the Annual Report and accord Until the UK's future exit arrangements are with the Financial Reporting Councils Operational and financial risks facing the negotiated, we are unable to draw any firm Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Group are monitored through a process of conclusions as to the longer-term impact Control and Related Financial and Business regular assessment by the executive team.
However, with London's Reporting 2014.
The aim of this assessment is to: status and broad-based economy, we believe it will be less adversely affected The key elements of the Groups Provide reasonable assurance that than the wider UK.
procedures and internal financial control material risks are identified framework are: Details of the principal risks and uncertainties, Ensure appropriate mitigation action is mitigation and evolution of risk during the Close involvement of the executive taken at an early stage year are set out on pages 66 to 69. directors in all aspects of day-to-day Risks are considered in terms of their operations, including regular meetings impact and likelihood from operational, with employees to review risks and financial and reputational perspectives.
controls Risks, and the controls in place to mitigate Clearly defined responsibilities and limits them, are formally reported, discussed and of authority challenged, at meetings of the Audit Committee and Board.
To the extent that Defined schedule of matters for decision significant risks, failings or control by the Board including significant weaknesses arise during the year, these are acquisitions, disposals, major contracts, reported to the Board and appropriate material refurbishment development action is taken to rectify the issue and proposals and any other transaction implement controls to mitigate further outside the normal course of business occurrences.
The Audit Committee has monitored the Groups risk management and internal control system, and having reviewed the effectiveness of material controls, has not identified any significant failings or weaknesses in the Groups controls during the year.
SEE THE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ON PAGES 90 TO 93 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2016 65
