Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board has overall responsibility for our risk At least twice a year, the Board undertakes a formal risk review with the assistance of the Audit Committee, to assess the management and internal controls, with the Audit effectiveness of our risk management and internal control Committee reviewing the effectiveness of our risk systems.
During these reviews, the Board has not identified management process on its behalf.
or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material.
We aim to operate in a low-risk environment, focusing on a single sub-sector of the UK real estate market to deliver Risk appetite an attractive, growing and secure income for Shareholders, Our risk appetite is low, given we do not undertake speculative together with the opportunity for capital appreciation.
The development, we have high-quality tenants, with a portfolio of Board recognises that effective risk management is key to the modern buildings and sector-leading WAULT.
Risk management ensures a defined approach to decision making that decreases uncertainty surrounding We have a specific Investment Policy, which we adhere to anticipated outcomes, balanced against the objective of and for which the Board has overall responsibility.
Principal risks and uncertainties Approach to managing risk Further details of our principal risks and uncertainties are set out Our risk management process is designed to identify, evaluate on pages 55 to 59.
They have the potential to materially affect and mitigate rather than eliminate the significant risks we face.
our business, either favourably or unfavourably.
Some risks may The process can therefore only provide reasonable, and not currently be unknown, while others that we currently regard as absolute, assurance.
As an investment company, we outsource immaterial, and have therefore not been included here, may turn key services to the Manager, the Administrator and other out to be material in the future.
All principal risks are the same service providers, and rely on their systems and controls.
as detailed in the 2015 Annual Report, with the exception of the Political Risk impact of the EU Referendum on the performance of the Company.
Risk management framework Board Audit Committee Policy procedure and controls Review of key performance indicators and management reports Risk identification The Manager Risk assessment financial and operational Risk mitigation implementation of risk mitigants Risk monitoring evaluation and revaluation of financial and operational mterics Risk reporting to Audit Committee and Board Our Investment Policy p24 54 Going concern and viability p60 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Principal risks The Board considers these risks have increased since last year 3 Our ability to grow the portfolio may be affected by competition for investment properties in the Big Box sector 10 We are a UK REIT and have a tax-efficient corporate structure, with advantageous consequences for UK Shareholders.
Any change to our tax status or in UK tax legislation could affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives and provide favourable returns to Shareholders 11 The vote to leave the EU in June 2016 could result in political and or economic uncertainty that could have a negative effect on the performance of the Company.
The Board consider all the other risks to be broadly unchanged from last year 1 Default of one or more tenants 2 The performance and valuation of the property portfolio 4 Our property performance will depend on the performance of the UK retail sector and the continued growth of online retail 5 Development activities are likely to involve a higher degree of risk than associated with standing investments 6 Our use of floating rate debt will expose the business to underlying interest rate movements RARE LOW MEDIUM HIGH 7 A lack of debt funding at appropriate rates may restrict our ability PROBABILITY to grow The matrix above illustrates our assessment of the impact The Board considers these risks have decreased and probability of the principal risks identified.
The rationale since last year for perceived increases or decreases in the risks identified 8 We must be able to operate within our banking covenants are contained within the commentary for each risk category.
9 We rely on the continuance of the Manager Property risks 1 Default of one or more tenants PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW TO MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: The default of one or more of our Our investment policy limits our exposure tenants would immediately reduce to any one tenant to 20% of gross assets or, revenue from the relevant asset s. where tenants are members of the FTSE, up to If the tenant cannot remedy the 30% each for two such tenants.
This prevents default and we have to evict the significant exposure to a single retailer.
To tenant, there may be a continuing mitigate geographical shifts in tenants focus, reduction in revenues until we are we invest in assets in a range of locations, with able to find a suitable replacement easy access to large ports and key motorway tenant, which may affect our ability junctions.
Before investing, we undertake to pay dividends to Shareholders.
thorough due diligence, particularly over the strength of the underlying covenant.
We select assets with strong property fundamentals good location, modern design, sound fabric, which should be attractive to other tenants if the current tenant fails.
In addition, we focus on assets let to tenants with strong Optimising the performance of financial covenant strength in assets that are our Big Box portfolio p42-44 strategically important to the tenants business.
55 IMPACT NOT SIGNIFICANT LOW MEDIUM HIGH Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT: OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Property risks continued 2 The performance and valuation of the property portfolio PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: MODERATE TO HIGH MITIGATION Change in year: An adverse change in our property Our property portfolio is 100% let, with long valuations may lead to a breach unexpired weighted average lease terms and an of our banking covenants.
All the leases conditions may also reduce the contain upward-only rent reviews, which are revenues we earn from our property either fixed, RPI CPI linked or at open market assets, which may affect our ability value.
These factors help maintain our asset to pay dividends to Shareholders.
We have agreed banking covenants A severe fall in values may result in with appropriate headroom and manage our us selling assets to repay our loan activities to operate well within these covenants.
commitments, resulting in a fall in We constantly monitor our covenant headroom Optimising the performance of our NAV.
on LTV and interest cover.
This headroom is our Big Box portfolio p42-44 currently substantial.
3 Our ability to grow the portfolio may be affected by competition for investment properties in the Big Box sector PROBABILITY: IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION MODERATE Competitors in the sector may be We have extensive contacts in the sector and better placed to secure property often benefit from off-market transactions.
We Change in year: acquisitions, as they may have also maintain close relationships with a number greater financial resources, thereby of investors and developers in the sector, giving restricting our ability to grow our NAV.
us the best possible opportunity to secure future acquisitions.
We are not exclusively reliant on acquisitions to grow the portfolio.
Our leases contain upward-only rent review clauses and we have a number of current asset management initiatives within the portfolio, which means we can generate additional income and value from the existing portfolio.
We are, however, disciplined in our investment of capital and will not pay a price which we Our Strategy and Objectives believe is above market value, just to secure p24-25 a purchase.
56 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Property risks continued 4 Our property performance will depend on the performance of the UK retail sector and the continued growth of online retail PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: Our focus on the Big Box sector The diversity of our institutional-grade tenant means we directly rely on the base means the impact of default of any oneof distribution requirements of UK our tenants is low.
In addition to our due diligence retailers.
Insolvencies among the on tenants before an acquisition or, in thecase of larger retailers and online retailers forward funded developments, before agreeing could affect our revenues and the lease terms, we regularly review the property valuations.
performance of the retail sector, the position of our tenants against their competitors and, in particular, Our Market p14-21 the financial performance of our tenants.
5 Development activities are likely to involve a higher degree of risk than that associated with standing investments PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION Change in year: Our forward funded developments Only three of the Companys current portfolio are likely to involve a higher degree of 35 assets as at 31 December 2016 are forward of risk than is associated with funded assets, representing 6.6% of the value standing investments.
This could of our portfolio on a completed basis.
All of include general construction risks, these assets are pre-let to institutional-grade delays in the development or the tenants.
Any risk of investment into forward development not being completed, funded projects is minimal, as the developer cost overruns or developer takes on a significant amount of construction contractor default.
If any of the risks risk and the risk of cost over-runs.
Funds for associated with our forward funded these developments remain with us and are Our Market p14-21 developments materialised, this could only released to the developer on a controlled Our Strategy and Objectives reduce the value of these assets and basis subject to milestones as assessed by our p24-25 our portfolio.
57 Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT: OUR PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Financial risks 6 Our use of floating rate debt will expose the business to underlying interest rate movements PROBABILITY: MODERATE IMPACT: MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: Interest on our debt facilities is The Company has entered into interest rate payable based on a margin over derivatives to hedge our direct exposure to Libor.
Any adverse movements movements in Libor.
These derivatives cap our in Libor could significantly impair exposure to the level at which Libor can rise our profitability and ability to pay and have terms coterminous with the loans.
aim, where reasonable, to minimise the level of unhedged debt with Libor exposure, by taking Robust financing and hedging out hedging instruments with a view to keeping with strong liquidity p46-48 variable rate debt approximately 90% hedged.
7 A lack of debt funding at appropriate rates may restrict our ability to grow MITIGATION PROBABILITY: MODERATE IMPACT: MODERATE Before we contractually commit to buying Change in year: Without sufficient debt funding, we an asset, we enter into discussions with our may be unable to pursue suitable lenders to get an outline heads of terms on investment opportunities in line debt financing.
This allows us to ensure that we with our investment objectives.
If we cannot source debt funding at can borrow against the asset and maintain our appropriate rates, either to increase borrowing policy.
The Board keeps our liquidity the level of debt or re-finance and gearing levels under review.
We only enter existing debt, this will impair our into forward funding commitments if they are ability to maintain our targeted level supported by available funds.
we arranged a 500 million five year secured debt facility with a syndicate of four lenders.
We had headroom of 150 million within the facility at the year end.
This has created new banking relationships for us, which helps keep Robust financing and hedging lending terms competitive.
with strong liquidity p46-48 8 We must be able to operate within our banking covenants PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW MITIGATION Change in year: If we were unable to operate within We continually monitor our banking covenant our banking covenants, this could compliance, to ensure we have sufficient lead to default and our bank funding headroom and to give us early warning of any being recalled.
This may result issues that may arise.
Our LTV is low and we in us selling assets to repay loan enter into interest rate caps to mitigate the risk commitments, resulting in a fall in of interest rate rises and also invest in assets let NAV.
We also seek to maintain a long WAULT.
Depositary Statement p79 58 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report 2016 Corporate risk 9 We rely on the continuance of the Manager PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: HIGH MITIGATION Change in year: We continue to rely on the Managers Unless there is a default, either party may services and its reputation in terminate the Investment Management the property market.
As a result, Agreement by giving not less than 24 months the Companys performance written notice, which may not be served will, to a large extent, depend before 31 December 2019.
The Management on the Managers abilities in the Engagement Committee regularly reviews property market.
Termination of the and monitors the Managers performance.
Investment Management Agreement In addition, the Board meets regularly would severely affect our ability to with the Manager, to ensure we maintain a effectively manage our operations positive working relationship.
The Investment Our Strategy and Objectives and may have a negative impact on Management Agreement was amended during p24-25 the share price of the Company.
the period, see the Management Engagement Management Engagement Committee Report.
Committee Report p85-87 Taxation risk 10 We are a UK REIT and have a tax-efficient corporate structure, with advantageous consequences for UK Shareholders.
Any change to our tax status or in UK tax legislation could affect our ability to achieve our investment objectives and provide favourable returns to Shareholders PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW TO MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: If the Company fails to remain a The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring REIT for UK tax purposes, our profits we adhere to the UK REIT regime.
It monitors and gains will be subject to UK the REIT compliance reports provided by: corporation tax.
the Manager on potential transactions: the Administrator on asset levels: and our Registrar and broker on shareholdings.
Our Market p14-21 The Board has also engaged third-party tax Our Strategy and Objectives advisers to help monitor REIT compliance p24-25 requirements.
Political risk 11 The vote to leave the EU in June 2016 could result in political and or economic uncertainty that could have a negative effect on the performance of the Company PROBABILITY: LOW IMPACT: LOW TO MODERATE MITIGATION Change in year: At present, the UK Government has The Group operates with a sole focus in the UK communicated very little detail on its Big Box market which has a significant supply strategy to negotiate the exit from shortage against current levels of demand, this the EU.
The eventual outcome and will assist in supporting property capital values.
the way that policies over an exit It is currently well positioned with long and will be negotiated is impossible to secure leases and a diverse blue-chip tenant predict at this time.
line up, with a focus on tenants with financial Robust financing and hedging strength, which are well positioned to withstand with strong liquidity p46-48 any downturn in the UK economy.
