22 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIC PLANNING AND RISKMANAGEMENT IN A DYNAMICEXTERNAL MARKET Chris Szpojnarowicz Company Secretary and Head of Legal in the Higher Education sector.
This 2016 the year we celebrated Assessing our risk profile and key external engagement was especially our 25th birthday was the most risk developments during 2016 important this year as the sector starts to As an intrinsic part of our strategic dynamic external market the digest the impact of Brexit.
planning, and to support the Boards PBSA sector has seen to date.
robust assessment of the Groups With the Higher Education sector This risk profile review identified four principal risks and its ongoing longer term risk categories: and the broader economy facing viability, the Board conducted a thorough new challenges such as Brexit review of our risk profile.
This review 26 involved both a top-down approach: Market supply and demand and political changes around the globe, our strategic planning r the Board considered a wide range 27 Operational risks of strategic and emerging risks and and risk management is evolving opportunities and their impact in response to these changes.
28 Property development risks and a bottom-up approach: Being well prepared for a combination r the Board scrutinised and challenged 29 of risk events happening at the same time Financing risks the risks identified in the Operations is central to our readiness preparation.
and Property Business Units, as well Affordability and value for money is These risk categories are consistent our financing and treasury risks.
increasingly important and our risk with those identified in prior years, management focus on student experience To ensure a broader perspective, this with movement in specific risks and the efficient delivery of a quality review included engagement with external driven principally by uncertainty product is more important than ever.
experts, such as property valuers & health due to Brexit as follows.
The following pages provide insight into & safety auditors, as well as senior leaders our key risks and how we navigate them.
Risk Profile category Key risk developments in 2016 Market risks Increasing uncertainty following the Leave vote and the impact reduction on the Higher Education sector, UK plc and immigration policy in demand uncertainty flowing from this.
While the impact of Brexit on the UK economy and Higher Education sector remains unclear, it has led to greater uncertainty.
Related sections We have focused a significant proportion of our risk activity 5 Business model and strategy understanding the potential impact on our business.
Property Liquidity and uncertainty in the broader real estate sector.
12 Relationships development risks The property market has been affected by Brexit and broader 18 Market overview macro economic factors.
We have focused risk activity on 20 Key performance indicators KPIs determining how this impacts our property-related business activity during the year.
26 Principal risks and uncertainties 50 Corporate governance 26 Read more: Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 26 to 29.
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 23 Re-calibrating our risk appetite in 2016 The Groups risk appetite is considered as a fundamental part of the Boards strategy setting and annual budget it does not happen in isolation.
Our risk appetite is underpinned by our principal financial aim to continue delivering double-digit total returns and sustainable growing earnings.
Having regard to the key risk developments in 2016 set out on page 22, the Board recalibrated our risk appetite.
This recalibration considers both threats to and opportunities in our business in the context of macro and minor developments, not only in the PBSA sector, but also the broader Higher Education sector, property market and economy more generally.
Strategic Objective 2016 Threats and opportunities Great service With higher fee levels, the affordability and value of Higher Education remains a risk focus.
Home for Success, PRISM and our University relationships remain an opportunity for us to differentiate 1 2 3 from competitors.
Brilliant properties Focusing our portfolio on high quality Universities and recycling our portfolio in a competitive market place.
1 2 3 Growing and During 2016, focus on becoming a REIT and ongoing compliance with REIT tests to enable REIT conversion sustainable earnings effective 1 January 2017.
Planning and completing our conversion to REIT status.
1 2 3 Maintaining full occupancy across our portfolio.
Stress testing our strategic planning Each year, the Board develops and refreshes the Groups Strategic Plan.
This is based on detailed three-year strategic financial projections with related scenario planning and rolls forward for a further two years using Increase in Yield more generic assumptions.
The Board interest rates expansion maps our three strategic objectives set against our risk profile described The influences directly below.
Recognising that risk of multiple events do not necessarily happen in combined isolation, the Board then stress tests risk events these projections against various multiple combined risk events.
Through this process, a base case and stress tested Strategic Plan is developed.
Reduction in EU During 2016, this stress tested scenario international planning considered a material students reduction in the number of European and international students, a material rise in long term interest rates and yield expansion, together with a combination of all these events occurring at the same time.
Mapping our three strategic objectives against our risk profile Strategic Objective Risk Profile Category Principal Risks Great service Market supply The health, safety, wellbeing and security of the 49,000 students who make Unite Students and demand their home is the foundation of our reputation and continued focus on health & safety is key 1 2 3 Operational to building and maintaining this trust.
Affordability and value for money are increasingly critical in the increasingly competitive market place.
Developing the most trusted brand in the sector continues to be critical to our sustainable and longer term success.
Brilliant properties Property Our focus on working with high and mid ranked Universities means that we will development recycle capital into higher performing cities.
Property development is a higher risk, 1 2 3 higher return activity.
Growing and Financing Maintain a timely approach to arranging new debt and extending debt maturities, sustainable earnings reducing the cost of funding, diversifying our funding sources and introducing new lenders to the Group.
Secure a strong balance sheet with appropriate levels of leverage 1 2 3 and liquidity to ensure the business can withstand any property cycle.
24 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED The culture of the organisation recognises r Risk Committee scrutiny and challenge Creating the right corporate and accepts that risk is inherent in of Business Unit risk management culture for effective risk business and encourages an open and activity allowing a focused forum management proactive approach to risk management for risk identification and review The Groups risk management framework as opposed to a blame culture.
By viewing r Board directors also sit on Business Unit is designed to identify the principal our risks through the lens of our three boards and thus provide the Board with risks and ensure that risks are being strategic objectives, the Group is able to direct line of sight to Business Unit risk appropriately monitored, controls are in ensure risk management is proactive and management activity place and required actions have clear pre-emptive and not a tick box exercise.
r Risk assurance through external and ownership with requisite accountability.
internal auditors as well as specialist The Board has the overall responsibility for third party risk assurance where The organisation has an open and the governance of risks and ensures there appropriate e. g. specialist accountable culture, led by a stable and are adequate and effective systems in independent health and safety experienced leadership team that has place.
It does this in various ways: compliance in the Operations and operated in the sector for a number of Property Business Units.
This culture is set by the Board in the r Risks are considered by the Board as way it conducts its Board and Committee an intrinsic part of strategy setting and Robust assessment meetings and cascades through the consideration of new opportunities of principal risks organisation enabling the same culture risk is recognised as an inherent part The directors confirm that they have for risk management.
of each opportunity conducted a robust assessment of the r A twice yearly formal review by the principal risks facing the Group.
The During 2016, this corporate culture was Board of principal risks, how they process for how the Board determined assessed as part of the Boards effectiveness are changing and considering any these principal risks is explained above evaluation, using the key learnings from emerging risks and the specific principal risks are set the Financial Reporting Council FRC s r Risk Committee reviews the principal out on pages 26 to 29. recent report, Corporate Culture and the risks that the Group is facing or Role of Boards.
should consider r Specific risk management in 62 Read more: Effectiveness dedicated Board sub-committees allowing focus on specific risk areas for example, the Audit Committee and Health & Safety Committee Our risk management framework The board Risks assessed as part r Owned by the Board and its Committees of strategy setting r Twice yearly formal risk review and ongoing monitoring and risk oversight of risk integral to Board meetings Composition Risk management Policies and controls of Risk Committee Chris Szpojnarowicz r Owned by the Risk Committee and the Underpinning risk management Company Secretary Business Unit boards such as Capital Operating Guidelines: and Head of Legal and r Monthly risk tracker review at Business Treasury Policy: Anti-Bribery Policy: Major Chair of Risk Committee Unit boards Investment Approvals Committee and the r Risk Committee review of all risk trackers internal controls framework Joe Lister Chief Financial Officer and MD of People and Communications People and culture Richard Smith Chief Executive Officer Embedded risk Openness, transparency and clear ownership of management culture risk management through risk trackers cascades Richard Simpson through the organisation Group Property Director STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 25 The forecast performance outlook is also Key Risk Indicators KRIs Viability statement used by the Remuneration Committee to The Directors have assessed the viability linked to our KPIs and our establish the targets for both the annual of the Group over a three-year period three strategic objectives and longer term incentive schemes.
to December 2019, taking account of the Groups current position and the potential Strategic objective KRIs The financing risks of the Group are impact of the principal risks.
The Directors Great service Customer considered to have the potential greatest consider the three-year lookout period to satisfaction impact on the Groups financial viability.
be the most appropriate as this The two principal financing risks for fundamentally aligns with the Groups Safety the Group are: the Groups ability to own strategic planning period combined Higher Education trust 1 2 3 arrange new debt replace expiring debt with the levels of planning certainty that % Noms v. Direct Let facilities: and any adverse interest rate can be derived from the development Brilliant Net asset value movements.
The Group has secured pipeline.
Based on this assessment, the properties funding for the committed future Directors have a reasonable expectation Age of asset development pipeline and prepares its that the Group will be able to continue Occupancy Strategic Plan on a fully funded basis in in operation and meet its liabilities as they 1 2 3 Rental growth line with the three-year outlook period.
fall due over the period to December 2019.
To hedge against the potential of adverse interest rate movements the As explained above, the Group has Growing and Earnings per share Group manages its exposure with a developed an annual business planning sustainable Total return combination of fixed rate facilities and process, which comprises a Strategic earnings Net debt using interest rate swaps for its floating Plan, a financial forecast for the current rate debt.
During the year the Group has 1 2 3 year and a financial projection for the Loan-to-value ratio complied with all covenant requirements forthcoming three years which includes Net debt : EBITDA attached to its financing facilities.
stress testing and scenario planning and also rolls forwards for a further two years.
40 Read more: Financial review This plan is reviewed each year by the Board as part of its strategy setting process.
Once approved by the Board, the plan is cascaded down across the Group and provides a basis for setting all detailed financial budgets and strategic actions that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance.
Our risk management in action: Brexit One tool in our risk management r Following a period of initial r EU students funding arrangements process is a risk deep dive.
This involves uncertainty immediately after the under current tuition fee arrangements an in-depth review of a specific risk with result in June 2016, confidence has are confirmed for 2016 17 and 2017 18, Brexit a key focus since the prospect returned to the PBSA market with but there is uncertainty beyond then.
of an In Out referendum first crystalised a high volume of portfolios and assets EU students represent 9% of our in 2015. trading in the second half of 2016 customers and so any impact on r EU research funding is important to UK EU student numbers would have In the period through to June 2016, our Universities and this, together with the a limited impact on our occupancy risk deep dive process concluded that immigration status of EU academics r Despite these broader uncertainties, no specific pre-emptive actions other and EU students in the UK more the supply demand outlook remains than ongoing engagement with the generally, clearly creates uncertainty favourable and with the benefit Higher Education sector should be for the Higher Education sector along of our development pipeline, the taken for our business in the event of with the broader uncertainty in the strengthening of our University a Leave or Remain vote.
This uncertainty is relationships and our focus on high was driven by the anticipated impact moderated by the strength of UK and mid-ranked Universities, our to our business if there was a Leave vote Universities the second largest business is well placed to navigate see below and the minimum two-year destination for international the uncertainty risk.
transitional period under Article 50. students after the US : the ongoing Engagement with the Higher Education internationalisation of Higher We continue to monitor the sector is helping inform our thinking on Education with the global rise of the developments and engage in the implications for the PBSA sector and middle classes.
Sterling depreciation other risk management actions outlined specifically our business.
also makes UK Higher Education in the principal risks see page 26. accommodation more affordable Our risk deep dive process concludes for international students that Brexit should not significantly impact our business for the following reasons:
