26 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Market risks 1.
Demand reduction driven by Government policy or other macro events Possible events Impact r Brexit impacting numbers of EU students coming to study in the UK r Potential reduction in demand and hence profitability and asset values r Changes in Government policy on Higher Education funding r Departure from EU impacting EU research grants and EU students r Immigration policy changes affecting international student numbers coming to the UK.
What happened in 2016 Risk management r Student numbers in the UK continue to grow with approximately 3,000 more applicants than 2015 2016 Ongoing monitoring of Brexit implications, r The total number of applicants in 2016 also grew with 155,000 more applications than places Government policy and its impact on UK, r Stronger growth 3% in acceptances in the high and mid-tariff Universities EU and international student numbers studying r Unite Students occupancy of 98% 2016 2017 compared to 99% 2015 2016 but more beds 49,000 in the UK.
Regularly reviewing our portfolio to at 31 December 2016 as compared with 46,000 at 31 December 2015.
Increase in overall student ensure we have the highest quality portfolio, numbers continues to translate to more students staying at Unite appropriately sized and in the right locations.
r EU students funding arrangements for duration of study confirmed for 2016 2017 and 2017 2018 r During 2016, we have seen an increase in nominations with more committed to beds than ever before 58% beds 2016 2017 vs. 57% 2015 2016.
31 Read more: Occupancy and success of nominations Risk Mitigation in 2016 Strategic objective Risk deep dive into impact of Brexit.
Offering great service is key to helping us sustain any reduction in demand as well as ensuring 25 Read more: Our risk management in action: Brexit we have brilliant properties and growing Through implementation of Home for Success our core purpose to provide environments that help and sustainable earnings to manage any students achieve more during their time at University we are seeing consistently high customer demand deficit.
satisfaction and Higher Education trust scores.
5 Read more: Our strategy 20 Read more: Key performance indicators KPIs 1 2 3 Focus for 2017 Continued engagement with the Higher Education sector to understand and be ready for the impact of Brexit and other HE policy changes.
Demand reduction due to societal change Possible events Impact r Concerns over the costs of a University education affordability and r More competition for value and reduced demand for year round value for money student accommodation in the longer term resulting in lower profitability r Alternative course delivery such as Massive Open Online Courses and asset values.
r Shorter more semester led courses.
What happened in 2016 Risk management During 2016, rolled out PRISM, our digital and scalable operating platform, driving efficiency and Ongoing monitoring of affordability and value for customer service.
money and the evolution of digital learning and ensuring we partner with the stronger Universities 31 Read more: PRISM with properties in the best locations.
Applications and acceptance data continue to provide evidence that stronger Universities are performing better.
18 Read more: Market Review Enhanced service levels over the last few years with faster Wi-Fi speeds, free communal cleans and enhanced common spaces.
Risk mitigation activity in 2016 Strategic objective Ensured the successful roll out of PRISM, enabling online and more flexible tenancies.
Offering great service is key to ensuring we have relationships with the higher and medium Continued investment in market knowledge and building on our relationships with the strongest tariff Universities the ones most likely to sustain a Universities, driven by Home for Success and our University partnerships team.
PRISM helps us deliver the best customer service efficiently.
5 Read more: Our strategy 1 2 3 Focus for 2017 Using PRISM to drive enhanced customer service and value for money, through its scalability and digital efficiency.
Continued focus on Home for Success and our partnerships with the stronger Universities.
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 27 Key 1 2 3 Great service Brilliant properties Growing and sustainable earnings 3.
Supply increase due to increasing interest in the performance and appeal of the PBSA sector Possible events Impact r New supply as sustained high levels of investment demand filter into the r More competition for the best sites development market, primarily through investors providing forward r Potential impact on rental growth and occupancy.
What happened in 2016 Volume of PBSA assets traded in 2016 moderated from record levels seen in 2015.
During 2016 continued roll out of Home for Success and maintaining a strong proportion of beds secured under nominations agreements at 58% 2015: 57%.
Opening of five new properties during 2016 34 Read more: Properties delivered Level of new supply 18 Read more: Market review Risk Mitigation in 2016 Strategic objective We continue with our focus and strategy on: Offering great service as well as having r Markets with supply demand imbalance brilliant properties is critical to mitigating r Exposure to the best Universities underpinned with new developments secured with nominations deals any supply surplus.
30 Read more: Operations review 1 2 3 r Investment in our brand and student experience creating better environments within our new developments through Home for Success initiative r Maintaining strong relationships with key Higher Education partners.
Focus for 2017 Continued focus on our portfolio in the towns and cities with the strongest growth prospects and using PRISM, our scalable operating platform, to differentiate our brand and offer consistently high levels of service to students and Universities alike.
Ensuring a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately as supply grows.
Major health & safety H&S incident in a property or a development site Possible events Impact r Fatality or major injury from a fire or other incident at a property r Impact to students living with us, contractors working on-site and visitors r Multiple contractor injuries at a development or operational site.
r Reputational damage and trust in Unite Students as a reliable partner.
What has happened during 2016 Risk management With fire as our biggest safety risk in our operating portfolio, during 2016 we established a Primary H&S is given direct Board supervision by the H&S Authority Agreement with the Avon Fire Authority to focus on: Committee a sub-committee of the Board r The development journey for our fire strategy decisions which actively supervises H&S, ensuring robust r Fire Safety Management improved policies and procedures, risk assessments, training & fire records policies and procedures are in place and r Maintenance Regimes testing and planned preventative maintenance consistently complied with.
r Specification for new builds and developments.
70 Read more: H&S Committee report External assurance sought through: H&S is also actively reviewed in the Operations r Appointment of the British Safety Council as our new external safety auditor and Property Business Units, ensuring that H&S is r Physical security review of our properties by WSP Parsons Brinckerhoff.
top of mind in our day to day operations and Continued good performance against our operational safety KPI, with five reportable accidents and regularly assessed and validated.
positive results against our KPIs in our development activity.
20 Read more: Key Performance Indicators KPIs Risk Mitigation in 2016 Strategic objective Regular external audits and internal inspections of our properties.
Full review of our operations risk Ensuring the H&S of our customers, contractors assessments to ensure adequate hazard control, together with improved contractor management and and employees is fundamental to us offering permit to work system for hazardous work activities.
Improved safety training, using augmented reality, great service.
focusing on driving for work, lone working, safety signage, housekeeping maintenance, hazards such as 5 Read more: Our strategy chemicals, machinery, asbestos and personal protective equipment.
This includes an interactive game for accident, incident and near misses.
1 2 3 Focus for 2017 Work on the journey to interdependence with empowerment in day to day H&S management at the core of everything we do.
Ongoing focus on continuous improvement including prioritising the fire risk review, crisis management, security review and external audit recommendations and actions.
Integrating wellbeing into the H&S Management System.
28 THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Property development 5.
I nability to secure the best sites on the right terms.
Failure or delay to complete a development within budget and on time for the scheduled academic year Possible events Impact r Site acquisition risk increasing competition for the best sites pushes r NAV and EPS affected by aborted schemes and or reduced financial up prices returns, with cash tied up in development.
r Planning risk delays or failure to get planning r Construction risk build cost inflation as the economy improves.
What happened in 2016 Risk management Five sites acquired, adding 3,082 beds to the development pipeline: Experienced development team with extensive site selection and planning expertise, coupled Five planning consents secured.
with strong track record and focus on project 2016 schemes delivered, on time and to budget.
delivery and strong relationships with construction partners with appropriate risk 34 Read more: Property review sharing.
Group Board approval for commitments above a certain threshold.
Financial investment in schemes carefully managed prior to grant of planning.
To ensure we have the highest quality portfolio, we are pursuing new opportunities on a conditional basis, but with a limited number of sites contracted not conditional on planning following a detailed risk assessment of that opportunity.
Risk Mitigation in 2016 Strategic objective Regular development team and property review, with Group Board director oversight to ensure failure Brilliant properties.
to secure sites or complete on time are managed in the budget.
5 Read more: Our strategy Detailed planning pre-applications and due diligence before site acquisition.
2 Read more: Development activity 1 2 3 Build cost inflation regularly appraised and refreshed in Property Board meetings.
Mid-sized framework contractors used and longer term relationships established to mitigate cyclical swings.
Focus for 2017 Main focus will be on delivering multilocation developments and securing pipeline for 2020.
Property markets are cyclical and performance depends on general economic conditions Possible events Impact r Buying or selling properties at the wrong point in the cycle.
r Reduction in asset values reducing financial returns.
What happened in 2016 Risk management Volume of PBSA assets moderated in 2016 following record volumes in 2015.
Group Board and Property Board ongoing monitoring of property market, direction The value of the Groups investment portfolio including our share of co-investment vehicles increased and values.
to 2,277 million as at December 2016 31 December 2015: 2,065 million with the average portfolio yield falling 9bps to 5.4%.
Forecast rental growth and recurring profit offsets any yield movement.
During 2016 we continued to maximise our portfolio value through a programme of selective developments, acquisitions, disposals and refurbishments.
Ensuring we have a strong yet flexible capital structure so we can adapt appropriately to 39 Read more: Disposals market conditions.
Customer satisfaction continues at high levels supporting rental growth and our portfolio value.
Clear and active asset management strategy.
36 Read more: Rental growth and portfolio value Risk Mitigation in 2016 Strategic objective Disposals ongoing monitoring of our entire portfolio with selective disposals to benefit from keener Brilliant properties.
We sold 114 million of assets in 2016.
5 Read more: Our strategy Acquisitions disciplined acquisitions strategy exercising caution over portfolio premiums being paid in the market.
1 2 3 Careful management of net debt and see-through LTV.
Maintaining disciplined approach to new development transactions by maintaining Group hurdle rates.
Focus for 2017 To continue to acquire sites in line with Group hurdle rates and to procure contracts in line with budgets.
STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate governance Financial statements Other information THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 29 Financing risks 7.
U nable to arrange new debt or expiring debt facilities cannot be replaced or only at high cost.
Adverse interest rate movements Possible events Impact r Unite breaches a loan covenant or fails to replace debt on expiry r If unable to replace debt, then possible forced sale of assets r Interest rate increase.
potentially leading to sales below valuation.
Reduced level of profitability r Adverse rate movements can lead to reduced profitability and reduction in property values through resulting expansion of valuation yields and lower valuations.
What happened in 2016 Risk management During 2016, LTV ratio improved to 34% from 35% at the end of 2015 and net debt grew by 45 million Proactively managing debt maturities to to 776 million.
During 2016, 150 million of new debt was arranged.
refinance these facilities at least 6-12 months before maturity and in parallel diversifying our 100% of debt at fixed rate swapped.
sources of finance to repay more expensive and During 2016 our average cost of debt has fallen to 4.2% from 4.5%: 2015 and we expect it to fall further less flexible borrowings.
by the end of 2017 as a proportion of forward starting swaps become effective.
Control of future cash commitments in line with 40 Read more: Financial review capital structures progress of disposals and refinancing.
Interest rates monitored by the funding team as an integral part of our refinancing activity owned by the CFO and with Group Board oversight.
Gearing ratios defined in our Capital Operating Guidelines.
Hedge exposure with interest rate swaps and refinance facilities with fixed rates.
Risk Mitigation in 2016 Strategic objective Regular and reliable engagement with lenders.
5 With benign interest rate environment, have continued to take advantage of historically low rates both Read more: Our strategy on new debt and also entering into forward starting interest rate swaps locking in rates for our 2017 and 2018 development pipeline.
1 2 3 40 Read more: Debt renewal development debt and swaps Focus for 2017 Funding future development acquisitions as well as 2017 funding requirements for the Group, USAF and LSAV.
