RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS IDENTIFYING AND UNDERSTANDING KEY RISKS TO THE BUSINESS Risk management and internal control Rating of the risks identified by Executive management and other senior business leaders based on their likelihood and impact.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal control.
The Audit Committee reviews A workshop with Executive management where the Groups the effectiveness of the system at least annually, on behalf of keyrisks were agreed and the results from the risk rating theBoard.
exercise were reviewed and discussed and risk ratings adjustedwhere necessary.
The Board operates, and attaches importance to, clear principles and procedures designed to achieve the accountability and controls Review of the risk register for the merged Group by the appropriate to a science-based business operating internationally AuditCommittee.
ina highly regulated business sector.
The Board has established an organisational structure with clearly drawn lines of accountability Principal risks and uncertainties Pharmaceutical development is inherently expensive and risky as and delegation of authority.
the development cycle for new products is long and uncertain and Executive management is responsible for the day-to-day management the regulatory environment is complex and subject to change.
of risk including the design and implementation of the necessary systems of internal control.
Such a system can only provide reasonable Executive management and the Audit Committee review the principal risks at least annually, after the annual Group budgeting and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, nor can it eliminate the risk of failure.
In accordance with the and long-term planning process.
Internal Control Guidance for Directors issued by the Financial The Group has identified, actively monitors and is taking action to Reporting Council, there is an ongoing process for identifying, mitigate many different risks.
This section does not include them evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
all, but focuses on those risks that the Directors believe to be the most important and which could cause the Groups results to differ Financial results and key operational and financial performance indicators are reported regularly throughout the year and variances materially from expected and historical results and significantly impact the Groups strategy.
from plans and budgets are investigated and reported.
The Group has a system of high level financial control procedures which are Not all of these risks are within the control of the Group and other supplemented by detailed procedures at each operating unit.
factors besides those listed may affect the Groups performance.
Some risks may be unknown at present.
Others, currently regarded Assessment of risk post the Skyepharma merger as not key, could develop into material risks in the future.
Following the Skyepharma merger, a full review of the business risks for the merged Group has taken place with support from external experts.
The process involved the following: Interviews with Executive management and other principal risk stakeholders to identify risks, the approach to risk management processes and risk appetite.
30 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT Our principal risks and uncertainties Increased risk Decreased risk No change 1.
Disruption to the launch of VR315 US Disruption to the launch of VR315 US, the generic version of GSKs Advair Diskus.
The FDA has provided to our partner, HikmaPharmaceuticals PLC through its wholly-owned subsidiary, West-Ward Pharmaceuticals, a GDUFA goal date of 10 May 2017.
Disruption will delay revenues for the Group, reducing profitability and funds available for investment.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend FDA delay GDUFA goal date Sustained The Group is unable to take direct action to mitigate this risk.
However, 2016 organicgrowth the Group is making plans to minimise the financial impact should this Major or minor stipulations risk occur by identifying opportunities to reduceor delay cost.
raised by the FDA Project personnel for VR315 US continue to support Hikma and supply Partner supply chain or all information requested by the FDA during the review process.
manufacturing issues The business will also ensure that resource required to support the programme, post-FDA decision will be available.
We have worked toensure adequate transfer of the technology for manufacturing toour partner and have supported the validation of commercial scale manufacturing, which is solely in the hands of our partner.
However, should issues arise, our experienced manufacturing team will be available to provide support in addressing any issues.
Supply chain disruption The Group manages the supply chain for flutiform and devices.
Major disruption to or failure of these supply chains, particularly for flutiform, from either a quality or capacity perspective could result in lost revenues and business opportunities, stock shortages, liabilities and significant damage to profitability and prospects for the Group.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend Supply chain disruption involving Sustained The Group works with its suppliers to ensure that production 2016 single point of failurefor which organicgrowth capacities exceed forecast demand so that it is possible to catch Vectura hashigh dependency upon any shortfall in production or meet unexpected demand.
Operational leverage and limited resilience The Group has made significant investments in capacity at the Sanofi site where flutiform is manufactured and is investigating the Supplier loss of licence feasibility of an alternative production site for flutiform.
orregulatory action Supply chain mapping is undertaken to identify potential points of impactingVectura failure and mitigating actions.
Where economically feasible, additional Issues resulting from the complex sources of supply are established and contracts negotiated to include supply chain forflutiform appropriate provisions for replacement of defective goods.
Termination of the manufacturing Significant work has been undertaken to put in place systems that agreement with Sanofi for will provide early warning of issues.
These include the appointment of flutiform.
Theagreement appropriate, experienced senior personnel and building relationships continues to2020 and is through dedicated product managers to ensure transparency from automatically renewed bi-annually suppliers.
An alert system is also in place for flutiform.
Monthly unless terminated by either party meetings are held to discuss supplier forecasting and review the with 24 months notice.
We have also engaged with suppliers regarding quality initiatives.
Wemaintain a system of quality assurance and suppliers have tomeet quality audits and financial reporting requirements.
The Group also has appropriate insurance, but it is not possible toinsure against all risks and not all insurable risks can be fully insured on an economically feasible basis.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 31 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED Our principal risks and uncertainties continued 3.
Failure to deliver the product pipeline Failure to deliver the Groups late stage product development pipeline e. g. VR475 and VR647 and the clinical, research and development risk associated with novel products e. g. VR942 could severely impact future profitability and prospects for the Group.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend Manufacturing issues Innovation The Group seeks to balance its investment in research and 2016 associated with a particular development between higher risk, high-value development Sustained device or product products and lower risk, lower value opportunities.
organicgrowth The guidelines of the relevant regulatory bodies are followed Competition andtrials conducted in accordance with prevailing practice and Uncompetitive pricing statutory regulatory requirements.
We work closely with expert regulatory advisors and, when appropriate, seek advice from Failure to maintain regulatory authorities on the design of key development plans good relationships with forpre-clinical and clinical programmes.
alliance partners Individuals with the necessary skills and experience have been Incorrect study or trial design recruited into the Group to lead and oversee the development or execution ofthe Groups late-stage assets.
The Group continues to work Loss of key resources witha network of experienced consultants and contractors who provide additional support and expertise as required.
The Group has an established governance process to oversee theconduct and delivery of all development programmes and toensure that any potential changes to the development plan or budget are identified and discussed in a timely manner such that mitigating activities or actions can be put in place as required.
Failure to successfully self-commercialise wholly owned pipeline products Failure to successfully launch and commercialise Vecturas wholly owned pipeline products that it may choose not to partner in relevant territories.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend No track record of Acceleration We have recruited skilled and experienced staff with US 2016 commercialisation hence and international commercialisation experience.
Sustained requirement to employ additional organicgrowth We also closely monitor competitor offerings and patents staff and develop and recruit in the relevant territories.
additional commercial expertise into the organisation It is our policy to undertake extensive research as part of the commercial strategy development.
Our due diligence work is Strong competitor offerings thorough and follows good practice guidelines.
We make use ofexperts to ensure that our commercial plans are validated providing the greatest chance of success.
32 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT 5.
Partner failure The Group is dependent on partners for obtaining regulatory approval and marketing of products.
Once partners have obtained approval andlaunched the products, the Group may be entitled to revenue based on a proportion of net sales or share of revenue of these products.
Failureby a strategic partner to deliver on its obligations could result in a low or negative return on investment.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend Change in partner strategy Sustained Vectura has a broad range of disclosed and undisclosed partners.
2016 or a partner is distracted from organicgrowth The Skyepharma merger has broadened this range further.
Vecturas business interests All collaborations are performed under a suitable legal agreement which is assessed by Vectura and its legal advisors.
Partner trading issues insolvency Typically, for collaborations, a joint steering committee JSC will Failure by a partner to market the beestablished involving both Vectura and partner personnel.
product successfully Thisprovides Vectura with a mechanism to ensure that any joint Partner failure to obtain project activity is managed appropriately.
appropriate pricing and The Group also has a Commercial and Business Development reimbursement department which maintains regular dialogue with existing and potential new partners.
Changes in the regulatory, operating or pricing environment Changes to the highly regulated landscape for the pharmaceutical industry, operational restrictions and downward pricing pressure could impact whether a substance can be developed into a viable marketable product and the amount of time and expenses associated with such development.
Even if products are approved, they may still face subsequent difficulties resulting in financial loss and reputational damage.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend The vote by the UK to exit the EU Sustained Regulatory changes tend to be slow due to lengthy consultations 2016 Brexit potential regulatory organicgrowth and discussions between regulators and the pharmaceutical industry.
changes for clinical trials, We work closely with expert regulatory advisors and, when appropriate, Innovation restrictions on the movement of seek advice from regulatory authorities on the design of key capital and mobility of personnel development plans for pre-clinical and clinical programmes.
Competitor pricing strategies In respect of our partnerships, we work with a number of blue-chip pharmaceutical partners which have significant regulatory expertise.
Regulatory action on pricing Our business model includes a mix of highly innovative projects to address unmet patient needs as well as generic programmes which support government initiatives to reduce cost.
Other than exchange rate volatility, further significant consequences of Brexit are yet to be seen.
However, the following is being kept under review by the Group: i the situation for employees from EU countries in the UK: ii intellectual property matters currently proceeding with unitary patent: iii potential import export duties levies as one element of decision making as to where to carry on place infrastructure business: and iv potential change in tax rates.
Regulatory changes or any other matter arising from or relating toBrexit are likely to take a significant amount of time before any changes take effect.
The Group will work internally and with external advisors to ensure that specific mitigating activities are putin place as they are identified.
Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016 Vectura Group plc 33 RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED Our principal risks and uncertainties continued 7.
Failure to protect intellectual property Patent infringement by competitor pharmaceutical or biotechnology organisation or failure to obtain patents for Vectura or partner development.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend Competitor successful Sustained Dedicated internal resource, supplemented with external expertise, 2016 inchallenging Vectura organicgrowth files for and prosecutes patents and other forms of intellectual or partner patent property and, in conjunction with our partners where relevant, take Innovation steps to enforce these rights.
Third-party rights that may be of Critical information missing interest to and or have adverse effects on the Groups activities are from filed patent also monitored so that action can be initiated where appropriate.
Loss of talent key personnel The Group relies upon a number of key qualified management, scientific, technical, marketing and support personnel.
Competition for such personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel.
The loss of talentorkey personnel could adversely affect the Groups business.
Principal causes Strategic impact Mitigation Trend Inadequate succession planning Sustained Vectura seeks to develop employees for current and future roles and 2016 talent management organicgrowth our career development and talent management programmes remain a key area of focus for the Executive Leadership Team.
Organisational disruption post Innovation Wecontinue to invest in ongoing training and development.
the Skyepharma merger Succession plans for key roles have been developed to ensure a Failure to attract the correct talent pool is identified, developed and ready for implementation.
calibre of candidates These plans include the identification of emergency successors inthe case of unanticipated and immediate absence.
Lack of cultural integration post the Skyepharma merger A newly defined, market-benchmarked reward strategy is being developed to ensure Vectura offers a competitive package which incentivises, motivates and retains our talented employees.
This package covers both short and long-term incentives.
We have also defined a new job framework underpinned by career maps to help employees to understand the career development opportunities available to them.
Salaries of all employees are reviewed annually to ensure weremain market competitive.
The Remuneration Committee undertakes regular reviews of the remuneration packages of the most senior personnel and the Remuneration Policy is likewise reviewed for appropriateness in the context of emerging and evolving practice concerning Executive remuneration.
The organisation has undertaken a comprehensive organisational design review post the merger to ensure the structure is fit for purpose and roles are clear and unambiguous.
A newly defined culture has been created with substantial input from all employees, so that everyone feels connected and compelled to support its realisation.
This culture is articulated through our purpose, values, mindset and behaviours and will be embedded inall people processes and practices to ensure alignment.
Our multiple locations provide both flexibility for potential employees and an ability to target talent pools, and we will always seek to support flexible working in order to attract and retain the required skills andcapabilities.
34 Vectura Group plc Report and Accounts for the nine-month period ended 31 December 2016
