Overview Principal Risks Strategic Report and Uncertainties Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk Management is an integral part of all our activities and Our Risk Management structure risks and opportunities are considered in every decision we make.
We focus on key risks which could impact on the Board and Audit Committee achievement of our strategic goals and therefore on the performance of our business.
Risks are considered at every Executive Committee level of the business including when approving corporate actions, property transactions and monitoring performance.
First line Second line Third line of defence of defence of defence We have a Risk Management structure in place to capture, document and manage risk which is appropriate for our size Management Financial Risk and business model.
Our aim is to manage each of our risks controls control Committee and mitigate them so that they fall within the risk appetite and ad hoc level we are prepared to tolerate for each risk area.
Policy and Security review audit procedure The Risk Management structure is underpinned by close Risk working relationships between the Executive Directors, management Senior Management and other team members, which enhances our ability to efficiently capture, communicate Quality control and action any risk issues identied.
Key Performance We have an established Risk Committee which co-ordinates risk management activities throughout the Group and Indicators prepares regular reports to the Board and Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee comprises the Chief Compliance Executive Officer, the Operations Director and Company Secretary, alongside certain Senior Managers and representatives from across the Company.
The Risk Committee engages with staff throughout the business and our small size helps to ensure good communication Current assessment of principal business risks between each business area.
In addition, frequent visits by head office staff to our business centres help to ensure awareness and understanding of any property-specic risks and issues.
Risk registers for all functional areas are maintained and risks are assessed against a dened scoring mechanism to 8 2 ensure consistency.
High-rated risks identied in the registers are regularly reviewed by the Board, Audit and 5 Executive Committees.
7 4 10 1 Overall, we review principal risks from two angles: 11 6 9 3 1.
Strategic risks 8 These are risks which impact achievement of our strategy and objectives.
11 7 5 2 They are identified, assessed and managed by the Executive Committee.
6 9 10 1 Strategic risks are owned by the Board.
3 The Board is satisfied that we continue to operate within our desired risk appetite for our strategic risks.
Operational risks These risks cover all areas of the business, such as IMPACT Finance, Operations, Investment and Development.
These risks are identified, assessed, managed and Insignicant Low Medium High Severe owned by the Executive Committee.
Post-mitigation Pre-mitigation Day-to-day operational risks are closely reviewed and managed by the Executive Committee and Senior Management.
Brand Changes in operational risks are reported to the Board 2.
Staff and and Audit Committee as appropriate.
Cyber security We then consider each risk in turn to understand and assess how they are mitigated by the controls and procedures in place.
"43""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 PROBABILITY EXTERNAL AUDIT Rare Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk category: Principal risk: 1. Financing Reduced availability and increased cost of bank financing Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business We regularly review funding done in 2015 16 Right markets Inability to fund business requirements for business Successfully amended Right properties plans."
plans and ensure we have and extended bank Restricted ability to invest a wide range of options to facilities.
At the end of the in new opportunities.
year we have significant Increased interest costs.
We also prepare a five-year headroom on our facilities Change from business plan which and a stable interest rate last year: is reviewed and updated prole.
We have a broad range of Key metrics: funding relationships in place and regularly review 134m our renancing strategy.
headroom on loan facilities We also maintain a specic interest rate prole via use of xed rates and swaps on our loan facilities so that our interest payment prole is stable.
Strategy day review of five-year plan alongside strategy After the Board Strategy Day in September 2015, all strategic risks were reviewed and reassessed to ensure all were still valid and considered any possible omissions.
The Management Board was also consulted on the validity of the strategic risks via a Management Board meeting covering risk.
The outcome of these reviews saw the addition of two new risks: staff and resourcing and cyber security.
"44""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk category: Principal risk: 2."
Valuation Value of our properties declining as a result of the macroeconomic environment, external market or internal management factors Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business Market-related valuation done in 2015 16 Right markets Impact on loan covenants risk is largely dependent We have maintained a low Right properties Loan to Value.
on external factors which LTV ratio, protecting us we cannot inuence.
from any potential adverse However, we continue to changes in the market.
do the following to ensure Change from we are aware of any During 2015 16, we have last year: market changes, and are made significant progress Unchanged generating the maximum with our programme of value from our portfolio: refurbishment works, Monitor the investment enhancing the standard market mood.
and desirability of our Monitor market yields properties.
In the year we and pricing of property launched 229,000 sq.
ft. transactions across the of new and upgraded London market.
Alternative use opportunities pursued across the portfolio Key metrics: and continue to drive progress made in 21% achieving planning Increase in underlying consent for mixed-use property valuation development schemes.
16% Low loan to value ratio Vox Studios Vox Studios Vauxhall During the year we completed the refurbishment of Vox Studios, Vauxhall, where we created 51,000 sq.
ft. of new space and upgraded a further 6,000 sq.
The newly refurbished property has let well and is now becoming a vibrant business centre with a caf bar, Club Workspace and high quality meeting rooms.
The CBRE valuation at 31 March 2016 had increased by 26m.
This is a 72% underlying increase compared to the value at March 2015.
"45""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk category: Principal risk: 3."
Customer Demand by businesses for space within our properties declining as a result of social, economic or competitive factors Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business Every week the Executive done in 2015 16 Right markets Fall in occupancy levels Committee meet with We continue to liaise with Right properties at our properties.
Senior Management to our customers at each step Right customers Poor customer feedback monitor occupancy levels, of their journey with Right people and low satisfaction pricing, demand levels and Workspace see At a Right brand score.
reasons for customers Glance, pages 02 and 03.
Falling rent roll and vacating.
This ensures we property valuation.
react quickly to changes in We also continue to any of these indicators.
increase our social media Change from presence, and run our last year: Our extensive marketing networking business events.
Unchanged programme ensures that we are in control of our own customer leads and pipeline Key metrics: of deals.
We also utilise social media, backed up by 90.7% a busy events programme Like-for-like occupancy which has further helped us to engage with customers.
This differentiates us as we 12,353 provide not only space but Enquiries per year also an opportunity to network with other businesses based in our 1,212 portfolio.
Lettings per year Cargo Works Engaging with customers Southbank Our engagement and understanding of our customers and their requirements continues to improve and evolve, adding to the relationships we build with them.
We assist customers with their requirements for moving as their business needs change whether it be moving to different areas within our portfolio, or moving to a larger or smaller space.
Last year, we completed 1,212 deals of which 30% were with existing customers helping them to move within our portfolio, accommodating their changing needs and requirements.
"46""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk category: Principal risk: 4."
Development Impact on underlying income and capital growth Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business For every potential done in 2015 16 Right markets Failure to deliver development scheme We continue to progress Right properties expected returns on we work hard to gain a our redevelopment Right customers developments.
thorough understanding of pipeline, assessing each Right people Cost over runs.
the planning environment new scheme on a fair and Delayed delivery of and ensure we seek counsel consistent basis.
improving and enhancing our progress regarding the Change from We undertake a detailed tracking, forecasting and last year: development analysis monitoring of our major Unchanged and appraisal prior to projects.
Appraisals are presented Key metrics: for Investment Committee approval and sign-off is 4 required for every project.
Redevelopments and refurbishments completed The Investment Committee in year reviews progress on refurbishments and redevelopments every 5 fortnight, against project Redevelopments and timings and cost budgets refurbishments underway both during and after the completion of a project.
"The Record Hall Hatton Garden 47""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk category: Principal risk: 5."
London Dependability on the London market and economy Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business Having been based within done in 2015 16 Right markets Impact on demand for the London market for a We have undertaken an Right customers space if London number of years, we know enhanced review of our adversely affected by our markets and areas well.
five-year plan, aligned to a major incident.
work undertaken on the We regularly monitor the Viability Statement.
This Change from London economy and has included some stress last year: commission research testing of key performance Unchanged reports.
We also hold measures and covenants, regular meetings with the were there to be a major GLA and the councils in the incident affecting London, London boroughs in which or major changes in we operate to ensure demand for space and that we are aware of any property valuations.
changes coming through ahead of time.
Investment Poor investment decisions regarding acquisitions and disposals Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business We undertake regular done in 2015 16 Right markets Poor timing of disposals.
monitoring of asset A detailed review was Right properties Poor timing of performance and undertaken and due Right customers acquisitions.
positioning of our portfolio consideration given to Right brand Failure to achieve with periodic detailed the decision to dispose of expected returns.
These disposals For each new acquisition were in line with our Change from we undertake thorough strategy of repositioning last year: due diligence and detailed our portfolio and brand to Unchanged appraisals prior to purchase.
meet our strategic goals and deliver strong returns We also monitor acquisition against the most recent performance against target valuations.
We have acquired five Property disposals are further properties in the subject to detailed review year, helping to deliver and Board approval.
Each of the acquisitions was reviewed and analysed in detail prior to exchange so that any potential risks were taken into account.
Following acquisition, monthly reviews on performance against expectations are provided to the Board.
"48""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk category: Principal risk: 7."
Regulatory Failure to meet regulatory requirements Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business REIT conditions are done in 2015 16 Right people Fines or penalties for monitored and tested on a We have been working Right brand failure to adhere to regular basis and reported closely with HMRC and our regulations.
We work tax advisers to ensure we Failure to identify closely with HMRC and our are aware of emerging and respond to the tax advisers to ensure we issues and keeping up to Change from introduction of new are aware of emerging date with changes.
issues and keeping up to Unchanged date with changes.
We continue to be compliant with our status Close working relationship as a REIT.
maintained with appropriate authorities and all relevant issues openly disclosed.
Key metrics: Advisers engaged to 0 support best practice.
RIDDOR Health and Safety incidents The Risk Committee provides regular updates to the Board on emerging risks and issues.
The Groups Health and Safety Manager meets regularly with the CEO to keep abreast of any actual or potential Issues.
Risk category: Principal risk: 8. Business Interruption Major external events result in Workspace being unable to carry out its business for a sustained period Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business We have robust Business done in 2015 16 Right properties Loss of critical data.
Continuity Plans and We have undertaken a Right people Loss of access for procedures in place which further review and Right brand customers to work at are regularly tested and testing of our Business our business centres.
IT controls and safeguards We have started to Change from are in place across all our obtain information and last year: systems, including a specic understanding on the Unchanged standalone data centre Business Continuity Plans back-up facility.
and procedures of many of our third party suppliers.
"49""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk category: Principal risk: 9."
Brand Failure to meet customer and external stakeholder expectations Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business To ensure we understand done in 2015 16 Right customers Damage to brand and our customers and their The use of social media Right people perception by customers ever evolving requirements channels, such as Twitter, Right brand and stakeholders.
we undertake twice-yearly to engage with our Adverse publicity customer surveys and customers has proved to impacting on demand have a system of real-time be very successful and from new customers.
We helped to create business Change from developed a customer communities within our last year: engagement plan to ensure centres.
We undertake Unchanged we are interacting with our detailed monitoring of the customers in a variety of use of these social media ways, including the use of channels in case of any social media.
We maintain regular communication with all Key metrics: stakeholders and key shareholders.
We hold 76% investor presentations, Customer survey score roadshows and an annual Capital Markets Day.
Launch of our new website During the year we launched a new website for customers and investors.
We are featuring more information on our customers, their proles, areas of business and utilising links to social media feeds.
The new website makes the journey and contact that the customer has with us much more streamlined and facilitates arrangement of viewings, the booking of meeting rooms and the overall Workspace community.
"50""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk category: Principal risk: 10."
Staff and resourcing Failure to recruit and retain the correct staff resource to implement our strategy effectively Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business We have a robust done in 2015 16 Right customers Reduced ability to action recruitment process in For more information Right people strategy successfully.
place to ensure that there go to Resources and Right brand Insufficient resource to is an appropriate level of Relationships on page 36. manage increased interviewing and scrutiny demands as the of new joiners.
New risk We have various incentives to align staff objectives with those of the Group to help ensure staff are working in the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders.
This is supported by a robust appraisal and review process for staff.
Our HR team run a detailed training and development programme to ensure staff are supported and encouraged to progress their learning and study opportunities.
Cyber security Major cyber security incident impacting Workspace or our customers Link to Potential impact Mitigation What we have strategy: on the business Monitoring information on done in 2015 16 Right properties Loss of critical data.
We have progressed Right people Financial loss due to our work on implementing Right brand fraud.
Monitoring guidance and actions from our cyber Reputational damage.
best practice issued by security action plan and Potential loss of income.
started to increase awareness of threats New risk Review of IT systems and and risks through infrastructure in place to education and training ensure these are as robust programmes for as possible.
"51""Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2016"
