37 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Our safety and production performance, independently from economic headwinds, clearly demonstrate our on going operating efficiencies.
Highlights 2011 included in all of our mining activities additional quarterly assessment of our 2011 has been a year in which the coal to help mitigate against these bounce comparative performance, which we see business performed in line with our issues and NWR, as one of the worlds as a useful development.
expectations and which, compared to deepest-level coal mining companies, previous years, reflects a more regular remains committed to developing practices Sales operating pattern.
The scale of early to address these particular issues.
Coking coal investment made in new equipment External coking coal sales in 2011 over recent years has led to significant Markets reached 4.4 million tonnes and comprised improvements in the performance of the The main market development for coking approximately 53 per cent hard coking coal business enabling us to better face the coal during 2011 was the move to quarterly and 47 per cent semi-soft coking coal.
challenging environment of deep level pricing, reflecting the impetus to move mining in our region.
to shorter term pricing by the industry as Since April 2011, 100 per cent of our a whole.
Such a move has provided NWR coking coal sales have been priced on Work around difficult geological conditions with a greater level of parity with global a quarterly basis in line with international in the deposit remained a focus in 2011 coking coal prices.
Average coking coal price in in order to meet robust demand from our benefits of this move are as yet uncertain.
2011 was EUR 181 per tonne, an increase customers in the Central and Eastern of 28 per cent, taking out the impact of European market.
Despite the difficulties For thermal coal the demand dynamic over reclassification of PCI coking coal.
associated with mining at over 1,000 metres the year has improved and the signals from underground NWR continues to core electricity generators, in markets such Given the ultimate consumer of PCI coking successfully access further areas that as Germany, have been positive for coal coal is the steel making industry, we would have previously been impossible usage by comparison to alternatives such started to classify its sales as coking coal to reach safely.
as of 1 January 2012, in line with industry practice.
Safety Coking coal prices peaked in the second Safety plays a pivotal role in our decisionquarter, although the deteriorating The average agreed price of coking coal, -making and is a key company performance macroeconomic environment in the second including PCI coking coal, for delivery in 1 metric.
Mining LTIFR, the industry-wide half of the year has affected our coking the first calendar quarter of 2012 is EUR safety indicator, improved in relation to our coal customers and led to a reduction in 142 per tonne, a decrease of 13 per cent mining operations by 8 per cent to coking coal prices.
However, we have not compared to the fourth quarter realised 7.87 the best result in NWRs history.
experienced a dramatic change in the price and in line with developments in the Major enhancements in safety performance Central European region compared to global coking coal markets.
This average have already been realised, although previous years, and much of the underlying price is based on expected Q1 2012 coking we remain committed to continuous activity remains stable.
coal sales of approximately 54 per cent improvement of the existing positive hard coking coal, 38 per cent semi-soft trend.
Our health and safety standards Looking ahead, the near-term outlook coking coal, and 8 per cent PCI coking are comparable with the levels reported remains uncertain in terms of coking coal coal.
by other major international mining prices and we remain cautious on the companies.
Given the relative complexities near-term prospects of the regional steel Thermal coal of the geology in which we mine, we industry, which has been affected by the NWR sold 6.2 million tonnes of thermal remain committed to working further on wider European economy and the sovereign coal in in 2011.
Thermal coal sales in our safety protocols for continuous steady debt crisis.
Nevertheless, we remain the period were approximately 77 per cent improvement in the coming years.
confident in the long-term fundamentals coal, 6 per cent PCI coking coal and of the region given the significant 17 per cent middlings.
Fatalities have regrettably occurred this manufacturing base and structural year and we were saddened by the tragic shortage of coking coal in the area.
We sell 100 per cent of our thermal coal loss of five workers.
Two of these incidents volumes on a calendar year basis and the were caused by tectonic stress releases, Operational performance average price agreed for thermal coal sales which could not have been predicted, or Our safety and production performance prevented and our commitment to move in spite of the economic headwinds 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate represents the towards zero fatalities remains absolute.
clearly demonstrate our ongoing operating number of reportable injuries causing at least Further internal and external expertise efficiencies.
The emergence of listed three days of absence per million hours worked.
in the area of tectonic stress release is regional coal mining peers provides
