Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information 1 NWR at a glance In 2011 New World Resources Plc NWR In June NWR was included in the FTSE new NWR Plc.
Shares were exchanged in reincorporated in the United Kingdom series index, namely the FTSE 250 and voluntary exchanges with 0.22 per cent of We announced our intention to move FTSE 350 Mining indices.
The process NWR NVs share capital currently subject domicile from the Netherlands to the of reincorporating NWR in the UK to squeeze out proceedings.
United Kingdom in October 2010 and included a share-for-share recommended completed this process in May 2011.
NWR exchange holders of shares in NWR NV This annual report covers NWRs remains headquartered in the Netherlands were given the opportunity to exchange activities for the financial year ended 2 and remains a Dutch tax resident.
one share in NWR NV for one share in the 31 December 2011.
We have three principal subsidiaries: Who we are NWR is one of Central Europes leading hard coal and coke producers.
We access coal from deep underground.
NWR is headquartered in Amsterdam, listed on stock exchanges in London, Prague and Warsaw and included in the FTSE 250 and FTSE OKD, a. s. OKD 350 Mining indices.
NWR has four working mines and several development projects Our principal wholly owned subsidiary in the Czech Republic and Poland.
NWR employs over 18,000 people and as at 1 OKD is the Czech Republics only hard coal 3 January 2012 had 385 million tonnes of JORC total reserves.
mining company and second largest private employer.
Its four operating mines What we do are located in Northern Moravia, south NWR is a trusted supplier of coal and coke.
We principally produce coking and of the Polish border and are part of the thermal coal for the steel and energy markets in Central Europe through our Upper Silesian Coal Basin.
Please refer to mining operations located in the Czech Republic.
Our coke subsidiary is the largest the Coal section of this report from page producer of foundry coke in Europe.
In 2011 total production of NWR reached 34onwards for further information.
11.2 million tonnes of coal and NWR externally sold 4.4 million tonnes of coking coal, 6.2 million tonnes of thermal coal and 555 thousand tonnes of coke.
NWR supplies to a blue chip customer base of steel makers and power generators in the Central European region, one with which we have developed longstanding relationships.
OKK Koksovny, a. s. OKK Our wholly owned coking subsidiary, How we create value situated at the Svoboda coking plant site The region suffers from supply constraints arising from limited port capacity in Ostrava, produces both foundry and blast and freight infrastructure and NWR is thus well positioned to serve its customer furnace coke from four batteries.
Please base more efficiently than overseas producers.
We have invested in technologies, refer to the Coke section of this report from streamlined the business and extended our reserve base.
We set the regions page 40 onwards for further information.
standards in terms of health and safety, technology, corporate governance and customer service.
We have a track record of attracting and retaining the best people in the region.
NWR KARBONIA S. A. NWR KARBONIA What our aim is NWR KARBONIA oversees two development Our aim is to leverage our credentials as the first privatised, restructured and projects in southern Poland Dbiesko modernised coal business in Central Europe to create long-term value for our and Morcinek.
Please refer to the shareholders.
We will achieve this by serving customers in the regions power Development projects section of this and steel sectors, and by capitalising on opportunities to develop new reserves, report from page 46 onwards for further organically as well as through regional consolidation.
1 NWR or the Company refers to New World Resources Plc.
The Group or NWR Group refers to New World Resources Plc and its subsidiaries.
2 Refers to the entity New World Resources N. V. 3 Full name: Joint Ore Reserves Committee.
The Group currently uses the JORC system to report reserves and resources.
The Group employs a certified geologist who prepares the reserve numbers and is the designated Competent Person as defined by the JORC code.
