02 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk NWG at a glance Northumbrian Water Group plc Our water and sewerage services in the north east cost NWG owns a number of companies which, together an average householder 92 pence per day and in Essex with NWG, form the Group.
The largest of these and Suffolk area, 66 pence for a water only service.
companies, Northumbrian Water Limited NWL, is one of the ten regulated water and sewerage businesses The Water Services Regulation Authority Ofwat, as the in England and Wales.
The emphasis given to NWL economic regulator, sets price limits for companies in throughout this report, reflects its importance to the England and Wales every five years.
2010 11 was the overall performance of the Group.
first year in the current five year investment plan.
This regulation is performance based and companies are Northumbrian Water Limited measured in terms of efficiencies related to operating NWL operates in the north east of England, where it costs, capital programmes and financing as well as trades as Northumbrian Water, and in the south east their general operations.
The regulated revenue of the of England, where it trades as Essex & Suffolk Water.
company is set by reference to the rate of inflation, Northumbrian Water currently provides water and measured by the Retail Price Index RPI, as well as an sewerage services to 2.7 million people and Essex adjustment factor referred to as k. The profile of k & Suffolk Water provides water services to 1.8 million for the current five year period is shown below: people in a combined area of over 12,260 square 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 kilometres.
k % 5.0 3.8 0.9 0.0 1.0 Key facts 47 impounding reservoirs NWL has a long term agreement with RWE npower 57 water treatment works for it to operate and sell the energy from NWLs 346 water pumping stations hydroelectric power station at Kielder Water, which 338 water service reservoirs is the largest in England.
25,624km water mains 414 sewage treatment works Water and waste water contracts 731 sewage pumping stations NWG controls a number of special purpose companies 16,181km sewers which have water and waste water contracts in Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
NWL is licensed to provide these services and currently supplies over 1,250 megalitres of water per day.
This Other water is drawn from reservoirs, where it is collected and SA Agrer NV Agrer carries out project work in stored, rivers and groundwater sources.
It is treated at developing countries through a number of overseas our works before it is delivered by a network of pipes to aid-funded agencies.
Revenue m In the north east of England, where NWL also provides sewerage services, waste water is then collected from these properties via the sewerage network and treated 40.0 at our works before it is returned to the environment as 8.7 either clean water or sludge which can be recycled as fertiliser or used to generate energy.
NWL Water and waste water contracts 689.4 Other 03 Directors report business review Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk River Tees River Wear North east England Northumbrian Water provides water and Berwick sewerage services to 2.7 million people in the north east of England.
The major population centres of Tyneside, Wearside and Teesside are in our area but we also Alnwick serve large rural areas in Northumberland Norwich and County Durham provision of waste Great Yarmouth water services only in Hartlepool.
Kielder Morpeth Lowestoft Newcastle SUFFOLK AREA Barsham Hexham Gateshead Sunderland Derwent Southwold Head Of ce Walpole Durham Hartlepool Cow Green Darlington Middlesbrough Aldeburgh Ipswich South east England Colchester Essex & Suffolk Water provides water Abberton services to two separate supply areas.
ESSEX AREA Clacton Langford Our Essex area, which has a population of 1.5 million, is part rural and part urban Chelmsford with the main areas of population being Hanning eld in Chelmsford, Southend and the London Boroughs of Barking and Dagenham, Brentwood Havering and Redbridge.
Southend Romford Basildon Barking We serve a population of 0.3 million in Tilbury our Suffolk area, which is mainly rural with the biggest towns being Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft.
Norwich Great Yarmouth Lowestoft Barsham SUFFOLK AREA Southwold Walpole Aldeburgh Ipswich Colchester Abberton ESSEX AREA Clacton Langford Chelmsford Hanning eld Brentwood Southend Romford Basildon Barking Tilbury i R ver Tyne
