OVERVIEW Business at a glance Perform has developed a range of B2B and B2C products around four key high growth areas Content Advertising distribution &sponsorship More in More in Business review Business review Page 22 Page 24 Perform owns the digital sports media rights to over Perform generates video advertising and sponsorship 200leagues, tournaments and events and utilises this revenues through the sale of pre-roll video advertisements rights portfolio to deliver a range of products covering live on its video on demand network the ePlayer.
The ePlayer video, news, editorial and sports data.
These products are is embedded on the websites of leading publishers and sold to online bookmakers, broadcasters, mobile operators sports portals in 20 territories and broadcast over 65,000 and other business clients around the world.
individual premium sports clips in 2011.
In 2011, Watch&Bet delivered 11,376 live sports matches and Perform generates display advertising and sponsorship licensed content to 35 online bookmakers, making it the revenues through the sale of display advertisements on clear global market leader in the delivery of live video to the Groups own websites including Goal.
com, which is the the online sports betting sector.
worlds largest football website, Spox.
The Group also acts as an advertising Watch&Trade, OMNISPORT and GSM also delivered strong sales agent for a network of third-party sports websites revenue growth by expanding the number of clients including the Premier Leagues official website.
63% 14% of 2011 revenues 2010: 61% of 2011 revenues 2010: 10% 58% 106% year on year revenue growth year on year revenue growth 2 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW Subscription Technology & production More in More in Business review Business review Page 27 Page 28 Perform generates subscription revenues from consumers Perform generates technology and production revenues paying monthly or annual fees to watch internet delivered live from a range of clients by: designing, building and video and video on demand sports content via LIVESPORT.
managing websites and mobile products on behalf TV and a range of third-party subscription products on behalf of sports rights holders e. g. Aston Villa Football of football clubs e. g. Chelsea TV Online, sports bodies Club : ingesting, encoding and streaming live and on e. g. ATP World Tour www.
com and broadcasters demand content on behalf of sports rights holders and e. g. Fox Soccer www.
broadcasters e. g. Abu Dhabi Media Company : and by filming and editing sports matches for rights holders In addition, Perform also delivers a range of lower ARPU, e. g. Premiership Rugby.
com branded SMS subscription products.
These products deliver consumers live scores and news direct A major focus in 2011 has been the build and optimisation to their mobile phones.
These services are focused on of services for delivery via new smartphone, tablet and developing world economies with significant mobile but connected TV operating systems.
limited broadband and smartphone penetration.
9% 14% of 2011 revenues 2010: 12% of 2011 revenues 2010: 17% 19% 28% year on year revenue growth year on year revenue growth Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
