Overview Polymetal at a glance A transformational year Key achievements P remium listing on the The highlight of 2011 was our admission to the London London Stock Exchange and Stock Exchanges Official List in November.
inclusion in FTSE 100 Historically the Russian financial markets have proved to be too limited and too volatile for a business such as Polymetal.
All time production volume These challenges create a significant disadvantage for both record 250 Koz of gold the Company and its long-term stakeholders.
The London equivalent in Q4 listing was a reflection of our intention to raise the Companys profile with the international investment community and Newly-commissioned improve its marketability.
Albazino concentrator reaching design parameters: We received a positive response to the IPO from the majority first shipments of concentrate of existing shareholders and attracted many new investors.
to Chinese off-takers The move has resulted in increased interest in Polymetal from a more diversified investor base, significantly improving the Completion of the expansion liquidity of the stock.
We now have greater access to capital of the Omsukchan to fund organic growth and create a currency for any potential concentrator Dukat hub consolidation opportunities.
Construction completed Our inclusion in the benchmark FTSE 100 index brings with at Amursk POX it additional tracker funds, which will also considerably enhance our access to new finance.
Merrill-Crowe section Polymetal has always sought to uphold the highest standards successfully commissioned of corporate governance and transparency and has further at the Kubaka plant strengthened the Board as part of the UK listing.
This focus Omolon hub on continuous improvement demonstrates our ongoing commitment to best practice in this field.
Beginning of underground mining at Mayskoye Long-term transportation agreement signed with FESCO LISTED High-grade ore mining PREMIUM commenced at Avlayakan 2 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Locations Key financial figures Production Russia Magadan Region Sverdlovsk Region 1,326 810 Koz Khabarovsk Territory Sales revenue US$ million of gold equivalent Chukotka Autonomous Territory 2010: US$925 million 2010: 753 Koz Kazakhstan Kostanay Region 701 8% 2 Total cash cost US$ GE oz increase of gold equivalent Our portfolio 2010: US$555 GE oz production on 2010 as at 31 December 2011 Production output % Production 2011 GE equivalent 810 Koz Gold equivalent 624 6 8% increase compared to 2010 3 Mining operations: Adjusted EBITDA total US$ million 2010: US$425 million Dukat hub Albazino Amursk Mayskoye POX hub Omolon hub Gold Voro standalone mine 55% 290 Varvara standalone mine Copper Khakanja standalone mine Profit for the year US$ million 4% 2010: US$239 million Silver 41% 1 Reserves and resources 1 Gold equivalent Operation in construction Mayskoye 1 M ineral Resources and Ore Reserves are estimated in accordance with the JORC Code 2004.
Mineral Resources are additional to Ore Reserves.
2 Total cash costs comprise cost of sales of the operating assets adjusted for depreciation expense, rehabilitation expenses and write-down of inventory 52 14.3 Moz to net realisable value and general, administrative and selling expenses of the operating assets.
Licences Ore reserves GE oz Gold equivalent sales volume is calculated based on average realised metal prices in the relevant period.
Total cash cost per gold equivalent ounce sold is calculated as total cash costs divided by total gold equivalent unit ounces sold.
3 The Company defines Adjusted EBITDA a non-IFRS, 10 039 13.8 Moz measure as profit for the period adjusted for 2 depreciation expense, rehabilitation expenses, Total licence area km Mineral resources GE oz writedown of inventory to net realisable value, share-based compensation, listing expenses, income on disposal of subsidiaries, bargain purchase gain, foreign exchange gain loss, change in fair value of derivatives, change in fair value of contingent consideration, finance income, finance costs, and income tax expense.
Adjusted EBITDA margin 4.2 is Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue.
See Note 6 Average reserve grade GE g t to the financial statements.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 3 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
