At a glance 16 new openings in 2011 208 restaurants Frankie & Bennys brings together classic American and Italian style with food and drink that always provides great value for money.
The kitchen buzzes with bustling activity as the chefs prepare dishes from our broad menu pizzas, pastas, burgers, grills and other favourites while, in typical stateside fashion, service at Frankie & Bennys is second to none!
Settle into a cosy booth to enjoy a casual family meal or a catch up with friends and observe the clatter and chatter of the open kitchen and the familiar classic 50s and 60s soundtrack playing in the background.
The restaurant walls are filled with family snapshots and memorabilia showing life on the lower east side of the Big Apple, helping you into a New York state-of-mind.
First opened in 1995 in Leicester, Frankie & Bennys has become one of the best known casual dining brands in the United Kingdom, and trades successfully in leisure and retail locations, standalone sites and at six airports.
The estate comprises of over 200 restaurants spread across the country from Aberdeen to St Austell.
com 4 new openings in 2011 69 restaurants Mexican for fun, fantastic food, amazing atmosphere for a good time, guaranteed.
The Chiquito menu offers a great range of authentic Mexican & Tex-Mex dishes in a lively environment, with fantastic music.
The dcor draws inspiration from Mexican architecture and Latin style.
Some restaurants have a rustic and relaxed feel while others demonstrate the buzz and graphic energy of contemporary Mexico City.
Chiquito favourite dishes include nachos, burritos, enchiladas and our signature sizzling fajitas, as well as the old favourites burgers, ribs, salads and hand-cut steaks from the grill.
We specialise in great food, good times and fantastic cocktails to ensure every meal is a fiesta.
Chiquito is open for lunch, lazy afternoons and lively evenings, so whether youre out shopping, meeting friends after work or planning a party its the only place to be!
Trading in the UK for over 20 years, Chiquito continues to attract a broad mix of young adults, couples, teenagers, families and large parties.
Almost 70 leisure, retail and stand-alone restaurants cover the UK with more openings planned.
co. uk Pub restaurants 1 new opening in 2011 42 Pub restaurants Really great pubs are timeless, familiar and very British.
Everybody knows what their perfect pub looks like.
Each of our pubs has its own style and personality, and youll always find a warm welcome, ageless interiors, fine British pub food, a large variety of cask ales, fine wines and great coffee.
Mostly set in beautiful rural or semi-rural locations, each pub has a local feel and many are set in intriguing buildings with fascinating histories.
We dont want all our pubs to look and feel the same instead we preserve the character of the building, which after all was what attracted us to the property in the first place.
The range of beers available changes frequently and seasonal and local specials mean the menu always offers new choices alongside trusted favourites each time you visit.
Theres friendly, engaging service from the moment you arrive, ensuring that all your needs are taken care of.
We believe that, when done well, classic pubs will never go out of fashion, and that opportunities to expand in the sector are available for experienced operators with the right offer for customers.
com our-restaurants 02 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Strong brands focused on the 51 growing casual eating-out market 35 4 54 Scotland 51 South West 21 East Anglia 25 28 Frankie & Bennys 12 Frankie & Bennys 13 Frankie & Bennys 08 Chiquito 06 Chiquito 03 Chiquito 08 Garfunkels 01 Garfunkels 02 Pub restaurants 07 TRG Concessions 02 TRG Concessions 07 TRG Concessions 47 Northern Ireland 4 South East 99 Midlands 47 25 03 Frankie & Bennys 36 Frankie & Bennys 36 Frankie & Bennys 01 Chiquito 14 Chiquito 09 Chiquito 21 21 Pub restaurants 02 TRG Concessions Wales 21 28 TRG Concessions 43 13 Frankie & Bennys North West 54 03 Chiquito London 30 Frankie & Bennys 21 99 05 Pub restaurants inside the M25 43 09 Chiquito 12 Frankie & Bennys 09 Pub restaurants 07 Chiquito 06 TRG Concessions 14 Garfunkels North East 35 05 Pub restaurants 25 Frankie & Bennys 05 TRG Concessions 09 Chiquito 01 TRG Concessions 2 new sites opened in 2011 58 sites TRGs Concessions business has a market-leading reputation for developing partnerships to deliver catering solutions that meet the needs of our clients and their customers.
Currently operating almost 60 outlets in the UKs busiest airports, other transport locations and shopping centres, we have more than 20 years of experience providing exceptional hospitality to the travelling public.
Our specialist operating knowledge and flexibility ensures successful performance across our diverse brand portfolio, covering a wide range of popular categories including table service, counter service, sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
To meet client and customer needs we deliver existing TRG brands, create bespoke concepts and establish partnerships to franchise brands from third parties as appropriate.
Building on our track record of innovation, partnership and performance ahead of sector growth will ensure we remain a market leader in this xciting sector.
co. uk 2 new openings in 2011 23 restaurants Garfunkels founded in Londons West End in 1979, Garfunkels is proud to be the original British caf restaurant serving breakfast, lunch and dinner all day every day.
Wake up to a traditional British fry-up or a warming bowl of porridge, we have great coffee too, made just the way you like it.
For lunchtime our salad bar really hits the spot, its fast, its fresh and you can make it any way you want to.
And of course theres Garfunkels classics like rotisserie chicken, hand-battered fish and chips and tasty topped burgers fresh from the grill.
Everything has been chosen because we just love the taste.
Principally located across Central London, each Garfunkels restaurant offers a place to relax and take a break from the hustle and bustle outside, with a loyal following of visitors, local residents and workers who have been eating at Garfunkels for years.
Garfunkels continuing popularity means expansion is still on the menu after over 30 years of trading and our latest restaurants offer the same friendly welcome and broad menu in a warm contemporary setting, just what you need after a hectic shopping trip in the West End or the perfect way to complement a theatre visit.
Continued success means a healthy appetite for growth with more sites earmarked to open in Central London.
co. uk The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 03
