HUMAN RESOURCES HIGHLIGHTS The Chief Executive Officer has global responsibility for Human Resources and Health and Safety.
Specific tasks are delegated to local office managers and suitably trained individuals in the organisation.
Employment Performance 2011 Implementation Highlights Indicators Staff Training, Provide employees with the Expanded the Knowledge Series, a programme that provides Induction & right career opportunities tiered modular training, that has raised skills and awareness Development and necessary development standards across SDL.
The SDL Executive actively participates framework to realise their in the Knowledge Series.
Conducted a Management Development Programme for 75 key managers across the business.
Progressively rolling out a unified Performance Management System across target business units and geographies.
Certification Staff certification enhances A certification framework has been put in place to include and raises the value of SDL technical and process training, the Knowledge Series and employees.
Management Development Programmes Innovation Nurture skills and enable greater Software development and statistical science communities collaboration and knowledge have been initiated to promote our core capability to innovate.
Talent review Identify critical skills.
A Group-wide process to identify critical skills has been implemented along with succession plans.
Promote the values, behaviours SDLs new vision, mission, values and Code of Conduct have Staff awareness and culture embraced by SDL.
HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY SDL recognises and accepts its responsibility as an employer to provide safe and healthy working conditions for all its employees.
The Company commits to maintaining a safe working office environment complying with relevant local legislation and providing training where appropriate in matters of health and safety.
SDLs policy on Health and Safety includes the following: To control the health and safety risks arising from SDLs activities: To provide and maintain safe equipment: To establish measures for legal compliance in each global office: To ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them adequate training: To maintain safe and healthy working conditions: and To review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals.
There were no fatalilties on Company business during 2011.
