Section 1 | Overview Serco in brief What we offer Serco operates in a broad and growing range of markets.
We can do this because we can apply our experience of people-led service delivery and change management to so many customers.
We transform service quality by: designing effective organisations finding innovative ways to meet their challenges applying the specialist skills their sector demands, and delivering excellent service.
Transferring our skills from one market to another allows us to help customers around the world.
Our international scale means our customers can benefit from the knowledge and best practice we develop in the worlds most sophisticated markets.
As well as operating frontline services, we also support customers through our leading skills and capabilities in business process outsourcing, helping them to improve their middle and back office functions.
This enables them to reduce costs, increase efficiency and enhance the service they offer their own customers.
Building long-term customer relationships is fundamental to us.
We devolve responsibility to our contract directors, allowing them to anticipate and respond to customers needs.
The Serco Management System, the framework which governs how we operate and behave, enables consistent service delivery and quality.
For more on what we offer and how we work, see page 12 More information about the Serco Management System is available on our website www.
com Our vision and strategy Our vision is to be the worlds greatest service company.
Everyone in Serco discovers their own interpretation of greatest, which supports what they do every day.
However, it is not about revenue, profit or growth.
It means being the best at what we do and how we do it bringing service to life.
3 Making strategic acquisitions: While we are primarily focused on organic growth, we make acquisitions to gain skills which will Our strategy for achieving this vision has four elements: be important for future growth and to enable us to enter markets where we see strong opportunities.
1 Building a balanced portfolio: We aim to reduce risk and increase opportunity by building a balanced contract portfolio, 4 Developing new models: We respond to emerging spread across markets.
This reduces our exposure to market opportunities by finding new ways to deliver services.
This may fluctuations, enables us to select the best opportunities whichever mean innovative approaches to assessing and rewarding our market they are in, and allows us to transfer expertise from one performance, collaboration between our divisions, bringing together market to another.
skills and experience which few other companies can replicate, or partnering with our customer or the voluntary sector.
Our ability 2 Delivering excellent service: This means meeting and often to lead change keeps us at the forefront of our markets.
We do this by having the responsible behaviours enshrined in our values at the heart of everything we do.
This enables us to build long-term customer For more on our strategy, see page 14 relationships, to expand the scope and scale of contracts during their life, retain contracts at rebid and win new contracts.
02 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Our track record of success The future Implementing our strategy and bringing service to life for our Customers around the world are looking for help in transforming customers contributes directly to our financial performance.
Our the quality of their services, from frontline delivery to back office focus on service underpins our win rates of one in two for new bids efficiency.
This creates opportunities for Serco in new and and 90% of rebids and extensions, which in turn drive our revenue.
Serco has a long track record of financial success.
Since we Our prospects are supported by the high revenue visibility provided listed in 1988, we have consistently grown our revenue, primarily by our order book, our pipeline of opportunities and the growth organically.
Securing higher margin contracts and managing our potential we see across our markets.
cost base has increased our profitability.
At the same time, we have delivered robust free cash flow, enabling investment in our future.
Our operational success is recognised by others in the many For more on our markets and opportunities, awards we win for service excellence.
see pages 28 to 31 For more on our recent performance, see the Operating Review on pages 40 to 53 and the Finance Review on pages 54 to 61 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 03 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
