2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Group at a glance Severn Trent Water Find out more on page 10 Our industry Severn Trent Water provides Where we operate in the UK The water industry in England and Wales high quality water and invests more than 3 billion a year and sewerage services to over employs over 27,000 people.
There are currently 10 water and sewerage companies 3.2 million households and in England and Wales.
businesses in the Midlands Our sector is facing significant long term and mid-Wales.
The privatisation of the industry Our region stretches across the heart of just over 20 years ago led to improvements the UK, from the Key strengths in services to customers, better quality Bristol Channel to drinking water and higher environmental the Humber, and We are committed to the long term standards.
It also attracted new investment.
from mid-Wales to sustainable stewardship of the the East Midlands.
Those successes, however, have also had business, the environment, customers consequences, such as high levels of debt, and the communities in which we live rising prices for customers and increased Our physical assets include: and work.
Our proposals for 46,000 km of water mains Our efficiencies and high standards changes in our industry are helping us to 126 water treatment works help us keep our costs low and play a role in shaping the debate.
We talk 54,000 km of sewers generate progressive, sustainable more about our position and how other 1,026 sewage bodies with a stake in our industry are returns for our shareholders.
treatment works responding on pages20 and 21.
We continually work to improve our Drinking water supplied per day performance and deliver cost and Our business Severn Trent Water is a regulated business.
operational efficiencies against 18 Key Performance Indicators KPIs, each We work within five year price cycles, with the 1.8bn litres of which is aligned to our long term prices we charge our customers set at the strategy.
beginning of each cycle by our economic Waste water collected per day regulator, Ofwat.
These five year cycles are Our bills for water and sewerage known as Asset Management Plan AMP combined are the lowest on average in 1.4bn litres periods.
We have just reached the end of the England and Wales.
Employees We have one of the lowest reported per Our performance capita consumption rates in the UK.
Every June, all water companies submit 5,128 We have a strong management team, adetailed annual breakdown of their As at 31 March 2011 a clear business plan and we launched performance, known as the June Return, our long term plans in our 25 year to Ofwat.
Ofwat uses this information to Turnover m Strategic Direction Statement in 2007. monitor and compare companies 2010 11 up 0.3% performance.
1,389.8 2011 As well as being regulated by Ofwat, our 1,385.3 2010 performance is monitored by: the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI, which is responsible for making sure we comply with drinking water quality regulations.
the Environment Agency, which controls water abstraction, river pollution and ooding.
We also work with the government including the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and the Welsh Assembly government and other agencies such as the Consumer Council for Water CCWater and Natural England to Split of business make sure we meet the highest customer service and environmental standards, while Severn Trent Water offering our customers the lowest prices.
profit 2010 11 Our vision for the future Our 25 year Strategic Direction Statement 503.7m sets out the long term direction and down 6.9% development of our group for the years before exceptional items, interest and tax 201035 see Our strategy, page 8.
You can also nd the full report on our website: www.
co. uk sds Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3 Group at a glance Severn Trent Services Find out more on page 16 Our industry Severn Trent Services is one Number of countries with The market for water and waste water operating entity of the worlds leading suppliers products and services is large with of water and waste water substantial prospects for growth in the areas 11 we serve.
That is because the drivers of the treatment solutions.
water and waste water business water Employees We are known for continual scarcity, population growth, climate change and more stringent regulatory requirements innovation, reliability, quality 3,056 remain strong.
services and leadership in As at 31 March 2011 Our business our chosen markets.
Turnover m Severn Trent Services provides water and waste water treatment and operating 2010 11 down 0.1% Key strengths services to utilities, municipalities and 2011 336.1 commercial customers around the world.
Our business has a clear strategy for 336.5 2010 growth, which focuses on the growing We focus on the high growth markets and global demand for clean water and geographies where our broad line of safe, efficient waste water treatment.
products and services meet the significant needs of our customers.
We are known for our quality, reliability and stability.
We have three principal business streams: We provide operating services to Operating Services provides contract an increasing number of utilities, operating services to manage and municipalities and commercial maintain water and waste water plants customers in targeted countries.
and networks in selected countries worldwide.
We are a leading provider in We are a leader in high growth the United States and United Kingdom, technology markets such as one of the few integrated water operators disinfection, ltration, adsorption and in Italy and are building a strong presence marine offshore waste water treatments.
We have a track record of growth and Water Purication Products is one of efficient operations.
the leading global providers of advanced technologies and integrated solutions for water and waste water disinfection, ltration, adsorption and marine offshore waste water treatment.
Analytical Services is a leader in UK environmental water testing services.
Our performance We measure our performance against our Key Strategic Initiatives.
We discuss how these shape our businesses on page 9.
Where we operate Our activities are focused in four regions the Americas, Europe, Middle East and North Africa MENA and Asia Pacic.
Operating Services operates in the US, UK, Ireland and Italy.
Water Purication operates in all four regions and Analytical Services operates in the UK.
Severn Trent Services profit 2010 11 25.7m down 10.5% before exceptional items, interest and tax Overview
