overview business review governance financial statements Financial highlights Group revenue up 10% to $528.2 million 2010 $482.2 million reflecting growth across all regions, with a book to bill ratio of 102 2010 105.
Performance Analysis, our major division, saw revenue up 14% with strong growth in wireless, positioning and data center technologies.
Service Assurance and Systems saw slightly lower sales, down 5% and 3%, respectively.
Adjusted Group operating profit up 10% to $125.9 million 2010 $114.5 million.
Reported operating profit $122.0 million 2010 $112.7 million.
Basic earnings per share rose 20% to 14.18 cents 2010 11.77 cents.
Adjusted basic earnings per share up 17% to 13.92 cents 2010 11.89 cents.
The strong financial performance supports an increase of 17% in total dividend to 2.93 cents per share: final dividend proposed 1.67 cents per share equivalent to 1.05 pence per share.
Return on sales, based on adjusted operating profit, maintained at 24% after increasing investment in product development for future growth.
Free cash flow of $76.1 million 2010 $82.6 million reflected an increased investment in the business.
Operational highlights 2011 saw continuing growth in demand for Spirents test solutions, driven by: High density, next-generation data center technologies for cloud computing and mobile broadband: Increased mobile internet traffic growth coupled with demand for 4G LTE requiring higher Ethernet speeds, greater platform scale and new devices: Service assurance needs for Ethernet in mobile backhaul and enterprise business services: Growth in applications of global positioning technologies such as GPS GLONASS.
Spirent introduced further innovative new test solutions to address customer needs: Completed convergence of our network performance test TM solutions onto the Spirent TestCenter platform: TM TM New Spirent TestCenter HyperMetrics neXt modules, providing unprecedented performance, scale and realism: Wireless test solutions for the rollout of LTE networks and devices and for higher 3G wireless network speeds: New positioning test capabilities to serve the rapid growth in location based services and satellite navigation.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements which are made in good faith and are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
You can sometimes, but not always, identify these statements by the use of a date in the future or such words as will, anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, should, may, assume and other similar words.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently predictive and speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
