Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 9 Strategic overview Strategic overview Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Having faced a number of geopolitical events in 2011, the most serious of which We are pleased with our performance in 2011 and have delivered another year was the North African crisis, we are pleased to have achieved an 18% increase in of record profit growth and strong cash ow against a backdrop of unrest in key underlying operating profit for the full year to 471m 2010: 399m.
North African destinations and weak consumer sentiment in some source markets.
In January, the Group updated the market on its Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effective These achievements reect the strength of our initiatives across the Group and the improvement strategic priorities and the roadmap to achieve from that date.
Also post year end, on 20 October strategy to increase differentiated and exclusive in working capital as a result of these initiatives has these objectives.
Since then, we have faced not 2011, Johan Lundgren, an Executive Director, product sales, increase controlled distribution with helped us to end the year in a net cash position.
only the events that occurred in some of our key was promoted to Deputy Chief Executive with a focus on online to enhance customer access and As one of the worlds leading leisure travel companies North African destinations but also increasing responsibility for the Mainstream Sector.
Johan reduce distribution costs, and the delivery of our we operate in a highly regulated industry from both a global economic uncertainty.
It is testament to was previously Managing Director of the Northern turnaround and cost efficiency programmes.
tour operator and an airline perspective.
We work with the strength of our business and its exibility Region of the Mainstream Sector.
Having experienced a strong start to trading at the national Governments and the EU to ensure that our that we have achieved the results that we have.
The TUI Travel PLC Board has resolved to adopt beginning of the financial year, the events of the position is understood and respected and our opinion a policy designed to achieve at least 25% female Arab Spring affected our performance and we remains that a level playing eld across the industry Results representation among its members by 2015. reported a 29m impact for the first half.
The is a necessary requirement to allow good companies The Group has achieved an 18% increase in exibility we have in our business model meant we to ourish.
underlying operating profit to 471m 2010: Sustainable development were able to act quickly and move capacity for the 399m on revenue of 14,687m 2010: 13,514m.
We have a clear strategy and road map for delivering At TUI Travel we have a rm commitment to Summer season from Egypt and Tunisia to other Underlying profit before tax is up 25% to 360m our strategic growth initiatives.
As trading in the new sustainable development and our goal is to make destinations, including Spain, Greece and Turkey 2010: 289m.
Underlying earnings per share financial year progresses, it is apparent that customers travel experiences special.
We seek to achieve this thereby mitigating the full year effect for all our increased 24% to 23.6p 2010: 19.0p.
Following a in some source markets are booking later than usual source markets except France.
Our French tour whilst minimising environmental impact, respecting reduction in separately disclosed items, the Groups and that the recovery in demand for North African operators rely heavily on these destinations where culture and people and bringing economic benets statutory profit before tax was 144m 2010: loss destinations will be slow for some considerable time.
historically they have collectively accounted for to communities.
The past year has seen our of 73m.
We have adjusted our Winter capacities to reect the about 40% of the programmes and 65% of businesses continue to drive eco-efficiencies, which current market conditions and are trading in line Marmaras alone.
This, together with a weaker have brought financial as well as environmental Dividends with our expectations.
Summer capacities will be consumer environment, meant that they were benets and sustainability has also stimulated The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.0p exed to match profitable demand.
adversely impacted for the full year and results a number of product innovations.
On 10 May 2011, the Board for this source market were very poor.
We have evidence that our most sustainably-managed We remain focused on our strategy of increasing the recommended an interim dividend of 3.3p per initiated a project to consolidate the businesses of hotels are also those which are delivering higher proportion of sales of differentiated and exclusive share 2010: 3.2p, thereby resulting in a full year the French tour operators with the aim of creating quality and customer satisfaction See Sustainable product, and on increasing controlled distribution with dividend of 11.3p per share 2010: 11.0p.
The a single business with a long term viable future.
development on page 28. a focus on online to enhance our customer access and Group has a progressive dividend policy and will reduce distribution costs.
Through our new business Across the rest of the Group, we delivered a good look to maintain underlying dividend cover at just Colleagues improvement programme we have self-help measures trading performance in the UK, Nordic region, over two times.
We are a truly international business and our team in place to help offset the difficult macro-economic Belgium, the Netherlands, Canada and Austria.
of colleagues, numbering some 53,000, are based environment, including clear plans in place for Germany The performance of our differentiated product Board worldwide.
A large proportion of our colleagues are and France.
In addition, we continue to strengthen our continues to be encouraging.
We continued to Two of our Non-Executive Directors, Jeremy Hicks customer facing and the level of service they deliver cash ow in order to fund the dividend and growth.
make good progress in business improvement and Giles Thorley, resigned from the Board in to our customers is an essential part of the leisure All of which means that, even with the current turnaround and cost efficiency especially in January 2011 and on 4 April 2011 Minnow Powell travel experience.
We have a committed team challenging market conditions, we continue to Canada, the Netherlands and Ireland, which joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and across the whole organisation and on behalf of operate from a position of strength.
have now all completed their turnarounds.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee.
In September, the Board I would like to thank them for their performance in Canada is particularly pleasing we welcomed another Non-Executive Director to Finally, I am very proud of all my colleagues much valued contribution to our success.
where, following the completion of the joint venture the Board, Coline McConville.
Post year end, on 53,000 of them who are passionate about our with Sunwing, the business has transformed itself 19 October 2011, Clare Chapman stepped down business and who each year face new challenges Dr Michael Frenzel to become a market leader.
We also achieved a from the Board and Bill Dalton was appointed head on.
I would like to thank them for all their Non-Executive Chairman significant reduction in net separately disclosed efforts and achievements not only in their own items which were 74m 2010: 255m.
businesses but also at the wider Group level.
We continue to focus on cash performance and ended Peter Long the year with a net cash position of 4m 2010: net Chief Executive debt of 249m.
We have a number of cash management www.
