Group at a glance Strategic overview Business and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 11 Strategic overview Strategic overview An interview with the Chief Executive, Peter Long 2011 has been a turbulent year for the travel industry with global economic uncertainties and many On top of your cash ow and your You have appointed Johan Lundgren companies hit hard by the Arab Spring uprisings.
Still, TUI Travel, a leader in the market, has in these profits youve also announced a as Deputy Chief Executive with difficult times recorded a profit.
To understand how TUI Travel has weathered the storm and get some business improvement programme so responsibility for the Mainstream insights into their strategies for 2012 were joined now by Chief Executive of TUI Travel, Peter Long.
obviously youre not being complacent Sector a Sector that youve decided about your success?
is critical to your plans in the future What we mean by differentiated and exclusive this must indicate that Mainstream is So Peter, how did you manage to Thats absolutely right.
At the beginning of the product is a holiday that you can only get from incredibly important to you?
financial year we said that we expected to deliver a us.
We either define the concept and own it, further 89m through our turnaround programmes Yes.
Four years on from our merger much has I am very pleased with our performance this year.
like Sensatori, Blue Villages, Sensimar or Holiday across our Mainstream businesses and an been achieved including integrating two very big We have achieved another year of record profits.
Villages, or we are the exclusive tour operator in additional 40m of cost savings and efficiencies businesses in the UK Thomson and First Choice.
This is despite us being affected by the events of a particular hotel in a particular source market.
across the Group over a three-year period.
This the Arab Spring, which we estimate probably cost We are increasing the share of differentiated and We are now at the next stage of our development year we have delivered 63m of this total.
us something in the region of 70m but which we exclusive holidays and moving away from product and for us to achieve what we want with modern were able to mitigate in all our markets except that you can get from anyone and which we We have, since then, identied further turnaround mainstream we need to be best in class, not in France, which has a huge reliance on North African consider to be commodity.
opportunities and cost efficiencies across the pockets of Mainstream but across all the destinations, particularly Egypt and Tunisia.
Group and have combined them under a new Mainstream businesses.
Having a direct relationship with the customer View the business improvement programme and, as a result, We had a strong performance in most of our is very important for us and we believe that this Johan is a first rate tour operator and leader.
interview online we have increased our target to 107m which we source markets and the exibility in our business will increasingly be through online channels.
He successfully led our Nordics businesses and expect to deliver over the next three years.
model meant that when the Arab Spring hit us, http: ara2011.
com more recently took overall responsibility for we were able to quickly move capacity away from How important to TUI Travel is the TUI UK & Ireland which has achieved an excellent You announced earlier in the year those affected destinations and secure additional online side of your business?
What Johan will do with his that from next summer the First beds, particularly in the Western Mediterranean.
experience and his enthusiasm is to take the We regard it as a vital part of our business and not Choice programme would be an all business to the next stage to ensure that our The breadth of businesses that we have across just a channel to market.
We will be driving online inclusive brand.
Why did you make business model is robust not just for the next two the Group means that we are able to satisfy most growth across all our businesses whatever leisure this decision?
to three years but to the end of this decade and leisure travel requirements through either our travel experiences they satisfy.
In the Nordics, into the next decade so by the time were at 2025 product driven or price driven propositions.
our businesses are already online driven and our A not inconsiderable number of our customers like we can say weve changed our business and weve online accommodation wholesalers and online the certainty of knowing what the overall cost of Within product driven you will nd our modern adapted our business to satisfy the customers travel agents have been delivering an average their holiday is going to be before they go away, mainstream, differentiated and exclusive product, needs of today and that requires us to continue CAGR of 25% and 33% respectively.
particularly in the current economic environment.
as well as our specialist and activity products.
Price on a journey of change and innovation.
Our First Choice brand was already 65% all driven includes mainstream commodity packages inclusive and by making it an all inclusive brand and our online accommodation providers.
One thing you have done this year So is Johans promotion an we have a clear differentiator.
is generate an extremely strong cash We have a clear strategy and road map for indication that perhaps you ow which has been the envy of many achieving our strategic goals and with a strong, are thinking of retiring?
So what is your response to those who of your competitors.
How did you committed management team we operate from might argue that all inclusive holidays manage to do that?
Far from it, Im as excited and committed to TUI a position of strength.
are harmful to local communities?
Travel and the next stage of our journey as Ive We have turned our operating profits into cash ever been.
What it does reect, however, is the Youve identied modern mainstream We try to full our customers holiday needs in and thats ultimately what we have to do and weve importance of Johans role.
It also shows how as central to your strategy for 2012. the most responsible way that we can and we are demonstrated our ability to be able to grow the seriously we take management succession and What do you mean by modern mindful that all inclusive holidays evoke strong business successfully through these initiatives and capability in the Group.
I am delighted to say that mainstream and how are you going opinions.
In our view the key issue is whether a particularly around modern mainstream, also following Johans appointment we have promoted hotel is being operated responsibly in relation to approach it?
around the other range of products that we have from within, which is testament to the strength to the environment and the local community, within our specialist businesses, whether thats our and capability of our management team.
Modern mainstream is about building on the whatever its board basis.
The evidence we have yacht eet where were number one in the world journey of offering this unique and exclusive to date shows that our all inclusive properties with over 1,200 yachts, whether its all our boats on Next year will see the introduction product we need to give customers the reason employ more local people on higher benets.
We the inland waterways across Europe a very broad of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme why they should book with us and I think that promote the use of local produce and encourage choice of leisure travel experiences which is quite a exclusive offering is very important.
The other or ETS, how do you feel about having our customers to buy local goods and to take unique portfolio when one compares with the rest important factor with modern mainstream is to yet another tax being imposed upon excursions to the surrounding area.
In a number of our competitors in the market.
give the customer the opportunity to book their of destinations all inclusive properties are bringing your Group?
We were able to reduce net debt and end the year holiday through any channel that they wish and improved economic benefit to that particular in a positive position.
Continued improvement in We advocate legislative frameworks that reward the importance of online today, whether its region.
We are involved with several research cash ow is a key target for us in order to fund the and incentivise businesses like ours that strive to researching the holiday, whether its booking the projects into all inclusive which will guide our dividend and future growth.
continuously improve environmental efficiency holiday, or whether its a combination of using efforts to ensure our holidays benefit communities and invest in lower-carbon technology.
What we research plus going to one of our travel agents, as well as our customers.
need, however, is a level playing eld so I am very modern mainstream encompasses those two key concerned that this could become a situation aspects the uniqueness of holiday experience and where it is only European airlines facing ETS.
the choice of channels with which our customers can book their holidays.
Also, in a number of our source markets and particularly the UK, we already pay significant passenger duty taxes and EU ETS should not be about double taxation.
