Section 1: 2011 Review At a glance UBM is a global live media and B2B communications, marketing service and data provider.
We seek to help companiesmake connections, communicate their propositionand do business effectively.
What are our key strengths?
Events A market leader in hosting face-to-face interactions increasingly important in the We organise tradeshows and other live in person events which enable communities to do business digitalage UBM is the worlds second largest pure play event organiser.
Revenues are generated by exhibitors purchasing vendor space, through event sponsorship or, for certain events, through Strong presence in high growth and emerging attendee entrance fees.
economies broad international infrastructure Positioned to capitalise on growth in the See page 14 for further details.
9 digitalage with a range of quality multimedia products and services PR Newswire Diverse portfolio of products and services withcross integration Our PR Newswire business provides communications products and services to professionals Committed, skilled people working in working in marketing, public relations, corporate communications or investor relations roles.
Aswellasdistributing our clients messages and information, PR Newswire also helps identify aninnovative and collaborative culture target audiences and monitors how effectively the message has been communicated.
Brand strength within attractive businesscommunities See page 18 for further details.
9 Distributed customer base no single customer generates more than 1% of UBMs revenues Data Services Highly cash generative Strong balance sheet We provide data and information products which support professionals in their decision making and day-to-day activities.
We look to create unique, market-leading data sets that can be utilised bymultiple end users in niche sectors.
Revenues are generated through annual subscriptions and listing fees: professional services: and advertising or marketing support.
Contribution to 2011 revenue % See page 22 for further details.
Data Services 19.2 Marketing Services Online 4.
Marketing Services Print 11.5 We execute campaigns on behalf of clients looking to enhance their branding, customer awareness, reach and engagement or to generate sales leads.
We offer our clients measurable return on investment and high audience engagement.
Revenues are generated through advertising such as 1 banner ads, lead generation services and, increasingly, organising live online events and building 5 managing community websites on behalf of clients.
See page 26 for further details.
9 4 Marketing Services Print We also publish 95 print titles which provide clients with a more traditional advertising platform.
The majority of titles are controlled circulation magazines which continue to play an important role in serving specific professional and commercial communities.
We have seen growing cross-over with online marketing services as clients seek an integrated marketing approach or as publications 3 migrate online.
We are managing the print business towards a focused portfolio of leading titles.
2 See page 30 for further details.
9 2 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements We utilise the skills, knowledge and experience we gain inserving one community across and between markets, transferring best practice and innovation from one community to another, from one geography to another andfrom one product type to another.
We have a well balanced portfolio of businesses, with exposure to both mature markets UBM services a variety of specialist business and higher growth Emerging Markets.
Over the last six years we have increased our communities.
It is through intimate knowledge exposure tofast growth Emerging Markets.
Since 2005 our revenues from China and ofthese chosen communities that we can other Emerging Markets have grown 162% to 207.1m.
Revenue by geographies 20052011 m 2011 Revenue by community % 467 1.
Other 3.2 10 N. America Europe UK China Other Emerging RoW Markets 11 1 10 Emerging Markets constituents are the non-G10 countries most notably for UBM: China, Brazil, India, Thailand, 9 Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Mexico and UAE.
8 7 Ottawa 2 Chicago London Amsterdam Cleveland Manhasset Beijing Frankfurt 6 New Jersey Brussels Guangzhou Shanghai New Paris Warsaw York Tokyo Hangzhou San Francisco Albuquerque Mumbai 5 Hong Kong Los Angeles Bangkok Manila 4 3 Singapore Sydney So Paulo Denotes offices with more than 50 employees.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 3
