02 Introduction Group at a Glance Atkins is one of the worlds leading engineering and design consultancies.
We plan, design and enable our clients capital programmes.
We have the breadth and depth of expertise to respond to the most technically challenging and time-critical infrastructure projects and to facilitate the urgent transition to a low carbon economy.
Our business segments United Kingdom North America Following the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation PBSJ in North America on We deliver engineering and technically In North America we provide 1 October 2010, the Group restructured integrated design, together with project infrastructure planning, engineering, and is now managed through a regional and cost management services, to a construction management, environmental model.
This management structure is wide range of clients in the public, consulting, urban planning, architecture reflected in our revised segmentation.
Our areas and programme management services of operation include water, environment, to state and local government clients, education, aerospace, defence and federal agencies and private businesses.
infrastructure design as well as significant activity in transportation.
Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Revenue Revenue 926.5m 279.2m Employees Employees 9,640 3,336 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Introduction 03 Middle East Asia Pacific and Europe Energy In the Middle East we provide a full In our Asia Pacific business we provide Our Energy business operates across range of design, engineering and project engineering, planning, urban design, multiple geographies with our main management services for buildings, architectural and rail design services.
centres in the UK and North America.
transportation and other infrastructure In mainland China our focus is on urban We provide engineering and project programmes from our eight centres planning, together with architectural management services and are engaged across the region.
In in, and actively growing, our capability Hong Kong we deliver services in urban for all aspects of the developing energy rail development and highways bridges market with the allied issues of climate design.
Our European business comprises change, sustainability and energy operations in Denmark, Norway, security.
Sweden, Poland, Portugal and Ireland.
Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Relative size of segment by revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 140.9m 155.3m 98.6m Employees Employees Employees 1,555 1,926 993 Employee notes 1.
Full-time equivalent staff at 31 March 2011 including agency staff.
There are an additional 72 staff undertaking Group functions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction
