Investment Highlights Portfolio performance is encouraging and we have a good pipeline of quality deals.
However caution is still required and our focus remains on businesses we consider to have good defensive qualities to meet the potential difficulties ahead.
Against the background of a tightening banking market and shortage of capital, Electras high level of investment capacity is likely to be extremely advantageous.
Electra therefore remains well placed for the challenges ahead.
Market Environment The financial year to 30 September 2011 began with an improvement in market conditions relevant to private equity.
However, these conditions deteriorated in the second half of the year as concerns about the eurozone, its financial stability, and global imbalances generally, caused stock markets to fall sharply in many parts of the world.
Current market conditions remain difficult in the financial markets.
Performance Despite these changes in the market, Electras net asset value continued to make positive progress.
Over the year, Electras diluted net asset value per share increased to 2,225p at 30 September 2011 compared to 2,050p at the beginning of the year.
This 175p per share increase represents a growth in net asset value over the year of 8.5% which compares to a decline of 7.4% in the FTSE All-Share over the same period.
The increase in net asset value in the second half of the year amounted to 1.5% which compared to a fall of 13.5% in the FTSE All-Share.
The growth in net asset value over the year of 96 million was due to realised and unrealised capital gains in the investment portfolio, net of incentive provisions, of 73 million, together with 23 million which was capitalised in December 2010 on the issue of the 100 million of 5% Subordinated Convertible Bonds.
Analysis of Movement in Net Asset Value Analysis of Movement in Net Asset Value m 120 84 11 100 96 80 60 36 1 17 18 40 23 20 0 30 Sept 2010 Issue of Income FX on Priority Finance Net capital Incentive 30 Sept 2011 Opening NAV Convertible loans other profit costs gain on provisions Closing 725m Bond expenses share investments NAV 821m 8 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 Supporting the growth in net asset value, the underlying investment portfolio has continued to make progress despite the difficult economic conditions.
Those portfolio companies, whose value depends predominantly on earnings and which make up the most significant part of the direct unlisted portfolio, delivered an increase in earnings over the year of 6%.
This increase in earnings and consequent valuation increases together with interest, dividends and other gains including those resulting from disposals and imminent disposals enabled the portfolio to generate a total return of 118 million, Electra has continued an increase of 15.4%.
Excluding the listed portfolio which declined by 22 million in the to deliver positive results year, the remaining unlisted portfolio, including funds and secondaries, generated a total despite the challenging return of 140 million, an increase of 21.6%, a highly successful outcome for these environment.
During the year the underlying leverage in the portfolio continued to fall and by the end of the year debt levels had fallen to a multiple of 2.5 x EBITDA.
Investment Activity Over the year Electra has seen an increase in disposal activity.
One major realisation occurred during the year and two further significant realisations occurred shortly after the year end.
These were all made at substantial premiums to the carrying value of the relevant investment immediately prior to the announcement of the sale.
The environment for new investment continued to be difficult throughout most of the year as prices remained high relative to the uncertain outlook for the growth of operating profits.
In view of this we retained a cautious outlook with total investment for the year amounting to 136 million.
Within this total however we added four significant new investments to the portfolio.
Whilst investment was lower than the previous year, investment activity in terms of deal flow showed a marked increase.
At the same time the quality of the deal flow also increased.
Outlook Electra has continued to deliver positive results despite the challenging environment.
Portfolio performance is encouraging and we have a good pipeline of quality deals.
Against the background of a tightening banking market and shortage of capital, having a high level of investment capacity is likely to be highly advantageous.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 9 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
