2 In brief A focused, active fund manager with a well-known brand and an established track record.
Our business Our performance in 2011 We are an active fund manager seeking to add This was our first full year of operating as a value for our clients through the delivery of publicly owned company, post our Listing in investment outperformance over the medium June 2010.
Despite a challenging market to long term.
environment, we have continued our track record of delivering value to our clients and We focus primarily on managing equity shareholders.
investments on behalf of retail, institutional and private client investors across a wide range of products including UK and offshore mutual Highlights funds, segregated mandates and investment Strong investment performance in a trusts.
challenging year, with 74 per cent.
of our Our core strengths in equity and multi-manager mutual fund assets above median over the products are complemented by a growing past three years.
presence in the multi-asset, fixed income and Net sales of 746m despite the significant absolute return sectors.
headwinds presented by the Eurozone crisis and the increased pressure on household Our strategy finances.
We seek to: EBITDA increased eight per cent.
to 134.9m, driven by higher revenues and maintain a distinctive investment culture, continued operational efficiencies.
focused on generating value for our clients: A resilient balance sheet, having traded into sell our expertise through products suited to net cash by year end.
our distribution strengths: Our progressive dividend policy, when deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
combined with our growth in profits, has seen an increase in the total dividend to 7.8p.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Introduction 3 How we differentiate ourselves We have a record of attracting flows across the We have a clear focus on the management market cycle, with net inflows of 6.2bn over of mutual funds for retail and institutional the last five years.
This has allowed us to grow clients.
We aim to offer products where we can our revenues significantly ahead of comparable deliver superior returns to our clients over the market growth.
Our scalable operating platform and consistent Our distinct investment culture is built on focus on business efficiency allows us to grow allowing talented fund managers the freedom our revenues without having to increase our to pursue their own individual investment fixed costs at the same rate.
This allows us to approach.
This culture has helped build a provide attractive returns to our shareholders.
strong track record of investment outperformance with 74 per cent.
of our assets above median over three years.
We are well-established as one of the leading fund groups in the UK retail market due to our consistent investment outperformance, strong brand and multi-channel distribution approach.
We are consistently ranked in the top five sellers of retail products through UK fund distribution platforms and as one of the top five fund management brands in the UK.
Split of 31 December 2011 AUM 22.8bn Asset class Product type Client geography Geography of invested assets 1% 1% 2% 5% 15% 2% 6% 80% 75% 90% 44% 20% 35% 8% 16% Equities Fixed income Mutual funds Segregated UK Hong Kong UK Global mandates Taiwan Private clients Continental Europe Other Investment trusts Europe Other Middle East Annual Report & Accounts 2011
