Lloyds Banking Group 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 AT A GLANCE Customer-foCused operating divisions Retail Retail operates the largest retail bank in the UK and is the leading 1 provider of current accounts, savings, personal loans, credit cards and 47% of total Group income mortgages.
With its strong stable of brands, including Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Key product markets Bank of Scotland and Cheltenham & Gloucester, it serves customers Secured lending mortgages Unsecured lending credit cards, loans through one of the largest branch networks in the UK.
Retail is also a and overdrafts major general insurance and bancassurance distributor, offering a wide Internet and telephone banking Current accounts range of long-term savings, investment and general insurance products.
Savings accounts 54 Wholesale The division comprises Wholesale Banking and Markets along with 1 our Asset Finance business.
The Wholesale Banking and Market 21% of total Group income business serves corporates with turnover above 15 million with Key product markets a range of relationship focused propositions, segmented according Corporate Banking Services Treasury and Trading to customer need.
Asset Finance 59 Commercial Commercial serves in excess of a million small and medium-sized 1 enterprises and community organisations with a turnover of up to 9% of total Group income 15 million.
Customers range from start-up enterprises to established Key product markets Commercial Banking corporations, with a range of propositions aligned to customer needs.
Commercial Finance Commercial comprises Commercial Banking and Commercial Finance, Invoice discounting and factoring the invoice discounting and factoring business.
66 Wealth and International Wealth and International focuses on the private banking and asset 1 management businesses of the Group and also operates the Groups 10% of total Group income international business.
Key product markets Wealth management Asset management International Banking 70 Insurance The Life, Pensions and Investments business is the leading bancassurance provider in the UK and has one of the largest 1 13% of total Group income intermediary channels in the industry.
The general insurance business Key product markets is a leading distributor of home insurance in the UK and also offers Life assurance, pensions and investments a range of other general insurance products.
General Insurance 77 1 Excludes Group Operations, central items and insurance claims Introduction 1 Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 9 Key performance indicators 6 At a glance 8 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 20 171 205 355 leveraged through our strategiC assets Iconic and distinct brands High-quality committed colleagues The Group operates a range of well recognised brands across our Our colleagues have continued to perform well despite the challenges five operating divisions with different brands utilised for different of the economic environment and the significant changes progressing customer segments, geographies and markets.
The main four brands in the Group.
We recognise the importance of our colleagues as operated by the Group are Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland the face of the bank and the fulcrum of our relationship strategy.
We and Scottish Widows though a number of other brands are used in therefore strive to attract, retain and develop the best talent and are specialist markets.
committed to making significant investment in our people.
103,000 employees 34 More on our colleagues Strong customer relationships Over the years we have developed long lasting and strong relationships with our customers.
By listening to our customers and acting accordingly we will continue to build upon these relationships and become the best bank for customers.
Broad multi-channel distribution The Group operates a comprehensive multi-channel distribution 30 million customers network, enabling our customers to access products and services at any time and in a style which suits their individual preferences.
31 More on our customers 8.3 million active internet users An integrated platform With 2,900 branches we have the largest branch network in the UK.
In 2011, the Group successfully completed the majority of its This allows a greater number of customers to talk to us face-to-face, integration activity, the largest financial services IT integration ever building trust and understanding, and strengthening our relationship undertaken.
This has not only resulted in significant cost savings with them.
Our investment programme to reinvigorate our branch but has provided us with a single banking platform which we can network will help ensure these relationships are fostered in a suitable, leverage off to simplify the business further and invest in areas which comfortable and functional environment.
We also operate one of the provide value for both customers and shareholders.
Aligning branch largest fee free ATM networks in the UK.
counter systems, ATMs and Intelligent Deposit Machines, both We provide a comprehensive suite of services through other channels reduces training costs and improves the quality of training received, including telephony and the internet.
increasing returns and enhancing the customer experience.
Our telephony system gives, with 24 7 access, the ability to either use automated facilities for speed or speak to an operator, meaning that 2 billion of integration savings customers can complete their banking needs day or night, at home or abroad.
The integrated platform is allowing us to target further simplification Our industry leading and award winning internet platform allows benefits, as announced in Junes Strategic Review, and re-invest in people to access and view all their products via a secure network.
Through redesigning our operations and processes, to We have developed and launched innovative internet tools such as reduce bottlenecks and errors, streamlining our product suite and Money Manager, which breaks down customer spending in to specific using a breadth of distribution channels, optimising our sourcing and categories, allowing customers to track their spending more effectively.
delayering our management structure we will be able to quickly and efficiently react to external pressures and provide improved services Digital banking has also taken advantage of other technological and to customers.
An element of the savings produced from simplification social changes.
Our mobile banking apps have had over 1.5 million will enable us to invest further in the group, creating long lasting value, downloads and have been some of the most popular free financial improving our strategic outlook and positioning us to deliver strong apps in the Apple App Store in recent months.
We are also using and sustainable returns.
social media to reach our customers, gaining praise for our use of Twitter and Facebook and Lloyds TSB was the first UK bank to launch a branded YouTube channel.
Overview Business review r Governance r Financial statements r Other information r
