Cable & Wireless Communications provides world At a glance class telecoms services across the globe in a diverse range of communities ranging from high growth emerging economies to developed nations.
We are the market leader in most of the products that we offer and most of the markets that we serve with astrong commitment to providing the highest standards of service to each customer.
Our regional operations Panama Macau Monaco & Islands Caribbean Customers & services Mobile customers Fixed line customers Broadband customers Market leader Market leader Market leader in20of 27 in25of 27 fixed in26of29 mobilemarkets linemarkets broadbandmarkets Includes joint ventures 02 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 At a glance 1 Revenue by region Caribbean Panama Monaco & Islands Macau US$850m US$623m US$605m US$377m Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 35% 26% 25% 15% 1 Revenue from joint venture businesses and intra-group eliminations are excluded Caribbean Panama Monaco & Islands Macau 2 Mobile customers Pay TV subscribers Mobile customers Increase in mobile data subscribers EBITDA US$229m EBITDA US$276m EBITDA US$207m EBITDA US$153m Operating cash flow US$83m Operating cash flow US$170m Operating cash flow US$128m Operating cash flow US$128m We are the leading full We are Panamas market Our Monaco & Islands business 2011 marks the 30th anniversary service telecom provider in the leader in mobile, fixed line and is a portfolio with operations of the foundation of our Macau Caribbean.
In April this year we broadband services.
We are in Europe, the Middle East, business, CTM.
We are the expanded to The Bahamas, our also a major provider of pay TV, Africa and in the Indian and market leader in mobile, fixed and 14th market in the region.
Our carrier, enterprise and social Atlantic Oceans.
It operates broadband in one of the worlds LIME brand, and our values of telecoms services.
across developed and most popular tourist destinations.
Respect, Deliver, Win, Innovate developing markets, with its www.
net are recognised throughout the largest markets in Monaco, Caribbean.
com mi 2 Includes mobile subscribers of Roshan, our Afghan joint venture Mobile Fixed line Broadband Entertainment Data centres & hosting Managed Services We are investing Our Group has been We provide high speed We offer pay TV services We maintain a number Social Telecoms in faster and higher providing fixed line broadband to our in several markets and of data centres across For corporate and capacity mobile networks.
services for over customers homes plan to roll out services the globe in which we government customers, Our core services are 140 years.
We remain and workplaces and in more.
Our triple play securely transit, store we provide a managed increasingly supplemented the market leader in are investing in our services are a bundle of and host data for large telecoms service taking by mobile broadband and almost all the territories infrastructure so we can pay TV, broadband and corporate customers on the responsibility for a range of other mobile we serve.
deliver on ever increasing fixed line services.
processes and people who deliver the service to the customer.
