4 Overview | At a glance Prudential at a glance Prudential plc is an international financial services Life assurance % of Group APE new group with significant operations in Asia, the US and the 1 business premiums UK.
We serve more than 26 million customers and have 45 351 billion of assets under management.
We are listed on stock exchanges in London, Hong Kong, Singapore 20 and New York.
% The Group is structured around four main business units: Prudential 35 Corporation Asia, Jackson National Life Insurance Company, Prudential UK and M&G.
Asia US UK Prudential uses long-term thinking to create long-term value.
Through our strong financial performance and international strategy, we create financial Life assurance benefits for our shareholders and investors and deliver economic and social % of Group new benefits for the communities in which we operate.
1 business pro t 50 12 % Key statistics 38 Asia US UK Asset management % of Group external funds under management 160 83 years of understanding 26,000 and responding to our employees 17 customers needs % 4 M&G Asia 26m stock exchange customers listings London, Hong Kong, New York and Singapore 351bn assets under management at 31 December 2011 Note 1 Excludes Japan which ceased writing new business in 2010.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Overview 5 Overview % of Group operating profits Prudential Corporation Asia Prudential is a leading international life insurer in Asia 44% with operations in 12 markets.
We have built a high EEV performing platform with effective, multi-channel distribution, a product portfolio centred on regular 30% savings and protection, award winning customer IFRS services and a well respected brand.
prudential Prudentials Asian based asset management division, Eastspring corporation-asia.
com Investments, is one of the region's leading fund managers and For further information go to page 24 the largest onshore provider of mutual funds.
Jackson Jackson is one of the largest life insurance companies 35% in the US, providing retirement savings and income EEV solutions with more than 2.9 million policies and contracts in force.
28% Jackson is also one of the top three providers of variable and total IFRS annuities in the US.
Founded 50 years ago, Jackson has a long and successful record www.
com of providing advisers with the products, tools and support to For further information go to page 34 design effective retirement solutions for their clients.
Prudential UK Prudential UK is a leading life and pensions provider to 21% approximately 7 million customers in the United Kingdom.
EEV Our expertise in areas such as longevity, risk management and multi-asset investment, together with our financial strength and 28% highly respected brand, means that the business is strongly IFRS positioned to continue pursuing a value-driven strategy built www.
co. uk around our core strengths in with-profits and annuities.
For further information go to page 40 M&G M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund 14% management business with total assets under IFRS management of 201 billion at 31 December 2011.
M&G has been investing money for individual and institutional clients for over 80 years.
Today it is one of Europes largest www.
co. uk active investment managers, as well as being a powerhouse in For further information go to page 46 fixed income.
Based on operating profit before other income and expenditure.
