BUSINESS REVIEW 28 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 CENTAMIN ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2011 29 RISK COMMENT AND RISK COMMENT AND MITIGATING ACTIONS MITIGATING ACTIONS Loss of critical processes The cost of self-generated electricity The groups mining, processing, development and Management assesses the critical components of the The Sukari Gold Mine relies on self-generation by diesel Management is reviewing alternative energy sources of exploration activities depend on the continuous groups operational infrastructure on a continuous basis.
power generators located on site, the cost of which may grid power and gas pipelines.
availability of its operational infrastructure, in addition to fluctuate significantly depending on the market price reliable utilities and water supplies and access to roads.
of diesel fuel and the extent to which the group can Any failure or unavailability of operational infrastructure, continue to take advantage of the fuel subsidies currently for example through strike action, equipment failure or offered by the ARE.
The increased cost of production disruption, could adversely affect production output associated with the loss of the fuel subsidy could be and or impact exploration and development activities.
significant and may be in excess of US$150 ounce.
Any Deficiencies in core supply chain availability could also increases in energy costs may adversely affect the results affect operations.
of operations or financial condition of the group.
Civil and or labour unrest Community relations The groups operations could be adversely affected by The group has established HR practices and policies, A failure to adequately engage or manage relations with In addition to its existing corporate social responsibility civil or labour unrest, war, fighting, terrorism or similar and is committed to keeping the pay and conditions for local communities and stakeholders could have a direct programmes, the group is implementing a number events in Egypt, Ethiopia or elsewhere.
Furthermore, its Egyptian worker competitive.
Following the recent impact on the groups ability to operate at Sukari.
of additional initiatives to improve and build on local Egyptian employment law affords extensive protection labour unrest, the group has promoted the establishment community relations, and has increased its social to employees.
Although management believes its labour of a workers representative group for the purpose of management capacity.
relations, with both employees and contractors, are facilitating a better dialogue with those employed at the now satisfactory, there can be no assurance that a work Sukari Gold Mine.
Relationship with EMRA slowdown, a work stoppage or strike will not occur at The successful management of the Sukari Gold Mine The group has regular meetings with officials from EMRA the Sukari Gold Mine or at any of the groups possible is in part dependent on maintaining a good working and invests time in liaising with relevant ministry and future development projects or exploration prospects.
Should a dispute with EMRA other governmental representatives.
arise that cannot be amicably settled by arbitration or Employees and contractors other means, this might adversely affect the groups The groups business significantly depends upon The Group depends on certain key contractors and ability to manage the Sukari in the most effective way.
its ability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, in interruptions in contracted services could result in loss particular members of the senior management team of production.
The group regularly assesses its staff Current Egyptian political situation and its skilled team of engineers and geologists.
The recruitment and retention policies to assist with labour The current Egyptian political situation may affect the The current political situation in Egypt has not to date loss of skilled workers and a failure to recruit and train stability, and maintains appropriate investment in training safety of the groups employees and adversely affect the affected the safety of the Groups employees or its dayequivalent replacements may negatively impact on the and development to safeguard the skills of its work force.
groups ability to operate the Sukari Gold Mine.
to-day operations at Sukari nor has it had any material groups operations and production.
adverse impact on the groups investment.
However, Assessments of arrangements with key contractors are management continues to monitor very closely the undertaken on a regular basis to ensure that contracted situation.
services and support meet business requirements and expectations.
Regular reviews of reward structures and incentive plans are carried out in order to attract, retain and incentivise key employees, including the expatriate workforce.
Environmental hazards and rehabilitation Mining operations have inherent risks and liabilities Laws and regulations involving the protection and associated with pollution of the environment and the remediation of the environment and the governmental disposal of waste products occurring as a result of policies for implementation of such laws and regulations mineral exploration and production.
The group may be are constantly changing and are generally becoming liable for losses and costs associated with environmental more restrictive.
Although the Directors believe that hazards at its operations, have its licences and permits the group is in compliance in all material respects with withdrawn or suspended as a result of such hazards, applicable environmental laws and regulations and or may be forced to undertake extensive clean-up and holds all necessary approvals, licences and permits remediation action in respect of environmental hazards under those laws, compliance with these standards is and incidents relating to its operations.
Any such action monitored by the HSES committee.
could have a material adverse effect on the groups business, operations and financial condition.
Remediation and rehabilitation costs are assessed and reviewed on at least an annual basis.
