AstraZeneca at a glance Our business We are a global, innovation-driven biopharmaceutical business.
Our primary focus is the discovery, development and commercialisation of prescription medicines for six important areas of healthcare: Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, Infection, Neuroscience, Oncology, and Respiratory & Inflammation.
We operate in over 100 countries and our innovative medicines are used by millions of patients worldwide.
Russia: We invested $150 million We want AstraZeneca to be valued as a source of great in a manufacturing plant near medicines and trusted as a company that delivers business Moscow and announced plans success responsibly.
Our Responsible Business Plan to establish a new predictive provides the framework for ensuring that we operate with science centre in St Petersburg.
integrity and high ethical standards across all our activities.
Launch of our new Global External Interactions Policy reinforces our commitment to the highest standards of sales and marketing practice.
Regional sales Regional sales US Western Europe $13,426m $8,501m -2% -11% Brilinta Brilique has been approved in 64 Regional sales countries: it has been Emerging Markets launched in 37 countries and remains under Around 57,200 review in 39 countries.
$5,763m employees worldwide 10% Americas: 17,450 31% EMEA: 26,600 46% Asia-Pacific: 13,150 23% Around 32,300 Sales and Marketing employees: numbers in Established Markets, such as the US, have fallen, whereas the numbers in Emerging Markets are increasing and now represent 47% of the total.
2 AstraZeneca at a glance AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Overview Our top 10 medicines by sales value in 2011 were: Cardiovascular Infection Crestor Synagis for managing cholesterol levels for RSV, a respiratory infection in infants Seloken Neuroscience Toprol-XL Seroquel IR for hypertension, heart failure for schizophrenia and bipolar and angina disorder Atacand Seroquel XR for hypertension and heart failure for schizophrenia, bipolar disorder Around1 1,300 and major depressive disorder Gastrointestinal employees work in our R&D organisation Oncology Nexium and we have 14 principal R&D centres for acid-reflux in eight countries.
Zoladex for prostate and breast cancer Losec Prilosec Respiratory & Inflammation for the treatment of acid related diseases Symbicort China: We announced for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease our decision to invest $200 million in a manufacturing facility in Taizhou, Jiangsu province and our agreement to acquire Guangdong BeiKang Pharmaceutical Our activities touch many peoples lives Company Limited.
and we are committed to working in a spirit of collaboration to achieve our goal of better health for patients: For patients and physicians, we provide medicines for some of the worlds most serious diseases.
Around 9,600 For the people who pay for healthcare, we work to make employees work at our 23 Supply and sure that our medicines offer real value for money.
For our employees, we provide a culture in which they can feel appreciated, energised and rewarded for their contribution.
For our shareholders, we aim to deliver value through our continued focus on innovation and running our Regional sales Established ROW business efficiently.
For the wider community, we want to be valued for the $5,901m contribution our medicines make to society and trusted 4% for the way in which we do business.
We work closely with all our stakeholders to understand their challenges and how we can combine our skills and resources to achieve a common goal: improved health.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 AstraZeneca at a glance 3
