Our year at a glance Q1 Q2 April June 2010 July September 2010 A new Board member Simon Palley joined the Board of Land Securities as a Nonexecutive Director on 1 August 2010.
Simon has had a successful career in investment banking, consulting and private equity, rising to be Managing Partner at leading private equity rm BC Partners.
Commenting on the appointment, Land Securities Chairman, Alison Carnwath, said: Simon has an outstanding track record in business across a broad range of industry sectors.
He will add further strength to the Park House sold for 296m New sites for Primark experienced and strong team of Non-executive Directors The summer months saw plenty In June we agreed to sell our we already have.
of activity resulting from our 2 relationship with Primark.
28,660m retail, office and residential We announced that the retailer Early start at 2 development at Park House on would take a 13,100m store on Trinity Leeds Oxford Street from Oriana, Oxford Street, W1.
Barwa agreed July saw us announce the restart our 50:50 joint venture with of development activity at Frogmore.
We also announced to pay for the site, all of the Trinity Leeds, in Leeds city that we would construct a 2 2 centre.
The 75,900m scheme 6,500m store for them at The construction costs and a profit share was the first major retail-led Centre in Livingston, and we development in the UK to get on completion.
This sale and the submitted a planning application 2 the go ahead in recent times.
for a 5,550m Primark store at subsequent crystallising of all of our We had more than 40% our Bridges shopping centre in pre-lettings in place before we Sunderland.
In March 2011, anticipated profit early which we restarted construction and the terms were also agreed and centre will boast an array of planning permission achieved for agreed in March 2011 totalled great retailers and brands Primarks first store on a retail 296m highlights our ability to when it opens in spring 2013. park, at Westwood Cross, Thanet.
create value through planning, design, construction and asset sales.
New shopping centres added to our portfolio The first quarter saw us acquire two shopping centres.
We bought the O2 Centre, NW3, for 125.9m, and we bought a 50% stake in the Westgate Centre, Oxford, from The Crown Estate for just over 27m.
These centres are in excellent locations and offer attractive asset management and potential development opportunities.
26 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 The essential read Q3 Q4 October December 2010 January March 2011 Walkie Talkie takes first steps Construction of 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, of cially started on Tuesday 18 January 2011.
The Rafael Violydesigned building will have 37 oors 2 and provide 63,240m of worldclass of ce space topped by a public sky garden.
The range of oor plates will ensure the building appeals to a wide spectrum of prospective tenants.
Earlier in the year we formed the 20 Fenchurch Street Limited Partnership with Canary Wharf Group to develop the scheme.
Awards and acclaim In December St Davids Dewi Sant shopping centre in Cardiff won the Supreme Gold Award 2010 the highest honour from the British Council of Shopping Centres.
The Cardiff centre, a joint-venture with Capital A new landmark Shopping Centres, was highly in the City praised for the way its innovative architectural approach integrates One New Change, EC4, our the new centre and the existing unique of ce and leisure streetscape.
Also during the year destination in the City, opened Land Securities was named to great acclaim in October Estates Gazettes Property Breaking records 2010.
Designed by architect Company of the Year in Retail, over Christmas Jean Nouvel, the iconic building the Property Managers offers stunning views of St Pauls Association Landlord of the Year January saw us announce that Cathedral and an unrivalled and Property Weeks Property Factory Outlets beat their previous mix of retailers, restaurants Developer of the Year.
And record for sales, going out on a high and cafs.
The retail element nally, our role in leading on in the final week of 2010.
Gunwharf was 100% let on opening.
development in London was also Quays, Portsmouth, and The The development has already recognised when we were named Galleria, Hat eld, saw record scooped the MIPIM Property Company of the Year turnover for retail and leisure in the Architectural Review Future by City AM.
week after Christmas and a 6% Project Award for mixed-use increase in sales for the year.
The the first time a UK development success con rms the attraction of has won since 30 St Marys Axe the centres and the appeal of big The Gherkin in 2005. brand names at good prices.
