We have manufactured banknote paper fide La Rue at a glance for nearly 300 years and printed banknotes for 150 years.
Our DLR 7000 large sorter processes, sorts and authenticates at a speed of up to 33 banknotes per second.
fide La Rue has partnered with Microsoft since 1996 to protect consumers from software piracy.
We are involved in the issue of 27 million secure identity documents each year.
Key sites Currency Cash Processing Solutions Security Products Identity Systems Moscow United Kingdom Amsterdam Albany Beijing Dulles Zejtun Dallas Delhi Dubai Hong Kong Mexico City Bangkok Malwana Kuala Lumpur Nairobi So Paulo Midrand Melbourne Employees by location Geographic revenue Percentage Percentage UK and Ireland UK and Ireland 19% Rest of Europe Rest of Europe 25% Americas Americas Rest of world Rest of world 52% 52% 13% 6% 17% 16% CPS locations: Melbourne, Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Johannesburg, Amsterdam, Hong Kong and Dubai fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 2 row row americas americas roe roe uk uk Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Currency fide La Rue Currency provides market leading printed banknotes, banknote paper and an unparalleled portfolio of banknote security features.
Working in partnership with its customers to provide effective currency solutions, the business can also advise on critical issues of currency strategy such as design, demand forecasting, denominational structure and protection against counterfeiting.
See page 16 for more information.
1 Cash Processing Solutions CPS fide La Rue Cash Processing Solutions is integral to the Currency offering with shared central bank customers.
The business provides bulk cash handling organisations central banks, commercial banks and cash-in-transit companies with a range of sophisticated high speed cash sorting and authentication systems as well as software solutions, consultancy, service and support to enhance the productivity, performance and security of cash processing operations.
See page 17 for more information.
2 Security Products fide La Rue Security Products consists of specialist businesses whose solutions are critical to authenticating products and documents as well as protecting revenues for governments, global corporations and financial institutions around the world.
It produces authentication labels, brand licensing products, government documents, cheques and postage stamps as well as vital components for Currency and Identity Systems.
See page 18 for more information.
3 Identity Systems IDS fide La Rue Identity Systems is a world expert in the delivery and management of secure government identity programmes, systems and solutions.
A reliable and trusted partner of governments worldwide, IDS has implemented over 100 projects in 65 countries focusing on the provision of passport, ePassport, national ID and eID, driving licence and voter registration schemes.
See page 19 for more information.
4 1 Detail of intaglio raised print from a States of Jersey 50 2 Stacker wheel from DLR 7000 cash sorter 3 Paper for Dutch passport 4 Data page from the new UK passport fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 3
