Directors Report Business Overview Leading European Group at a Glance electrical retailing and services company www.
com UK & Ireland Nordics For more information please go to page 25 For more information please go to page 26 Currys and PC World are the UK & Irelands Elkjp is the leading specialist electrical Our brands Our brands largest specialist electrical retailing and retailer across the Nordics.
Elkjp and Lefdal stores operate in We operate from High Street stores, Norway, El Giganten in Sweden and Superstores and Megastores.
We are Denmark and Gigantti in Finland.
increasingly opening combined 2-in-1 Currys and PC World stores across all formats, bringing customers the benefits of both brands in one convenient location.
Dixons Travel stores are based at all major UK airports.
KNOWHOW is our new market leading services brand.
Highlights Highlights Our Renewal and Transformation plan is working and customers Elkjp continues to perform strongly in all of its markets and is are experiencing better store environments, improved ranges and expanding its business significantly as we grow market share increased levels of service.
Elkjp operates an efficient operating model with centralised warehousing in Sweden serving all four 250 stores have been transformed so far, 31 of which are principal markets in which it operates.
based cost to sales ratio in the Group it provides the basis for the favoured operating model for the Group.
We launched KNOWHOW, our new face of service and product support which puts customers at the heart of everything we do.
Elkjp is increasing its footprint through Megastores by extending This features delivery and installation, set up of equipment and or refitting existing stores as well as refurbishing superstores to upgrades, help and support as well as repairs and protection.
During the year Elkjp delivered strong performance in Norway and delivered particularly strong The multi-channel offering provides customers with the improvement in Denmark, Finland and Sweden.
convenience of online shopping alongside the accessibility of our stores, particularly through the reserve&collect facility.
Dixons Travel is expanding its brand overseas with operations now in Copenhagen, Rome, Milan and Dublin airports.
Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space million 000 sq ft million 000 sq ft 642 285 3,816.1 8,187 2,268.9 4,223 Average selling area Average employees Average selling area Average employees per store per store sq ft sq ft 12,752 23,091 14,818 7,343 Dixons Retail plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Business Overview 01 -- 05 3 Directors Report Underlying sales by division 1 million 4 Business Overview 1 UK & Ireland 3,816.1m 2 Nordics 2,268.9m 3 Other International 1,226.7m 2 4 Pure play e-commerce 842.7m www.
tr Other International Pure play e-commerce For more information please go to page 27 For more information please go to page 28 Kotsovolos is Greeces leading specialist PIXmania is one of the largest pure play Our brands Our brands electrical retailer.
electrical retailers in Europe operating in 26 countries.
In Italy, we operate Unieuro electrical stores with some as combined 2-in-1 Dixons.
co. uk is one of the leading UK Unieuro and PC City stores.
In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, we operate under the Electro World brand.
In Turkey, we operate the Electro World brand with a local joint venture partner.
Highlights Highlights The turnaround in Italy remains on track and the business Our pure play brands work together with our store based delivered a positive EBITDA performance in the year, the first for multi-channel brands to provide our customers with the shopping several years.
trip that suits their needs.
Trading conditions in Greece remain difficult, however, Kotsovolos Overall the Group continues to see strong growth in the continues to generate cash and as market leader is well multi-channel operations.
positioned to gain further market share.
The functionality of PIXmanias e-merchant platform was Electro World in Central Europe is already a leading brand and is developed further for Dixons.
co. uk to provide an improved online well positioned for the development of the Czech and Slovakian shopping experience.
markets in the medium term.
Electro World in Turkey remains a long term opportunity for the Group with our joint venture partner.
Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space Underlying sales Number of stores Selling space million 000 sq ft million 000 sq ft 308 17 1,226.7 4,429 842.7 24 Average selling area Average employees Average selling area Average employees per store per store sq ft sq ft 14,380 6,191 1,412 1,398 Dixons Retail plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
