Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 02 Domino has grown strongly over DOMINO thelast 30 years to become a leading global supplier of coding solutions AT A GLANcE utilising a full range of products and technologies.
Through our extensive worldwide network Domino provides customers with reliable, innovative and cost effective solutions and enjoys an outstanding reputation for service andsupport.
Domino provides innovative solutions that deliver real value for customers in diverse end markets.
Our business Our diverse range Of technOlOgies Is the provision of equipment and associated consumables, spare parts and services, Enable us to offer solutions tailored to individual customer needs.
This together with which enable manufacturers to print variable data on to their products as part of the our industry leading service network ensures maximum production uptime.
Domino production, packaging or finishing process.
We supply coding and marking solutions to technologies include Continuous Ink Jet, Thermal Ink Jet, Thermal Transfer Overprinting, identify, authenticate or personalise products, providing information to consumers or Drop on Demand, Print & Apply Labelling Machinery and Laser printers providing a users.
Codes and marks can also play a key role in authentication of products and full solution capability for even the most demanding of applications.
protection of brand value for manufacturers.
Our digital printing technologies are Complete customer solutions require innovative software for effective manufacturing alsoused in high-speed web based applications and in the binding, plastic cards and line integration.
Domino coding automation systems combined with expert newspaper industries.
applications knowledge and service support enables us to fully meet these needs.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 03 glObal presence regional sales central uK eastern eurOpe 6% 6% nOrth western aMerica eurOpe 18% asia 32% pacific 27% Middle east africa 7% sOuth aMerica 4% kEY: Developed Developing nOrth aMerica united KingdOM target MarKets we serve The Domino Group is well established in North The Uk is the Domino Groups global headquarters America with subsidiaries in Canada, USA and Mexico.
including its principal manufacturing sites as well as In depth sector expertise and market based solutions In addition to full sales and service coverage across its r&D operations.
The Uk sales and service business enable us to differentiate and rapidly respond to the diverse needs of our chosen markets.
North America, the Group has fluids and printer also operates out of the Cambridge site.
manufacturing facilities in the USA.
Our breadth of industry coverage reduces our eurOpe risk or dependency on individual sectors.
sOuth aMerica The Group has subsidiary offices in France, Germany, Group companies have a network of well established TheNetherlands, Belgium, Spain, Portugal and Sweden.
distributors providing sales and service support Customers are also supported through a network of throughout South America.
The Groups distributors well established distributors across all European markets.
operate to common standards which means that asia pacific multinational companies and OEMs are assured of a Domino has subsidiary operations in China, India and highstandard of support wherever they may be located.
South korea with an established base of distributors 7 Middle east africa serving other regional markets.
Products destined for the Dominos Middle East operations, based in Dubai, Asia Pacific region are manufactured in Dominos facility support local sales in the United Arab Emirates and in Shanghai, China.
Domino also has manufacturing 1 Dominos network of distributors throughout the facilities in Delhi, India which serve the local market.
5 nOrth aMerica united KingdOM Middle east africa 4 Group revenue 2011 Group revenue 2011 Group revenue 2011 3 2 57.1m 19.5m 21.0m 1 FOOD AND BEVErAGE 50% 2 PHArMACEUTICAL AND HEALTHCArE 15% 3 CONSTrUCTION AND CHEMICALS 6% sOuth aMerica eurOpe asia pacific 4 INDUSTrIALS 8% 5 PrINTING 8% Group revenue 2011 Group revenue 2011 Group revenue 2011 6 OTHEr 13% 13.1m 117.8m 85.6m Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 04 cONTINUING EUROPEAN SUccESS ONGOING GROwTH IN OUR cORE EUROPEAN MARkETS 2011 was another successful year for Germany.
Supported by a positive economic climate wehave achieved record results.
A highlight ofthe year was the Interpack exhibition in Dsseldorf, where the new exciting Domino product range was introduced to the German and international audience.
This new product range, the contribution from our staff and the Domino.
philosophy have underpinned our success.
ERIcH jAX GENERAL MANAGER, GERMANY Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 05
