2 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Filtrona at a Glance Every day we produce and distribute millions of small but essential components manufactured from plastic, fibre and foam.
Our international network extends to 27 countries Our four operating divisions are: Protection & Finishing Products Porous Technologies A global market leading supplier of protection and finishing products, A global market leading developer and manufacturer of custom manufacturing and distributing plastic injection moulded, vinyl dip fluid handling components, engineered from a portfolio of moulded, and metal items as well as pressure sensitive tapes.
The technologies that includes bonded fibre, polyurethane foam, division has 60 operating units in 21 countries serving a very broad and porous plastic.
Representing leading innovations used in industrial base of customers with a rapid supply of primarily plastic healthcare, consumer and industrial applications, its enabling products for protection and finishing applications in industries such components are found in a wide range of products from medical as hydraulics, pneumatics, oil and gas, electrical controls, point of diagnostics tests to advanced wound care pads, inkjet printer purchase and tubular metal products.
cartridges, writing instruments and air fresheners.
Customers in 56countries are served from fourmanufacturing facilities with 2011 highlights research and development centres supporting the division globally.
Broad-based result across businesses, benefiting from 2011 highlights range developments and continued improvements in marketing effectiveness Excellent growth in printer systems, supported by healthcare Growth supported by the move to larger distribution New technologies introduced, with the commercial expansion warehousing operations of products using porous plastics ahead of expectations Launch of Duraco catalogue in China and Stera Tape Capacity investments to support future growth, products in the US including Far East markets Successful acquisition of Reid Supply and Richco, Inc.
Completion and market launch of innovative new wound care foamtechnologies 163.0m 37.8m 77.9m 18.4m 1 1 Revenue Operating profit Revenue Operating profit 26.3% 31.3% 4.3% 4.0% Revenue by end-market % Revenue by end-market % 5 8 1.
15.1 Other 3 Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Filtrona at a Glance 3 Contribution to Group 2 1,2 2011 2011 Operating divisions Revenue % Operating profit % Protection & Finishing Products 1.
25.6 1 4 4 1 2 3 3 2 Coated & Security Products Filter Products The global market leading producer of high quality self-adhesive The only global independent cigarette filter supplier.
The nine tear tape and a growing supplier of labels, products and technologies worldwide locations, including a UK-based research facility and for the consumer packaging, identity and valuable documents three regional development centres provide a flexible infrastructure markets.
Customers in over 100 countries are served from facilities strategically positioned to serve the tobacco industry.
The division operating in six countries.
The division also includes plastic profile supplies a wide range of value-adding high quality innovative filters, extrusion activities in The Netherlands.
packaging solutions to the roll your own sector and analytical laboratory services for ingredient measurement for the industry.
2011 highlights 2011 highlights Broad-based growth from tear tape, labels and the Payne authentication system Revenue growth supported by increased successful product Queens Award for Enterprise in the Innovation category launches, development initiatives and service offerings versus 2010 gained for the successful development and commercialisation Relocation of divisional head office to Singapore and move to new of proprietary authentication technology custom-built facility in Thailand, to serve growing Asian markets New go-to-market focus on Packaging Solutions Investment in Greensboro site, expanding both capacity and Authentication & Identity Solutions and operational capability Next generation Blue Badge contract secured in the UK Division re-focused on three go-to-market business units 98.2m 15.4m 208.0m 24.5m 1 1 Revenue Operating profit Revenue Operating profit 6.9% 4.8% 3.6% 3.4% 4 Revenue by end-market % Sales volume by type % 6 1.
15.6 Other 3 2 2 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 2 Adjusted to reflect the impact of eliminations and central costs
