52 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual report 2011 4.
1 g ov e r nA nc e r e p orT governAnce in hikmA message from our chairman p hr igih o lir gh iT tsi ie ns 2 0 in 11 2012 Dear shareholder XX We welcomed Robert Pickering to the When i founded Hikma, i resolved that a key Boardas an Independent Non-Executive principle for running the business was that Director, who brings us a wealth of Hikma would strive for the highest standards experience in financial and investor issues of quality and integrity in everything it does.
this principle continues directly to underpin XX We enhanced processes for reviewing our approach to governance at Hikma strategy, with a granular, bottom-up fromthe Board, to executive management analysis of existing plans and throughout the Group.
We realise the XX We developed our approach to reporting in samih Darwazah importance of having, projecting and advocating order to increase stakeholder understanding Non-Executive Chairman high standards of governance practice.
as a of the way our business is governed Board, we operate with high ethical standards, provide leadership to our businesses and XX We continued to develop our externally 4.
1 g ov e r nA nc e r e p orT facilitated board evaluation, building on exercise clear controls over the Groups actions.
areas where the Board can add further as Hikma has expanded throughout the 52 governAnce in hikmA value to our business mena region, we have become recognised 54 our BoArD asa thought leader and best practice operator XX We won the Hermes Transparency in 62 effecTiveness in governance in the jurisdictions in which Governance Award for Best FTSE 250 63 meeTings weoperate.
Hikma takes pride in providing Audit Report 65 DirecTors this role and also from learning from others XX We updated and consolidated our board 65 DelegATion of AuThoriTy inorder that we continually improve our and executive level governance performance.
arrangements into a Board Governance i have set out below some of the key Manual governance achievements of the past year XX andsome of our aims for the coming year.
We continued our thought leadership in governance with a contribution to icontinue to be impressed with the value the the Kingdom of Saudi Arabias work Board adds to the performance of our business on  integrity and have been pleased with improvements and governance to our effectiveness that were implemented during the year.
We believe that it is important not only to comply with the rules of the uk corporate Governance code, but also its spirit, and to explain clearly if there are circumstances where Hikmas approach on a specific issue is different.
in 2011 we complied fully with the governance requirements applicable to our business.
