Established in 1981 with a single store in Bury, The Group also has a number of businesses The Group in the North West of England, JD Sports Fashion which design and distribute teamwear and Plc is now an international retailer and distributor fashion product.
at a Glance of sport and athletic inspired fashion clothing and footwear.
The Group now has over 500 stores across a number of retail fascias and is proud of the fact that it provides its customers with the latest Canterbury was initially established in the New products from the very best brands.
Zealand province of Canterbury in 1904 to manufacture and supply rugby jerseys.
Backed The Group also operates on-line businesses for by over a century of rigorous on field testing, these retail fascias, providing the Group with a Canterbury is one of the worlds largest rugby truly multichannel, international platform.
Canterbury will be providing the kit to 4 teams at the 2011 Rugby World Cup.
Kooga design, source and wholesale rugby apparel and equipment, with teamwear, replica JD is acknowledged as the leading specialist and leisurewear ranges.
Kooga is also sole kit multiple retailer of fashionable branded and own supplier to a number of professional rugby union brand sports and casual wear in the UK and and rugby league clubs.
Republic of Ireland, combining globally recognised brands such as Nike and Adidas with strong own brand labels such as Mckenzie, Carbrini and The Duffer of St George.
JD has also now been introduced to the European market with the opening of our first 3 stores in France.
Kukri, acquired in February 2011, sources and provides bespoke sports teamwear to schools, universities and sports clubs.
Teams design and order their personalised kit on-line, with over 75 Size?
was originally established to trial edgier different sports catered for.
In addition, Kukri brands and footwear styles before introducing Sports Limited is sole kit supplier to a number them to the mass market through the JD fascia.
is positioned as an independent retailer with each store having its own feel and loyal catchment.
has recently celebrated its 10th birthday.
Nicholas Deakins designs and manufactures predominantly mens footwear and clothing.
Since its inception in 1991, the brand has been moulded into several collections with labels including Scotts targets an older, more affluent male Nicholas Deakins Green Label clothing and consumer with brands such as Duck & Cover, footwear, Deakins and Deakins kids.
Henri Lloyd, Firetrap and Penguin, amongst others.
Bank is aimed at the young male and female, Focus are involved in the design, sourcing and branded fashion-conscious consumer, selling fast distribution of footwear and apparel both for own fashion brands such as Superdry, Pauls Boutique, brand and under license brands, such as Ecko, Lipsy and Jack & Jones, as well as own brands Ellesse, Kickers and Le Coq Sportif, for both such as Ribbon and Rivington.
The Bank fascia group and external customers.
continues to expand throughout the UK and will open its first store in Northern Ireland in April 2011.
Chausport was acquired in May 2009 and sells a strong range of international brands such as Nike, Adidas and Le Coq Sportif together with brands more specific to the French market such as Redskins.
Champion was acquired in April 2011 and is one of the leading retailers of sports apparel and footwear in the Republic of Ireland with 22 stores in premium locations in town centres and shopping centres.
In addition, it also has one store in Northern Ireland.
com is an on-line and catalogue business which offers customers significant savings on branded fashion and footwear.
8 Devlin wearing The Duffer of St George rugby shirt and Adidas PT footwear, both exclusive to JD 9 The year ended 29 January 2011 has been the seventh successive year of good progress in revenue and profitability for the Group Mckenzie Denim polo, exclusive to JD 10 11 Stolen Palazzo pant and Ribbon denim gilet, both exclusive to Bank 12
