Kier at a glance Whatever a customer requires at any stage of the built environment life-cycle, one or more of our businesses can bring them solutions, individually or combined, locally or nationally.
Our network of regional offices and our strong local relationships ensure that we can supply both the skills and the resources to meet customer demands, anytime, anywhere.
Our divisions Kier has the financial strength, the ability and Kier Construction Kier Services the resources to adapt its offering of services p12 p18 to meet any customers requirements in the built environment.
Whether through Revenue Revenue acquisition or through creating and developing new areas of expertise and resources within 1,445m 484m the Group, we are proactive in providing 2010: 1,417m 2010: 471m solutions where a customers need has Operating profit Operating profit been identified.
39.3m 21.7m 2010: 36.2m 2010: 21.4m The Construction division The Services division manages encompasses our UK regional and delivers support services contracting, civil engineering to both public and private and overseas businesses.
Before amortisation of intangible assets Our market Kier has had another successful year in a tough economic environment: underlying revenue and profit before tax are well ahead of last year and cash generation has been very strong, with average month-end cash balances at a high level.
Our diverse skills and integrated business model have provided greater resilience during these challenging economic conditions.
We are encouraged by the prospects we see in markets such as power and waste, in mixed-use regeneration and in the growth we see in public sector outsourcing.
Kier continues to benefit from its long-term client relationships and the numerous frameworks in which we are involved.
Our network of local offices allows us to respond to the ever-widening requirement of customers for local capability to deliver bundled services.
Kier Property Kier Homes p22 p26 We have announced a full-year dividend of 64 pence per share, a 10% increase on last year.
Revenue Revenue This demonstrates the strength of our financial position and the confidence we have in our 97m 153m business going forward.
2010: 53m 2010: 158m Although we expect the next 12 months to be Operating profit Operating profit challenging, we remain confident that our positioning 11.1m 4.2m across a wide spectrum of service areas, coupled with our committed and professional staff, will enable 2010: 4.5m 2010: 2.8m us to deliver a good performance in the new The Property division comprises The Homes division brings financial year.
two main businesses: together our social housing commercial, industrial, contracting business with our Paul Sheffield retail, mixed-use property private house building business.
Chief executive development and structured Excluding 2010 one-off land transaction property financing PFI.
profit of 7.1m 2 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Operating review Financial statements Our built environment life-cycle Whatever a customer requires at any stage By providing our customers with the highest of the built environment life-cycle, one or more possible quality of service and through of our businesses can bring them solutions, sustainable, profitable growth, our vision is individually or combined, locally or nationally.
to be the most highly respected company in At the heart of everything we do is a concern the industry.
By maintaining our core values for the environment, social responsibility, and remaining focused on improvement and health and safety and sustainability.
delivery, our vision will become reality.
Design and technical services Design Development 3D modelling Investment appraisals Technical services Development appraisals Building information Site remediation Life-cycle costs and modelling BIM Site regeneration management Land reclamation PFI and PPP arrangements Soil mechanics End user engagement Contamination Development partnerships management Local asset partnership Soil investigations Lease leaseback Site preparation arrangements Mining Feasibility studies Urban regeneration Planning appraisals and rural development Refurbishment and Local property mapping Social housing and upgrading Development use care homes Building greening Community engagement Energy management Grants and funding Property refits Small works Decant management Minor repairs Strategy and planning Property policy One Kier Accommodation strategy Space planning Working patterns Kiers integrated built Estate modelling environment solution Property asset Civil engineering management UK Asset strategy and consultancy Overseas Building surveying Statutory compliance Acquisition and disposal Estate, asset data, rural estate Construction and lease management Major capital works Compulsory purchase orders Civil and infrastructure Rating and variation Design and build Energy strategy Supply chain management Traditional contracting Repairs and maintenance FM and managed services Turnkey projects Planned maintenance Cleaning, waste Cyclical maintenance management and recycling Reactive maintenance Pest control Repairs and upgrades M&E maintenance Building fabric maintenance Street services Greening of existing assets Reception and help desk Catering Grounds maintenance Post room Security 3
