Vinnitsa UKRAINE Oradea Dnepropetrovsk Karsakpay Volgograd MOLDOVA Balkhash Oktyabrsk Cluj Iasi Krivoy Rog Chisinau Donetsk ROMANIA Odessa Kherson Rostov KAZAKHSTAN Guryev Aralsk Craiova RUSSIA Astrakhan Bucharest 02 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Kerch Sevastopol Sofiya Kzyl Orda Stavropol Aral Varna Issyk-Kul' Maykop Sea BULGARIA Black Sea Lamprell at a Glance Groznyy KYRGYZSTAN Shevchenko Wider international presence Tashkent Istanbul Nukus GEORGIA Samsun Bursa Turtkul Tbilisi CHINA Trabzon UZBEKISTAN Lamprell is based in the United Arab Emirates UAE Eskisehir Ankara Athens ARMENIA where it has its primary facilities.
The Group has Baku TAJIKISTAN Izmir Kransnovodsk Erzurum AZERBAIJAN TURKEY operations throughout the wider region with customer Denizli Dushanbe Kayseri TURKMENISTAN representation from all over the world.
Chardzhou Malatya Konya CaspianSea Ashkhabad Antalya Tabriz Diyarbakir Adana Crete Rasht Halab Meymaneh Mashhad Zanjan CYPRUS Al Mawsil Latakia Nicosia Irbil Kabul Tehran Islamabad Kirkuk Hims MediterraneanSea LEBANON Herat SYRIA Beirut IRAQ Qom Damascus AFGHANISTAN Bakhtaran Haifa Birjand Lahore ISRAEL Baghdad MarsaMatruh Esfahan Tel Aviv-Yafo Qandahar Alexandria Amman Jerusalem Yazd Gaza Dezful Multan Tanta An Najaf Cairo JORDAN Ahvaz Suez IRAN Kerman Beni Suef PAKISTAN Al Aqabah Zahedan Al Jawf IRAQ KUWAIT El Minya Staff employed across the Group Sukkur 14,000 Arabian INDIA Hail Gulf Asyut Al Wajh Quayside area IRAN Hyderabad EGYPT 2.2km Luxor SAUDI Karachi ARABIA Total area facilities provide Hamriyah Sharjah Aswan KINGDOM OF Ahmadabad Dubai Investment Park Jebel Ali 2 SAUDI ARABIA 925,318m Yanbu'al Bahr Jamnagar Administrative Includes labour supply personnel Includes MIS Arabia JV RedSea Boundary Arabian Sea Jiddah Mecca OMAN Lamprell, based in the UAE, and with Lamprell employs over 14,000 people, Kerma operations throughout the region, including labour supply personnel, has played a prominent role in the across multiple facilities, with its primary development of the offshore industry in facilities located in Hamriyah, Sharjah the Arabian Gulf for over 30 years and and Jebel Ali, all of which are in the Port Sudan is the regional market leader in the rig UAE.
In addition, the Group has facilities market.
Lamprell is a leading provider in Saudi Arabia through a joint venture Al Qunfudhah of diversified engineering and agreement and Kuwait.
Combined, the SUDAN contracting services to the onshore Groups facilities total over 925,000m and offshore oil & gas and renewable with 2.2km of quayside.
Jizan Khartum ERITREA Kassala Asmera Saywun Sana Kosti Sayhut Al Hudaydah YEMEN Indian Ocean ETHIOPIA Adan Socotra Yemen Gulf of Bab elMandeb DJIBOUTI Gonder Aden Caluula Djibouti Dese Berbera Nasir 250 Km Addis Ababa 250 Mi.
SOMALIA UNITED ARAB EMIRATES OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 03 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Primary facilities Hamriyah The Hamriyah facility is purpose-built for low tide.
With a 19,000m covered new build construction and refurbishment fabrication shop equipped with overhead of offshore drilling rigs, land drilling rigs, cranes and 30,000m of fabrication pads wind farm installation vessels and oil & similarly equipped with gantry cranes, the gas structures.
facility is ideally suited for the construction of any structure.
2 This facility has 335,000m of construction 2 area and an additional 30,000m of storage area with direct access to 1,440m of quayside of which 1,250m has a water depth of 9m at Sharjah Located in Port Khalid, the Sharjah facility crawler cranes and tower cranes, as well 2 has approximately 360m of dedicated of covered as approximately 6,400m quayside access and it is at this location fabrication space.
The facility has 760m ofquayside space.
that the majority of Lamprells jackup rig upgrade and refurbishment projects are executed.
The Sharjah facility has a total 2 surface area of approximately 210,000m 2 that includes approximately 170,000m of open fabrication area serviced by mobile Jebel Ali The Jebel Ali facility is located in the Jebel Ali In addition, the facility has extensive open Free Zone, Dubai, UAE.
This purpose-built fabrication areas that are equipped with facility occupies an area of approximately gantry, tower and mobile crawler cranes 2 2 178,849m which includes more than 16,000m and well equipped offices for customers of covered workspace with internal overhead and operational support staff.
cranes suitable for carrying out piping fabrication, structural pre-fabrication and The Company is currently expanding the assembly activities under cover.
facility to support the planned increase in liftboat, tender barge, fixed platform and FPSO process module building.
Dubai Investment Park The Dubai Investment Park facility has an piping manifolds, gantry cranes, well test area of 30,000m with 2,000m of covered separators, pipe and BOP handling workshops structural and piping, storage equipment among other equipment for space, pressure testing bunker and painting onshore oilfield services.
The facility handles the design of new build land rigs, several drilling packages including mud, fuel and water tanks, substructures, masts, burner booms, custom trailers, Saudi Arabia MIS Arabias facilities in Jubail cover a total The facility handles pressure vessels, area of over 131,000m which includes the columns, reactors, slug catchers, fired primary 88,000m yard with its 10,000m crude heaters, scraper traps, heat fabrication shop and an additional exchangers, process skids & modules, 30,000m facility at Jubail Industrial Port shop fabricated tanks, O&M and other which is dedicated to manufacturing large technical services.
components, thereby facilitating shipment from the port.
