Mitie Group plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc For the year ended 31 March 2014 Opinion on financial In our opinion: statements of the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of Mitie Group plc the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2014 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 51.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 77 Our assessment The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest of risks of material effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts misstatement of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Revenue recognition There are significant accounting judgements in applying the groups revenue recognition and accounting for policies to the larger, longer-term contracts entered into by the group.
In particular this complex contracts relates to determining the stage of completion and forecasting total contract profitability.
The groups policy on revenue recognition is set out in Note 1 to the group financial statements.
We challenged the revenue and profit recognition policies applied to the contracts across the group, with particular focus on the more complex, long-term contracts, the largest contracts and new contracts won during the year that were significant either due to size or specific characteristics.
In addition to understanding the design and implementation of the key controls over revenue recognition, we performed substantive tests and analytical procedures, including agreeing significant contract terms and analysing margin trends.
Debtor recoverability The group has exposures on the balance sheet in relation to both the recognition and recoverability of contract costs capitalised, other contract assets and receivables.
We have challenged the judgements made with respect to the recoverability of significant contract receivables with reference to contract documentation and legal correspondence where appropriate.
We performed cash after date testing over the trade debtor population to assess recoverability.
Goodwill and The assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangibles involves significant intangible assets judgement by management in undertaking its annual impairment review which incorporates judgements based on assumptions of future profitability, revenue growth, margins and forecast cash flows, and the selection of appropriate discount rates.
We critically assessed the appropriateness of Managements assumptions used in the impairment model for goodwill, including the determination of the cash generating units, the underlying assumptions supporting the cash flow projections, discount rates, the sensitivity analysis performed by Management and the appropriateness of the disclosures included in the financial statements.
In making this critical assessment of the cash flow projections we assessed historical forecasting accuracy and compared forecast profit margins to historical margins and benchmarked the discount and growth rates employed to available market data.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 45.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that of materiality makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the group to be 6.0 million, which is 0.3% of revenue, 5.3% of headline profit before tax, 8.8% of profit before tax and 1.5% of equity.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 150,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Mitie Group plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitie Group plc For the year ended 31 March 2014 An overview of the Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, scope of our audit including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Based on that assessment, our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at the four divisions and at head office.
All of these were subject to a full audit, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
These four divisions represent the principal business units within the groups four reportable segments and, together with head office, account for 100% of the groups net assets, 98.4% of the groups revenue and 100% of the groups profit before tax.
Our statutory audits were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much lower than group materiality.
Opinion on other In our opinion: matters prescribed the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly by the Companies prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Act 2006 the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: explanations received we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or and accounting records adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
Corporate Governance Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement Statement relating to the companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report arising from our review.
Our duty to read Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you other information if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: in the Annual Report materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Strategic Report Governance Financial 79 Respective responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are of directors and auditor responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team, strategically focused second partner reviews and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial the financial statements statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Colin Hudson FCA Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 19 May 2014
