24 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Performance review Building a world-class portfolio of assets Chinarevskoye eld The 274 square kilometre Chinarevskoye licence is located in the Batys province ofnorth-west Kazakhstan, approximately 100kilometres north-east of Uralsk and near to the Russian border.
2P reserves breakdown Annual BOE production 2014 for Chinarevskoye eld % 16,205,641 14 44 42 LPG Oil and condensate 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Dry gas 2,829,765 4,802,553 13,483,006 16,855,027 16,205,641 Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 25 Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 26 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Performance review continued Building a world-class portfolio of assets Chinarevskoye field Geology Stable business environment Multi-layered structure Exploration and production theexploration and development licence oftheChinarevskoye field, and the We were granted an exploration respective royalties, profit share andproduction licence for the andtax liabilities payable to the Chinarevskoye field in May 1997, government.
which was extended in 2008, to Outlook 2033, for all oiland gas-bearing The licence and the PSA are currently reservoirs and horizons covering valid until 2031 with respect to the 185 square kilometres of the licence north-eastern Tournaisian reservoir area.
The licence for the north-eastern and 2033 for the rest of the Tournaisian reservoir is valid until 2031.
Chinarevskoye field, and we must Production Sharing Agreement comply with the terms of the PSA exploration permit, the production Nostrum operates under permit and the development plans agrandfathered PSA with the during this period.
To date, Nostrum Government of Kazakhstan, has met all of its capital investment whichsets the parameters for obligations under the PSA.
Geology, reserves and drilling Geology Drilling The Chinarevskoye field is a Hydrocarbons were first discovered multi-layer structure with ten in the Chinarevskoye reservoirs reservoirs and 44 compartments during the drilling of nine wells in spread over three areas: the western the Soviet era.
Between 2004-2014, area contains 16 compartments: the 69wells and side-tracks have been northern area has 24 compartments drilled under the PSA.
and the southern area has four Our drilling target in 2014 was compartments.
This was hydrocarbons have been found in not met due to the declining oil price the Lower Permian, Bashkirian, during the second half of the year Bobrikovski, Tournaisian, Famennian, with eight wells drilled in total.
Mulinski, Ardatovski, and Biski-Afoninsk reservoirs.
During 2015, we plan to complete atotal of eight wells in line with our Reserves strategy to move more reserves from Based on the Ryder Scott report, the Probable to Proven category.
dated 31 December 2014, the proved and probable reserves forthe Chinarevskoye field amount to 473 mmboe.
Proven reserves amount to 192.2mmboe and probable reserves to 280.7 mmboe.
Oil and condensate amount to 197.6mmbbl of proven and probable reserves, LPG to 68.3mmbbl and gas to 207 mmboe.
Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 27 On-site facilities Location Oil and stabilised condensate All our facilities are close to major pipeline and railway loading international railway lines, aswell as terminal several major oil and gas pipelines.
Our 120-kilometre oil pipeline and This advantageous location provides railway-loading terminal, at Rostoshi access to flexible transportation links near Uralsk, were successfully for the off-takers of our products.
Since 2009, our Our on-site facilities have grown crude oil has been transported via substantially, with our second the pipeline from the Chinarevskoye US$1.2billion capital investment field site to the railway-loading phase currently underway.
terminal where it is stored and transported by railcar to final Crude oil infrastructure off-takers.
Our oil infrastructure consists of anoil treatment and gathering Our stabilised liquid condensate facility OTF, capable of processing isalso transported through the same 400,000 tonnes of crude oil per year: pipeline using a PIG system, which a 120-kilometre oil pipeline: oil separates the crude oil from the gathering and transportation lines: stabilised condensate.
This protects an oil-loading facility at the rail the products quality from being terminal: oil storage facilities for up reduced as it would in a multi-purpose to 30,000 cubic metres of oil and pipeline and ensures the ability to railway cars for the associated crude command higher export prices.
oil and stabilised liquid condensate.
Our oil pipeline has a maximum throughput of 3 million tonnes peryear.
The rail-loading terminal, which receives the crude oil and condensate, has a capacity of 3-4million tonnes per year.
Our infrastructure also includes crude oil storage tanks on site and atthe rail terminal: condensate tanks on site and at the terminal and aloading facility at the railway terminal.
The loading terminal allows for 32 railcars to be loaded simultaneously.
The facility is also equipped with a vapour recovery unit the first in Kazakhstans history.
All of our infrastructure has the capacity to accommodate the planned increase in throughput, inline with our strategy to double production.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 28 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Performance review continued Assessing the potential of our adjacent fields Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye &  fields Value accretive acquisitions form part of our strategy to grow.
In 2013, we acquired three additional fields within 120km of Chinarevskoye to add additional reserves to our portfolio.
60-120km from Chinarevskoye licence Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 29 Appraisal 2P reserves of programme planned 98.2 US$85m mmboe Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 30 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Performance review continued Assessing the potential of our adjacent fields Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye &  fields Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 31 Rostoshinskoye, Darjinskoye &  fields Subsoil rights acquisition Appraisal programme Total combined reserves completed The cost of the appraisal programme At Nostrum, we have an outstanding In 2013, Nostrum signed an asset for the next 2-3 years is expected to track record of converting reserves.
purchase agreement to acquire be approximately US$85 million.
An updated reserve report by 100% of the subsoil use rights During 2014, we have processed RyderScott, as at 31 December related to three oil and gas fields andinterpreted the 3-D seismic 2014, has shown 571.1mmboe in the pre-Caspian Basin to the survey of Rostoshinskoye, and ofproved and probable reserves north-west of Uralsk.
The signing completed the re-processing and forthe Chinarevskoye and of the supplementary agreements re-interpretation of Darjinskoye 3-D additionalfields.
by the Ministry of Oil & Gas became and  3-D In line with our strategy, we are effective from 1 March 2013. seismic surveys.
A new reserves continuing to grow the reserve report will be prepared after drilling Geology base and successfully increase of new appraisal wells.
The results of Exploration activities over the past production further.
the reserves report will determine decades have successfully showed the development programme as well that the three fields contain as provide greater detail on reservoir hydrocarbons suitable for size and fluid composition.
commercial production in several reservoirs of Permo-Carboniferous age.
More specifically, the bulk ofthehydrocarbons are located intheBashkirian stage of the Carboniferous.
Significant appraisal of the existing accumulations and exploration of deeper intervals is still required prior to their development.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 32 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Performance review continued Products and processes NOG pipeline 120km with PIG-system Oil treatment Railway Exploration Sea port Reneries Crude facility terminal oil OTF C C 5 25 Crude oil wells Associated Intergas gas Central Asia gas pipeline Connection Final Production point destination Gas treatment Gas condensate wells facility Stabilised GTF NOG condensate pipeline Railway Final 17km C C 5 10 terminal destination Power generation Dry gas Truck transport Liquid pertroleum gas Leveraging our LPG competitive advantage through our products and processes Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 33 NOG pipeline 120km with PIG-system Oil treatment Railway Exploration Sea port Reneries Crude facility terminal oil OTF C C 5 25 Crude oil wells Associated Intergas gas Central Asia gas pipeline Connection Final Production point destination Gas treatment Gas condensate wells facility Stabilised GTF NOG condensate pipeline Railway Final 17km C C 5 10 terminal destination Power generation Dry gas Truck transport Liquid pertroleum gas LPG Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report 34 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Performance review continued Products and processes Products Quality Sales Pricing Transportation 'HQVLW H[SRUWHG LQ %UHQWEDVHG SULFLQJ 6KLSSHG WKURXJK Crude oil 3 0.815g cm accordance with for exports our own 120km GHJUHHV $3, the PSA, 15% sold pipeline from the 'RPHVWLF VDOHV DW $YHUDJH VXOSKXU domestically.
field site to our 50% discount 0.4% Destinations own rail terminal 6XSHULRU LQ TXDOLW include Nestes in Uralsk, from to other primary refinery in Finland where it is shipped benchmark crude in railcars to oils produced in off-takers at various Kazakhstan destinations 'HQVLW H[SRUWHG %UHQW EDVHG SULFLQJ 6KLSSHG WKURXJK Stabilised 3 0.750-0.790g cm 30,000 tonnes the same 120km condensate permonth are pipeline to the rail $YHUDJH VXOSKXU sold to Trafigura.
terminal in Uralsk, 0.2% Destinations from where it is include the Russian shipped in railcars GHJUHHV $3, Black Sea port to various of Taman destinations LHOG JUDGH TXDOLW, QWHUQDWLRQDO 6KLSSHG LQ VSHFLDO LPG No olefins and low exported.
Mediterranean LPG LPG trucks from sulphur content Destinations price Sonatrach the field to the rail include the Russian for Black Sea terminal in Uralsk.
Black Sea ports deliveries, or the From here it is Brest quotation for shipped in railcars Eastern European to end consumers deliveries and traders GRPHVWLF RFDO VXSSO 6KLSSHG WKURXJK Dry gas market agreements our own 17km negotiated pipeline from annually with the the field to the off-takers in a long connection point term framework with the Intergas agreement Central Asia gas pipeline, from where it is distributed by the off-taker Annual Report 2014 Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 35 Sales and pricing policy Development of infrastructure Power generation plant We closely monitor the production, The gas treatment facility uses The gas-fired power generation marketing and transportation of a gas utilisation concept, and was plant is linked to the gas treatment our liquids as this makes up the designed to treat raw gas from gas facility with an output of 15 megawatts, largest proportion of our revenues.
condensate reservoirs and the and provides the field site with the We are able to achieve a relatively associated gas coming from the OTF electricity it requires.
high netback for our export into 3 separate products stabilised Gas pipeline production due to the transportation condensate, LPG and dry gas.
Nostrum has its own 17km gas of our products through our own TheGTF associated infrastructure pipeline which was completed infrastructure and the resulting includes a power generation station, in2011 and is linked to the quality guarantees.
an LPG storage tank farm, an LPG Orenburg-Novopskov gas pipeline.
loading facility at the rail terminal, The commercial production of dry The maximum annual throughput LPG railcars and a 17km dry gas gas adds significant benefits through ofthis pipeline is several billion pipeline.
the easy off-take of dry gas volumes cubicmetres.
using straightforward pipeline GTU 1 & 2 New field camp facilities logistics, the generation of our own This included the construction of A new employee camp was power supply, and the partially two gas treatment units, each with completed in 2012 at the field site, sponsored supply of dry gas to the capacity to treat approximately providing more than 460 beds and neighbouring communities.
modern facilities, as well as a canteen, Thegas treatment facility is now Marketing recreational areas and a health clinic.
producing at capacity with an Our sales and marketing department This ensures comfortable indoor average annual production of employs experienced traders.
living conditions throughout the year 44,400 boepd for 2014.
The team is constantly working for our field site employees.
towards negotiating new off-take GTU 3 contracts and identifying efficient The third unit of the gas treatment transportation options for these facility will add 2.5 billion cubic new products.
metres of processing capacity, bringing the total to 4.2 billion cubic metres and consequently more than doubling production.
The third unit of the gas treatment facility is due tobe completed during 2016.
Changes in production Production Production % boepd 42 18,624 Crude and Crude and 42 19,384 condensate condensate 43 15,764 000 10 4,496 9 4,259 LPG LPG 9 2,940 The stable production for 2014 shows 48 21,280 the facility operating in a steady manner Dry gas 49 Dry gas 22,535 and at full capacity.
Additional disclosures Regulatory information Financial report Corporate governance Strategic report
