Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 26 Performance review continued Delivering a strong financial performance activities have been combined with strong Profitability control over development costs.
We are pleased to report We have continued to improve the that the underlying effectiveness of the processes used to manage our build programmes.
As we operating margin for continue to open new sites we have been the Group continued to able to introduce a greater proportion respond to our operational of Group house types across our 18.4% improvements and new network delivering benefits from more Underlying operating margin efficient procurement and construction land investments, increasing 2013: 16.0% activities.
We have taken advantage of 240 basis points year on the improvement in sales reservation year to 18.4% 2013: 16.0%.
rates to secure increased productivity This improvement continued and efficiency across the business.
As a result we have driven a further reduction through the second half in our build and direct costs of 70 basis of the year where we points to 57.8% of sales 2013: 58.5% achieved a margin of of sales.
We would like to thank all our site management teams, suppliers, site 19.0% 2013: 16.6%.
workers and sub-contractors for their The benefits of our unrelenting focus support and hard work which has enabled on achieving new site starts through the Group to achieve substantial profitable working in partnership with all our growth this year.
These benefits have been planning stakeholders has again reaped captured by the whole team.
significant rewards with a further 130 We have continued to make the necessary basis point contribution to the Groups investment in our management and gross margin as a result of improved land support teams during the year to place the cost recoveries year on year.
For 2014 growth of the business on a sustainable the value of the Groups land recoveries footing.
With the 17% increase in sales totalled 20.0% of sales, down from 21.3% volumes delivered this year our operating in 2013.
This continued improvement expense efficiency has improved, reducing reflects the quality of the land acquired by average operating costs per new home our management teams across the UK sold by 7% year on year.
We expect this as well as the drive to optimise planning trend of operational efficiency improvement opportunities to engineer the maximum to continue which will in turn support the value from the land acquired by the S tated before exceptional items and future growth of the business.
These critical value-added goodwill impairment.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 27 efficiency of our land replacement activity, Cash generation, net finance the expansion in our cash margins and our income, and financial assets superior asset turn has allowed us to invest Securing strong liquidity through the in substantial new land holdings at a rate of housing cycle is at the core of our long c. 200% of 2014 consumption.
This will be delivered through maximising the cash efficiency During the year the land market has of our operational activities together with provided very attractive investment exercising capital discipline through the opportunities, a number with deferred 378m cycle.
The Group generated 388m of free payment terms.
The Group has taken Cash balance cash before capital returns during 2014, advantage of these opportunities to 2013: 204m or 127 pence per share 2013: 231m, expand land creditors by 154m year on 76 pence per share and held 378m year to 460m 2013: 306m.
This allows of cash balances at 31 December 2014 the continued growth of the business to be 2013: 204m.
financed through the generation of cash inflows from operations before working During the first half of the year the Group capital requirements, which totalled 488m held an average cash balance of c. 120m, in 2014 2013: 346m, without reducing and c. 40m in the second half.
We used cash resources available to shareholders.
the committed facilities held by the Group With the introduction of the Governments for working capital purposes during the Help to Buy scheme the Group has second half but only for a limited period.
experienced a significant reduction in the As a result the Group realised net finance requirement to offer shared equity loans income for the year of 1.7m 2013: net to customers.
As a result, the Groups finance cost of 3.5m.
This net income Available for sale financial assets, being position was primarily due to the imputed deferred receivables from our customers, interest generated on the Groups deferred reduced in the year by 14m to 201m shared equity receivables offsetting 2013: 215m.
We have experienced the funding costs associated with the increasing redemption cash inflows and Groups pension schemes, imputed an absence of any significant distress interest payable on land creditors, and associated with the outstanding loans.
cash interest costs paid to the Groups The Board has again reviewed the carrying funding partners.
value of these receivables and has Reinvestment of free cash in the business concluded that the value is appropriate.
is always of primary importance.
The level Further details with respect to our of reinvestment will vary over the cycle approach to these assets are disclosed depending upon actual and prospective in Notes 2,3, 17 and 22 to the Financial conditions in the sales and land markets.
Statements with further commentary with Discipline over the level of reinvestment respect to the review of these matters will remain a priority of the Group over the by the Audit Committee in the Audit long term.
During 2014 we have made Committee Report on pages 46 to 48, further significant investment in work in and, to the review by the external auditor progress to deliver the significant increase in the Independent Auditors Report to the in sales year on year.
In addition, the cash Members of Persimmon plc on pages 65 to 67.
The Group generated 388m of free cash before capital returns during 2014, or 127 pence per share 2013: 231m, 76 pence per share.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2014 28 Performance review continued The delivery of the Capital Return Plan A key element of our business model is the This remains a key support to superior depends upon the cash efficiency of our continued investment in strategic land and cash generation and returns.
We remain confident its successful promotion and conversion that additional substantial investment will that our operational approach will underpin into consented land through the planning continue to be made in work in progress the delivery of our long term strategy as system.
We successfully obtained planning and we will continue to convert our work reflected in the further acceleration of the permission for 9,386 plots of land from in progress as swiftly as possible over Capital Return Plan announced today.
our strategic land portfolio during the future periods to minimise operational and Indeed, this focus has supported a 40% year, representing c. 69% of the Groups financial risks.
growth in the rate of return on the capital land consumption in 2014.
In addition, The Board has again reviewed the net employed in the business which climbed to we acquired interests in a further c. 2,650 realisable value of land and work in 24.6% for the year 2013: 17.6%.
We are confident progress at the year end using consistent that we will secure a detailed planning principles to prior years.
Overall, the Board Land and construction consent for this land on proving its concluded that there was no significant net sustainable qualities through the normal Investing in new land opportunities at the change in impairment provision required at planning application processes over future appropriate point in the housing market the year end due to the balance between months and years.
cycle at attractive values is critical in the firming of selling prices through the sustaining superior shareholder value We are working very hard to convert as year being mitigated by a degree of cost creation over the longer term.
The Groups much of our strategic land as possible inflation on the relevant sites.
This position land replacement activity is focused on as swiftly as possible.
The risk of change resulted from a gross reversal of provision securing high quality returns for each of to UK planning policies increases with no longer required on certain development our housebuilding businesses in their the upcoming General Election, with the sites being offset by additional regional markets.
Our management ensuing increased uncertainty for decision requirements on others of 9.9m.
At the teams capabilities enable us to create making by local planning authorities in year end the Group retained an impairment significant value by identifying compelling their communities.
The new National provision of 80.4m 2013: 102.8m acquisition opportunities both in the short Planning Policy Framework has started to which is considered adequate to address term land market and for strategic land improve the efficiency of the UK planning the potential impact of current market investment.
This value is enhanced by our process and is gradually increasing uncertainties on future revenues and direct planning teams through optimising our the supply of land for residential use.
Further details of our approach to development schemes and bringing the Whatever the result of the next General inventory impairment are included in the sites into production as quickly as possible.
Election a continuation of the new policy Notes to the Accounts in our Accounting The quality of these investments is revealed framework will be a key ingredient in Policies at Note 2, our Critical Accounting not only in the strong profitability and cash supporting the required level of confidence Judgements at Note 3 and Inventories at generation in the short term, but in the that the housebuilding industry needs Note 18.
Further commentary with respect superior quality of the landbank we hold for to continue to increase its output and to the review of these matters by the Audit future development which stood at 87,720 make the further substantial investment Committee is also included in the Audit plots owned and under control at the end required to facilitate this growth.
We have Committee Report on pages 46 to 48, of the year.
substantial numbers of applications for and, to the review by the external auditor residential land use submitted with the in the Independent Auditors Report to the The Groups carrying value of its land planning authorities across our regional Members of Persimmon plc on pages 65 assets at 31 December 2014 of 1,842m businesses.
We are confident that our to 67. was 206m higher than the prior year strategic land portfolio of c. 17,000 acres 2013: 1,636m reflecting the strong will yield in excess of 100,000 forward plots investment for the future development of for future development by the business in the business by acquiring 26,822 plots of due course.
At 31 December 2014 the carrying Our owned and controlled landbank at value of our work in progress of 465m 31 December 2014 represents c. 6.5 years was just 1m higher than the prior year of supply at 2014 output volumes in line 2013: 464m.
Whilst this lean work in with the position last year.
Our long term progress position reflects the Groups strategy remains to reduce our forward strong control over build programmes, supply to nearer five years at optimal levels which is focused on delivering completed of output.
The anticipated further growth new homes to customers as promptly as of the Group in achieving the optimal possible, it also results in part from the sustainable market share of each of our tight market for skilled labour mentioned regional businesses, in conjunction with earlier in this report.
The Groups work in exercising investment discipline, continues progress investment represents just 18% to secure the required capital efficiency of of 2014 sales and represents a further 18% our land holdings.
improvement on last years asset turn.
