10 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Financial Review Operating profits increased 7.4% versus the prior year driven by underlying revenue growth, improved margins and a profitable outturn from the PZ Wilmar joint venture.
This has been achieved despite a significant In Europe, a strong performance, in This years highlights exchange impact of circa 12 million from particular from the Washing and Bathing the translation and transactional effect Revenue growth in constant currency of division, resulted in higher operating profits of weakening currencies, in particular the versus the prior year.
The sale of the Polish 2% on prior year: in addition JV revenue Australian Dollar, Indonesian Rupiah and Home Care brands resulted in revenue increasing by 172 million the Ghanaian Cedi.
Excluding this impact, from that market being 24 million lower profits would have been 18% higher than than the previous year, whilst profits were Operating profit growth of 7% despite the previous year.
Whilst trading conditions at a similar level as a result of a strong the impact of weakening currencies continue to be tough in most markets, performance pre disposal.
the Groups speed to market with brand Raffertys Garden acquisition completed innovation and renovation, as well as a The overall impact of exchange rate early in the year for 42.2 million in cash continuing focus on improving margins, movements in the year resulted in hasenabled another year of profitable adecrease in Group revenue of circa growth to bedelivered.
Disposal of Polish Home Care brands 37million.
The translational and transactional impact of the exchange completed in February for 46.6 million Within Africa, Nigeria continues to be the ratemovements was to reduce profits incash largest market with the majority of revenue bycirca 5 million and 7 million and operating profit coming from that respectively, a total of circa 12million.
Adjusted earnings per share rose 8.1% geography.
Operating profit growth was to17.96p 2013: 16.62p achieved in the year despite the significant Financial position overview ongoing disruption in the north of the The Groups balance sheet remains strong Exceptional income of 8.7 million country and generally low levels of liquidity with only a small net debt position at the recorded during the year 2013: charge in the market.
With the new PZ Wilmar joint year end following 96.9 million of cash of12.7 million mainly related to the sale venture fully up and running, the Group generated from operations through tight of the Polish Home Care brands partially now benefits from significant category control of workingcapital.
diversification with a spread of businesses offset by thecosts of supply chain across Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals Total capital expenditure of 30.0 million optimisation, the Group structure and and now two joint ventures in the Food and comprises an underlying amount close systems project and Raffertys Garden Nutritioncategory.
to depreciation levels relating to factory acquisition andintegration expenditure, plus a further amount for Underlying performance in Asia has been the implementation of SAP and other Total dividend increased 5% year-on-year strong although the weakening in the ITinfastructure.
being the 41st year of consecutive Australian Dollar and Indonesian Rupiah year-on-year increases has impacted results in Sterling.
Regional During the year 42.2 million was spent results are ahead of the prior year as a in relation to the acquisition of Raffertys result of the Raffertys Garden acquisition Garden and 46.6 million was received which contributed circa 19.6 million and in relation to the disposal of the Polish 2.2 million to revenue and operating HomeCarebrands.
11 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Group structure and systems project Dividend These initiatives will help to offset the As announced in July 2013, a Group The Group aims to pay an attractive, continuing macro challenges including structure and systems project is under way sustainable and growing dividend.
The foreign exchange volatility, and the to realign the Groups non-manufacturing Board is recommending a final dividend of reduction in profits from Poland as a organisation design and to invest in the 5.23p 2013: 5.04p per share making a total resultof the Home Care brandssale.
Good progress of 7.76p 2013: 7.39p per share for the year, has been made during the year, including a 5% increase and the 41st successive year The Groups balance sheet remains strong changes to some of the Groups category of dividendincreases.
and well placed to pursue new areas and supply chain structures.
selected as the Groups core system for The overall dividend remains some 2.3 times the future and IBM have been chosen as covered by adjusted earnings per share.
The overall performance of the Group the external systems integrator.
SAP will Subject to approval at the AGM, the final since the year-end has been in line with be implemented across the Group phased dividend will be paid on 1 October 2014 to .
byregion over the next threeyears.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 August 2014.
Exceptional items A net exceptional profit of 8.7 million Directors before tax was recorded during the James Steel, Senior Independent Director year 2013: charge of 12.7 million.
The and Chairman of the Remuneration exceptional profit relates to the profit in Committee, will retire from the Board at the year recognised from the sale of the theend of his term of office immediately Polish Home Care brands 30.6 million after the 2014 Annual General Meeting partially offset by the cost of the supply on 23 September.
He will be succeeded as chain optimisation project phase 1 and2 Senior Independent Director by John Arnold 13.0 million, the current year cost of and as Chairman of the Remuneration the Group structure and systems project Committee by Helen Owers.
James has 5.6 million and the cost of the Raffertys served as a Non-executive Director since Garden acquisition and integration October2005.
Outlook Taxation Whilst trading conditions in most markets The effective tax rate before exceptional remain challenging, the Group remains items was 26.0% 2013: 26.5% and is lower focussed on a dynamic and fast brand principally due to decreased UK corporation renovation and innovation programme, taxrates.
anongoing cost reduction programme and successful delivery of new areas of growth such as Raffertys Garden and the Wilmar jointventure.
