Strategic Report Category Performance Review Focus on Powerbrands Health and Hygiene led our growth The right portfolio strategy as we invest in consumer led science based innovations.
Other 20% 8% Scholl, Durex, Dettol, Lysol and Vanish performed particularly well in 2014.
The Group continued to improve its focus on its core business, 92% with a strategic acquisition and further brand rationalisation throughout the year.
By the end of 2014, Health, Hygiene and Home made up 92% 80% of our total business, versus 80% in 2011.
Health Hygiene Home 2011 2014 Health Growth was broad based Scholl performed strongly in 2014, driven by the success of our new Velvet Express Pedi innovation, which was launched in a number of new markets Powerbrands during the year.
Durex performed well, with condom sales driven by our new Real Feel polyisoprene condom, lubricants behind our recently launched Embrace pleasure gels and our new range of pleasure toys.
The lubricants segment has also been boosted by our acquisition of K-Y during the year.
Gaviscon also performed well, driven by Double Action and new liquid sachet formats.
Mucinex was negatively impacted by weak category growth off a strong comparative and private label presence in some cough and congestion lines.
MegaRed was launched during the first half in 20 countries throughout Europe.
Given the long-term and preventative nature of the brand proposition, we continue to expect that it will take time to fully establish the brand in new markets.
In the US, MegaRed has outperformed weak market conditions.
Preview of 2015 initiatives Nurofen Express, targeting muscle inflammation Scholl Velvet Smooth Express Pedi with Diamond Crystals Scholl GelActiv insoles Durex Invisible extra thin condom Optrex ActiMist 2in1 MegaRed Super Heart Net revenue Like-for-like growth Gaviscon Double Action roll out to DVM 2,701m 8% RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 14 Total NR Strategic Report Hygiene Growth was led by the Dettol Lysol Sagrotan franchise Powerbrands New initiatives like the Power and Pure Tipp Topp innovation, launched in Germany, and market penetration programmes such as Benaga Swachh Clean India campaign led growth in Hygiene.
Veet had a strong year led by our Naturals range, which has been particularly successful in India and Turkey.
Preview of 2015 initiatives Finish Shine and Protect Dettol proFresh body wash Dettol Body Wash and Bar Soap Veet Spawax Net revenue Like-for-like growth Mortein Active Paper 3,627m 3% Home Growth was driven by Vanish Growth was driven by a strong performance in Vanish behind the success of our new Vanish Gold in the UK, the premium stain removal line.
Our Vanish Powerbrands Super Bar, designed for emerging markets, performed particularly well in Brazil and we have seen further penetration gains across a number of markets on the back of our Vanish Tip Exchange penetration programme.
In our fragrance category, Air Wick has a strong pipeline for 2015 and we are particularly excited about the upcoming launch of our new Air Wick Life Scents range.
Preview of 2015 initiatives Air Wick Life Scents Rollout of Vanish Gold Net revenue Like-for-like growth Vanish Gold for Whites 1,810m 1% Food Portfolio Growth has been driven by strong performance from both Frenchs Net revenue was 382m, with a like-for-like decline of 5%.
Fried Onions and Franks RedHot.
Increased distribution in international With the licensing out of the Scholl Footwear brand and the markets also contributed to good growth outside the US.
Medcom Hospital business now excluded from the like-for-like results of this category, Portfolio Brands predominantly comprises laundry detergents and fabric softeners.
RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15
