Strategic Report Geographical Performance Review Focus on Powermarkets In May 2014 we acquired the K-Y brand from Johnson & Johnson in Growth was balanced most major markets, which will improve our presence in the sexual across our markets wellbeing category, particularly in the US, Canada and Brazil where we were underrepresented.
At the other end of the portfolio, we licensed out our Footwear division, and have separated the Russian Medcom hospital Our developed market area of ENA delivered like-for-like growth business from the consumer business.
We are currently reviewing how to of 2%, a strong performance where market growth remains weak.
best realise value from this non-core part of our portfolio.
Our emerging market areas LAPAC and RUMEA delivered 7% like-for-like growth in slowing market conditions.
ENA Another solid year for ENA In Europe all regions experienced growth, with particularly strong North America performances from the UK behind a successful launch of our new Vanish Central Europe Gold, and strong consumer health brand performances.
Germany had Northern Europe a strong year, and Italy and Spain returned to growth after a prolonged Southern Europe period of decline.
Scholl Velvet Express Pedi has shown sustained success in Western Europe most European markets, with additional strong performances from Durex, Gaviscon, Dettol and Vanish.
North America experienced a mixed performance, delivering a flat result versus the prior year on a like-for-like basis.
The rollout of our new Velvet Express Pedi, launched under the new brand name, Amope, has had a strong sell in and seen encouraging early consumer uptake.
Lysol experienced a strong performance after a slow start on the back of tough comparatives.
Mucinex impacted growth with tough comparatives and the re-entry of private label products toward the end of the year.
The K-Y acquisition has been successfully integrated in most markets with the exception of the UK which is still undergoing regulatory review.
In aggregate Europe and North America are benefiting from a combined organisation that enables greater speed and scale to our initiatives.
These, combined with positive mix, media efficiencies and short-term cost containment initiatives, have driven strong adjusted operating margin expansion of 270bps to 28.2%.
Net revenue Like-for-like growth 4,940m 2% RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 12 Strategic Report RUMEA Operational changes in RUMEA gained traction Russia & CIS Middle East, South Africa and Turkey experienced strong double-digit growth from North Africa & Turkey improved in-market execution and a low comparator base.
Russia had Sub-Saharan Africa an extremely strong year, with higher focus on penetration improvement programmes, in-store execution and pricing.
In Q4 in Russia we brought forward price increases, resulting in high trade sell-in and consumer loyalty in inflationary conditions.
On a category basis, growth was broad based across Health, Hygiene and Home with very strong performances from all Health Powerbrands, Dettol, Finish, Veet, Air Wick and Calgon.
Adjusted operating profit was 247m, a -50bps decline in the adjusted operating margin to 19.9%.
This was principally due to negative transactional foreign exchange impacting gross margins.
The volatility in several of RUMEAs markets is likely to remain in the near term.
In particular the outlook for Russia remains uncertain given current Net revenue Like-for-like growth geopolitical and currency issues.
However, we remain confident that our focus and strategy to drive the penetration of our brands will continue to drive long-term growth and outperformance.
1,239m 11% LAPAC Consumer health led growth in LAPAC Consumer health brands performed well with the successful rollout of North Asia Scholl Express Pedi in a number of markets, and successful integration South East Asia of the Bristol-Myers Squibb BMS brands.
Dettol was a large contributor Australia & New to growth but at a slower rate from previous years reflecting the slowing Zealand Latin underlying markets.
Within Home, Vanish continued to perform strongly America behind innovations in particular our Vanish Super Bar and further rollout of the Vanish Tip Exchange programme.
The K-Y acquisition has been successfully integrated in most markets with the exception of New Zealand which is still undergoing regulatory review.
Adjusted operating profit was 462m, -4% versus prior year 9% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating margin was 50bps higher at 19.7%.
Net revenue Like-for-like growth 2,341m 5% RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13
