Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Corporate Governance report All Non-Executive Directors holding office during the year ended Introduction The Board is committed to 30 June 2014 are considered to be independent.
This report sets out the Companys compliance with the UK complying with corporate Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Reporting Council www.
uk and describes how the Committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for governance guidelines and to governance framework is applied by the Company.
The Company Secretary is a Member of maintaining high standards the Executive Management Team and all Directors have access The Directors have considered the contents and requirements to his advice and services.
In certain circumstances, Board of the Code and believe that throughout the year ended of corporate governance Committees and individual Directors may wish to take 30 June 2014, the Company has been compliant with the independent professional advice in connection with their provisions of the Code.
responsibilities and duties, and, in this regard, the Company The Board will meet the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, two further Executive Directors and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Steve Morgan, as Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The role of John Tutte, as Group Chief Executive, ensures that there is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the British Property Federation.
Prior to this she had a long and Dear Shareholder Company between the running of the Board and the operational varied career in the Ministry of Defence, including twelve years In the year of our 40th Anniversary, I am delighted to introduce responsibility for the running of the Companys business as until 2002 as company secretary and director of corporate on behalf of the Board of Redrow plc the Corporate Governance required by the Code.
affairs at QinetiQ Group plc formerly the Defence Evaluation report outlining the Companys approach to corporate and Research Agency.
Liz is a Non-Executive Director of Morgan The governance structure is set out in Chart 1. governance.
As outlined elsewhere in the report, the Board Sindall Group plc and Turley Associates.
She is also a member remains committed to high standards of corporate governance.
of the Peabody Trust and a trustee of the property charity This report on corporate governance sets out and explains in Land Aid.
clear terms the processes in place which are essential for delivery of long-term success, while ensuring that the Company Our 2014 Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday, Governance structure Chart 1 complies with all applicable laws and regulations and, of course, 10 November 2014 and you will find the Notice of Annual meeting the requirements of our shareholders and their General Meeting and some Explanatory Notes at the end of representative bodies.
Main Board This report has been prepared and approved by the Board and, The Notice refers to the Redrow plc Long-Term Share Incentive on behalf of the Board, I confirm that during financial year ended Plan 2004 which has been the main vehicle for the grant of 30 June 2014, the Company was compliant with the provisions long-term share incentives to senior executives but that plan of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
This report expires on 2 November 2014.
Accordingly, approval is being Non-Executive Executive Team also explains what the Board of Directors actually does and sought at the Annual General Meeting for a replacement plan describes how it is responsible for setting the codes and values Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Chairman the Redrow PLC 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
of the Company, thereby ensuring that the Company is run in This plan is more flexible in that it allows for the grant of Independent Non-Executive Directors Group Chief Executive the best interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders conditional awards as well as options but works in a broadly and how it interacts with its shareholders and explains the Group Finance Director similar way to the plan it replaces.
Companys strategic goals and performance against them.
Company Secretary The Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004 the Sharesave Plan The Board continues to believe the balance of Non-Executives is an all-employee share option plan which was approved by and Executive Directors has worked well.
A number of Board shareholders in 2004.
Since then it has been a successful and meetings have been held in a number of the Divisions during the popular part of the Companys remuneration arrangements.
year and have included open discussion with the Management It also expires in November 2014 and so shareholder approval Teams on land acquisition, sales outlets, sales, our product and Group Development Director Executive Management Team is being sought to renew it for a further 10 years from the date the new Divisional structures.
Group Sales & Marketing Director There have been no changes in corporate governance best The key terms of the LTIP and the Sharesave Plan are set out in Group Human Resources Director practice during the financial year ended 30 June 2014. the Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Board would like to thank Alan Jackson, who informed Some minor changes are also being made to the rules of the Regional Chief Executives the Board of his intention to stand down from the Board, Sharesave Plan to bring it into line with current legislation but the only change which requires shareholder approval is its for his invaluable contribution as Deputy Chairman, Senior Group Heads of Department renewal for a further 10 years.
Independent Director and as a Non-Executive Director.
Finally on behalf of the Board, for those who wish to attend The Board would also like to welcome Liz Peace to the Board we look forward to meeting with you.
as the new Non-Executive Director who will chair the Operating Divisions Sustainability Committee.
Graham Cope Liz Peace, CBE, will join the Board on 1 September 2014.
She is Company Secretary shortly to retire after twelve years as the Chief Executive of the 48 49 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Composition of the Board Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Main Board by gender Governance report Executive 3 One to three years 1 Female 2 Board of Directors Non-Executive 3 Three to six years 2 Male 4 A diverse skill set Redrow has an active, committed Board of Directors with diverse and complementary skill sets.
Board experience Finance Property Operational Sustainability Steve Morgan, 61 John Tutte, 58 Barbara Richmond, 54 Alan Jackson, 71 Nick Hewson, 56 Debbie Hewitt, 51 Graham Cope, 50 Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Deputy Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Chairman and Senior Independent Director Role He is primarily responsible for the He is responsible for the She is responsible for the financial The Non-Executive Directors are members of the Board but do not form part of the Executive Management He is responsible for governance effective working of the Board, operational management of the management of the Group in its team.
They have responsibility to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, structures and mechanisms, taking a leading role in determining Group, the implementing of broadest sense.
scrutinise the performance of management, satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate and that corporate conduct within the Boards composition and strategic plans and reporting on financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and are responsible for determining appropriate the Companys regulatory structure and ensuring that these to the Board.
levels of remuneration of the Executive Management team.
environment and circulars to effective communications are shareholders, and is the primary maintained with shareholders.
source of advice on the conduct of the business.
Board experience Steve Morgan founded Redrow in John Tutte joined the Board of Barbara Richmond joined the Alan Jackson joined the Redrow Nick Hewson joined the Redrow Debbie Hewitt joined the Redrow Graham Cope joined Redrow as Key strengths and skills 1974 and led the business from a Redrow in July 2002.
In September Board of Redrow in January 2010, Board in August 2009.
He has a Board in December 2012.
She has a Head of Legal in November 2002 small civil engineering contractor 2009 he was promoted to Group bringing with her a proven track wealth of experience in executive a 30 year career to date mainly wealth of experience in executive and was appointed Company to become one of the UKs leading Managing Director and in July record, with 20 years experience and non-executive roles.
involved in the property industry, and non-executive roles.
He floated the this year became Group as Group Finance Director at a from commercial to residential.
has over 20 years experience Alan is currently the NonShe is currently the Non-Executive Company in 1994 and eventually Chief Executive.
number of UK listed companies in the housebuilding sector, either Executive Chairman of The Nick is currently a Non-Executive Chairman of Moss Bros plc, stepped down as Chairman in including Inchcape plc, Croda working in-house or for clients John qualified in civil engineering Restaurant Group plc.
He is also Director of Croma Security Evander Group and White Stuff.
November 2000, returning to International PLC and Whessoe plc.
and has amassed more than a Non-Executive Chairman of Solutions Group Plc.
She is also Non-Executive Director the helm in March 2009.
She has a strong background in 35 years experience within the Playtech plc.
of HR Owen plc, NCC plc, BGL and Graham qualified as a Solicitor both manufacturing and retail as Nick is a Fellow of the Institute of Steve is also Chairman of industry, having previously held Domestic & General.
in 1989 and is a member of the well as having completed a number As previously announced Chartered Accountants in England Wolverhampton Wanderers, the position as Chief Executive Law Society.
of major acquisitions and disposals Alan Jackson will retire from and Wales and has a degree in Law Debbie has an MBA from Bath Carden Leisure and Trinity Aviation.
the Board with effect from from Cambridge University.
University, is a fellow of the He set up The Morgan Foundation 1 September 2014.
Chartered Institute of Personnel in 2000, which is one of the Barbara was appointed a Nonand Development and was largest charitable trusts in Executive Director of Lonza Group awarded the MBE in 2011 for the north of England.
Ltd with effect from 16 April 2014. services to business and the Steve is a Fellow of the Chartered Barbara is a Fellow of the Institute public sector.
Institute of Building and holds four of Chartered Accountants in Honorary Degrees.
He was England and Wales and a graduate awarded an OBE in 1992. of the University of Manchester.
Committee Main Board Main Board Main Board Main Board Main Board Main Board Main Board, membership Company Secretary Audit Committee Audit Committee, Chairman Audit Committee Audit Committee, Secretary Nomination Committee, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Chairman Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee, Secretary Remuneration Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee, Sustainability Committee, Secretary Chairman Sustainability Committee, Secretary 50 51 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Corporate Governance report continued The evaluation also considered succession planning for the The Chairman is primarily responsible for: always be based on merit, so that the Board has the right individuals Board Meetings Executive Team.
effective working of the Board: in place, and recognises that diversity is seen as an important The Board meets regularly and frequently, not less than six times taking a leading role in determining the Boards composition and consideration as part of the selective criteria used to assess during the year and maintains a close dialogue, as appropriate, The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good structure: and candidates to achieve a balanced Board.
Board meetings are held at Head Office or training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board ensuring that effective communications are maintained with Divisional Offices when visits are frequently made to a selection of receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible for The charts below set out the current position of the Company on a shareholders.
developments accompanied by the local Management Team.
In addition, the Board maintains close working gender basis.
papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow adequate relationships with Divisional Management Teams.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: time for review and preparation and include key strategic, operational Executive Management team by gender operational management of the Group: and financial information.
Attendance by individual Directors at Board All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction programme implementing strategic plans: and Female 2 22.2% meetings are set out below: following their first appointment.
reporting on these to the Board.
Attendance at Male 7 77.8% Name Role Meetings The programme for the Non-Executive Directors is specifically The Deputy Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring the Board is designed to encompass the full breadth of the business and includes Steve Morgan Chairman 7 7 effective and that constructive relations are maintained.
In addition to visits to operating businesses.
acting as a Senior Independent Director, in which capacity he leads John Tutte Group Chief Executive 7 7 the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman he also provides During the year the formal appraisals of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director were undertaken by the Chairman.
an additional point of contact for shareholders.
Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 7 7 The Company has Directors and Officers insurance in place which All Independent Non-Executive Directors had an annual appraisal Redrow employees by gender Alan Jackson Deputy Chairman & Senior 7 7 insures Directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
Independent Director Female 457 34.0% Appointment and Re-Appointments to the Board Committees Male 889 66.0% Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive Director 7 7 The Nomination Committee has recommended the re-appointment The Board is supported by Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Sustainability Committees and their memberships, roles and activities Nick Hewson Non-Executive Director 7 7 Committee report can be found on page 57. are set out in separate reports: the Audit Committee report can be found on pages 54 to 56: the Nomination Committee report on All details for the Directors are provided on pages 50 and 51.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to page 57: the Directors Remuneration report on pages 59 to 75 and re-election at their first General meeting after appointment.
The Board Details of internal control and risk management processes are the Sustainability Committee report can be found on page 58. having been informed of the conditions of the Code on re-election has included in the Audit Committee report on pages 54 to 56.
Each Committee reports to and has Terms of Reference approved by decided that all Directors will be submitting themselves for re-election Shareholder Engagement Board Balance and Independence at the Annual General Meeting with the exception of Alan Jackson who the Board and the Minutes of the Committee meetings are circulated The Company announces its financial results half-yearly, and, The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, and the Committee Chairmen provide reports to the Board.
advised the Board of his intention to retire on 30 June 2014. immediately following their publication, undertakes formal knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
The presentations to equity analysts.
These presentations are available Following the Companys announcement of the appointment of a The Audit Committee is chaired by Nick Hewson, the Executive Team provides the Board with an appropriate view of the on the Companys website.
In addition, the Company published an new Non-Executive Director Alan Jackson will retire from the Board Remuneration Committee is chaired by Debbie Hewitt and detail of the business and the benefit of their significant collective Interim Management Statement in November 2013 and April 2014. with effect from 1 September 2014. the Sustainability Committee and Nomination Committee experience of the UK house building industry and that enables it to are chaired by Alan Jackson.
discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
During the year ended 30 June 2014, the Chairman, the Group Chief The Board is pleased to announce that Liz Peace will join the Board Executive and the Group Finance Director, together with the Senior The Non-Executive Directors bring a wealth of experience and on 1 September 2014 as a Non-Executive Director.
For Liz Peaces The Board completed a performance evaluation of its Committees understanding from outside the Company which enables them to Independent Director also held a number of meetings with biographical details please see the Explanatory Notes to the Notice during the financial year ended 30 June 2014 and it was concluded significant shareholders.
challenge and help develop proposals on the Companys strategy.
of Annual General Meeting on page 120. they were contributing and functioning effectively and were complying with their Terms of Reference.
Details of the Directors respective experience is set out in their Following the full year and half-yearly results announcement in Following Alan Jacksons retirement Debbie Hewitt will become biographical profiles on pages 50 and 51.
September 2013 and February 2014, the Chairman, Group Chief Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Nomination Governance at work in the Business Executive and Group Finance Director met current and potential The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits with Committee.
Liz Peace will chair the Sustainability Committee Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding a Non-Executive significant shareholders.
This embraced visits to London and and will be a member of the Audit Committee, Nomination the Companys business.
Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Edinburgh and feedback from these meetings is independently Committee and Remuneration Committee.
currently comprises three Executives and three Non-Executive The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically collated and disseminated to the Board.
Directors in compliance with the Code.
The Board, having regard to the provisions of the Code, considers for its decisions.
The matters reserved include: The Annual General Meeting takes place at a venue close to that Liz Peace is independent.
In considering Non-Executive Director independence, the Board approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: the Companys Head Office.
All Directors attended the Annual has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Code approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary With the exception of Debbie Hewitt and Steve Morgan having General Meeting on 11 November 2013.
The Annual General Meeting and considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors is previously together with retiring Director Alan Jackson been and half-yearly financial statements, interim management represents an opportunity for all shareholders attending to table independent in accordance with Provision B.
statements, trading updates and the recommendation of the directors of the Board of fide Vere Group Holdings Limited, none of questions formally during the meeting and informally afterwards the independent Directors seeking re-appointment at the Annual payment of dividends: to the Companys Directors.
The Board considers that each Director is able to allocate sufficient approval of any significant changes in accounting policies or General Meeting have any existing or previous relationships with, time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Formal notification of the Annual General Meeting, through the the Company, the other Directors, nor with any controlling practices: any changes relating to capital structure: approval Report and Accounts, is sent to shareholders at least 21 working Company or any associate of a controlling Board performance evaluation and professional development of treasury policies: shareholder of the days in advance.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate The Board undertook an internal formal evaluation of its own shareholder within the meaning of Listing Rule 13.8.
17R 2. ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal Resolution at the Annual General Meeting on each substantive issue.
performance during the year ended 30 June 2014.
This started control and risk management: Details of appropriate Annual General Meeting Resolutions can be with a questionnaire designed to assess performance and ongoing approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, significant land Redrows website, www.
co. uk, gives access to current found on pages 117 and 118. effectiveness across key areas in the Financial Year 2014 and to purchases or contracts: financial and corporate information.
maintain visibility and progress during the financial year.
Following the changes to the size, structure and composition of the Board: Capital Structure completion of the questionnaire, a report was presented to the Board approval of significant policies, including Redrows Health and The information of the capital structure of the Company is including Graham Cope and discussed and, as a result, the Board considers that it continues to Safety policy: and the Directors Report on page 77.
Company Secretary operate effectively with meetings to facilitate debate and decision review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
The Board therefore also considers that each of the NonThe principal of Boardroom diversity is strongly supported by the Executive Directors continue to be effective independent Directors.
It is the Boards policy that appointments to the Board will 52 53 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Shareholder information Governance report Audit Committee report At its meeting in February 2014 the Committee considered Responsibilities and Terms of Reference Main activities during the year whether to retain PwC as auditor and concluded that, in view The key responsibilities of the Committee are: The Committee followed a programme which is structured of the quality of service provided and the cost effectiveness of around the annual reporting cycle and received reports from monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the the work carried out, it would be appropriate to retain them.
Internal Audit, the external Audit and management.
accompanying reports to the shareholders and Corporate The Committee does not currently have a formal policy on Governance Statements including reviewing the findings of The principal activities undertaken were as follows: re-tendering of the external audit.
However, it notes the recent external Auditors: September A review of the full year 2013 results draft Order of the Competition and Markets Authority in relation reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of systems for 2013 including the Annual Report and Accounts to FTSE 350 companies which would require the Company to internal control, financial reporting and risk management: and a report from the external Auditors: and change its statutory auditor by June 2020. reviewing and overseeing the effectiveness of Internal Audit: Consideration of the Group risk assessment The Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work of process and a going concern review.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure making recommendations to the Board in relation to the that the Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained appointment and removal of external Auditors and approving February A review of the 2014 half-yearly accounts by ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit work the remuneration and terms of engagement: and 2014 and going concern including a report from undertaken and the level of fees paid does not compromise the external Auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external Audit process and the Auditors position.
independent activity of the Auditors as well as the nature and A review of the Terms of Reference of the Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the prior scope of the external Audit and its effectiveness.
Committee: approval of the Committee within an established budget.
In The Committees principal The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the A review of the proposed external Audit addition, no work can be undertaken by the external Auditors Companys website www.
strategy for 2014 and associated fees: in any area where there is any identifiable risk that the work responsibilities lie in reviewing of an individual within the external Audit firm or the external Audit Committee reporting of significant issues A review of the effectiveness of the external the Groups financial reporting, Audit firm generally could conflict or compromise the quality, The primary areas of judgement which were considered by the Audit process: objectivity or independence of any audit or compliance work overseeing the appointment Committee and how these were addressed is set out below: A review of the independence and objectivity undertaken for the Group.
Net realisable value of inventories and work of the external Auditors of the external Auditors: The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Company The Committee receives a paper prepared by management and reviewing Redrows internal A review of the Committees effectiveness: nor has the Company purchased liability insurance for them.
at each reporting date outlining the approach taken by and management to assess the net realisable value of inventories control processes Details of fees paid to PwC are disclosed on page 94. together with details of sites with significant areas of judgement.
Initiated a review of cyber security.
Committee membership and meetings Internal Controls The Group Finance Director and Finance Director Group The three Members of the Committee are Independent June A review of the appropriateness of the The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility Services attend meetings by invitation to answer any questions Non-Executive Directors and the Board believes the Committee has 2014 Groups accounting policies: for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring the Committee may have.
the appropriate level of experience to fulfil its Terms of Reference.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, A review of the Risk Register: The Committee also annually reviews the internal controls evaluating and managing significant risks.
However, in The Group Finance Director and Finance Director Group that are in place and reviews the findings of PwCs testing of A review of the Groups Whistleblowing reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, any internal Services attend meetings by invitation and both were present controls and processes for estimating as well as the adequacy Policy: control system can only provide reasonable but not absolute at all the meetings in the year ended 30 June 2014.
The external of disclosures that management propose to be made in assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Auditors,  LLP PwC, and the Finance A review of the Groups Anti-Bribery Policy: financial statements.
Director Operations who has responsibility for Internal Audit, Key business activities, including finance, land acquisition, A review of internal controls across the Defined benefit pension scheme valuation were also in attendance at all meetings.
product design, procurement and information technology are whole business: The Committee receives details of the IAS 19R Employee controlled by the Executive Directors.
All activity is organised Table of Attendance Benefits valuations carried out at each reporting date for Attendance at An update on Internal Audit, its strategy within a defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, management by the actuary who advises the Company and the Name Role Meetings and a review of the Internal Audit timetable designated authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
A sensitivity analysis is also provided for 2015: and A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
Nick Hewson Chairman 3 3 for its consideration.
The Committee also receives details of the The Executive Directors, the Company Secretary, Regional Chief Received a report on the review of triennial independent scheme valuation report prepared by the Alan Jackson Member 3 3 Executives, Group Human Resources Director and Group Sales cyber security.
Scheme actuary and reviews key judgements made including and Marketing Director the Executive Board meet monthly Debbie Hewitt Member 3 3 relevant actuarial advice that has been received.
In addition the to discuss the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
The September A review of the full year 2014 results, Committee also reviews the findings of PwCs testing of pension Divisions also hold monthly board meetings which are attended The Committee met three times in the year ended 30 June 2014 2014 including the Annual Report and Account scheme assets and liabilities.
on a rotational basis by the Executive Directors.
and a summary of the principal activities of the Committee are and a report from the external Auditors: and listed below.
The key features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: Consideration of the Group risk assessment Detailed papers and information were circulated sufficiently process and a going concern review.
defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as land in advance of meetings to allow proper consideration of the purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and staff recruitment: matters for discussion.
The Committee also met separately with a comprehensive prioritised Risk Register which is regularly the external Auditors and Internal Audit following the final audit Audit Independence reviewed and presented to the Audit Committee: and the review of the year ended June 2014 financial statements.
PwC has served as the Groups Auditor since 1987 and the last No matters of concern were raised within these discussions.
audit tender was carried out in that year.
The current Audit the Groups management information systems provide weekly The Committee Chairman also met privately with the Audit Partner from PwC commenced his tenure following the updates on key statistics and information in respect of sales Partner of the external Auditors and the Finance Director conclusion of the year ended 30 June 2010 audit.
and production and the content of these weekly reports is Operations to discuss Internal Audit matters.
The Group regularly reviewed to ensure it remains appropriate: Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
54 55 Redrow plc Redrow plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Annual report and accounts 2014
