Strategic Report CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REVIEW As I reflect on my new role as Chief Financial Officer at Rolls-Royce, I would like to underline the progress weve made in 2014 and outline my priorities for 2015 and beyond.
This has clearly not been an easy year.
However, the Group is fundamentally strong.
We are in the enviable position of having a 74 billion order book of products and services that will deliver revenue for decades to come.
We operate in markets with excellent long-term growth dynamics and high barriers to entry.
We are valued by our customers.
Our innovative team is creating products at the forefront of technology.
We have set out firmly on the path to transform our industrial structure.
Our objective now is to translate these product successes, growth markets and internal transformation into attractive returns and cash flow in the medium term.
In 2014, we made good progress on our business transformation, delivering both in-year improvements on our 4Cs such as customer delivery performance and creating the medium-term platform for improving margins and cash flow.
For example, in Aerospace we have reduced our aftermarket costs for our volume engine, the Trent 700, and also made good progress on our corporate jet and defence contracts.
Over the past two years, the Group has reduced indirect headcount by 18%.
We also sold our Energy gas turbines and compressor business to Siemens on 1 December 2014.
DAVID SMITH Chief Financial Officer 26 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report SUMMARY shareholders 1 billion in proceeds from the sale of our Energy gas turbines and 2014 2013 Change compressor business.
73,674 71,612 3% Order book m Amid these changes there are certain Underlying revenue m 14,588 15,505 -6% fundamentals that we will continue Underlying profit before tax m 1,617 1,759 -8% to support.
These include: maintaining a strong balance sheet that Return on sales 11.5% 11.8% -0.3pp gives confidence to our customers and Underlying earnings per share 65.3p 65.6p -0.3p enables our business to invest in future Full year payment to shareholders 23.1p 22.0p 5% programmes: continuing to refine our capital allocation Reported revenue 13,736 14,642 -6% processes and invest in R&D to develop Reported profit before tax 67 1,700 -96% the next generation of products: and managing risk prudently including Reported earnings per share 3.7p 73.3p -69.6p hedging our foreign currency exposures Net cash 666 1,939 -66% to reduce volatility.
Free cash flow m 254 781 -67% Theres no doubt that the recent changes Underlying explanation is in note 2 on page 110. in oil and commodity prices, currencies 2013 re-presented to reflect Energy as a discontinued operation.
All figures in the narrative of the Strategic Report are underlying unless otherwise stated.
and geopolitical strains have increased uncertainty.
We therefore need to plan We know we need to accelerate our efforts accounting and technical skills, which are cautiously while accelerating our business on cost and cash.
In November, we critical in our complex business.
In 2015, we expect announced a restructuring and cost working to deliver financial and nonunderlying revenue to be flat overall and reduction plan that will deliver 80 million financial KPIs that are more forward-looking underlying profit before tax to be down in annualised savings and we will make and have a greater focus on the business somewhat, reflecting the present phase further announcements at the appropriate fundamentals which are driving our cash of our business transformation.
We will also look to reduce our and profit performance.
expect free cash flow to be lower given facilities footprint, increase our activities our restructuring spend.
in lower-cost countries, pursue further I will also be working to ensure that our aftermarket cost reductions and continue communications with shareholders are Looking ahead, our product portfolio to make progress on inventory, investment clear, consistent and helpful.
As part of this, transition will see rising deliveries of new efficiency and cash management.
we have started to provide a medium-term civil engines that will significantly increase outlook and will continue to look at our installed base.
We will also continue to A personal priority is strengthening and additional ways to communicate more grow our Land & Sea businesses.
This and streamlining our financial controls and clearly.
Our share buyback programme our investment in new technology and business information.
We have excellent is already underway and will return to industrial transformation will constrain near-term margins and cash generation.
However, as we move towards the medium term and this growth and investment phase moderates, we expect both margins and cash conversion to improve in line with our GROUP UNDERLYING RETURN ON GROUP UNDERLYING REVENUE m SALES % PROFIT BEFORE medium-term guidance.
