STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW: INSTRUMENTS This was a year of strong growth for the Instruments division, which saw the number of businesses double in 2014 following the completion of two important acquisitions.
We focused on delivering our key priorities: continuing to widen our offering in flow control and pressure control products by acquiring or developing new technologies close to the actuator: the integration of acquisitions: leveraging global sales synergies: and delivering cost reduction and productivity improvements.
In March we acquired Young Tech Co. YTC, a Korean based manufacturer of valve positioners and accessories mainly associated with pneumatic valve actuation.
YTC has a wide range of positioners and smart positioners which are complementary to Rotorks existing portfolio of products.
This acquisition not only Alan Paine enlarged our range of instrumentation products Managing Director and our addressable market but also provided Rotork Instruments Instruments with a platform and sales channels in the important Asia-Pacific market.
In July we acquired Xylem Flow Control based in YTC has a wide range of positioners and Wolverhampton UK.
This added the established brands of Midland-ACS, Alcon and smart positioners which are complementary Landon Kingsway into Instruments, under what we now call Rotork Midland.
This business to Rotorks existing portfolio of products.
brought with it a strong reputation for delivering innovative solutions for a wide range of applications, including control systems for pneumatic and hydraulic control valves, electro-pneumatic and electro-hydraulic actuators, local control panels, manifolds and components such as solenoid valves, level controls, gas detection and firefighting REVENUE equipment.
m 46.0 2014 24.9 2013 16.4 2012 1.4 2011 2010 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m 14.4 2014 7.8 2013 5.1 2012 0.4 2011 2010 28 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information OPPORTUNITIES Global manufacturing expansion Sales channel development Rotork synergies The financial results for the year were heavily Similarly, we have been using our strategically allows us to support the local Rotork offices and influenced by these acquisitions, both of which located facilities to ensure local assembly and factories where there are opportunities to use a performed in line with our expectations.
inventory management for the entire range of wide range of Instruments products in Reported revenue increased by 84.4% despite a our products, ensuring fast, on-time delivery for automating pneumatic and hydraulic actuators.
5.1% currency headwind but on an organic our customers.
For instance, we are now using Each of the businesses have their own product constant currency OCC basis the increase was our Soldo facility in Italy as the European hub for development plans and work has started to align still 8.6%.
The results for order intake were very YTC products, whilst our Fairchild facility is these and create a single divisional plan.
Each similar, in what is generally a short lead-time ensuring access to the USA market for the business brings a level of expertise in its own division, with the headline increase of 83.0% Soldo and YTC product ranges.
Work to qualify product lines and often complementary skills.
reduced to 8.7% for Fairchild and Soldo at the full range of products to meet various During the year each business has launched new constant currency.
Adjusted operating profit national and international certification variants of products and extensions to existing rose 84.3% to 14.4m, a margin of 31.4%, the standards is underway and 2015 will see ranges, either broadening the range of materials same as 2013.
Unlike the other divisions, completion of this for the key products.
This not for a product or the industries and applications currency improved reported margins for only supports our third party customers but also for which it can be used.
Instruments because prior to the acquisition of Midland the division had no sterling costs.
Whilst acquisitions were accretive in total, OCC adjusted operating margin declined to 29.6%, a 180 basis point reduction.
This is largely due to the expansion of the divisional executive team which has been required to support this pace of growth and to ensure that the benefits of the acquisitions are delivered.
The Midland product range, now within Instruments, complements the high-precision pneumatic control devices and motion control equipment manufactured by Fairchild, the Soldo range of control accessories for valve automation, and YTCs market leading range of valve positioners and accessories.
We also have Instruments companies located in Europe, the USA, and the Far East, and we are integrating our international sales networks to support sales of products of all four companies.
By training our sales forces on all of the new products and by using cross-selling techniques with customers, we have been successful in penetrating new geographic markets with our growing product portfolio.
CASE STUDY A Rotork Midland custom designed and built dual regulation manifold has eliminated severe corrosion problems suffered by instrumentation equipment previously used for an arduous offshore application.
The end-user manufactures umbilical reeling Due to the resultant short operational life of equipment for offshore subsea applications these units, the end-user sought a stainless including ROV operations and cable laying.
steel solution from Rotork Midlands customer.
Existing air preparation units that feed air to pneumatic powered gear motors were found to be corroding badly in offshore conditions, leading to reliability problems.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW This year we have achieved growth in order intake, revenue and profit, all of which increased both on a reported and an organic constant currency OCC basis and a record adjusted operating margin.
Our 2014 results were heavily influenced by the strength of sterling compared with 2013.
Whilst the currency headwind diminished in the second half, revenue was 33.0m or 5.7% lower than it would have been at 2013 exchange rates.
Acquisitions had a positive effect, adding 27.4m to revenue and partially offsetting the currency impact.
Reported revenue of 594.7m was 2.8% higher than the comparable period and 3.8% higher on an OCC basis.
Adjusted operating profit grew ahead of the rate of revenue, up 3.8% to 157.2m delivering a margin of 26.4% compared with 26.2% last year.
Jonathan Davis Growth on an OCC basis was 5.7%.
Divisional mix Finance Director was a positive influence on Group margins, with the higher margin divisions growing and Fluid Systems revenue declining, albeit delivering improved margins.
On an OCC basis the margin was a further 30 basis points higher at 26.7% as The acquisition in March of Young Tech Co. currency had a dilutive effect on margins due to YTC for up to 64m is Rotorks largest the higher proportion of sterling costs than revenues within the Group.
The effect of single acquisition to date.
acquisitions on margin was negligible as the average margin of the acquired businesses was close to the Group average.
30 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information The net finance charge reduced by 0.2m to Currency Return on Capital Employed ROCE 1.1m.
The effect of the higher level of loans The relative strength of sterling throughout the Our asset-light business model and high profit required during the year following the acquisitions year led to a marked headwind for the reported margins mean Rotork generates a high ROCE.
Our was offset by a reduction in the interest charge results.
The impact was most significant in the definition of ROCE is based on adjusted related to the pension schemes.
The impact of first half of the year with revenue reduced by operating profit as a return on the average net this and the lower effective tax rate meant 20.4m 7.4% compared with a 12.6m 4.2% assets excluding net cash and the pension scheme earnings per share increased by 3.7% or, when reduction in the second half.
This was partly driven liability net of the related deferred tax.
This means based on adjusted profit, by 5.4% to 131.6p.
by the comparatives, as the US dollar weakened that as we make acquisitions our capital base progressively through that year.
In 2014 whilst the grows when the associated intangible assets and Acquisitions US dollar reversed the trend of 2013, and goodwill are recognised.
During the year We spent more on acquisitions in 2014 than in any strengthened from mid-year onwards, it was the intangibles and goodwill increased by a net 63m previous year.
The acquisition in March of Young euros turn to weaken steadily through the year.
in total which, after allowing for the related Tech Co. YTC for up to 64m is Rotorks largest The average rate for both US dollar and euro was deferred tax, accounts for more than 60% of the single acquisition to date.
The purchase of Xylems 5.3% weaker than 2013 but by year-end the US increase in capital employed, which rose 35% to UK based flow control subsidiary, now renamed dollar was 6.2% stronger than it had started 2014 379m.
As a result of this, ROCE reduced to 47.6% Rotork Midland, in July and Masso Ind.
s. p. a. in whilst the euro was 6.3% weaker.
These two despite the improved profit margin and growth in December increased the total spend in the year to currencies had the most significant impact on our revenue this year.
In addition, there is a further potential results with US dollar representing 41% of 4.4m contingent consideration in relation to the revenue and the euro 31%.
Sterling was 11% of Taxation three acquisitions made in 2014.
Rotork has a revenue and various other currencies made up the This year the Groups effective tax rate reduced strategy of growing through a combination of remaining 17%.
Amongst the other 19 currencies from 27.9% to 26.9%.
The mix of where profits are organic expansion and acquisitions and we expect that are home currencies for one of our subsidiary generated from within the 37 countries in which this to continue.
Acquisitions are made on the basis offices, 9 weakened by more than 10% when the we have a presence has a major impact on the that they will provide a new product, improve our average rate is compared with that for 2013.
Where we pay tax the access to a geographic or end-user market or some national effective rates vary from 17% to 35%.
Each of this years The impact of currency is both in the form of There are also changes to tax within some acquisitions met one or more of these criteria.
Given the jurisdictions which are large enough to impact the locations in which we have operations and the Group effective rate.
The reduction of Chinese T aking all three acquisitions together, 32.4m of international nature of our supply base and sales withholding tax rates, from 10% to 5% was one the consideration was attributed to intangible currencies, the impact of transaction differences such influence in the year, as was the impact of the assets which will be amortised and 45.1m is can be very different from the translation impact.
patent box reliefs in the UK.
These two items goodwill which will be subject to an annual We are able to partially mitigate the transaction accounted for a reduction of 120 basis points with impairment review.
The increased value of impact through matching supply currency with geographic mix accounting for a 20 basis point acquisitions this year and last year has led to a rise sales currency but ultimately we are still net increase.
Our approach to tax continues to be to in the amortisation charge related to acquired sellers of both US dollar and euros.
It is the net operate on the basis of full disclosure and intangible assets to 14.9m 2013: 12.1m.
In sale of these currencies which we principally co-operation with all tax authorities and, where order to adjust the income statement to show a address through our hedging policy, covering up possible, to mitigate the burden of tax within the like-for-like period for each acquisition, 2014 to 75% of trading transactions in the next 12 local legislation.
revenue has to be reduced by 27.4m and months and up to 50% between 12 and 24 adjusted operating profit by 7.6m.
Net of these mitigating actions margin in the acquired business was slightly operating profit was 10.6m 7.0% lower than it accretive in aggregate, at 28.0%, with YTC the key would have been at 2013 rates.
In order to estimate the impact of currency, at the current exchange rates we consider the effect of a 1 cent movement versus sterling.
A 1 euro cent movement now results in approximately a 325,000 adjustment to profit and for US dollar, and dollar related currencies, a 1 cent movement equates to approximately a 550,000 adjustment.
