Performance review On track to deliver the 2015 financial targets I would like to thank Guy Berruyer for leading Sage to deliver an encouraging set of results with a strong finish to the year.
I reconfirm the Boards financial targets for 2015 and recognise the 2014 results as an important milestone on the path to meeting them.
Our financial performance demonstrates the strength of Sages global business and the quality of relationships it has with millions of SME customers worldwide.
Stephen Kelly Chief Executive Officer These results are important in demonstrating we are on track to achieve The move to subscription is attractive for Sage and our customers as our financial targets for 2015.
Reporting organic revenue growth of 5% it builds greater and more predictable revenue streams for the future.
2013: 4% and operating profit margin of 27.5% 2013: 27.1% means By balancing subscription adoption across new and existing customers, the Group remains confident of achieving the targets of 6% organic we are managing the potential near-term impact on revenue of the revenue growth and organic operating profit margin of 28% in 2015. transition to subscription.
The opportunity we have with existing customers around growing share of wallet, improving retention rates Recurring revenue grew organically by 7% 2013: 6%, whilst organic and increasing recurring contract attachment, is helping us to manage SSRS revenue contracted by 1% 2013: flat.
The increase in recurring the near-term impact of subscription displacing licence revenue.
revenue growth is a key feature of these results and reflected a strong software subscription performance.
Software subscription revenue grew Our cloud solutions, core product modernisation initiatives and growing organically by 28%, reflecting acceleration in the second half on the 23% portfolio of connected services are providing subscription catalysts for growth reported in the first half.
The recurring revenue growth and strong all of our customers, regardless of whether their core system is on-premise software subscription performance are important indicators of the or in the cloud.
Core product modernisation is a particularly significant underlying strength of the business and underpin confidence in the opportunity with the Sage installed based.
It creates the flexible improved growth trajectory expected for 2015. architecture required to liberate customer data and make it available in the cloud so we can deliver an enriched desktop experience enhanced Recurring revenue, which includes software subscriptions, payments with connected services.
Core product modernisation has been an and support, now represents 73% of Group revenue 2013: 71%.
important catalyst in driving subscription across our portfolio in 2014.
The continuing shift to a higher quality revenue mix reflects the increased Key highlights during the year include Sage 50 Payroll in the UK, contribution from software subscription.
The software subscription Sage Ciel Flex in France and Sage 100 i7 in France.
contract base continues to grow, with over 450,000 contracts across the Group.
Sage 50 Payroll auto-enrolment connected service This connected service, which helps SMEs in the UK comply with new The increase in organic revenue growth has been achieved despite pension legislation, has been a strong driver of growth.
It is only available a weaker performance in payments, particularly in North America.
on subscription and is supported on the latest version of Sage 50 Payroll.
Improving the performance of payments and driving the number of This revenue is incremental because we typically added new services into integrated payments customers remain key priorities, particularly as customers existing premium support plan bundles in the past.
they have performed below our expectations this year.
Likewise, underperformance in the mid-market in France continued as a drag At the end of September 2014, the annualised value of our on growth.
This was reflected in the lower full-year organic growth rate auto-enrolment subscription contract base was approximately of 7% 2013: 12% reported for Sage ERP X3, our global solution for the 8m.
This reflects an attachment rate amongst customers that mid-market.
Sage ERP X3 grew well internationally, however, delivering needed to comply with auto-enrolment in 2014 of over 60%.
We 20% growth outside of France.
The ambition for double-digit long-term are well placed to continue supporting businesses that will need growth for Sage ERP X3 remains.
to comply with auto-enrolment legislation going forward.
Sage Ciel Flex Software subscription is growing well, in line with our plans for measured adoption Sage Ciel accounting and payroll products are aimed at start-up and small business SSB customers in France.
The success of the tiered We are pursuing more active relationships with our customers through subscription offer called Flex shows that SSB customers are willing to subscription.
Our progressive approach is based on demonstrating the move to a recurring subscription relationship if they see a product offers benefits and flexibility subscription offers them, rather than by mandatorily added value.
At the end of September 2014, the annualised value moving them to subscription pricing.
The resulting commitment to offering of our Sage Ciel Flex subscription contract base was approximately customers choice around how they can buy a software licence reflects 9m, an increase from 5m in the prior year.
Over 60% of customers on the importance we place on customer satisfaction and retention.
The subscription have chosen to subscribe to Sage Ciel Ultraflex, which is the emphasis is therefore on Sage to present customers with differentiated highest tier available and includes premium features and cloud capability.
propositions that persuade them to make the transition to subscription.
Sage Ciel Flex demonstrates well the reactivation of off-plan customers.
The growth in the annualised value of the software subscriber base of Approximately 50% of revenue from new Flex contracts secured in the 29% to 220m, together with subscription contract renewal rates in the financial year were with customers who were previously not on a recurring region of 90%, is good evidence that our measured approach is effective.
10 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Sage 100 i7 Disciplined approach to resource and capital allocation Sage 100 i7 is aimed at small to medium sized customers SMB 62% of total research and development R&D expenditure 2013: 52% in France.
It is a premium subscription product and has now been and 57% of total sales and marketing S&M expenditure 2013: 52% a driver of upgrade activity in the French installed base for several is now directed towards the Invest portfolio.
This has resulted in an overall consecutive reporting periods.
It offers a major user interface upgrade, increase in absolute spend during the year across Invest products of can be accessed through a web browser and incorporates business 17%, alongside an incremental improvement in organic operating profit intelligence and spreadsheet integration capabilities.
We also launched margin to 27.5%.
The disciplined approach to resource allocation Sage 100 i7 Payroll during the year, which has driven upgrade activity supports the 28% organic operating profit margin target in 2015, in the second half.
which we are on track to deliver.
At the end of September 2014, the annualised value of our Sage 100 i7 We are also disciplined in our approach to acquisitions, focusing on ERP and payroll subscription contract base was over 16m.
The vast opportunities that support growth in our core business and meet our majority of the subscriber base is made up of migrating existing returns criteria.
During the year we announced two in-fill acquisitions, customers who have a support contract, where the strategy is to which strengthen our payroll capability in the US and Germany, and drive higher average selling price on subscription.
This reflects the acquired the remaining 25% of Folhamatic in Brazil.
We also performed premium positioning of the product.
Sage 100 i7 is either available an impairment review and recorded a 44m non-cash charge relating on a subscription-only contract or a lower-priced subscription contract to our Brazilian operations.
This reflects the deterioration in the financial together with an up-front fee.
These fees are helping us to smooth the and economic environment in Brazil.
Notwithstanding this impairment, impact our subscription transition is having on our SSRS revenue base.
we remain confident about our growth prospects in Brazil, as reflected in the 9% organic revenue growth reported for 2014.
Momentum building in the cloud, with 86,000 Sage One Consistent with our focus on shareholder returns, the Board is proposing paying subscriptions globally a 7% increase in the total ordinary dividend for the year to 12.12p per Sage One is well established in the market as our global software-as-ashare 2013: 11.32p per share.
The ordinary dividend for the year is service SaaS solution for smaller businesses, with a ca.
150% increase covered 1.9x by underlying earnings per share.
We continue to push ahead with our global roll-out for Sage One, which is available in 10 The Board countries, so that we are well placed to drive growth in markets as In August 2014, we announced the appointment of Stephen Kelly to the cloud adoption accelerates.
Board as Chief Executive Officer, effective from 5 November 2014.
Earlier We continue to make good progress with Sage One in the UKI, where this year, Steve Hare joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer, effective the number of paying subscriptions more than doubled to 47,000 from from 3 January 2014. over 21,000 in the last 12 months.
This represents a strong increase in We also announced the appointment of two new non-executive directors average run-rate to over 2,100 per month, up from around 1,300 per to the Board, namely Drummond Hall and Inna Kuznetsova, effective month last year, and reflects acceleration to 2,300 per month in the from 1 January 2014 and 6 March 2014 respectively.
In November 2013, second half of the year.
Mark Rolfe and Ian Mason retired from their roles on the Board as We also have strong traction with Sage One in South Africa, where non-executive directors.
the number of paying subscriptions increased from 8,700 to over 21,000 in the last 12 months.
Adoption in Continental Europe remains Summary and outlook low, reflecting nascent uptake of cloud solutions amongst SSB customers These results are important in demonstrating we are on track to more generally in that market.
In North America, the number of paying achieve our financial targets for 2015.
Revenue growth is increasing, subscriptions remains behind plan, but we continue to build a product the subscription base is growing and cloud momentum is building.
portfolio to provide an attractive cloud platform for small businesses.
The Group remains confident of achieving 6% organic revenue growth We see accountants as a key channel for driving Sage One growth, in 2015, with the anticipated acceleration in growth weighted to the with the introduction of Sage One Accountant Edition in North America second half of the year, and organic operating profit margin of 28%.
Driving accountants engagement and the introduction of Sage One Extra in the US and Canada are key Looking ahead, I believe that Sage, as a trusted partner priorities for 2015. to our customers, can be even more instrumental in As part of the Groups continued investment in the cloud, our SaaS supporting the success of SMEs around the world.
I look entry-level products in France, Germany and South Africa were redesigned and incorporated into the Sage One portfolio during the forward to building on Sages technology leadership, year.
This involved rebranding and aligning the user interface and both in the cloud and on-premise, together with our product workflows to create global consistency.
Excluding the newly outstanding customer support, to the benefit of our incorporated products, year-end Sage One paying subscriptions were current and future SME customers.
Sages hybrid cloud solutions for SMB customers are gaining traction, with the number of paying subscriptions doubling during the year to 1,500.
The launch of Sage ERP X3 version 7 in the summer means we also offer the mid-market a solution with mobility and web access Stephen Kelly at its core.
We expect to see further good progress in adoption for these Chief Executive Officer solutions in 2015.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11
