Strategic Report Strategic Report Finance Review The simplification in the use of supplemental nonChanges to non-statutory statutory measures used by the Board to assess the measures performance of the business has involved moving to measures that are more closely aligned with IFRS and which are clearly and easily reconciled to the numbers Our financial statement disclosure has in the statutory financial statements.
A reconciliation to the former adjusted measures is provided below to been simplified, increasing the provide comparability from the old measures to these transparency of how we report and new ones.
making it easier for the reader of our With respect to revenue, the former Adjusted Revenue Annual Report and Accounts to measure included Sercos share of the revenue of joint interpret the financial information.
We now exclude revenue from joint ventures in line with the statutory definition.
format and style of this Finance Review has therefore changed with the use of In terms of profit, our new measure of Trading Profit newly defined non-statutory numbers more closely aligns to the statutory number meaning fewer reconciling items.
Trading Profit is defined as and more explanation of what lies Operating Profit before i amortisation and behind the numbers.
The Finance impairment costs of intangibles arising on acquisitions, and ii exceptional items.
A significant change from Review is longer than usual as a result, the former Adjusted Operating Profit measure has but there is a lot to talk about and our been to present joint venture results on a statutory objective is to give our shareholders as accounting basis which includes the share of joint venture results after tax and interest instead of clear an understanding as we can proportionally consolidating joint venture Adjusted about what has happened from a Operating Profit.
In addition, Trading Profit is now stated after transaction-related costs and no longer financial perspective in 2014. excludes any Management Estimates.
For example, during financial year 2013, management excluded from Adjusted Operating Profit the estimated impact of the charges related to UK Government reviews on the business.
From this set of Accounts onwards, no Management Estimates will be included in the Trading Profit measure unless they are classified as exceptional items in the statutory consolidated Income Statement.
Trading cash flow is the net cash flow from operating activities before exceptional items as shown on the face of the Groups Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and is stated after capital expenditure on tangible and intangible purchases less proceeds of tangible and intangible disposals, adding dividends we receive from joint ventures and adjusting to remove tax payments or receipts.
Free Cash Flow is Trading Cash Flow after adjusting to add interest received, deduct interest paid, deduct tax payments, and add tax received.
Free Cash Flow and Trading Cash Flow, consistent with Trading Profit, exclude exceptional items which are considered to be non-recurring in nature and outside the normal operations of the Group.
Consistent with Trading Profit these measures also no longer exclude transaction-related costs and Management Estimate items.
A new measure of pre-tax return on invested capital ROIC has been introduced in 2014 to measure how efficiently the Group uses its capital in terms of the return it generates from its assets.
Pre-tax ROIC is calculated as Trading Profit divided by the Invested Capital balance.
Invested Capital represents the assets and liabilities considered to be deployed in delivering the trading performance of the business.
Of the total Angus Cockburn Group Chief Financial Officer 45
