Strategic report Financial review Working capital at the year end was 164m lower than last year reflecting lower food commodity prices and the benefit of management action to reduce the average level of working capital throughout the year.
The comparative results for 2013 have FINANCIAL REVIEW been restated resulting in 272m of sales and 4m of operating profit being transferred from Grocery to Ingredients.
The income statement benefited from the non-recurrence of last years loss of 128m on the sale or closure of businesses in our Ingredients and Sugar segments.
Finance expense less finance income of 58m compared with a net charge of 87m last year.
This reduction reflected the retirement of expensive long-term debt, including the redemption of British Sugars 150m 10% debenture on Group performance 4July 2013 and the repayment of 194m Group revenue increased by 1% at of private placement notes, $120m of constant exchange rates, but the which was repaid mid way through last strengthening of sterling against our year and $194m was repaid this year.
The major trading currencies, particularly average level of debt also benefited from in the second half of the year, resulted another strong cash flow performance.
in a decline in revenues of 3% at actual rates, to 12.9bn.
Adjusted operating Profit before tax increased from 868m profit of 1,163m was 2% ahead of last to 1,020m.
On an adjusted basis, where year at constant rates but 1% lower at the amortisation of non-operating actual rates.
In calculating adjusted intangible assets and any profits or losses operating profit, the amortisation on the sale of non-current assets and charge on non-operating intangibles on the sale and closure of businesses and any profits or losses on disposal are excluded, profit before tax increased of non-current assets are excluded.
On an unadjusted basis, operating Taxation profit was 1% below last year at We recognise the importance of 1,080m.
Comparative results for 2013 complying fully with all applicable tax have been restated for the effects of laws as well as paying and collecting the adopting the revised accounting right amount of tax in every country in standard for employee benefits, which the group operates.
We have had details of which are provided under a board-adopted tax policy for many years Pensions on page 39. which is based on seven tax principles During the year we merged the activities that are embedded in the financial and of AB Mauris Australian and New Zealand non-financial processes and controls of yeast and bakery ingredients businesses the group.
Our tax principles are included with the flour milling business of George in the appendix to our Corporate Weston Foods in Australia.
The results of Responsibility Report.
the Australian milling business, which The tax charge for the year of 237m were previously included within the included an underlying charge of 257m Grocery segment, are now included at an effective rate of 23.3% Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Financial review 201324.2% on the adjusted profit 37 before tax.
The reduction in the effective Return on capital employed for rate is a result of the mix of profits earned in different tax jurisdictions and the the group increased further this reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 23% to 21% with effect from year to 18.9%.
A further reduction in the UK rate to 20% is due to take effect on 1 April 2015.
The legislation to effect these rate changes was enacted before the prior year balance sheet date and as deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in the periods when the underlying timing differences reverse, opening and closing UK deferred tax balances have both been calculated using a rate of 20%.
The overall tax charge for the year benefited from a 21m 2013 29m credit for tax relief on the amortisation of non-operating intangible assets and goodwill arising from previous acquisitions.
Earnings and dividends Earnings attributable to equity shareholders were 762m, 177m higher than last year, and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year used to calculate earnings per share was 790 million 2013 790 million.
Earnings per ordinary share were 30% higher than last year at 96.5p with the absence of losses on sales and closure of businesses.
Adjusted earnings per share, which provides a more consistent measure of trading performance, increased by 6% from 98.1p to 104.1p.
The interim dividend was increased by 4% to 9.7p and a final dividend has been proposed at 24.3p which represents an overall increase of 6% for the year.
The proposed dividend is expected to cost 192m and will be charged next year.
Dividend cover, on an adjusted basis, is just over three times.
Strategic report Financial review 38 in Twinings three factories, two animal feed mills in China and the redevelopment We continued to invest in the future of a former bakery site in Western Australia including ground works and growth of the group with net capital utilities in preparation for its sale for housing development.
investment of 691m during the year.
Financing The financing of the group is managed by a central treasury department.
The group has total committed borrowing facilities amounting to 2.2bn, which comprise: 579m of US private placement notes maturing between 2016 and 2024: 1.2bn provided under a newly negotiated syndicated, revolving credit facility which matures in July 2019 with an option to Balance sheet return of 18.4%.
All businesses with extend by two years: a 120m loan from Non-current assets of 6.8bn were the exception of Sugar delivered an the European Investment Bank maturing similar to last year.
Intangible assets improvement through higher profits, in January 2015 and 328m of local were 114m lower, mainly reflecting with the average level of capital employed committed facilities in Africa and Spain.
the amortisation charge for the year in the business little changed from last During the financial year we repaid, from and foreign exchange translation losses.
ROCE is calculated by expressing existing cash resources, US$194m of Property, plant and equipment increased adjusted operating profit as a percentage private placement notes.
At the year end, by 113m with capital expenditure in the of the average capital employed for 821m was drawn down under these year running ahead of depreciation.
The group also had access to 644m of uncommitted credit Working capital at the year end was Cash flow lines under which 132m was drawn at 164m lower than last year reflecting Net cash flow from operating activities the year end.
Cash and cash equivalents lower food commodity prices and the was very strong again this year, increasing totalled 519m at the year end.
benefit of management action to reduce from 1,276m to 1,439m with a working the average level of working capital capital inflow of 100m compared to last The financial strength and flexibility of throughout the year.
When expressed as years outflow of 97m.
the group is enhanced by diversifying a percentage of sales, this also showed our sources of funding and having We continued to invest in the future further improvement.
Net borrowings at certainty of finance over a long period.
growth of the group and the 691m the year end were 358m lower than last The strength and breadth of the 12 banks spent on property, plant and equipment year at 446m as a consequence of the in the syndicate reflect the scale and and intangibles net of disposals during very strong cash flow.
international presence of the group and the year was an increase on last years during the renegotiation this year we A currency loss of 250m arose on the investment of 600m.
Primark spent included another European bank in the translation into sterling of the groups 378m on the acquisition of new stores, syndicate to reflect the increasing foreign currency denominated net assets.
the fit-out of new and existing stores and activities of the group in continental The groups net assets increased by warehousing.
Expenditure in the food Europe through Primarks expansion.
businesses was lower than last year but The average fixed interest coupon on major projects included further Return on capital employed ROCE for the private placement notes is 5.1%.
investment in the modernisation of our the group increased further this year UK bakeries, new tea packing machines to 18.9%, up from last years restated Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Financial review Pensions The accounting standard under which the 39 Pension liabilities in the groups defined groups pension schemes are accounted, Total committed benefit pension schemes exceeded IAS 19 Employee benefits, has been borrowing facilities m employee benefit assets at the year revised, and the new provisions were Diversified sources of end by 43m compared with last years adopted by the group with effect from term funding restated deficit of 15m.
The comparative accounts for 91% of the groups total results for the financial year 2013 have pension assets and the increase in the been restated as a prior year adjustment, 1 market value of these assets during the the effect of which was to reduce the 4 year was slightly more than the increase reported operating profit by 5m to 3 Data to be in the present value of scheme liabilities.
reflect a change in the treatment of supplied Total contributions to defined benefit administration costs, and to increase plans in the year amounted to 41m other financial expenses by 3m due to 2013 69m, the lower amount the replacement of the expected rate of reflecting the end of the 30m p. a. deficit return on assets with the discount rate.
contributions that were paid in each of the There was little difference between the 2 last five years.
A triennial valuation of the expected rates of return on assets and the UK scheme was undertaken as at 5 April discount rates in the groups schemes in 2014, which was agreed by the trustees 2013 hence the small adjustment.
m after the groups year end, and revealed John Bason 1 Banking syndicate 1,200 54% a surplus of 78m.
As a result there is 2 Private placement 579 26% Finance Director no requirement to agree a recovery plan 3 EIB 120 5% with the trustees.
4 Africa & Spain 328 15% 2,227 On 1 October 2012 new legislation came into effect which required all eligible UK employees to be automatically enrolled into a qualifying pension scheme.
We embraced this new legislation by providing an attractive scheme with employer contribution rates in excess of the statutory minimum and we saw a high take-up.
The charge for the year for the groups defined contribution schemes, which is equal to the contributions made, amounted to 76m 2013 66m and this is the first year that defined contribution costs have exceeded the cash contributions made to the defined benefit schemes reflecting the changing shape of pension provision in the group.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2014
