Financial review Group results 2013 14 on a continuing operations basis Growth actual Growth constant 52 weeks ended 22 February 2014 2013 14 exchange rates exchange rates Group sales inc. VAT 70,894m 0.3% 0.2 % Sales growth excluding petrol 0.9% 0.4% Group trading profit 3,315m 6.0 % 6.7 % UK 2,191m 3.6 % 3.6 % Asia 692m 5.6 % 6.8 % Europe 238m 27.7 % 32.8 % Tesco Bank 194m 1.6% 1.6% Underlying profit before tax 3,054m 6.9 % 7.7 % Underlying diluted earnings per share 32.05p 7.3 % n a ROCE pro-forma inc. China 12.1% 64 bp n a Capex 2.7bn 0.9% 0.6% Statutory profit before tax includes: One-off items inc. Europe asset 801 m Laurie Mcllwee impairment of 734 m Chief Financial Officer Statutory profit before tax 2,259m 9.8% n a China treated as discontinued, including a charge of 540 m relating to the write-down of goodwill Group sales inc. VAT exclude the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
Underlying diluted EPS growth calculated on a constant tax rate basis: 5.0 % at actual tax rates.
From an accounting point of view, our existing business in China has to be treated as a discontinued operation, prior to the planned completion of our partnership with CRE.
The pro-forma Group ROCE of 12.1% includes our Chinese business to provide a comparable figure to the previously disclosed 2012 13 figure.
It is otherwise calculated on a continuing operations basis, excluding one-off charges.
Excluding our Chinese business, Group ROCE for 2013 14 was 13.6%.
Group sales Group trading profit Group results and strategic update Group sales for the year were 70.9 billion, an increase of 0.3% at actual exchange rates.
Full-year trading profit for our continuing operations declined 6.0 % to 3.3 billion.
This was driven 70.9bn 3,315m by a decline in UK profits and challenges overseas: specifically, the regulatory impact in South Korea, political disruption in Thailand and continuing challenging conditions in Central Europe.
1 Underlying diluted earnings Full-year dividend per share Underlying profit before tax, which excludes the contribution per share maintained from property-related items, declined 6.9 % to 3.1 billion.
Underlying diluted earnings per share was 32.05 pence.
During the year, we concluded our strategic review in the United 32.05p 14.76p States with the sale of the substantive part of Fresh & Easys operating business to Yucaipa.
We also announced our partnership with China Resources Enterprise Ltd. CRE, which when completed will give Tesco a 20% ownership stake in the largest food retail business in China.
Both of those operations are therefore shown as discontinued.
Reflecting the challenging trading conditions and rapidly changing environments, we have also announced a number of one-off 2 charges.
801 million of these are in continuing operations.
These include: A non-cash impairment of 734 million to the carrying values of some stores in the Europe segment.
An additional 63 million provision for payment protection insurance and other customer redress at the Bank.
After 14 years service at Tesco, Laurie resigned as Chief Financial Officer on 4 April 2014.
He will continue to work with us until October 2014 while a successor is appointed.
Our statutory profit before tax for the year was 2.3 billion.
Despite 1 See Note 1 on page 79 in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 these charges and a lower contribution from profits and losses on for the definition of underlying profit before tax.
2 property-related items, Group profit before tax increased by 9.8%, See Note 2 on page 81 in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 for the analysis of restructuring and other one-off items.
primarily reflecting higher one-off charges last year.
12 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information There is a 540 million write-down of goodwill in our Chinese a particularly important category for small traders who shop with us.
business included in discontinued operations.
This prudently The Thai economy also fell into recession during the year and this reflects the lower end of a range of independent valuations of has since been compounded by the recent political unrest.
the proposed combination carried out in the second half of the year for accounting purposes.
These valuations were, as required The full-year numbers for Asia benefited from currency, but in the by the relevant accounting standards, produced on a standalone fourth quarter we saw a negative impact, driven by the Thai Baht.
existing basis for each business.
As such, they do not take account Whilst it is difficult to predict currency movements going forward, of the strategic value and significant synergies available once the this impact has continued into the new financial year.
South Korea, Malaysia and Thailand remain markets in which we see significant future potential and opportunities to invest in Segmental results high-returning stores.
We have opened 2.1 million square feet of new space in these markets this year, a reduction compared to the UK 2.3 million we opened last year.
In the coming year we intend to Full-year sales in the UK declined by 0.1 % and grew by 0.8% be even more focused with plans to open 1.2 million square feet, excluding petrol.
Like-for-like sales declined by 1.3 % including with much of it in convenience.
This reflects the weaker grocery market, lower inflation across the industry, a continuing drag from our Europe large stores and the work to transform our general merchandise.
Conditions in Europe have remained challenging this year, particularly for our large stores.
Sales declined 2.0 % at constant rates.
Like-forUK results like sales declined by 3.5 % excluding petrol.
Our trading profit for the region declined by 27.7 % at actual exchange rates to 238 million, m % growth resulting in a 2.57% trading margin.
Our decision to invest in the UK sales 48,177m 0.1 % shopping trip through price, quality, range and service resulted in a stronger second half performance.
The regions like-for-like sales have UK revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 43,570m 0.0% improved through the year, from 5.5 % in the first quarter to 0.6 % UK trading profit 2,191m 3.6 % in the fourth quarter.
Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.03% 18 bp Reflecting the year-on-year decline in the profits of our European Total sales for the year included a 2.1% contribution from new businesses, we revised our long-term budgets.
These revisions space, lower than last year as we reduced our new store opening have resulted in the asset impairment of 734 million to the programme.
We expect it to be lower again next year.
carrying value of these businesses.
Our full-year trading margin was 5.03%, a reduction of 18 Europe results basis points.
Trading margin in the first half increased by 2 basis points, but declined by 28 basis points in the second Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth half.
This is reflective of our trading performance and our Europe sales 10,767m 0.4 % 2.0 % determination to improve and strengthen the customer offer.
impact of IFRIC 13 9,267m 0.6 % 2.2 % Asia Europe trading profit 238m 27.7 % 32.8 % Although we have strong high-returning businesses in Asia Trading margin trading profit revenue 2.57% 96 bp 111 bp with leading market positions, their performance this year reflects a number of challenges.
Sales grew by 1.4% at constant rates, Poland was a particular focus for us in the year and we are pleased including a 5.9% contribution from new stores as we continue with the customer response to our plans, with an improved to invest in these growth markets.
Like-for-like sales declined by like-for-like sales trend through the year.
4.5 % and our trading margin declined by almost 60 basis points to 6.71%.
Ireland has continued to be a difficult market this year with severe pressure on consumer spending, strong competition from the Asia results discounters and aggressive couponing activity.
Although the launch of Price Promise in the second half has helped improve customer Actual rates Constant rates m % growth % growth trust in our prices, and we have been working hard to show customers the breadth and points of difference in our offer, our weaker trading Asia sales 10,947m 2.7% 1.4% performance in this market has impacted on the profitability of our Asia revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 10,309m 2.6% 1.4% European segment.
Asia trading profit 692m 5.6 % 6.8 % Trading margin trading profit revenue 6.71% 59 bp 59 bp We have continued to focus on the heartland of our business in Turkey Exc.
China, with our subsidiary there now treated as a discontinued operation and the stores there have contributed to a gradual improvement in following our agreement to partner with CRE.
like-for-like sales over the year.
Nevertheless, addressing our position in Turkey is very much a priority.
Although we have annualised the introduction of the DIDA opening hours regulations in South Korea, year-on-year changes in the days We continue to be very disciplined in our allocation of capital to and hours of the closures have continued to impact sales.
We have reduced capital expenditure in the region by worked hard to mitigate the residual effects of the regulation by fully nearly 40% this year, and expect to maintain a similar or lower aligning our operations to the current pattern of trading.
Going forward, new investment will be scarce and focused only on targeted opportunities, primarily in In Thailand, our performance has been held back by our own convenience and online.
execution as well as external pressures.
We implemented a strong plan, including steps to address some parts of our offer which underperformed in the first half.
This included the remerchandising and remarketing of our Clubpack range of bulk buy products, Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13 Financial review continued Tesco Bank We are spending significantly less on new space.
In the UK we have Tesco Bank generated 194 million trading profit this year.
already reduced our investment from 2.5 million square feet at Excluding income from the legacy insurance distribution peak.
In the coming year, we will open just 0.9 million square feet agreement which terminated in 2012 13 and fair value releases of net new space.
This includes almost 200,000 square feet of resulting from the unwind of an acquisition accounting franchise space in One Stop.
In Europe, we will open just 275,000 adjustment, it grew by 19%.
square feet of net new space and focus more of our investment on high-returning opportunities in Asia.
We have seen good growth in our core banking products with customer accounts for credit cards, loans, mortgages and savings Property up 14%.
After the first full year of trading, mortgage balances have The market value of our property across the Group currently exceeds grown to 0.7 billion and we have helped over 4,000 customers to 34 billion, with the most significant driver of the reduction since last own their homes.
Those customers have borrowed an average of year being the impact of foreign exchange rates.
just under 170,000 with a loan-to-value ratio of just over 50%.
Reflecting the challenging market conditions, with increased Historically, by acquiring and developing high-quality stores we competition driving a marked reduction in premiums across the grew the value of our property significantly and unrealised property industry, the profit contribution of our Insurance business was profits built up.
We have had an active programme of releasing down 17 % this year excluding legacy income.
value from our property portfolio over many years.
We continue to look at our property portfolio in order to maximise value in the most appropriate way for the business as a whole.
Excluding Tesco Bank results one-off items, profits arising from property-related items declined to 180 million this year, in line with the reduction of our sale and m % growth leaseback programme outlined last year.
This year we have focused Tesco Bank revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 1,003m 1.8 % on South Korea and we completed a sale-and-leaseback in January comprising four Homeplus stores and accompanying mall space.
Tesco Bank trading profit 194m 1.6% Tesco Bank trading margin trading profit revenue 19.34% 63bp Pension Our pension is an extremely valuable benefit for colleagues and The Bank will soon complete its suite of products with a current one we are proud to offer.
IFRS accounting gives a marked-toaccount launching in the first half.
We expect the growth in market measure of our pension liabilities, based on market underlying trading profit in 2014 15 to be broadly offset by conditions which of course can be volatile in the short term, the investment in current accounts.
whereas the liabilities are clearly long-term in nature.
Within one-off items, the Bank has made a further increase to Our after-tax IAS 19 pension deficit this year has risen to the provision for payment protection insurance of 20 million 2.6 billion, mainly due to a reduction in real corporate bond and a provision of 43 million for other customer redress.
yields with a subsequent fall in the discount rate used to measure our liabilities.
A triennial actuarial valuation will be carried out to The Banks balance sheet remains strong with good levels of measure our liabilities as at 31 March 2014 and this will be liquidity.
Although customer deposits remain the primary source completed in 2015. of funding, the funding base was diversified during the year with a credit card securitisation and participation in the Funding for Return on capital employed Lending scheme.
When we complete our partnership with CRE, our Group return on capital employed will reflect our share of the partnerships Group balance sheet and cash flow assets and profits or losses.
Given that we expect to complete Net debt has remained stable year-on-year at 6.6 billion.
the partnership in the first half of 2014 15 we have given a In the context of declining underlying profit, lower property pro-forma Group ROCE including our Chinese business.
On this proceeds and a maintained dividend, this demonstrates our basis, our Group ROCE was 12.1%, which is a comparable figure discipline and focus on cash.
to the 12.7% we reported last year.
Excluding our Chinese business based on its current accounting treatment as a Two metrics that we use to guide our internal decisions and which discontinued operation, our Group ROCE would be 13.6%.
support our discipline to maintain a strong investment grade credit rating are net indebtedness and fixed charge cover.
This year net The UK continues to earn the highest returns in the Group and indebtedness rose slightly to 3.16 times and fixed charge cover our businesses in Asia are high-returning.
Europes returns remain remained stable at 3.4 times.
We will continue to limit capital expenditure in this region and focus our efforts on improving our offer for This year we spent 2.7 billion of capex, or 3.0 billion including customers in existing stores.
We are reducing our capital expenditure to no more than 2.5 billion for at least the next three years.
A greater proportion of this reduced overall spend is devoted to our existing stores.
We are accelerating our refresh programme in the UK and we are also maintaining our level of spend on technology to ensure that we have the necessary capabilities for a truly multichannel offer.
14 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our approach to growth and returns We laid out this financial framework in April 2013 and it continues to inform our decisions.
The framework helps ensure an appropriate balance of growth, returns and cash generation, and outlines what shareholders can expect from Tesco from a financial perspective in the medium term.
Our approach to growth and returns Financial disciplines Guiderails Trading profit growth Generate positive free cash flow Mid-single digit Sustainable ROCE Allocate capital within range of 4% down to 3.5% of sales 12% to 15% range Dividend growth Maintain a strong investment In line with underlying EPS grade credit rating Target cover of more than 2 times The changes we have announced to capital expenditure underpin our commitment to this framework.
This moves capital expenditure to the bottom of our 4% down to 3.5% of sales guiderail.
This even greater focus on capital discipline will help maintain the commitment to generate positive free cash flow, maintain a strong balance sheet, and continue to maintain a strong dividend.
I wish Philip and the team well and am absolutely confident that Tesco will emerge from this period of unprecedented change in the industry stronger than ever.
Laurie Mcllwee Chief Financial Officer A fter 14 years service at Tesco, Laurie resigned as Chief Financial Officer on 4 April 2014.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15
