Strategic report Strategy review Our objectives Our strategy AVEVA has been a High growth markets Plant operations Extending the design Accelerating Life Cycle consistent leader in the footprint Solutions markets we serve, but we cannot afford to rest on ourpast success.
This is why we are driven by a clear set of strategic growth objectives that are designed to ensure that Build a stronger presence in Target Asset Information Strengthen the position of AVEVA NET Increase focus on Owner Operators wecontinue to expand our NorthAmerica Management using AVEVA NET and Enterprise Resource Management with the Digital Asset proposition presence in both new and ERM within the Integrated Project Continue to invest in growing economies Further position laser technology as Further strengthen the integration Execution Strategy established markets.
best-practice for brownfield projects between our Engineering Design and Further develop our Integrated Project Leverage AVEVA Engineering to drive Information Management solutions to Execution strategy Deliver Integrated Engineering & Integrated Engineering & Design accelerate cross-selling opportunities Design to Owner Operators for Invest early in next-generation high in-plant engineering Expand technology footprint through Invest in a partner ecosystem to Be the worlds fastest-growing growth markets development and acquisition increase scalability and build provider of engineering, design and Support the capture of knowledge Expand our operations within our newchannels information management solutions and share experience between Establish third party partners to drive customers growing markets to deliver design and operations AVEVA adoption with operators Continue to prioritise AVEVA NET the highest level of customer support development further expanding Create a Digital Asset for each ofour Deliver a highly differentiated SaaS Cloud capabilities customers that enables them based in-plant engineering solution tomaster change to deliver clear Accelerate penetration with Investing in business value OwnerOperators through key markets for targetedacquisitions AVEVA Expand our solutions through world-class technology innovation and targeted acquisitions Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Extend our presence in North America AVEVA will be working to exploit the AVEVAs technology and global sales The introduction of AVEVA Everything3D AVEVA has always had a clear objective and high-growth markets tremendous opportunities in the shale oil network is extremely well positioned last year further cemented our dominant and underpinning values to be firmly and gas market in North America which tohelp Owner Operators meet their role as a global provider of 3D design established as a partner to our customers.
Expand our business to target could be transformational to the industry.
safety, production and uptime targets.
This position, combined with our The power of our solutions, particularly in more Owner Operators We also recognise the continued importance With asset life cycles greater than investment in schematics and structural combination, gives our customers the of BRIC markets Brazil, Russia, India, China 25years and an addressable market that solutions, means that we can use our ability to transform business processes and the growth of the MIST markets Mexico, is more than twice the size of the design relationships with engineering and design across the entire life cycle.
Success in this Indonesia, South Korea, Turkey and will market, the plant operations domain budget holders to extend the reach of our area is fundamental to the long-term continue to invest in customer service represents a major opportunity for our products within the design discipline and objectives of AVEVA in our core markets.
andsupport infrastructure in these digital asset solutions.
We are able to Accelerating our Life Cycle Solutions important regions.
further penetrate our traditional design enables us to create new opportunities for market and extend our reach into other cross-selling and market expansion.
This disciplines such as in-plant engineering, will secure new customers and increase materials and construction.
the use of our technology far beyond the project phase, supporting the entire asset life cycle.
18 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Building on our strengths High growth markets Plant operations Extending the design Accelerating Life Cycle In order to carve out our position around the creation and management of the Digital footprint Solutions Asset, we will build upon our core strengths.
With the majority of our installed base involved in the execution of major capital projects, this gives us a competitive advantage to establish our technology earlier in the life cycle.
As we continue to expand our reach in engineering, while also targeting the needs of the operator, we have the opportunity to gain larger market share and drive the mandate of our solutions throughout engineering.
By helping our customers master change with a Digital Build a stronger presence in Target Asset Information Strengthen the position of AVEVA NET Increase focus on Owner Operators Asset we are further establishing AVEVA as NorthAmerica Management using AVEVA NET and Enterprise Resource Management with the Digital Asset proposition the leading supplier in the creation, data ERM within the Integrated Project Continue to invest in growing economies Further position laser technology as Further strengthen the integration assimilation and management of the digital Execution Strategy best-practice for brownfield projects between our Engineering Design and asset.
We are greatly strengthening our Further develop our Integrated Project Leverage AVEVA Engineering to drive Information Management solutions to ability to sell across the entire life cycle and Execution strategy Deliver Integrated Engineering & Integrated Engineering & Design accelerate cross-selling opportunities benefit from the ongoing management and Design to Owner Operators for Invest early in next-generation high modification of assets well beyond the initial in-plant engineering Expand technology footprint through Invest in a partner ecosystem to growth markets project phase.
development and acquisition increase scalability and build Support the capture of knowledge Expand our operations within our newchannels and share experience between Establish third party partners to drive customers growing markets to deliver design and operations AVEVA adoption with operators Continue to prioritise AVEVA NET the highest level of customer support development further expanding Deliver a highly differentiated SaaS Cloud capabilities based in-plant engineering solution Accelerate penetration with Expanding OwnerOperators through our traditional targetedacquisitions markets Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity Opportunity AVEVA will be working to exploit the AVEVAs technology and global sales The introduction of AVEVA Everything3D AVEVA has always had a clear objective tremendous opportunities in the shale oil network is extremely well positioned last year further cemented our dominant and underpinning values to be firmly and gas market in North America which tohelp Owner Operators meet their role as a global provider of 3D design established as a partner to our customers.
could be transformational to the industry.
This position, combined with our The power of our solutions, particularly in We also recognise the continued importance With asset life cycles greater than investment in schematics and structural combination, gives our customers the of BRIC markets Brazil, Russia, India, China 25years and an addressable market that solutions, means that we can use our ability to transform business processes and the growth of the MIST markets Mexico, is more than twice the size of the design relationships with engineering and design across the entire life cycle.
19 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Chief Executives statement Summary of performance This is a strong result and reflects the robust underlying drivers of the markets we serve as well as the value our technology brings Constant currency growth 19% 10% Adjusted basic EPS Strong headline revenue growth A period of strong growth combined with Underlying constant-currency organic growth marginimprovement.
achieved in EDS was an impressive 14% during Richard Longdon the year.
Chief Executive Officer Going forward we will be selling more of the AVEVAs solutions, in order to maximise their One AVEVA solution comprising common impact across our customer base.
products sold to each type of customer by 27 May 2014 asingle sales force.
This approach is being Overall, our broad balance across particularly successful in driving wider use of geographies, market verticals, EPCs and the entire AVEVA product portfolio where Owner Operators enabled us to make customers are adopters of AVEVA NET.
excellent progress despite mixed economic Another period of situations.
Regionally, we saw continued Engineering & Design Systems performed strength in North East Asia, particularly South strong growth in both strongly during the year with revenue Korea where many of the major shipyards are increasing 12% to 211.5 million 2013 increasingly involved in large offshore Oil & revenue and profitability 189.5 million.
This was driven by strong Gas related projects, and in North America sales in Asia Pacific and further expansion where we achieved acceleration in growth within our global EPC customers.
mainly because of the buoyant Oil & Gas market, including the shale gas revolution A key priority for us has been to develop the driving more downstream facilities opportunity for our new, market-leading 3D investment.
This contrasted with a more Overview design platform, AVEVA Everything3D challenging year in China and softer markets It has been another period of strong growth AVEVA E3D.
I am pleased to report in EMEA and Latin America, with generally in both revenue and profitability for AVEVA thatsignificant progress has been made.
weak economic conditions in Brazil, Russia in 2013 14.
Our customer base can be Someof our biggest customers are now and the Middle East.
broadly categorised as the complete supply beginning to licence the platform and chain involved in building and operating benefit from the competitive advantage it In Oil & Gas we continued to see strong large capital-intensive facilities in the offers.
AVEVA intends to continue to lead rental renewals as well as initial licence sales, Process, Power and Marine industries.
Our the industry through innovation, and we notably in Asia Pacific.
Our EPC customers primary customers fall into three broad see particular opportunities in Cloud and are seeing the effects of lower capital categories: Engineering, Procurement and Mobile technologies.
expenditure growth amongst the Super Construction companies EPCs : Shipyards: Majors, although in offshore, where we and Owner Operator customers.
AVEVAs Our Enterprise Solutions ES division aretraditionally strong, investment has industry-leading technology solutions are whichprovides solutions for information continued to grow.
In Power we have been tied to our vision of an evolving Digital management throughout the operational encouraged to see some early indications of Asset, undergoing continual change to lifeof an asset experienced more difficult increasing activity in new Nuclear builds in support the creation and operation of market conditions and longer sales cycles in Europe and Asia, and we are starting to see ourcustomers capital intensive assets.
the second half of the year.
This, combined very early signs of a potential pick up in with the loss of two key customer contracts conventional shipbuilding in Marine, In the face of this challenge, increasingly in the first half, resulted in the division although it is still too early to predict when acyclical recovery might occur and how ourcustomers require a combination of recording a loss for the year.
Since the year products from Engineering & Design end we have implemented some further quickly this might feed through to an increase in licence usage for AVEVA.
Systems EDS and Enterprise Solutions ES.
refinements to our delivery model for all of 20 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS What we are focused on Recurring revenue Visualisation Platform AVEVA AVP, Innovation We are proud of the fact that over the course whichutilises our Global Majic virtual avatar Recurring technology to enable customers to provide of the past five years AVEVA has invested 70% over 150 million on Research & Development training within the 3D model of their plant facility, increasing safety and reducing cost.
to broaden the number of products we offer 24% annual fees and deepen our involvement with our Further innovative visualisation techniques 46% rental fees are in the pipeline and will be showcased later customers to help them to compete more effectively.
The benefit of this investment is this year.
Initial licence fees clear: we have delivered ground-breaking new products like AVEVA E3D and our product A new version of AVEVA NET is also close 20% pipeline is now stronger than ever.
At the tobeta testing and will be available in the Services heart of our technology strategy is a principle second half of the year.
One focus of this that the Digital Asset must evolve in tandem product has been to make installation and 10% with the physical asset, enabling our start-up much easier reenforcing this customers to adapt to continual change.
Another focus area isto improve the graphical interaction.
With this in mind AVEVA intends to continue Divisional revenue split to lead the industry through innovation, and We have also continued to invest heavily we see additional opportunities in Cloud and inour Research & Development facilities in Derived from EDS Mobile technologies.
We recently delivered India, where we expanded significantly our 89% anew tablet-based application, AVEVA E3D operations in Hyderabad and Mumbai during Insight, and we are now working with a the year.
211.5m SuperMajor oil company to develop novel collaboration applications built with AVEVA Global growth opportunities Derived from ES E3D and AVEVA NET technology, using large A fundamental strength of our business form-factor touch-screens.
We are also liesinour global presence and the truly 11% continuing our successful collaboration international market reach we enjoy.
We take 25.9m withMicrosoft to Cloud-enable additional pride in the fact that we can, as a result of past solutions on the Microsoft Azure platform.
investment, support our customers locally wherever they are in the world, and we see As we deepen our relationship with Owner this as a key point of differentiation for AVEVA.
Operators we have aligned much of our 90bps acquired technology to meet the demand for We aim to target expansion in high growth software tools which enhance the safety and economies, and during the past year saw Improvement in profit margin operation of complex brownfield facilities, as good growth in a number of regions, During 2013 14 we delivered a tangible well as improving safety in the construction particularly North East Asia, where the improvement in profitability, with a rise in the and fabrication of new build assets.
We Korean shipyards have seen a resurgence in adjusted PBT margin to 33%.
recently introduced the AVEVA Advanced business as they become prime contractors A measure of CUSTOMER CASE STUDY profitable growth EDC Daring to be Great Industry: Steel Fabrication and Construction Solution: Structural steel design with AVEVA Bocad Country: Australia AVEVA Bocad give us so much competitive advantage that we would not be the business we are today without it.
No other solution could do this, and the support we have had from the local AVEVA team has been outstanding.
The case study can be found in the AVEVA Construction of a refinery module World Magazine 2013, Issue 2 Photograph courtesy of EDC www.
com awm 2013 2 edc 21 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
