10 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Financial review Focused strategy accelerating growth momentum remains positive for 2015.
Group financial results Our PEEK powder manufacturing capacity utilisation at year end was Victrex delivered a strong performance in 2014, reflecting a focused 78% 2013: 62%, compared to our nameplate capacity of 4,250 tonnes strategy which is accelerating growth across our five chosen markets of although effective capacity is slightly lower than this when maintenance Automotive, Aerospace, Energy, Electronics and Medical.
Growth was and grade changes are factored in.
This level of utilisation, and year driven in the first half of the year by an outperformance in our core PEEK on year increase, supports our decision to invest in new manufacturing resin business and in the second half by new business in Consumer assets which will support the breadth of new and larger business Electronics.
Our higher margin Speciality Products and Invibio medical opportunities which we are focused on.
Our PEEK manufacturing business delivered continuing growth year on year.
process remains technically superior, enabling us to differentiate versus competitors, whether we use raw materials from our own Group revenue for the period was 14% ahead of the prior year 2013: upstream assets principally BDF, one of the key precursors to PEEK 221.9m but with a slightly lower average selling price of71.1 kg orBDF which we source externally.
This was due to currency and a softer sales mix, principally the lower priced but higher volume Consumer Electronics Divisional summary business.
Excluding Consumer Electronics volumes, but still reflecting Growth across Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS reflects broad based some currency impact, our average selling price remained broadly growth across our markets as long term global megatrends such as stable year on year at 74.6 kg.
Volumes were particularly strong, fuelefficiency in Automotive and Aerospace, and yield and reliability in 22% ahead of last year at 3,551 tonnes 2013: 2,920 tonnes following Oil and Gas, remain strong, irrespective of cyclical patterns.
These longer a broad based performance across each quarter.
lifecycle and higher margin markets, together with our Invibio medical business form the bulk of our portfolio, remain attractive over the longer term.
In the Consumer Electronics market, we anticipate a continuation of volumes during the first half of FY 2015 and we are Return on capital employed: working hard to use this opportunity as a platform into more sustainable Profit after tax net assets and longer lifecycle business in the future.
Operating cash conversion: The higher margin Speciality Products business continued to progress, Cash generated from operations operating profit particularly Aptiv film, where we saw continued demand and recorded a17% increase in revenue over the year.
Our new Aptiv film capacity came online in Q1 FY 2015 and will enhance our ability to supply ultra-thin and ultra-wide film to customers in the future.
Film remains akey differentiator for Victrex, particularly in the Aerospace and Electronics markets, where itsunique combination of properties helpsovercome complex technicalchallenges.
In our Invibio medical business, we saw a steady return to growth overthe year, compared to the weaker period of destocking seen in thefirst half of last year.
Revenue in Invibio was 5% ahead of the prior year at 53.4m 2013: 50.8m.
This predominantly reflects continued improvement in sales to the spine market in the mature geographies ofthe US and Europe with sales to emerging countries, particularly China with double-digit growth, progessing well.
Away from spine, ouremerging medical businesses including Dental, Trauma and Knee, and sales to new geographies continue to show steady progress.
Group gross margin of 64.6% 2013: 66.6% reflects a slightly softer sales mix and higher cost of manufacture in the first half and the lower priced Consumer Electronics business and currency in the second half.
With an improvement in our cost of manufacture programme over the course of the year, H2 gross margin saw an improvement on the first half year, to 65.1% H1 2014: 64.0%.
We are renewing our focus on cost of manufacture in FY 2015, with the aim of improving our medium term efficiency, particularly as our new manufacturing capacity starts to rampup.
Louisa Burdett Group Finance Director www.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 11 Investment: Our new PEEK Speciality Products: UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, manufacturing plant will support George Osborne, talks to Victrex employees during ourability to drive future growth the opening of our new Aptiv film facility Our strategy to use our technical excellence to deliver new solutions Cash flow and capacity investment toour customers means continued investment to drive our future Despite 2014 being our highest level of capital expenditure growthprogrammes.
This includes the technical, marketing, quality and 2014:65.6m: 2013: 40.7m to support investment, Victrex continued regulatory functions, with total indirect overheads including the profit to see healthy cash generation.
Cash generated from operations was driven bonus provision this year increasing by 13%, slightly ahead of 118.3m 2013: 100.9m representing an operating cash conversion the increase seen in 2013.
With significant overhead investment in recent of 116% 2013: 107%.
Investment was principally in the construction years to create the building blocks for our future growth, we anticipate of our new PEEK plant we announced in October 2012 that we that overhead growth will be more moderate in the medium term.
To expected toinvest 90m in new capacity alongside our Aptiv film support our solutions-driven approach to customers, we continued to facility.
This isour third PEEK plant and it will be commissioned from invest in research and development, of which approximately 85% relates early 2015 thesecond quarter of Victrexs financial year.
Our capacity to market and customer related product and application development.
investment an additional 2,900 tonnes reflects continued underlying Our R&D expenditure increased to 15.7m this year 2013: 14.6m, confidence in our business and the breadth of future opportunities, representing 6% of revenue 2013: 7%.
where global megatrends remain strong.
The investment has continued to support our commercial discussions, particularly as we focus on larger As a UK-based global exporter, currency had a 2.3m adverse and more impactful long term opportunities, giving our customers impact on our profits for this year as our major trading currencies confidence that capacity will be available to support larger long-term moved against the pound.
Some of the 2014 impact arose from applications.
Our Aptiv film investment will increase capacity for hedging Q2 outperformance volumes and the new Consumer Electronics film, which iscurrently used in Aerospace and Electronics markets.
business at less favourable spot rates, rather than up to 12 months in advance as part of our normal hedging policy.
Looking forward, Taxation paid during the period was 21.1m 2013: 21.7m, which currency remains a considerable headwind for FY 2015, although reflects the reduction in the UK corporation tax rate, partially offset we note the more recent favourable movement of the $ rate.
We by a stronger trading performance.
Total dividends during the period now anticipate being able to fully cover the FX impact, reflecting increased to 37.3m 2013: 32.7m, reflecting the increase inthe our positive trading momentum and more recent exchange rates.
As a result, and despite the high capital expenditure, the closing Group cash balance as at 30 September 2014 Group profit before tax of 102.7m was 9% ahead oftheprior year was 89.6m with no debt 2013: 91.6m: no debt.
2013: 94.6m, evidence that our strategy is accelerating growth.
Basic earnings per share of 94.6p per share 2013: 86.5p per share Special dividend also reflects the lower effective tax rate of 21.9% 2013: 22.9% Our proposed special dividend of 50p per share is underpinned by resulting from the lower UK corporation tax rate.
strong cash generation, despite high capital expenditure this year, with the payout representing a total of 43m, enabling the Group Balance sheet to still retain a robust balance sheet position.
Alongside our special Our strong balance sheet remains a key competitive advantage, dividend is a final dividend of 33.76p 2013: 32.65p, with cover supporting our ability to invest for future growth, to provide improving to 2.1x 2013: 2.0x.
Our medium term focus is to security of supply to our customers and to support appropriate maintain cover around or above this level, to support a sustainable shareholder return.
Net assets at 30 September 2014 totalled future dividend.
Our working capital reflects how we choose to differentiate ourselves through product leadership and These dividends reflect both our cash performance and underlying security of supply for both existing and future customers and end users.
confidence in the growth programmes and prospects for our business.
The full regular dividend for the year, incorporating interim and final Inventory levels reduced year on year to 44.2m 2013: 51.1m.
dividend, is 45.15p per share 2013: 43.0p, an increase of 5%.
Thisreflects higher sales performance and product demand across the breadth of our product grades.
Trade receivables are in line with the prior year, with receivables which are either current or less than 30 days overdue at 98% 2013: 97%.
Trade payables reflect consistent creditor days with the prior year, underpinning our Louisa Burdett commitment to our suppliers to pay within agreed terms to maintain Group Finance Director strong working and strategic relationships.
Return on capital 8 December 2014 employed ROCE has reduced slightly following a period of high capital investment in manufacturing assets but remains ahead ofmany peers.
ROCE for the year was 22.7% 2013: 23.2% and webelieve there is an opportunity to enhance ROCE once our new capacity ramps up and utilisation rates improve.
com 12 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Performance review Victrex Polymer Solutions Victrex materials are helping shape future performance.
VPS delivered a strong performance this year.
The division generated capabilities to drive our future growth initiatives.
The resulting revenue 16% ahead of the prior year of 199.2m 2013: 171.1m operating profit of 77.2m was 13% ahead of theprevious year reflecting broad based growth across our strategic markets and a 2013: 68.6m.
particularly strong performance from core PEEK resin sales in the first half, alongside continued progress in Speciality Products where Market overview Aptiv sales recorded a 20% increase over the year.
The second half Whilst we remain a market-led business, geographic trends remain was characterised by continued broad based market growth, aided important.
Our core geographies of the US, Europe and Asia-Pacific by strong volumes in Consumer Electronics, with some continuation all performed well this year.
Sales volume in Europe of 1,778 tonnes of volumes anticipated for the first half of 2015.
Gross margin was 9% ahead of the prior year 2013: 1,637 tonnes driven by good at58.3% 2013: 60.3% reflects a softer mix, adverse currency growth in all key markets, particularly Automotive.
In the US, sales andthe slightly increased cost of manufacture in H1, which saw volumes of 878 tonnes was 14% ahead of the prior year 2013: 770 improvement in H2.
Sales, marketing and administrative expenses tonnes.
In Asia, sales volume of 895 tonnes was 74% ahead of the increased by 4.4m to 38.9m 2013: 34.5m with continued prior year 513 tonnes with good growth in industrial and transport investment to develop our organisational infrastructure and applications, a steady performance in semiconductor applications, alongside a much stronger performance in Consumer Electronics.
Japan also saw a steady recovery, from a low base, with sales ahead by approximately 19% year on year.
2014 2013 Change m m % Energy Industrial sales volume at 1,196 tonnes was ahead of last year 1,125 tonnes.
Increased demand for industrial machinery and Revenue 199.2 171.1 16 equipment, and increased emerging market demand drove growth, Gross profit 116.1 103.1 13 aided by good growth in oil and gas, although drilling activity Operating profit 77.2 68.6 13 remains patchy.
We also remain cognisant of the recent softer oil price and the potential implications for near term capital expenditure in oil and gas projects, although long term trends remain supportive.
Transport sales volume increased 20% to 962 tonnes 2013: 799 tonnes with strong sales into Automotive and Aerospace.
The increase in Automotive sales reflects the trend towards highly durable and weight saving materials, as global megatrends of emissions reduction in cars and fuel saving for aeroplanes remain strong.
The use of PEEK polymers in transmission and braking systems remains an important part of our offering, in helping to reduce weight, improve efficiency and durability.
We also continue to work on other future programmes, including gears.
In Aerospace, build rates steadily increased during 2014.
We continue to work on a number of opportunities to translate the existing level of our materials across the aircraft, as well as some emerging retrofitting opportunities for existing aircraft.
Brackets and fasteners remain the key product areas in focus, as well as film.
Beyond our key end customers of Boeing and Airbus, pre-development work with Becoming the partner of choice in delivering solutions to customers remains key.
Tim Cooper Managing Director Victrex Polymer Solutions www.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 13 Automotive: The trend of highly durable and COMAC in China continues, which offers an attractive medium weight saving materials in cars reflects the need tolonger term opportunity.
to reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency Electronics sales increased markedly to 1,031 tonnes 2013: 628 tonnes reflecting both an improved performance in semiconductor applications, but supplemented by growth in Consumer Electronics.
Whilst Consumer Electronics has slightly softened margins this year, this remains very attractive and viable high volume business and we believe that more sustainable and longer lifecycle business in this area remains achievable, complementing our other longer lifecycle portfolio opportunities.
Product and market development Becoming the partner of choice in delivering solutions to customers remains key.
Our Speciality Products business, driven predominantly by Aptiv film used in many acoustic applications, delivered a good performance, with sales increasing by 17% and pricing ahead year on year.
Our other existing Speciality Product platforms are coatings, pipes and composites.
Our pre-development work with Magma continues and whilst field testing trials remain ongoing, further test orders of piping were shipped during the year, to both oil majors and oil service companies.
Commissioning of the spooling system, which is part of the laying process for Magma pipe, was also concluded after the year end.
Focus on Automotive Development pipeline The demand for materials which offer durability and can The development pipeline reflects our focus on larger and more help meet the trend of reducing CO2 emissions remains impactful targets, in line with our strategy to drive value rather strong.
With global mobility and interconnection being than just focusing on the total volume of opportunities and akey global megatrend, transport remains an attractive chasing every PEEK sale.
Our portfolio management approach area for Victrex.
We remain at the forefront of helping ensures we focus on the deliverability of our development pipeline the global transport industry, whether it is in Aerospace rather than just the volume of opportunities.
Our strategy KPIs or Automotive.
show five mega-programmes of PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED Spine, JUVORA Dental, Victrex Pipe Magma, Trauma and Knee, With over 1 billion cars and estimates of over 100 each offering revenue potential of at least 50m in their peak year, million new vehicles per year by 2018, improving alongside more typical Horizon 1 0-2 years opportunities.
We energy efficiency and emissions is vital to the will also continue to report the mature annualised volume MAV sustainability of personal transport.
of 2,141 tonnes 30 September 2013: 2,064 tonnes which is if all Victrex materials are helping shape future performance of the developments were successfully commercialised.
in powertrain technology within vehicles, building on PEEKs long standing reputation in ABS braking systems.
Growth drivers Efficiency improvements are reliant on the reduction We continue to see good growth potential for our business, offriction associated energy losses.
Through the use reflected by our strong development pipeline, as well as ofVictrex PEEK in transmission seals and thrust washers, opportunities to target further market penetration or geographies frictional losses are reduced by approximately 20% through strategic marketing.
Continued investment in talent, compared with metal based or incumbent materials, technology and new capacity means that we are well placed enabling reduced transmission power consumption.
totakeadvantage of growth opportunities whether organically Victrex also has a number of development programmes orthrough selective acquisitions in delivering solutions to our focused on other applications including gears.
As ever customers and markets.
more challenging regulatory criteria demands CO2 reductions but with better performance, Victrex materials have a key role to play in the Automotive market over the coming years.
Tim Cooper Managing Director, Victrex Polymer Solutions 8 December 2014 www.
com 14 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Performance review Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio is the proven market leader, developing leading edge solutions for our customers.
Invibio continued its steady recovery following the period of Market overview destocking in the Spine market seen during the first half of 2013.
Spine remains our core market and saw continued progress on Revenue was 5% ahead of the prior year 2013: 50.8m, driven 2013.
The Spine market generated sales of 40.1m, an increase bysales into the Spine market.
Gross margins remained strong of0.8m 2% on the prior year.
Improvement reflects steady at88.2% 2013: 88.0% and with continued future high value recovery from fide-stocking, alongside translating Spine sales opportunities, we remain focused on enhancing our profitability intonewer emerging markets, which continue to be attractive over the years ahead.
To support our product leadership strategy forus, particularly China.
Outside of Spine, Arthroscopy remains ofleveraging technical excellence and particularly to help accelerate our other current revenue play.
In our emerging medical markets of adoption and regulatory approval in our markets, investment in Dental, Trauma and Knee, we have made steady progress this year, sales, marketing and administrative resources particularly in quality with partner agreements signed and new channels to market being and regulatory expertise increased to 17.5m 2013: 15.4m, explored which will accelerate growth in the medium to longer resulting in an operating profit of 29.6m 2013: 29.3m.
In short, the demand for newer and more radical solutions which are proven to deliver clinical benefit remains high.
We retain our focus on markets with high procedure rates and surgery which 2014 2013 Change m m % can deliver proven clinical benefit by using our materials.
Revenue 53.4 50.8 5 Product and market development Invibio is the proven market leader in providing versatile and high Gross profit 47.1 44.7 5 performance PEEK based polymer solutions to the implantable Operating profit 29.6 29.3 1 medical device market.
With a strong track record and unrivalled expertise, our materials are used extensively across a number of coreapplications such as spinal fusion and Arthroscopy, as well asinemerging opportunities such as Dental, Trauma and Knee.
Spine One of our focus areas, alongside our position in mature markets, has also been in emerging geographies where we have increased our regulatory approvals this year.
To support our ability to drive adoption and subsequently growth, we have continued to invest in marketing and regulatory expertise, with new regulatory expertise in South America and capability in China.
New product offerings also comprise one of our growth opportunities.
Our PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED product, which promotes bone-on growth, successfully secured regulatory approvals in Europe and in the US after the year end.
2015 will be a year in which we drive adoption and education programmes in collaboration with our customers andwith European and US Spine surgeons.
PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED remains a premium product which reflects the innovation and development put into its offering for our customers, as well as the work we have undertaken with surgeons in its development.
It also offers an additional value-enhancing product alongside existing PEEK-OPTIMA.
Martin Court Managing Director Invibio www.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 15 Superior products: Our PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED product secured regulatory approvals in the US and Europe this year Emerging businesses Our activities in emerging businesses were driven by JUVORA, ourdental brand, which offers a certified dental disc, providing our customers and their patients with an effective metal free denture solution, with improved comfort and fit.
Following the traction for dental last year across geographies, we now have 130 labs operating under our certified training programme.
JUVORA also has US FDA Focus on PEEK-OPTIMA regulatory approval.
The trends for the denture market are extremely encouraging and we believe that the JUVORA product is well HA-ENHANCED positioned to be the material of choice for a significant patient population that could reach as many as 1.5 million denture With regulatory approval secured in both Europe and applications per year.
Whilst we have secured some revenue to date, the US, roll-out and adoption of this innovative product JUVORA remains as a Horizon 2 2-5 year opportunity.
During the will be at the forefront of our activity in 2015.
Spine course of the year, we also began exploring a more direct route to companies continue to look at ways where they can market with dental companies, rather than simply through dental differentiate their offering and many surgeons are laboratories.
Given the fragmentation in this market, we believe this interested in methods where they can enhance could help accelerate adoption and penetration in the market over bone-on growth and improve clinical benefit.
PEEK-OPTIMA HA-ENHANCED is a version of PEEK Our other emerging opportunities include Trauma Horizon 2: which improves bone-on growth for patients on all 2-5years where our materials can deliver superior performance sides of the spinal device, offering a more integrated andaccelerate healing, as well as offering durability and less solution, avoiding the need for coatings.
A product complexity than many incumbent solutions.
In Horizon 3 5 years which promotes bone growth is more effective for we see significant potential in Knee, where revision rates from existing patients, as well as omitting the extra processing time metal based materials are high, as well as high patient dissatisfaction.
and expense of other alternative bone on-growth We signed a partner agreement to progress pre-development work on technologies, for example coatings.
Deployment by Knee during the year.
Partnerships to accelerate adoption will be one surgeons remains key in this area and we continue to option for us to drive growth in themedical markets over the coming attend trade shows and develop our clinical network to years.
Pre-development work remains ongoing and the offering of drive adoption and gain acceptance, thereby helping to anew PEEK based knee which can be tailored to a patients needs support future growth in this area.
within a much shorter space of time and which provides superior clinical benefit, remains attractive.
Knee could be particularly relevant in emerging geographies, where kneeling rates and the typically higher proportion of manual work requires an effective andsustainable solution.
The proven reaction by surgeons within these markets to utilise materials that deliver clinical benefit and patient satisfaction gives us confidence on our portfolio of long term opportunities across medical markets.
Martin Court Managing Director, Invibio 8 December 2014 Emerging markets: Our PEEK-OPTIMA knee solution saw Invibio sign a partner agreement this year www.
com 16 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Risk management Risk management is embedded in Victrexs culture, ensuring that we assess risks as part of delivering our strategy.
1 Risk communication Effective communication At Victrex, our risk management structure is as follows: Victrex plc Board The Board undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management framework, policy and procedures, the performance of the Audit Committee and also approves the risk management policy.
Twice yearly, the Board reviews the key risks in the corporate risk register, thereby evaluating the level of risk it is prepared to accept in pursuit of Victrexs strategic objectives.
The corporate risk register is consolidated from registers within business functions and projects.
The corporate risk register tracks the status ratings against each line of defence and the action plan, therefore allowing it to be used effectively as a record of the completion of risk improvement actions and their revised likelihood and impact.
Audit Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are explained on page 42.
These responsibilities have been expanded from October 2014 toinclude reviewing the Companys risk management systems, a role performed during the year by the Risk Management Committee RMC.
The risk management system is primarily designed to mitigate risk down to an acceptable level, rather than completely eliminate the risk, and the review can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of effective operation, compliance with lawsand regulations and against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys management are responsible for the identification, assessment, management and monitoring of risk, for developing, operating and monitoring the system of internal control and for providing assurance that it has done so.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management on the effectiveness of those systems they have established.
The independent Business Assurance function supports the Audit Committee in its review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control, asdo other independent assurance providers, for example the external auditor on matters identified during the course of its statutory audit work.
ELT Risk Management Committee The Executive Leadership Team ELT Risk Management Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, reviews the corporate risk register at least half yearly to ensure it remains relevant to the changing uncertainties threatening our businesss strategic objectives.
During the year feedback from these reviews was provided to the RMC twice by the Group Finance Director.
In turn the RMC reported twice during the year to the Board.
With effect from October 2014 feedback will be provided at least twice yearly directly to the Audit Committee and the Board by the ELT Risk Management Committee, the former in respect of the risk management systems and the latter the key risks in the corporate risk register.
The ELT Risk Management Committee comprises the ELT membership in addition to the Head of Business Assurance and Global SHE Manager.
Prior to its cessation in October 2014 the RMC was chaired by Larry Pentz and comprised the executive Directors, Managing Director of Invibio, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Head of Business Assurance, VPS Manufacturing Director and Global SHE Manager.
Risk Management Subcommittees Risk management committees exist for business unit functional levels.
These meet and report up to the ELT Risk Management Committee at least half yearly, via their respective Chairs, who are ELT Risk Management Committee members.
Projects Where it is appropriate, projects will have a project specific risk register which will be reported to the relevant business unit.
com Strategic report Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 17 2 5 Risk agenda Why do we undertake risk management?
Risk objectives Risk governance How do we The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing evaluate and provide assurance totake in delivering Victrexs strategic objectives.
The strategic risk appetite for the over our management of risks?
business is defined in the business strategy and is reviewed annually.
In Victrex, the processes in place to Victrex undertakes risk management to improve the resilience, performance, support the risk governance component sustainability and success of its business, whilst in turn facilitating decisions and of our risk management framework providing useful information to shareholders.
include the following: Risk strategy For Board and internal audit, The Board is responsible for creating the framework for the Groups risk management to seepages32 and 42 respectively.
This risk management framework includes risk assessment, response, communication and governance.
The Board is also responsible for ensuring that appropriate The Chairman of each of these and proportionate resources are allocated to risk management activities.
riskmanagement subcommittees communicates significant output, activities and emerging and evolving risks to the meetings of the ELT Risk Management Committee, which reviews these and the risks in the corporate risk register.
The three lines of defence model is recognised as best 3 Risk assessment How do we assess and record risks?
practice in relation to risk governance, and its inclusion on the face of our When assessing risk, we consider: corporate risk register enhances the External factors, including environmental, social and governance factors ESG, arising governance aspect of our risk from the environment in which we operate: and management framework.
Internal factors arising from the nature of our business, our internal controls and processes.
Analysis and recording of risks Executive managers take ownership of specific business risks.
The likely causes and consequences of each risk are recorded.
Each risk is evaluated based on its likelihood of occurrence and severity of impact on strategy, profit, regulatory compliance, reputation and or people.
Risks are evaluated at both a gross and a net level, ie before and after theeffect of mitigation.
All risks are positioned on a risk ranking matrix.
This approach allows the identification and consistent evaluation of significant risks, as well as consideration of the effect of current lines of defence in mitigation.
We look at three lines of defence: 1st: The day to day controls and processes put in place by management.
2nd: Managements oversight activities over its first line controls and processes and risk management processes.
3rd: Independent business assurance provided by both third parties and in-house internal audit over the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and processes in managements first and second lines of defence.
Re-evaluation and challenge of risks We seek to keep the risk registers up to date and relevant to our strategic objectives.
Therisk registers are regularly reviewed, challenged and debated.
4 Risk response How do we respond to risks?
For each risk, we decide whether to tolerate it, mitigate it through further control, transfer it e. g. through insurance or terminate the threat to the business.
We continually challenge the efficiency and effectiveness of existing internal controls andalways seek to improve our risk management framework.
The risk owners and the Business Assurance team allocate a status rating of appropriateness and effectiveness against each line of defence.
This allows the risk register to record and track the completion of improvement recommendations.
