18 CONSTRUCTION SERVICES Very poor performance caused by UK construction contract issues Highlights underlying loss from operations for yet to be concluded.
On the other, Construction Services was 209 million delays in construction and performance 2013: profit 18 million.
Included within of the asset have led to increased costs.
this is an underlying loss from the UK The results include the 70 million construction business of 229 million Total revenue of contract write-downs announced 2013: 20 million.
in January 2015 in respect of these 6,597m Underlying revenue from continuing operational issues, as well as a operations was flat at 6,597 million further 118 million of risk provisions 2013: 6,594 million.
subsequently assessed by the Board.
In line with KPMGs recommendations, The Construction Services order book this assessment was essentially Performance significantly impacted for continuing operations at the end completed in two parts: by operational issues in the UK and of the year stood at 7.9 billion 2013: Middle East M&E joint venture 7.7 billion, up 2% from a year ago, but Firstly, a detailed review of the down 3% at constant currency.
The order most significant individual contracts Order book grew 2% during the book in the UK ended the period at was performed, including current year to 7.9 billion 2.6 billion, down 5%.
performance, as part of the normal KPMG review an important step year end procedures with the objective in understanding issues faced by of achieving an increased level of OPERATIONAL REVIEW the business.
Adopting a cautious view, UK this resulted in additional contract risk The UK construction business is organised and other provisions of 67 million.
into three business units consisting of: Of this, 7 million was recorded against the legacy ES contracts in Major Projects: focused on complex non-underlying items.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE projects in key market sectors such Construction Services performance as energy, transportation and Secondly, across the remainder of reflects the significant impact of heavy infrastructure the portfolio, and generally covering project losses, primarily due to poor the smaller contracts, a risk-based Regional: private and public, civil operational and commercial controls approach was adopted based on recent engineering and building, providing in the UK business, leading to a performance of individual delivery units customers with locally delivered, very disappointing total loss from and market conditions.
This resulted in flexible and fully integrated civil continuing operations of 391 million an assessment of additional contract and building services 2013: 103 million.
Engineering Services: mechanical In the UK, certain legacy Engineering The KPMG review has been an important and electrical engineering.
Services ES contracts, where there step in understanding the problems The underlying loss from the UK has been poor legacy management and faced by the business during a period of construction business was 229 million in regions, such as London and the South uncertainty.
The business is focused on 2013: 20 million.
The total loss from West, where ES has withdrawn from actively pursuing recovery of contractual the UK construction business after tendering for third-party work due to the entitlements and implementing the including the results of the non-underlying problematic delivery of these contracts, recommendations in order to return to ES contracts was 317 million contributed 62 million to Group revenue profitability and peer group margins.
whilst generating losses of 88 million Underlying revenue in the UK fell by 6% 2013: nil.
The results of these contracts Financial performance was adversely to 2,350 million as increased revenue have been classified as non-underlying impacted by significant operational in Major Projects was more than offset items as the exceptional size and nature issues in Engineering Services and in the by reductions of 10% in the Regional of the losses distort the underlying Regional business in the London and business and 15% in Engineering Services.
The prior South West regions.
The Scottish, and year comparatives have been restated North and Midlands regions performed The Regional and Engineering Services accordingly and future performance on well.
In Major Projects profitability was order books fell as a result of actions these contracts including any claims adversely impacted due to cost forecast taken to refocus the businesses, but recovery will be presented in nonrevisions on two significant projects.
were partially offset by growth in Major underlying items through to their On one there has been a change of scope, Projects.
Across the business there has completion.
As a result, the 2014 but where the commercial resolution is been an improvement in the quality of new order intake.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 19 KPMG REVIEW In September 2014 it was announced that KPMG would undertake an independent review of the contract portfolio of the UK construction business, given the continued inconsistent operational delivery across some parts of that business.
Scope of review Key dominant causes Actions taken The review focused on bidding and KPMG identified the following dominant The Board is acting on the reviews tendering disciplines, commercial causes of poor operational performance: recommendations to strengthen project controls, cost to complete, contract performance through: 1.
Bidding Tendering at very low value forecasting, reporting at 1.
M ore rigour in tender assessments margins with optimistic assumptions project level, and project reporting Improve tender review processes around cost, programme and and reviewing.
through improved guidance, procurement savings, and inadequate operational inputs, early and ongoing KPMG reviewed a sample of 127 provisions for risk.
risk management assessment, projects across the UK construction 2.
Commercial and contract additional independent oversight and business as at August 2014.
The management Insufficient local appropriate allocation of resource.
selection criteria were: management challenge and review A review of a sample of recently bid a sample consisting of the majority of contract performance, failure to contracts shows a tightening up of of the projects that comprised recover genuine contract entitlement tender processes but also shows the profit shortfalls announced in due to poor contract administration that further standardisation of the September and July 2014: and optimistic assumptions on bidding process is required.
a risk-based sample of other projects 2.
I mprove accountability for project from across Construction Services 3.
Accuracy of cost and programme performance Project managers UK which did not form part of the forecasting Insufficient visibility, to have greater financial and profit shortfalls.
control and understanding on actual commercial accountability with versus reported contract performance.
More robust The sample, measured by August challenge and review of contract 2014 year to date revenue, covered The Group considers insufficient performance by local management.
approximately 74% of Engineering visibility on project deterioration was Services and 58% of Major Projects.
compounded by an overly complex 3.
Accuracy and timeliness of Across the four Regional business units reorganisation programme in 2012 and forecasting Increased focus it covered 33% of August 2014 year to 2013 that led to high levels of employee on identifying, understanding and date revenue in London and the South turnover at a time of extremely reporting risks inherent in projects East, 19% of the South West, 12% challenging market conditions.
and the implications on timely of the North and Midlands and 14% of financial performance, with enhanced Scotland.
Overall the sample comprised project reporting supported by 36% of CSUKs August 2014 year to consistent application of strong date revenue.
commercial management and contract administration processes.
The majority of the issues highlighted are contained within delivery units 4.
G roup policies Improve and previously identified as having issues: reinforce Group policies to Engineering Services, and the London commercial and local financial including Major Projects buildings and management ensuring rigorous South West regions of the Regional application across all projects.
These contracts account for In addition, KPMG recommended less than 10% of CSUKs August 2014 that the Board assess the overall year to date revenue.
level of contract risk provisions in the UK construction business.
In light of this the Board has concluded that further contract risk provisions of 118 million be recorded in the underlying result for 2014. balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 20 CONSTRUCTION SERVICES CONTINUED Joint venture awards such as the 160 from higher margin work won before the significant judgements over contractual million Sellafield nuclear facility contract recession has reduced, but also due to entitlements, however the Groups have been won in the power sector.
In the executing on work bid in a competitive share of joint venture profits for the year highways sector new awards included environment over the last 1224 months decreased by 4 million to 12 million.
the 184 million smart motorway upgrade at lower margins.
In the year, significant wins included the scheme for the M60 and M62, the 129 new S$210 million 100 million Havelock In 2014 the business continued to million M3 smart motorway contract and Station award for Singapores Mass Rapid work closely with the Investments a 55 million junction upgrade scheme Transit system.
In July Gammon won business, particularly in the student on the M25.
Furthermore the business two building contracts in Hong Kong with accommodation sector, where the was awarded a framework contract to a combined value of HK$3,910 million Investments business acts as an equity deliver up to 180 million of infrastructure 300 million to build a public rental housing investor or a fee-based developer.
In December development and a research office.
New projects included the University the Investments business reached of Texas at Dallas, the University of In the Middle East, the market for the financial close on the 550 million Iowa and Tarleton State University.
construction joint venture in Dubai has Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route continued to improve and order book was project in a three-way joint venture that The business continued to grow in the significantly up on 2013.
Wins included combines the Groups investment and healthcare sector, with the award of a the Dubai Mall extension project.
US$533 million contract to renovate and the mechanical and electrical engineering expand the Texas Medical Center campus There is improving confidence in the market remains very difficult, with in Houston, Texas.
This complex project private sector although increased market some of the same issues faced by the for the Memorial Hermann Healthcare volumes in areas such as housing have UK M&E business existing in the Middle System includes building a 17-storey put pressure on input costs.
The number East, such as disputes and delays with hospital and implementing a building of new major infrastructure projects to main contractors who have taken on control system.
A strong reputation in be awarded in the short term is expected complex and difficult jobs.
In particular the sector also helped the Investments to be low, exacerbated by the upcoming two significant projects have caused business win its first project in Canada, general election uncertainty.
Over the write-downs, even though we believe with the award of the Childrens and medium term there is an expectation a significant proportion of these will be Womens Hospital redevelopment project of significant investment through the ultimately recoverable.
The joint venture in Vancouver, where the US construction Highways Agency investment plan and is no longer bidding for M&E work business will provide 50% of the projects such as HS2 and Crossrail 2. outside the UAE.
construction services in joint venture.
US Rail Other significant wins in the period Profitability in the US increased slightly in The performance of the UK rail included a US$156 million contract to the year, but margins remained broadly flat construction business continued to construct new headquarters for the at approximately 1%.
Reported revenue be impacted by operational issues on National Science Foundation in Virginia, was flat on the previous year, up 5% at a small number of projects.
There was strong growth in the constant currency.
The increase in the operations totalled 6 million in the year education and office sectors, with order book in the building business since 2013: 12 million.
US$256 million and US$669 million the beginning of 2013 continues to feed respectively in new awards.
These Since the year end, the Group has through into revenue growth at constant awards reflect recovery in both the public completed the sales of the German track currency, and order intake has continued education and private building markets.
and plant and Austrian businesses to increase, resulting in an order book at and the sale of the Italian rail business.
In the infrastructure market the City the end of the year which is in line with The Group remains committed to exiting of Charlotte awarded the business a last year.
Order intake in the civil and rail the remaining parts of the German rail US$131 million rail contract to build track business was down on the previous year.
The results of Rail Germany and systems components to extend In the US approximately 80% of revenues have been re-presented as non-underlying the citys light rail system, following are generated from the general building items within continuing operations a US$106 million civil engineering market, where the business is ranked and those of Rail Italy are classified contract in February 2014 for the as the No.
3 contractor by revenue as discontinued.
In India, after four same light rail system.
according to the 2014 ENR rankings.
years, there has been little progress in The infrastructure market accounts for International joint ventures establishing a presence, and consequently the remaining 20%.
The Group also operates in South East the office is in the process of being Asia and the Middle East.
In Australia, following withdrawal The growth in the US order book over from a major rail PPP due to unacceptable the last two years has been as a result of The order book in the Groups Hong Kong risk levels, it was concluded the Group significant steps taken to better leverage and Singapore joint venture, Gammon, did not have sufficient critical mass to local capabilities across the entire business remained stable.
Revenues were up 22% continue a construction presence.
and to make the business more customer in the year 30% at constant currency as focused, through improving best practice, the long term nature of recent civil project driving innovation and sharing knowledge wins means it will take time for these to within a more streamlined structure.
A small However margins have remained flat, number of these contracts, which are partially due to a mix effect as revenue recorded at break-even, have incorporated Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 21 Using our expertise in flood defence to protect UK homes In December 2014, we completed a 21 million flood alleviation project for the Environment Agency and Northumberland County Council.
The town of Morpeth in Northumberland, UK, has a long history of flooding, being located in the floodplain of the River Wansbeck.
The Morpeth Flood Alleviation Scheme was designed to protect the town from the level of flooding experienced in 2008 when over 1,000 homes and businesses were flooded.
To protect the residents properties, we built an upstream storage dam and a new earth embankment to 3 store 1.4 million m of flood water.
We also constructed flood defence walls throughout the town centre, installed flood gates and raised roads.
Our recent track record in UK coastal protection and flood defence works includes 21 significant projects for local authorities and the Environment Agency, including the 86 million Rossall and Anchorsholme Scheme, the 5 million River Mersey Flood Defence Scheme, the 22 million Humber Flood Prevention Package and the 6 million Lincshore Beach Replenishment five-year scheme.
The work at the dam is really impressive.
We have exceeded 170,000 hours without a lost time injury it doesnt get much better than that, especially when you look at the challenging work being completed.
At the dam for example, we are working 89 metres in the air, concreting and installing large steelwork.
Anthony Myatt Environment Agency, Project Manager balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 22 SUPPORT SERVICES Depth of capabilities enables us to deliver c o mp l e x c on t ra c t s Highlights FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE schedule in the latter part of 2013, coupled with lower levels of capital replacement Revenue for the year was up 1% at programmes in the year.
1,273 million, with a 35% increase in transportation revenues being largely In March 2014 the power business was Total revenue offset by expected revenue decline in the appointed to two major National Grid power power sector.
The Support Services order infrastructure frameworks.
The first is the 1,273m book ended the year at 3.5 billion, down overhead lines design and build framework, 14% from a year ago 2013: 4.1 billion.
over a four-year contract length with two The increase in order book in the water optional two-year extensions.
The total sector has been more than offset by the work available for panel members is expected contraction in the power and worth up to 2.5 billion.
The second is for Stable revenues with strong transportation order books, as the division National Grids onshore underground cable performance in the highways continues to execute on long term framework, over a four-year contract length maintenance business in the contracts.
Further awards were made with an optional two-year extension, transportation sector in the water sector after the year end, worth a total of up to 800 million.
Good underlying profit from which will benefit the 2015 order book.
In December, the power business was continuing operations with good Underlying profit from continuing operations granted a licence by Ofgem to operate and operating margins was down 9% at 50 million 2013: 55 maintain the Thanet offshore transmission Order book reduction in power million, resulting in an underlying operating project following its acquisition by the and transportation, as anticipated.
Good Investments business, work derived directly performances in the water sector, including from the success of the Investments the settlement of multi-year commercial business in that market.
issues, and in the transportation sector Elsewhere on existing power sector were offset by lower volumes in power.
contracts there was good progress on the Beauly-Denny replacement electricity OPERATIONAL REVIEW transmission line contract for Scottish and Southern Energy, the Gas Distribution Support Services is a leading provider Strategic Partnership contracts with of specialist renewal and maintenance National Grid and the joint venture contract services in three key sectors power, in the Republic of Ireland to replace and water and transportation.
extend the gas network on behalf of state The division continues to provide a wide operator Bord Gis.
range of essential services and deliver Volumes in the power transmission sector projects for customers across the are constrained within the UK as current regulated and public sectors, all of whom contracts complete and new projects need to manage financial pressures, whilst are delayed due to the changeover in improving the quality of the infrastructure regulatory periods.
New opportunities will that facilitates public life.
This will continue continue to be explored as the changing to provide opportunities as customers look nature of the energy industry will require to outsource work and seek innovative new sources of power to be connected solutions in the provision of that work, but into the existing infrastructure.
The also presents challenges in an increasingly division is well placed to take advantage competitive environment.
of UK cabling and offshore wind farm Power opportunities expected in 2015.
As anticipated, revenues and profitability Water in the power sector declined, partially due The water business order book benefited to strong performance in the prior year but from new contracts tendered under the also due to other contracts completing in AMP 6 regulatory cycle, which controls 2014.
The transmission part of the business capital expenditure across the network from experienced lower volumes after contracted April 2015 through to 2020.
In May it was volume targets were completed ahead of awarded approximately 115 million of work Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 23 by Anglian Water as part of its investment customers.
However this, along with Revenues from local authority work programme.
In addition the business has exiting from routine renewals work for increased as the Herefordshire and also won a new contract award from Network Rail, resulted in a reduction Wiltshire contracts, which commenced United Utilities valued at 125 million.
in the order book at the year end.
This more than offset the impact of revenue declines Following a 23-month early contractor The highways maintenance business resulting from completed contracts in involvement in a three-way joint venture continued to perform strongly in the year Westminster, North Yorkshire and Essex.
contract with Thames Water, the joint with a very good performance on the M25 The majority of the contracts in the venture was awarded an initial 800 million contract, which more than offset continuing portfolio performed well in the year and contract in February 2015, which was cost issues encountered on the Area 10 more than offset the impact of operational therefore not recorded in the year end contract in the North West of England.
and commercial issues on the Wiltshire order book.
In the rail renewals market the business contract, the resolution of which is The major water companies will be continued to work with London ongoing with the customer.
focusing on broader and improved Underground to renew and improve service The continuing outsourcing trend by solutions for their customers driven levels across the network and achieved local government will provide additional primarily by the regulatory environment, excellent volume and margin growth in growth opportunities for the division which we hope will open opportunities the year.
The remaining elements of the which increasingly looks to leverage for further innovation and margin growth.
Network Rail contract were completed its strong position in the highways and and handed over to a new contractor in street lighting markets to provide Transport July.
Associated exit and demobilisation additional complementary services The transportation business operates costs incurred were over 2 million and to local authority customers.
for customers in the road and rail sectors.
are included in the divisions underlying Overall transportation revenues increased profit from operations for the year.
by 35% in the period as the business executed on long-term contracts for local authority and highways maintenance Two regional partnerships to renew and improve gas networks We have been contracted byNational will reduce the number of required Grid to replace ageing metal pipes, excavations, making the work safer service connections and build new gas and more efficient.
mains in the North West of England The Gas Distribution Strategic and West Midlands until 2021.
Partnerships contracts will allow National Our commitment to efficiency, Grid to continue to deliver gas safely and innovation and customer service is reliably to our customers in themost fundamental to our successful delivery efficient way during the eight-year period.
Project I know based on previous experience that, deployment was large in scale, using the GDSP all together, safer, better, involving over 300 new commercial leaner and faster operating model, Balfour vehicles, 1,500 pieces of plant and Beatty will provide exceptional customer 11,000 metres of site barriers.
service and deliver the RIIO objectives Use of an innovative new pipe-cutting safely, innovatively and efficiently.
tool removes our employees from the Stephen Murray risks involved in the excavation process.
National Grid, Head of the GDSP contract Furthermore, we are trialling a new way for the West of England.
to create new pipes within the existing pipe, which when approved in 2015 balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 24 INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS A proven track record of developing and financing projects Highlights end along with increased bid costs.
Asset sales generated 159 million of proceeds, with disposal gains increasing to 93 1.3bn 66 million 2013: 82 million, as the secondary Directors Investments market continued to see increased pricing Total revenue valuation of the within the tension.
Net interest income, a significant portfolio portfolio element of total income, also increased 570m to 35 million from 30 million in 2013.
The Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio increased to 1,300 million as at Over the next five years, the Investments 31 December 2014 2013: 766 million.
business expects to invest over 300 million Excellent financial performance, The increase in value was principally due in equity, and generate over 2 billion of including 93 million of to a change in the valuation methodology, new work for the Groups Construction disposal gains in order to bring the valuation closer to the Services and Support Services businesses, Substantial and diverse portfolio market value.
The number of investments which have historically delivered higher with Directors valuation at within the portfolio increased to 66 margins when working in conjunction 1.3 billion 2013: 61.
Recent transactions underline with the Investments business.
the ongoing ability of this business to Preferred bidder status on 13 new UK and Australia new investment create value.
projects with significant pipeline activity of new opportunities identified.
In June 2014, financial close was reached OPERATIONAL REVIEW on the 46 million NHS Ayrshire & Arran The Investments business continued to Acute Mental Health and Community grow with its appointment as preferred Hospital project.
The Group will finance, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE bidder on 13 new equity projects including design and construct the project, and once three between January and March 2015.
The Investments business delivered complete, operate the asset for 25 years.
These projects comprise: four university another successful year of growth in In December 2014, the 550 million student accommodation projects, three profits and in the value of the Investments Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route hospital projects, three private rental portfolio, as the business continued to break project reached financial close.
The housing projects, one justice facility project, into new markets and expand the number design, build, finance and operate contract one road project and one energy project.
of equity investments within the portfolio.
will generate a significant amount of work As of March 2015, the business had Underlying pre-tax profits increased to for the UK construction business.
Balfour reached financial close on eight of these 162 million 2013: 132 million, driven Beatty will be working in joint venture projects, as well as reaching financial close by increases in profits on disposal, to construct the project and will take sole on three of the five projects which were pre-disposals operating profit and net responsibility for the management and already preferred bidder at the start of interest income.
The pre-disposals maintenance of the road assets for 2014.
Seven projects currently remain operating profit of 34 million was 14 30 years once construction is complete.
million higher than the previous year.
This Both Thanet and Gwynt y Mr offshore included a gain of 15 million 2013: nil The Investments business was also transmission OFTO projects reached resulting from movements in the fair value appointed preferred bidder on five financial close.
These are high voltage of PPP financial assets, attributable to fee-based projects where no equity will electricity transmission systems, non-market related changes in estimated be invested: three as developer in the connecting offshore wind farms to an future cash flows, and recognition of bid student accommodation sector and onshore transmission grid.
These more than two as a third-party manager in the February 2015, Balfour Beatty has fully offset the decline in UK income as residential sector.
achieved financial close on three OFTO a result of disposals and approximately projects and now maintains investments The Investments business continues to 10 million of costs incurred which in OFTO transmission assets worth see significant opportunities for future were reimbursed to the UK construction 833 million, with a combined investment.
There is an identified global business to accelerate the completion of transmission capacity of 1,380MW.
pipeline of opportunities over the next five construction work and defect resolution years that represents 35 billion of capital on a small number of projects.
There was In addition, the Investments business value, spread across multiple markets in reduced income in the US as the military reached financial close on its first project four countries.
housing construction phases come to an Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 25 The Directors valuation of the Investments portfolio is now closer to the market value.
Read more on p27 in Australia, at Wollongong University, reached on Carmendy Square in Florida: were executed for Texas A&M University, for the design and construction of a 1,050 and in February 2015, the business a phase II project at Tarleton State new bed development and a 39-year reached financial close on the Ranch University and two third-party maintenance licence for the universitys at Pinnacle Point in Arkansas, which management projects located in Florida.
entire existing accommodation facilities, represented the businesss first In the US, there is a strong pipeline of of 1,905 beds.
investments into the US private rental additional opportunities in the private housing sector.
In November 2014, Balfour Beatty, rental and student housing markets as well including the Investments business, was In Canada, financial close was reached on as in generating profits through third-party selected to develop up to 1,500 homes on two hospital projects in 2014.
The C$350 management-fee-based agreements, and Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, in a 50:50 million 196 million BC Childrens and BC the business is continuing to build on its joint venture with People for Places.
Womens Hospital Redevelopment Phase presence in Canada, where there are This will result in the creation of two 2 project covers the design, construction, a number of opportunities.
new neighbourhoods of East Wick and financing and facilities management for Asset sales Sweetwater, by 2023.
The development, a new childrens and womens acute care The Group successfully sold three assets in partnership with the Mayor of London centre in Vancouver, British Columbia.
The in 2014, generating total book gains on and the London Legacy Development C$606 million 338 million North Island disposal of 93 million.
In May, the sale Corporation, will include private rental Hospitals project is a 30-year PPP project of the Knowsley Building Schools for sector and affordable housing.
Financial which includes the financing, design, the Future project and the Groups 50% close of the first phase is expected construction, and facilities management interest in the University Hospital of North in 2016. of two new hospitals on Vancouver Island, Durham project realised total consideration British Columbia.
In January 2015, the business was of 97 million, generating total gains of appointed preferred bidder for the In the US, the business was appointed 51 million.
The Group also sold its 50% University of Sussexs East Slope preferred bidder for a US$405 million interest in the Pinderfields and Pontefract Residences project, for the development justice complex project for the City Hospital project in West Yorkshire in of 2,000 new bedrooms and other of Indianapolis Marion County in Indiana.
October for 62 million, generating a gain innovative student amenities.
Balfour This represents Balfour Beattys first of 42 million.
As a consequence of the Beatty will design, build, finance and investment project in the US justice sector.
favourable prices achieved on recent operate the project under a 50-year sales, the Directors valuation of the At the University of Texas at Dallas, contract, in partnership with the university.
Investments portfolio at December 2014 the business was appointed preferred Financial close is expected during 2015. was updated to bring it closer to the bidder on a new mixed-use project for the market value.
In March 2015, the 52 million Welland development of accommodation and retail Waste Wood power station project space on land owned by the University.
Asset sales are expected to continue reached financial close.
Once complete, At the University of Iowa, preferred bidder as a means of realising the value in the project will convert 60,000 tonnes status was awarded for a second phase mature assets, and recycling equity into of dry waste wood feedstock into 9MW of development, following the successful new projects.
of electricity powering over 17,000 UK first phase development of 270 oneInvestment management business households a year.
and two-bedroom units and a separate Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Partners community centre.
The business also In the UK, further opportunities are BBIP reached final close on its first remains preferred bidder for two additional expected in the accommodation sector, fund in 2014, with total commitments of student accommodation projects awarded for both students and private rental, and US$618 million, including US$110 million in 2013. in the power sector.
The business has a by Balfour Beatty.
As of February 2015, strong position in the OFTO market, which The business continues to leverage its the fund has acquired Upper Peninsula has a pipeline of 10 billion, and is also experience in the student accommodation Power Company, a regulated electric utility looking at future investment opportunities sector, integrating design, construction business in Michigan, US, a portfolio of in the biomass sector.
and investment capabilities, even where 10 operational UK solar projects in the UK, direct equity may not be required.
As a and Wightlink Ferries, a ferry company North America new investment result, the Investments business now servicing the Isle of Wight.
Balfour activity works as a fee-based developer alongside Beatty has invested 20 million through In June 2014, financial close was reached the US construction business on a number December 2014, with the expectation that on the US Air Force ACC III military of projects, providing design and build the fund will be fully invested within the housing project, valued at US$60 million.
In 2014, fee-based agreements next three years.
In September 2014, financial close was balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 26 INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS CONTINUED Environmentally responsible investment in a potential-rich market C$17m The Tandem Health Partners consortium, In June 2014, we reached Equity invested of which we are a member, issued a financial close for two new 9 million green bond, which was the first public acute care hospitals on private partnership PPP green bond to have been issued to finance a public Vancouver Island, British infrastructure project in Canada, and Columbia, Canada.
We will the first in North America.
Green bonds invest C$17 million 9 million are similar to traditional bonds, but the into the project, which proceeds are used exclusively for projects to stretching energy and greenhouse with environmental benefits.
gas targets and complied with the represents 50% of the required British Columbia Wood First Act.
The North Island Hospitals project equity.
This is our second qualified for a green bond because it The project earned the 2014 National project in the Canadian achieved Leadership in Energy and Innovation & Excellence Award healthcare market.
Environmental Design LEED Gold from the Canadian Council for Public Certification, demonstrated commitment Private Partnerships.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
