Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Report DIRECTORS Report Introduction   Disclosure Sectiontitle Page s This section of the Annual Report includes additional information The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended Relationship Agreements Corporate 64 to 67 required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006, the indemnify the Directors of the Company or any Group by a special resolution of its shareholders passed at a general additional details Governance Report DTRs, the Code and the Listing Rules.
company against liabilities arising from or in connection with meeting of its shareholders.
the execution of their duties or powers to the extent permitted Internal Controls Audit Committee 68 to 73 Certain information required to be included in the Directors Report by law.
The Company has not given any specific indemnity in  Report is included in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts.
favour of the Directors during the year but the Company has The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company purchased Directors and Officers Liability Insurance during the including, subject to obtaining the required authority from the Financial Instruments Note 5.4 to 134 shareholders in general meeting, the power to authorise the These sections provide an overview of the strategy, development year, which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors the Accounts issue of new shares and the purchase of the Companys shares.
and performance of the Companys business in the year ended in the performance of their duties or powers.
Since its shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on and as at 27 December 2014 together with information on the 13 November 2013, the Directors have not exercised any of approach of the Company to Corporate Governance and the Share Capital and Note 5.7 to 143 No amount was paid under any Directors indemnity or the Movements therein the Accounts the powers to issue or purchase shares in the Company.
constitution, work and effectiveness of the Board and its Directors and Officers Liability Insurance during the year principal Committees.
other than the applicable insurance premiums.
Relatedparties Subsidiary and Associated Note 6.8 to 152 Undertakings the Accounts The only material agreements with related parties during the The following sections are therefore incorporated by reference  year are as follows: into this Directors Report: A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of LEGOLAND Licence and Co-operation Agreement LCA : The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 59. shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by the This agreement was entered into on 24 August 2005 with The Corporate Governance Statement on page 60.
Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a KIRKBI and sets out the rights granted to the Group to use The section entitled Board of Directors on pages 61 to 63.
Directors meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director the LEGO and LEGOLAND brands in connection with the The Corporate Governance Report on pages 64 to 67.
The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
development, operation and promotion of the Groups The Audit Committee Report on pages 68 to 73. year, were Directors of the Company are: present and future LEGOLAND businesses.
It includes The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 92.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy certain requirements for the Group to develop LEGOLAND The Nomination Committee Report on page 93. or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at Name attractions, certain operational requirements for those the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company in attractions, and the nature of royalties due to KIRKBI for The Company is required to provide disclosures and information Sir John Sunderland certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of the use of the rights.
The LCA includes rights for KIRKBI to in relation to a number of additional matters which are covered Association or by a special resolution of the Company.
Nick Varney terminate the LCA on a change of control of Merlin but only elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts.
These matters All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, Andrew Carr if this would result in a Licensee as defined in the LCA being and cross-references to the relevant sections of this Annual in line with the recommendations of the Code.
controlled by a LEGO competitor or an inappropriate party.
Report are shown in the following table: Charles Gurassa The LCA defines an inappropriate party as any person or Specific details relating to KIRKBI, Blackstone and CVC and their Ken Hydon entity other than a financial institution where one third of its rights to appoint Directors are set out in the Corporate Miguel Ko revenue is derived from the manufacture and sale of tobacco, Governance section of this report on page 64.
Disclosure Sectiontitle Pages armaments and or pornographic material.
Fru Hazlitt Future Developments Strategic Report 2 to 59 Relationship Agreements with each of KIRKBI, Blackstone  Sren Thorup Srensen and CVC: more details are provided in the Corporate The Articles of Association do not contain any restrictions on Dr. Gerry Murphy Governance section of this Annual Report on page 64. the transfer of shares in the Company other than customary Research and Merlin Magic Making 34 to 37 Underwriting Agreement: more details are provided in the restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share Rob Lucas Development Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report all the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this on page 64.
Annual Report is fully paid.
Each ordinary share in the capital of Employee diversity Team Merlin 38 to 41 Each of the Directors, other than Fru Hazlitt, was appointed prior the Company ranks equally in all respects.
No shareholder and engagement to the start of the financial year.
Fru Hazlitt was appointed with holds shares carrying special rights relating to the control effect from 1 April 2014.
Each Director in post at the time of the Company.
Greenhouse Gas Corporate Social 54 to 59 offered themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Emissions Responsibility Meeting of the Company and their re-election was approved Specific details under an Underwriting Agreement that relate by shareholders.
All Directors remained in office at the end of to KIRKBI: Blackstone: the Executive Directors: Non-executive Disabled persons Corporate Social 54 to 59 the financial year.
Miguel Ko has notified the Company that he Directors: and Merlin Entertainments Share Plan Nominee Limited Responsibility does not propose to stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
on behalf of senior management shareholders are set out in the Corporate Governance section of this report on page 64.
94 95 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents DIRECTORS Report DIRECTORS Responsibilities Statement The new senior unsecured facilities will comprise circa 1,000 The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Changeofcontrol  million in floating rate term debt, with maturities in 2018 and Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report The only other significant agreement to which the Company is The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 2020, along with an increased 300 million revolving credit facility.
a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a change of and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance The reduction in drawn term debt will be funded through the control of the Company following a takeover bid, is a Facilities with applicable law and regulations.
use of circa 130 million of the Groups existing cash balance.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Agreement entered into by the Group with Unicredit Group The increased revolving credit line will ensure that the Group has Remuneration Committee and the Health, Safety and Security as facility agent, originally dated 4 March 2007 and amended The Directors are required to prepare Group and Parent adequate committed liquidity facilities to support our seasonality Committee as well as from its legal and other professional and restated on 28 June 2013.
This includes provisions in Company financial statements for each financial year.
For this and strategic growth objectives.
Under the new facilities we advisers, the Board considers the Annual Report and relation to a change of control or the sale of all or substantially purpose, the Company is the Parent Company of the Group.
will be required to comply with certain financial and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced all of the Groups assets, the occurrence of which will give the The Group financial statements are required to be prepared in non-financial covenants.
and understandable and that it provides the information lenders under the Agreement the right to accelerate outstanding accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys loans, terminate commitments and enforce their security.
adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS and applicable law.
However, Goingconcern performance, business model and strategy.
the Directors are permitted to, and have elected to, prepare The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial As described below, subsequent to the year end the Group the Company financial statements in accordance with generally resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and accepted accounting principles in the UK UK GAAP.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept and they hereby secured a new 1,300 million banking facility that, once drawn, that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis exclude any liability to any person in relation to this Report will replace the existing debt facilities.
The new unsecured in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors must not approve the financial statements unless except to the extent that such liability is imposed by law and facilities also contain similar change of control provisions.
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of may not be validly excluded.
Further details on the Groups banking facilities are shown The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the in note 5.2 to the financial statements.
a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient cash Group and Company for that period.
In preparing each of the The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that: funds and borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those Group and Company financial statements, the Directors The Group financial statements contained in this Report The Company does not have agreements with any Director facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable are required to: which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as or employee that would provide compensation for loss of cash requirements.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply adopted by the EU, when taken as a whole, give a true and office or employment resulting from a change of control.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or Auditinformation Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable loss of the Group.
BranchesoutsidetheUK So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit and prudent.
The Company financial statements which have been The Company has no branches outside the UK.
information of which the auditors are unaware.
The Directors For the Group financial statements, state whether they have prepared in accordance with applicable UK GAAP, give a true have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant been prepared in accordance with Adopted IFRS.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
Dividend audit information and ensure the auditors are aware of For the Company financial statements, state whether The Directors Report and the other sections of this Report An interim dividend of 2.0 pence per share was paid on such information.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, referred to therein together represent a fair review of the 25 September 2014 to shareholders on the Register on subject to any material departures disclosed and explained strategy, development and performance of the business and 29 August 2014.
A final dividend for the year ended  in the Company financial statements.
the position of the Group together with a description of the 27 December 2014 of 4.2 pence per share will be As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
recommended for payment to shareholders.
The final re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company will unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the dividend will be proposed to shareholders for approval be proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Company will continue in business.
at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
NickVarney AndrewCarr  The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting   Politicaldonations The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 25 February 2015 25 February 2015 No political donations were made during the year.
Report and the Directors Report were approved by the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Board on 25 February 2015. the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Reductionofcapital that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act On 26 February 2014 the Company reduced its share capital For and on behalf of the Board 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as by means of a court sanctioned reduction of capital.
The effect are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the of the reduction of capital was to increase available reserves Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
for distribution by way of dividends to shareholders in the ColinN.
 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity 25 February 2015 of the corporate and financial information included on the Subsequentevents Companys website.
Subsequent to the year end, the Group has secured a new  1,300 million banking facility that, once drawn, will replace Registered number 08700412 the existing debt facilities.
96 97 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only INDEPENDENT Auditors Report TO THE MEMBERS OF MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ONLY Although the low value of individual transactions mean Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response - Our audit procedures included, among others, an analysis of the Groups previous ability to forecast an individual error would be both difficult to detect cash flows accurately and challenging the reasonableness of and insignificant, the high volume of transactions mean 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified Materiality current forecasts.
These current forecasts include assumptions systemic failure could lead to errors that aggregate 15.5 million, representing 6.9% such as the expected change in visitation and revenues arising into material balances.
We have audited the financial statements of Merlin of profit before tax.
Our challenge included an assessment Entertainments plc for the 52 week period ended 27 December of the Groups assumed effect of such projects, including a Our response - As described in Our application of materiality 2014 set out on pages 104 to 161.
In our opinion: Scope comparison of this expected change against the past results of and an overview of the scope of our audit we selected sites 84% of total profits before tax similar projects carried out by the Group at other attractions: for audit to ensure appropriate coverage of key financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state arise in audited components.
thereby allowing us to assess the level of the risk inherent in measures, including revenue.
of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at all other components are subject the current cash flow forecasts.
27 December 2014 and of the Groups profit for the 52 to specified audit procedures or At certain sites we performed testing of the general IT control week period then ended: analysis at an aggregated level.
The data used by the Group to determine its earnings environment of the systems used to record revenue, followed the Group financial statements have been properly prepared multiple and calculate its discount rates was benchmarked by testing of the processes to assess the completeness and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Key risks against market data, including publicly available analysts reports accuracy of revenue entries arising from these systems.
as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by and peer comparisons.
We performed a sensitivity analysis Alternatively, at other sites, we performed testing of the the EU : valuation of non-current assets: and of the earnings multiple, discount rates and forecast cash design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the parent Company financial statements have been properly revenue recognition.
flows to show the effect of possible downside scenarios and manual controls supporting these systems, including prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and considered the resulting headroom across the valuations, as reconciliations of till records to revenue entries in the the financial statements have been prepared in accordance well as the appropriateness of the related disclosures.
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as assessed whether the Groups disclosures about the sensitivity regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in This controls testing was supported by substantive IAS Regulation.
key assumptions appropriately reflected the risks inherent audit procedures including, amongst others, performing This risk is prevalent as there is inherent uncertainty in in the valuation of non-current assets.
reconciliations of total cash received to revenue recorded, 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement estimating their recoverable value, principally arising in the predictive analytical procedures taking into account factors inputs used in both forecasting for example the expected Revenue recognition 1,249 million 2013: 1,192 million such as trends in seasonality, changes in pricing and visitation, In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements change in visitation and revenues arising from new projects Refer to page 71 Audit Committee Report and page confirmation of the appropriate timing of sales cut-off through the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on and discounting future cash flows, and assessing an 112 accounting policy.
journals testing: and substantive testing of deferred and our audit were as follows.
appropriate earnings multiple for use in the estimation accrued revenue balances through testing back to ticketing of Fair Value less Costs to Sell and sensitivity assessments.
The risk - Merlins revenues come from a number of different system records, corroboration of ticket usage terms to Carrying value of non-current assets 2,414 million This uncertainty arises partly due to the unpredictable impact channels, such as admissions ticketing income, spend in underlying contracts and predictive analytical procedures 2013: 2,344 million of factors such as competition, the weather, and the political attractions on items such as food and drink, annual passes and based on revenue movements.
Refer to pages 70 to 71 Audit Committee Report and pages and economic environment on trading performance: but hotel revenues.
These revenues arise across a large estate of 125 to 126 accounting policy and financial disclosures.
also as the Groups new attractions are often in sites that due to the different jurisdictions in which the Group In 2013 we reported on certain risks that arose as a result of the unproven locations.
operates, and the Groups decentralised nature, use a number Groups IPO.
Without the recurrence of these risks, our focus on The risk - A history of business combinations and the capital of different revenue systems or system configurations, many revenue recognition was a proportionately larger part of our intensive nature of the business model means that the Group A combination of the significance of the asset balances and of which require manual processes to transfer data to the work for 2014 and so is reported here, despite the nature of has significant balances of goodwill, intangible assets and the inherent uncertainty in the assumptions supporting the main finance system.
the revenue streams and the inherent risks associated with property, plant and equipment.
There is a risk the future valuations of goodwill, brands and any assets showing them not changing significantly from the previous year.
performance of the assets may not lead to their carrying impairment indicators, means that an assessment of the Manual, rather than automated, processes across multiple values being recoverable in full.
carrying value of non-current assets is one of the key judgemental areas that our audit concentrated on.
decentralised income systems increase the risk of error.
Such errors could arise through the under or over recording from outputs from these systems, or due to the need for the separate recording and appropriately timed release of deferred revenue, which arises when tickets are either bought in advance or bought to allow access to multiple attractions.
98 99 OUR AUDIT APPROACH Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality of the Group Financial Statements Scope of our work Profit before tax Materiality 226 million 15.5 million 15.5 million Whole Group Financial Statements materiality 8% 15% 13% 8% 15% 20% 84% 70% 67% Profit and losses before Revenue Assets 4 million Range of materiality at tax absolute components 0.75 million to 4 million 0.775 million Misstatements to be reported Audit Specified-risk focused audit procedures Analysis at an aggregated level Key to the Audit Committee The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole The remaining 16% of total profits and losses that made up The audits undertaken for group reporting purposes at the 4 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the was set at 15,500,000 for 2014.
This was determined with Group profit before tax, 30% of total Group revenue and 33% key reporting components of the Group were all performed Companies Act 2006 is unmodified reference to a benchmark of profit before tax, of which it of total Group assets was represented by a large number of to local materiality levels.
These local materiality levels were represents 6.9%.
In 2013, materiality was determined with smaller reporting components, as the majority of attractions sit set individually for each component by the Group audit In our opinion: reference to a benchmark of revenue.
Following the Groups within their own statutory entity and there are a large number team and ranged from 750,000 to 4,000,000.
IPO at the end of 2013, which led to a significant reduction in of intermediary holding companies.
None of these components the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be the level of debt and therefore the amount of interest paid, we individually represent more than 3.2% of any of the total profits Detailed audit and specified procedure instructions were sent audited has been properly prepared in accordance with consider that profit before tax better aligns with the principal or losses that made up Group profit before tax, total Group to key component auditors.
These instructions covered the the Companies Act 2006. considerations of the shareholders of the Company, so for 2014 revenue or total Group assets.
We obtained further coverage significant audit areas that should be addressed by these audits, the information given in the Strategic Report and the we changed our benchmark measure accordingly.
by performing specified risk-focused audit procedures over the which included the relevant risks of material misstatement Directors Report for the financial year for which the reasonableness over the financial result and position at 15 of detailed above, and set out the information required to be financial statements are prepared is consistent with the We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report all these reporting components.
For the remaining components, reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team financial statements.
corrected and uncorrected misstatements identified through our analysis at an aggregated level was performed to re-examine visited three key component locations in Italy, Hong Kong and information given in the Corporate Governance Statement audit with a value in excess of 775,000, in addition to other our assessment that there were no significant risks of material Florida, which included assessing the audit risk and strategy.
set out on pages 60 to 67 with respect to internal control misstatement within these.
audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe Teleconferences were also held with these component auditors and risk management systems in relation to financial warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
and all key reporting components that were not visited.
During reporting processes and about share capital structures The Group audit team carried out audits for group reporting these meetings, the findings reported to the Group audit is consistent with the financial statements.
purposes of the financial information of components covering We audited 84% of the total profits and losses that made up team were discussed in more detail: with any further work 47% of the total profits and losses that made up Group profit Group profit before tax, 70% of total Group revenue and 67% required by the Group audit team then performed by before tax, including the only individually financially significant of total Group assets.
This included the audit, for group reporting the component auditor.
component, Merlin Attractions Operations Limited.
The Group purposes, of the financial information of certain components, audit team also undertook all audit procedures of certain total audit procedures on certain total Group account balances that Group account balances as mentioned above, gaining coverage present individual risks, specifically interest expenses, and assets over a further 15% of the total profits and losses that made up arising on consolidation.
The components containing these Group Group profit before tax.
The largest component audited by a account balances were not individually financially significant and component audit team represented 8% of the total profits therefore did not require an audit for group reporting purposes.
and losses that made up Group profit before tax.
Audits for group reporting purposes, including those performed by the Group audit team, were performed at components in the following locations: UK, USA, Australia, Denmark, Germany, Italy and Hong Kong.
100 101 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS To the members of Merlin Entertainments plc only Table of contents Click the sections below to take you to the relevant page PRIMARY STATEMENTS 5 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: which we are required to report by exception CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 104 the Directors statement, set out on page 96, in relation to CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 105 Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, going concern: and CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 106 based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 60 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 107 identified other information in the annual report that contains a relating to the Companys compliance with the ten provisions CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 108 material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise our review.
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS misleading.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
109 SECTION 1 - BASIS OF PREPARATION In particular, we are required to report to you if: Scope and responsibilities 111 SECTION 2 - RESULTS FOR THE YEAR we have identified material inconsistencies between the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities knowledge we acquired during our audit and the Directors Statement set out on page 97, the Directors are responsible 2.1 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 111 statement that they consider that the annual report and for the preparation of the financial statements and for being 2.2 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 114 financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
This report is 2.3 TAXATION 115 understandable and provides the information necessary for made solely to the Companys members as a body and is 2.4 EARNINGS PER SHARE 119 shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding model and strategy: or our responsibilities, published on our website at SECTION 3 - BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 120 the section of the annual report describing the work of the www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should SECTION 4 - OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES 121 communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of 4.1 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 121 Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report our opinions.
4.2 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 123 to you if, in our opinion: 4.3 IMPAIRMENT TESTING 125 4.4 WORKING CAPITAL 127 adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor 4.5 PROVISIONS 129 parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor not been received from branches not visited by us: or 130 SECTION 5 - CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING the parent Company financial statements and the part of Chartered Accountants the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Dukes Keep, Marsh Lane, 5.1 NET DEBT 130 in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Southampton 5.2 BORROWINGS 130 certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by SO14 3EX 5.3 LEASE OBLIGATIONS 132 law are not made: or 5.4 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 134 we have not received all the information and explanations 25 February 2015 5.5 FINANCE INCOME AND COSTS 135 we require for our audit: or 5.6 FINANCIAL RISK FACTORS AND FAIR VALUE ANALYSIS 136 a Corporate Governance Statement has not been 5.7 EQUITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 143 prepared by the Company.
5.8 SHARE-BASED PAYMENT TRANSACTIONS 144 SECTION 6 - OTHER NOTES 147 6.1 INVESTMENTS 147 6.2 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 147 6.3 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 149 6.4 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 150 6.5 NEW STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS 151 6.6 ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY INFORMATION 151 6.7 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 151 6.8 SUBSIDIARY AND JOINT VENTURE UNDERTAKINGS 152 102 103 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial Statements Contents Main Contents CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME For the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014 2013: 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 For the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2014 2013: 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Note m m Underlying Exceptional Underlying Exceptional 3 3 Profit for the year 162 145 trading items Total trading items Total Note m m m m m m Revenue 2.1 1,249 - 1,249 1,192 - 1,192 Other comprehensive income Cost of sales 2.1 181 - 181 170 - 170 Items that cannot be reclassified to profit and loss 1,068 - 1,068 1,022 - 1,022 Gross profit Defined benefit plan remeasurement gains and losses 6.2 1 - Staff expenses 2.1 312 - 312 297 - 297 Recognition of the assets and liabilities of the defined 6.2 1 - contribution section of the defined benefit scheme Marketing 62 - 62 63 - 63 2 - Rent 83 - 83 80 - 80 Items that may be reclassified to profit and loss Other operating expenses 200 - 200 192 30 222 Exchange differences on the retranslation of net assets of foreign operations 23 8 1 EBITDA 2.1 411 - 411 390 30 360 Exchange differences relating to the net investment in foreign operations 5.5 7 8 Depreciation and amortisation 4.1, 4.2 100 - 100 100 - 100 Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 9 5 Operating profit 311 - 311 290 30 260 Income tax on items relating to components of other comprehensive income 2.3 - 1 Finance income 5.5 2 - 2 1 20 21 25 12 Finance costs 5.5 64 23 87 105 4 109 Other comprehensive income for the year net of income tax 27 12 249 23 226 186 14 172 Profit before tax 1 Total comprehensive income for the year 135 133 Taxation 2.3 70 6 64 24 3 27 2 Profit for the year 179 17 162 162 17 145 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share p 2.4 16.0 15.1 1 EBITDA - this is defined as profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and is after taking account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
2 Profit for the year for 2014 and 2013 is wholly attributable to the owners of the Company.
3 1 Details of exceptional items are provided in note 2.2.
Total comprehensive income for 2014 and 2013 is wholly attributable to the owners of the Company.
