Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Group Finance Directors review 2014 Tony Conophy Group Finance Director finance costs on customer specific Margin rate in the Supply Chain business In 2014, Computacenter financing CSF for which the Group receives built on the stability seen in 2013 with a Group delivered the regular rental income.
Gross profit is also small improvement throughout 2014 due fifth successive year adjusted to take account of CSF costs.
The to an improving product mix.
The improved reconciliation of statutory to adjusted results mix was partially attributable to the effect of turnover growth and is further explained in the segmental reporting of order pull-through from the services improved both statutory note note 3 to the financial statements.
For business and also due to the focus placed the purposes of this statement, all subsequent on enhancing vendor relationships and and adjusted profitability references are to adjusted measures.
Services margin reduced in the face of variable slightly from last year mainly due to the Supply Chain demand Group profitability continues to be led by expected impact of new business in the UK segment which increased adjusted Contractual Services.
This was a great within our German operating profit by 16.5 per cent.
German performance largely maintaining, throughout business and ongoing performance slipped with an 12.4 per cent 2014, the gains achieved from improved decrease in adjusted operating profit whilst execution and high utilisation that were strategic refocusing the French segment declined a further 20.5 consolidated in 2013.
This resulted in UK of our French business.
per cent in adjusted operating profit, both total adjusted gross profit reducing slightly on an as reported basis.
from 15.6 per cent to 15.5 per cent of sales.
Turnover and profit Adjusted operating expenses SG&A rose Group turnover grew by 1.2 per cent to United Kingdom by 7.2 per cent, slowing from the 9.3 per reach 3,107.8 million.
On a constant The UK segment saw 10.2 per cent revenue cent increase across 2013.
The UK segment currency basis turnover growth was 4.2 per growth in 2014, increasing to 1,416.9 absorbed the majority of the Groups cent.
Adjusted profit before tax increased million.
Supply Chain revenues increased investment costs.
It also incurs the majority by 5.1 per cent from 81.7 million to 85.9 by 11.0 per cent, driven by continuing of senior management and Group Governance million, or 6.8 per cent in constant currency.
demand from a growing Contractual Services costs due to the Group being UK domiciled.
customer base, which resulted in incremental After taking account of exceptional items opportunities for the Supply Chain business.
Overall this has resulted in a 16.5 per cent relating to the restructuring programme in Growth also came from more sustained increase in adjusted operating profit from France Social Plan and the improving purchasing from existing customers driven 56.2 million to 65.5 million.
outlook for the German onerous contracts, by the continued economic improvement statutory profit before tax improved by 51.3 within the UK economy.
Services revenues per cent from 50.5 million to 76.4 million.
increased the rate of growth from 6.2 per cent in 2013 to 8.6 per cent growth in 2014.
Adjusted operating profit Within this, Contractual Services revenue Management measure the Groups grew 6.9 per cent as the wins recorded in segmental operating performance using 2013 had a full year of delivery.
Professional Adjusted profit before tax is stated prior to adjusted operating profit, which is stated Services, in turn, generated 14.0 per cent amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles, growth in revenues with utilisation rates items.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after exceptional items, and after charging at near-maximum.
This continues the German revenue declined in 2014 with constant currency, but has fallen 2.0 per cent capacity utilisation issues seen in 2013, which revenue, as reported, reducing by 8.2 per cent in reported currency.
in France are difficult to correct over the short to 1,167.1 million 2013: 1,271.4 million.
This spare capacity continues to have a In constant currency revenue fell 3.3 per cent.
Overall, the German segment adjusted significant impact on gross margins achieved.
operating profit decreased by 12.4 per cent Supply Chain revenues fell by 5.0 per cent in from 30.6 million to 26.8 million as reported, In addition, gross margins in the Supply 2014, driven by a series of coinciding material a decrease of 8.0 per cent in constant currency.
Chain business have continued to reduce events.
The underlying demand from customers as the quality of product mix has deteriorated fell away in the first half and did not recover until France with an increased proportion of low-margin the fourth quarter of the year.
This was further The revenue in the French segment increased software business which has had a positive impacted by the loss of a previously recurring by 6.4 per cent in the year but is still below effect on revenue but generated little software licence resale of circa 30 million the levels of 2012.
Supply Chain revenue incremental contribution.
that occurred for the last time in the second grew by 6.4 per cent.
However, this was quarter of 2013.
Whilst the year as a whole was flattered by a significant increase in the The result of these two issues is that overall disappointing, real momentum returned in the level of activity with lower margin customers.
gross margin reduced from 8.2 per cent final quarter of the year with strong growth of Whilst most of the operational issues related to 6.7 per cent.
16.0 per cent over the final quarter of 2014. to the unsatisfactory implementation of our ERP system have been resolved and SG&A expenses have decreased by 6.2 Services revenues were flat with 0.3 per cent corrective action taken in our warehouse per cent, largely reflecting the initial benefit growth in 2014.
The business continues to operation, which have materially improved from the French Social Plan and business focus on the quality of offering and targeting the overall customer experience, the business transformation which is targeted to reduce strategic partnerships for the Contractual now needs to focus on customer quality costs in the business to improve the Services pipeline, whilst expanding the and the impact on total cost to serve.
The SG&A reduction Professional Services business.
As the was impacted by a 2 million additional business becomes more confident in the Services revenues grew 6.5 per cent over cost to provide for doubtful debts.
The cost bidding and execution of Contractual Services during 2014, although this is primarily related of implementing the Social Plan has been deals, we expect services revenue growth to the take-on of the Groups largest Contractual recorded as an exceptional cost in 2014 to return, as evidenced by several recent Services win.
The take-on of this contract has of 9.1 million.
been completed successfully, but hides an underlying decline in activity and opportunities Overall, the adjusted operating result as The quality of offering, and the focus on the within the French services business.
This has reported in France has increased from a profitability of those offerings, has seen gross resulted in an under-utilisation of resources 7.3 million loss in 2013 to a 8.8 million margin within the German business increase which leaves the French business uncompetitive loss in 2014. from 12.4 per cent in 2013 to 13.0 per cent in and, for international deals involving France, 2014.
Supply Chain gross margin was broadly renders the Group uncompetitive.
flat which was a considerable result in a declining sales environment and was supported Services gross profit in 2014 has been through a material increase in services margins impacted throughout the year by the weak Unless specifically stated, comments on growth which are continuing to improve and close the growth in demand for our Professional rates in overseas segments are stated in local 38 gap on UK services margins.
Services business where revenue was constant currency.
Group Finance Directors review continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Belgium to release 1.5 million of the provision Taxation Reported revenue increased by 9.3 per cent to as an exceptional gain, partly reversing the The effective adjusted tax rate for 2014 52.7 million 2013: 48.2 million equating to previously recorded exceptional loss incurred was 24.9 per cent 2013: 23.7 per cent.
an increase of 15.1 per cent in local currency.
The scale of The deterioration was due to a lower mix of Supply Chain revenue increased 24.7 per cent the remaining two contracts means that overseas earnings in 2014 compared to 2013, rebuilding the business to 2012 levels which any significant deviation from the projections with the continuing lack of profitability in saw a very significant one-off Supply Chain considered at the year-end could result in France significantly impacting the overall rate.
This is especially a further material change to the provisioning However, the Groups tax rate continues to pleasing as the customer base has broadened required.
However, Management remains benefit from losses utilised on earnings in and become more international reducing the confident in the level of provisioning held Germany and further benefits from the opportunity for future revenue declines to at the end of 2014. reducing corporation tax rate in the UK.
be related to large individual customers.
Computacenter France has implemented The Group makes every effort to pay all Services revenue was largely flat in 2014, a programme to reduce its SG&A and the tax attributable to profits earned in each growing 0.4 per cent, in a year of consolidation restructure the business and cost model jurisdiction that it operates in.
The Group does due to the full integration of the business in line with the Group Operating Model not artificially inflate or reduce profits in one acquired at the end of 2012.
The focus was on in an attempt to make the business more jurisdiction to provide a beneficial tax result renewing key Contractual Services customers competitive both within France and as part in another.
to provide stability in the contract base to of the Group.
This programme will position continue to grow the business through 2015. the business to enable it to embark on Deferred tax assets of 12.2 million 2013: transformative activity in its approach to 13.6 million have been recognised in respect Whilst both service and product margin increased winning and servicing new customers, both of losses carried forward.
At 31 December through the year, the large increase in product in services and, more importantly in the short 2014, there were unused tax losses across the sales compared to the flat services revenue term, its Supply Chain business.
As previously Group of 115.8 million 2013: 125.4 million growth has resulted in an overall decrease mentioned the Supply Chain business features for which no deferred tax asset has been in gross profit return on sales for Belgium from a number of very large but very low-margin recognised.
Of these losses, 35.9 million 12.5 per cent in 2013 to 11.6 per cent in 2014. contracts supplemented by numerous small 2013: 54.5 million arise in Germany and volume contracts where individual relationship 78.9 million 2013: 67.6 million arise in SG&A in 2014 is broadly flat compared to 2013 margins do not sufficiently contribute to justify France.
A significant proportion of the losses with an increase of 2.7 per cent.
Overall, there the business relationship.
arising in Germany have been generated in has been a 16.7 per cent increase in reported statutory entities that no longer have adjusted operating profit from 1.8 million in This programme, or Social Plan, has incurred significant levels of trade.
The remaining 2013 to 2.1 million in 2014 which is equivalent 9.1 million of costs in 2014, with the majority unrecognised tax losses relate to other to a 18.2 per cent increase in constant currency.
of the cash flows to occur in 2015. loss-making overseas subsidiaries.
Exceptional items Finance income and costs Earnings per share and dividend The three onerous contracts in Germany have Net finance costs of 0.2 million were incurred The adjusted diluted earnings per share has continued to perform in line with our original on a statutory basis in 2014 2013: 0.5 increased in line with profit performance by forecast throughout 2014.
One of the contracts million.
This takes account of finance costs 8.1 per cent from 43.3 pence in 2013 to 46.8 ceased in the final quarter of the year with the on CSF of 0.6 million 2013: 0.8 million.
The statutory diluted earnings other two contracts due to complete in 2016.
On an adjusted basis, prior to the interest per share has increased from 23.0 pence in The performance outlook on these two on CSF, net finance income was 0.3 million 2013 to 40.0 pence in 2014, primarily driven contracts continues to improve and coupled in 2014 2013: 0.3 million.
The interim dividend as part of the one-off Return of Value capital expenditure primarily on investments paid on 17 October 2014 was 5.9 pence to Shareholders outlined below.
in IT equipment in our business and software per share the Interim Dividend Amount.
tools to enable us to deliver improved service Adjusting this payment for the share Return of Value to Shareholders to our customers.
consolidation on 20 February 2015 the The Group also announced on 2 February, Share Consolidation increases the Interim 2015, that it proposed to make a one-off Whilst the cash position remains robust, Dividend Amount to 6.7 pence, resulting in Return of Value to shareholders of 71.9 pence the Group continued to benefit from the a total dividend per share of 19.8 pence, for per Existing Ordinary Share, equivalent to extension of an improvement in credit terms those shares in existence immediately after approximately 100 million or approximately with a significant vendor, equivalent to the Share Consolidation.
The total dividend 11.2 per cent of Computacenters market 38.6 million at 31 December 2014, a per share for 2013 was 17.5 pence per share capitalisation, based on the middle market decrease of 2.5 million from 31 December or 19.6 pence per share on a pro forma price of 643 pence per Existing Ordinary 2013.
This improvement in credit terms has basis, after taking account of the Share Share on 29 January 2015. been in operation since 2009 and whilst the Consolidation.
The Board has consistently continuation of these terms is not guaranteed applied the Groups Dividend Policy, which Cash flow and can be withdrawn at any time, the terms states that the total dividend paid will result Net funds excluding CSF increased from are generally available to all material partners in a dividend cover of 2 to 2.5 times.
Subject 90.3 million to 128.5 million by the end of of that significant vendor.
We no longer feel to the approval of our shareholders at our the year.
The Group continued to deliver strong it is necessary to continue to highlight these Annual General Meeting on Tuesday 19 May cash generation from its operations in 2014, terms in the Performance Review.
However, 2015, the proposed dividend will be paid on with net cash flow from operating activities we will continue to reference this item in this Friday 19 June 2015.
The dividend record of 94.4 million 2013: 62.9 million.
report, but we will not routinely report the date is set on Friday 22 May 2015, and number in Interim Management Statements, the shares will be marked ex-dividend Challenges remain within working capital due to similar external updates or within the on Thursday 21 May 2015. legacy and systemic issues that have materially accounts themselves.
impacted our French business and its cash Disposal of R. D. Trading Ltd collection in particular.
These issues stem from Customer Specific Financing decreased in On 2 February, 2015, the Group announced the poor ERP implementation in 2013, which the year from 18.9 million to 9.3 million.
that it was disposing of its wholly-owned led to backlogs preventing the timely processing CSF remains low compared to historical IT disposal and recycling subsidiary, R. D. of transactions impacting cash collection and standards due to a decision to restrict this Trading Ltd RDC.
These backlogs have form of financing in light of the current credit continued to grow in 2014 as the French environment and reduced customer demand.
The Group reached agreement with Arrow business entered the Social Plan which caused Electronics UK Holding Limited for the some disruption to the teams responsible for Taking CSF into account, net funds at the end disposal of the entire issued share capital of collecting cash and monitoring debt levels of the year were 119.2 million, compared RDC.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, within the business.
During the second half of to 71.4 million at the start of the year.
RDC generated revenues of 44.1 million the year a new Finance Shared Service Centre 2013: 41.9 million and statutory profit was set up in Budapest, Hungary, which, after Customer specific financing before tax of 4.8 million 2013: 3.7 million.
the normal transition and start-up challenges In certain circumstances, the Group enters has stabilised and is on an improving trend.
into customer contracts that are financed by Gross consideration for the disposal is Whilst the debt position in France remains a top leases or loans.
The leases are secured only 56 million payable in cash on a cash free priority for both local and Group management, on the assets that they finance.
Whilst the and debt free basis, before transaction significant headway has been made in outstanding balance of CSF is included costs and subject to certain post-completion understanding and resolving legacy collection within the net funds for statutory reporting adjustments.
Completion of the disposal and system related invoicing issues that are purposes, the Group excludes CSF when is not subject to any outstanding conditions reducing the overdue debt and increasing the managing the net funds of the business, and has now taken place.
There is no rates of collection amongst new debt.
as this CSF is matched by contracted future provision for the payment of deferred receipts from customers.
consideration under the sale agreement.
Whilst CSF is repaid through future customer receipts, Computacenter retains the credit risk on these customers and ensures that credit risk is only taken on customers with a strong credit rating.
The committed CSF facilities, are thus outside of the normal working capital requirements of the Groups product resale and service activities.
The Group does not expect a material increase in the level of CSF facilities, partly as the Group applies a higher cost of finance to these transactions than customers marginal cost of finance.
Capital Management Details of the Groups capital management policies are included within note 25 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources, and various items that arise directly from 40 its operations.
The Group enters into hedging Group Finance Directors review continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 of the customer and the anticipated levels of business activity.
These limits are initially determined when the customer account is first set up and are regularly monitored thereafter.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Groups major customer, disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements, consists of entities under the control of the UK Government.
The maximum credit risk exposure relating to financial assets is represented by carrying value as at the balance sheet date.
Going concern As disclosed in the Directors report, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt transactions, principally Forward Exchange The Group has a Board monitored policy the going concern basis in preparing the contracts or currency swaps.
The purpose in place to manage its counterparty risk consolidated financial statements.
of these transactions is to manage currency that places cash on deposit across a range risks arising from the Groups operations and of reputable banking institutions.
Fair, balanced and understandable its sources of finance.
As the Group continues The UK Corporate Governance Code has to expand its global reach and benefit from Customer specific financing facilities a requirement for the Board to consider lower cost operations in certain geographies are committed.
whether the Annual Report and Accounts such as South Africa, it has entered into are fair, balanced and understandable Forward Exchange contracts to help manage Foreign currency risk and provides the information necessary cost increases due to currency movement.
The Group operates primarily in the UK, for shareholders to assess the Companys Germany, France, and with smaller operations performance, business model and strategy.
The Groups policy remains that no in Belgium, Hungary, India, Malaysia, speculative trading in financial instruments Luxembourg, Spain, South Africa, Switzerland We have continued to formalise the process shall be undertaken.
and the United States of America.
The Group through which we can provide comfort to the uses a cash pooling facility to ensure that its Board to make the relevant assertions within The main risks arising from the Groups operations outside of the UK are adequately the Annual Report and Accounts.
financial instruments are interest rate, funded, where principal receipts and payments liquidity and foreign currency risks.
The are denominated in Euros.
For those countries overall financial instruments strategy is to within the Euro zone, the level of non-Euro manage these risks in order to minimise their denominated sales is small and, if material, the impact on the financial results of the Group.
Groups policy is to eliminate currency exposure The policies for managing each of these risks through forward currency contracts.
For the UK, Tony Conophy are set out below.
Further disclosures in line the majority of sales and purchases are Group Finance Director with the requirements of IFRS 7 are included denominated in Sterling and any material 11 March 2015 in the financial statements.
trading exposures are eliminated through forward currency contracts.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through a The Group has been increasingly successful mixture of retained profits, bank borrowings in winning international services contracts and finance leases and loans for certain where services are provided in multiple customer contracts.
The Group aims to minimise borrowings, other facilities and deposits are this exposure by invoicing the customer at floating rates.
No interest rate derivative in the same currency in which the costs contracts have been entered into.
For certain contracts, the Groups committed contract costs are not Liquidity risk denominated in the same currency as its The Groups policy is to ensure that it has sales.
In such circumstances, for example sufficient funding and facilities in place to where contract costs are denominated in meet any foreseeable peak in borrowing South African Rand, the Group eliminates requirements.
The Groups positive net funds currency exposure for a foreseeable future position was maintained throughout 2014, and period on these future cash flows through at the year-end was 128.5 million excluding forward currency contracts.
In 2014, the CSF, and 119.2 million including CSF.
Group recognised a loss of 0.3 million 2013: loss of 1.4 million through other Due to strong cash generation over the past three comprehensive income in relation to the years, the Group is currently in a position where changes in fair value of related forward it can finance its requirements from its cash currency contracts, where the cash flow balance, and the Group operates a cash pooling hedges relating to firm commitments were arrangement for the majority of Group entities.
assessed to be highly effective.
During 2013 the Group entered into a specific Credit risk committed facility of 40.0 million for a The Group principally manages credit three-year term which expires in May 2016. risk through management of customer In February 2015 this facility was extended credit limits.
The credit limits are set for at the same value through to February 2018. each customer based on the creditworthiness 41
