Performance review Group Group Operating Model has created short-term 2014 was a year of solid Group revenue by region m disruption and uncertainty throughout the year.
financial progress for the Group, in which it During the year, the Group incurred 7.6 million 2013: 28.8 million of exceptional continued to focus on, items.
These included 9.1 million of and invest in, its strategy exceptional costs relating to the estimated final costs of the restructuring that the Group of delivering organic undertook within its French business in the revenue and profit growth, second half of the year.
The actual final costs primarily through its of the restructuring will not be known until the end of 2015 at the earliest.
As announced by the Group in July 2014, its UK 1,416.9m Turnover, adjusted and statutory French business was uncompetitive due to the Germany 1,167.1m financial performance size of its cost base which impacted its cost and France 471.1m Total revenue grew for the fifth successive pricing models, and therefore its ability to win Belgium 52.7m year, increasing by 1.2 per cent on an as new business.
As the main driver of growth reported basis to 3.108 billion, and by across the Group has been its ability to win 4.2 per cent in constant currency.
large international services contracts with customers headquartered in Western Europe, The Groups adjusted profit before tax failure to address this issue would have increased on a reported basis by 5.1 per cent impacted the competitiveness of the Group to 85.9 million, and by 6.8 per cent in constant on such bids going forward.
This increase in profitability resulted enable a fundamental reshaping of the business in the Groups adjusted diluted earnings per which will provide a solid foundation for it share increasing by 8.1 per cent to 46.8 pence to provide our core Group services offerings in 2014. to our target customer market.
It lowers our cost base and alters our organisational and On a statutory basis, taking account of reporting structure to support the primary aim exceptional items and the amortisation of of maintaining the competitiveness of the wider acquired intangibles, the Group made a profit business in achieving our goals.
before tax of 76.4 million, which represented an increase of 51.3 per cent against the Additionally, the Groups three onerous comparative performance in 2013 on an as contracts entered into by its German business reported basis.
This increase resulted in the have performed within the provision previously Groups diluted earnings per share increasing taken for the losses expected to be incurred by 73.9 per cent to 40.0 pence in 2014. on them from July 2013 to the end of the contracts.
As a result of ongoing operational Revenue and operating profit growth improvements on these contracts during 2014, performance varied across our main operating and the conclusion of one of the contracts and geographies during the year.
Adjusted settlement of an associated legal dispute operating profit growth of approximately during Q3 2014, we have released as an 16.5 per cent in the UK more than offset the exceptional item 1.5 million of the provision reduction in adjusted operating profit of 8.0 taken.
In line with our approach of developing per cent in constant currency reduction of and maintaining our customer relationships 12.4 per cent on an as reported basis in the over the long-term, we are pleased that we Groups German business.
In France, the level have managed to improve materially the levels of adjusted operating loss increased on a of customer satisfaction in respect of each constant currency basis by 27.9 per cent to of these contracts from that being achieved 11.0 million 2013: adjusted operating loss at the time the provision was taken.
of 8.6 million and by 20.5 per cent on an as reported basis, as the completion of a restructuring exercise to reduce our cost base Adjusted profit before tax is stated prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional and make the business more competitive, and items.
Adjusted operating profit is also stated after the ongoing rigorous implementation of our 26 charging interest on CSF.
Performance review Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Revenue and operating profit growth performance varied across our main operating geographies during the year.
The loss of a number of small as increasing the capacity at existing locations Group services revenue increased by 2.0 per services contracts during the year has in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia and Cape Town cent on an as reported basis to 985.5 million, reduced utilisation of the Groups central South Africa.
Thirdly, we have invested in the and by 4.8 per cent in constant currency.
As services delivery engines, and as a result, relentless standardisation of our processes a result, our services business now represents the services margins delivered by the French and procedures across the Group, including 31.7 per cent of total Group revenue.
business have been, and remain, poor.
the roll-out of our Group service desk platform Our priority in 2015 will be to rebuild our across our businesses.
The Group continues to focus on leading services pipeline in France.
with its services offerings, and increasing Group revenue by business type % its capability to enable, and improve the IT Supply Chain performance experience of the users of large corporate In 2014, Supply Chain revenue across the organisations headquartered in Western Group grew by 0.8 per cent on an as reported Europe, wherever they operate globally and basis to 2,122.3 million, and by 4.0 per cent locally.
We have continued to invest in our in constant currency.
related tools and processes, especially in the areas of IT self-service automation and This was principally driven by a strong mobility.
Our primary focus on end-users, performance, particularly during the first and our plans for innovation and development half of the year, by the UK business, which in this area, have resonated well with existing benefited from Supply Chain demand and prospective customers.
associated directly with new Managed Services wins, and improving conditions Our services business in the UK continued for business generally in the UK.
The Workplace 24% to flourish in 2014, benefiting from its Supply Chain performance of our German Datacenter & Networking 24% growing reputation for delivering operational business was especially disappointing Software 12% excellence to customers.
The team has during the first half of 2014, but improved Third Party Services 8% delivered a number of significant Managed significantly in the fourth quarter of the year.
Professional Services 9% Services wins during the year, which has Our Supply Chain performance is reliant on Contractual Services 23% resulted in associated transformational IT the short and medium-term buying behaviour project and consulting work, and incremental of our customers.
The UK Professional Services forward order book will, for a second Whilst Supply Chain revenues grew in our consecutive year, finish at a record high-level.
French business during 2014, a significant proportion of this business remains in Revenue within our services business in low-margin, working capital intensive deals.
We have Germany was flat, largely as a result of the The performance is also flattered by a quiet Groups decision to selectively bid for Managed second half of 2013.
We have taken action invested in our Services opportunities in Germany in 2013, to alter both the product and customer so that appropriate focus and resource could mix in this area, to build on the delivery global reach be dedicated to the implementation of our of efficiencies generated as a result of Group Operating Model.
We are particularly implementing the Group Operating Model.
to serve our encouraged by the strengthening of the Managed Services pipeline throughout the Investments year, which should underpin services growth We have continued to spend principally customers in 2015.
Our strong consulting capabilities in to achieve three outcomes.
Firstly, to Germany allowed our Professional Services enable and improve the IT experience of needs.
business there to grow by almost 10 per cent our customers end-users, through the use in constant currency, and 4.4 per cent on an of innovation and development of our tools as reported basis.
such as our Next Generation Service Desk and mobile offerings.
Our service quality in France has improved during the year, assisted by the availability of Secondly, we have invested in our global Group Management input.
However, general reach, and expanded our capacity, to serve our market conditions in France have remained customers needs wherever they operate in the difficult and we have continued to suffer from world.
This has included the opening of new poor service quality delivered by the business service desk locations in Montpellier France, in 2013, albeit that service quality has now Budapest Hungary and Pittston USA, as well 27 Outlook The ongoing strategic development of the Group, the associated investments it has made since the beginning of 2013 and our recent services wins, particularly in the UK and but also more latterly in Germany, gives us confidence for the future.
The short-term will not be without its challenges.
In the UK, there will be a significant number of our 2014 services wins taken on during this year, and these will take time to mature.
Whilst we are encouraged by the 2014 fourth quarter performance in Germany, it is too early to tell whether this is a substantial move in the right direction, or simply represents a good quarter.
The Group has transitioned over the last few years to become a business with greater visibility of earnings due to increased services content.
Our French business clearly remains in the early stages of making this transition, and whilst it has a small number of attractive existing contracts, it otherwise remains out of date and uncompetitive.
Whilst we are confident of reducing the loss materially in France during 2015, a return to profitability is some distance off.
However, our business remains highly cash generative, as evidenced by the recent Return of Value to shareholders, and notwithstanding the challenges outlined above, we are determined to make 2015 a year of progress for the Group.
As part of the Cash flow was again strong during the period, Return of Value, an associated share capital but particularly over the second half of 2014. re-organisation took place on 20 February Group net funds increased during the year by 2015, whereby every 17 ordinary shares 2 over 47.8 million to 119.2 million.
of 6 pence each in the Company were Mike Norris 3 effectively consolidated into 15 ordinary shares Chief Executive Officer 5 Post year-end events sale of of 7 pence each.
The Board will continue 11 March 2015 9 R. D. Trading Limited to evaluate the requirement to maintain an On 2 February 2015, the Company announced efficient balance sheet, and endeavour to use that its UK business had completed the disposal our ability to generate free cash in order to of the entire issued share capital of R. D. deliver incremental value to our shareholders.
Trading Limited RDC to Arrow Electronics UK Holding Limited for a total consideration Dividend The Groups of 56 million.
This followed a year of good The Board has proposed a final dividend of progress at RDC, with total adjusted operating 13.1 pence per share.
The interim dividend strong level of profit up during the reporting period by 29.8 paid on 17 October 2014 was 5.9 pence per cent to 4.8 million 2013: 3.7 million.
per share the Interim Dividend Amount.
cash generation Adjusting this payment for the share RDCs business provides IT Disposal and consolidation on 20 February 2015 the Asset Recovery Services, which are focused Share Consolidation increases the Interim and the sale on generating value from used information and Dividend Amount to 6.7 pence, resulting in communication technologies, and creating an a total dividend per share of 19.8 pence, for of RDC has environmentally sustainable disposal solution those shares in existence immediately after for anything unsuitable for reuse.
The total dividend allowed it to activities are non-core to the Group, and the per share for 2013 was 17.5 pence per disposal will allow the Company to focus its share or 19.6 pence per share on a pro announce a investment for growth on the delivery and forma basis, after taking account of the implementation of its services-led strategy.
The Board has second Return consistently applied the Groups Dividend Return of Value to shareholders Policy, which states that the total dividend The Groups strong levels of cash generation paid will result in a dividend cover of 2 to of Value to during the reporting period, alongside the sale 2.5 times.
Subject to the approval of our of RDC, has allowed the Company to announce shareholders at our Annual General Meeting shareholders its second significant one-off Return of Value on Tuesday 19 May 2015, the proposed to shareholders in two years.
This Return of dividend will be paid on Friday 19 June 2015. in two years.
Value, totalling approximately 100 million, or The dividend record date is set on Friday 71.9 pence for every share held as at the close 22 May 2015, and the shares will be marked 28 of trading on 19 February 2015, has now been ex-dividend on Thursday 21 May 2015.
Performance review continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 UK UK revenue m Revenue m 2014 1,416.9 2013 1,286.1 2012 1,195.6 2011 1,102.2 1,4 1 6.9 2010 1,265.4 10.2% Our continual focus on these areas has allowed the business to deliver a number of large new Managed Services contracts during the year.
The Royal Mail Group signed a Adjusted operating profit m Kevin James desktop services contract with Computacenter Country Unit Director, UK that will increase efficiency across its head office, sorting and distribution locations and improve the user experience for more than Computacenter in 30,000 employees.
Additionally, the Post 65.5 Office has agreed a new IT Managed Services the United Kingdom contract with Computacenter focused on the 16.5% performed strongly in provision of IT services for its end-users, and 2014, achieving significant this will cover 11,500 branch users and 4,000 head office users.
levels of revenue and profit growth across In addition to these new services wins, Contract base m the business has also renewed a significant its services and Supply number of its existing contracts, particularly Chain businesses.
As part of AstraZenecas global IT transformation Overall financial performance programme, Computacenter will now be 334.0 As a result, total revenue for the year delivering on-site IT services to 51,500 increased by 10.2 per cent to 1,416.9 million users in the UK, France, Germany, the US 9.9% 2013: 1,286.1 million.
Adjusted operating and Scandinavia, helping its business to profit in 2014 also grew by 16.5 per cent to improve productivity and drive down costs.
Statutory profit in the year increased by 10.6 per cent There will be a headwind to Managed to 65.9 million 2013: 59.6 million.
Services growth in 2015, due to the significant UK revenue by business type % reduction of one particular contract as Services performance previously disclosed in our October 2014 Interim Services revenue grew by 8.6 per cent Management Statement.
However our new during the reporting period to 497.6 million wins and renewals will underpin the Managed 2013: 458.0 million, which incorporated Services revenue base during the coming year.
growth of 6.9 per cent within our Managed Services business and 14.0 per cent within Our Professional Services business has seen Professional Services.
strong levels of activity during the year, driven by a number of one-off substantial projects This services growth has been primarily from our existing customers, and a significant driven by ongoing customer requirements level of business related to transformational for technology transformation, and continued activity arising out of Managed Services wins selective IT outsourcing to best-of-breed IT in 2014.
This has included key technology Workplace 23% infrastructure companies to support, manage transformation activity for the Post Office.
Datacenter & Networking 22% and transform their IT environments to The significant growth within our Professional Software 12% enable their end-users and their businesses.
Services business continues to be dominated Third Party Services 8% Therefore, the delivery of high levels of by projects focused on the modernisation of Professional Services 9% customer satisfaction and the creation of our customers users workplace.
Whilst our Contractual Services 26% advocacy and referencing from our existing Professional Services forward order book customers remains fundamental to our future finished the year at a record high level, giving growth in services.
Maximising the efficiency us confidence that current levels of growth of our services delivery is also important in can be sustained in 2015, we continue to allowing the business to remain competitive, invest in the long-term requirements of our and the delivery of services volume growth customers, and remain committed to further in 2014 has allowed the preservation of accelerating our Professional Services activity gross margin rates through the high utilisation through related datacenter and networking levels of the Groups central services delivery upgrade and transformation activity.
We also continue to strengthen and invest in our commercial bid governance procedures to ensure that the business is delivering highly refined and standardised core offerings to its target corporate and government customer base.
29 Supply Chain performance As we have previously explained, sustaining Supply Chain revenue in 2014 increased by our ongoing Supply Chain growth rates will be 11.0 per cent to 919.3 million 2013: 828.1 challenging and difficult to predict, due to the million.
This has been principally facilitated by short and medium-term nature of associated the ongoing delivery of new Managed Services customer demands.
However, there is a strong wins and renewals immediately prior to and correlation between our services and Supply during the year.
This growth is the direct result Chain growth, whereby strong Professional of the strength of our services business which and Managed Services growth results in drives associated pull-through Supply Chain increasing Supply Chain demand which, business.
It is additionally supported by the in turn, leads to greater predictability within excellent relationships we have with our our Supply Chain business.
vendors, due to the added value that we deliver through our Professional Services business, in which we deploy and maximise customer benefit from our vendors technologies.
Kevin James Country Unit Director, UK 11 March 2015 Germany Revenue m Adjusted operating profit m Contract base m 1,448.3 33.2 332.2 -3.3% -8.0% 6.6% Services performance record quarter, by Services revenue grew by 0.3 per cent during revenue, for the German the year in constant currency, but fell by business.
As a result, 4.8 per cent on an as reported basis.
We have been pleased with the performance following a challenging of our Professional Services business, which year, the German business grew by 9.9 per cent in constant currency, and by 4.4 per cent on an as reported basis enters 2015 in a more building on the momentum it generated positive position than in 2013.
It continues to benefit from our it entered 2014. strong consulting capabilities and significant investment by the business in the crossselling of Professional Services to its existing Overall financial performance Reiner Louis Managed Services customers, particularly Total revenue reduced by 3.3 per cent on a Country Unit Director, Germany in the areas of Mobility, Cloud and Security.
constant currency basis to 1,448.3 million The business is now also reaping the benefit 2013: 1,497.8 million, and by 8.2 per cent of implementing a number of recent internal on an as reported basis.
This was primarily We were disappointed to initiatives to increase levels of collaboration as a result of a reduction in revenue between its sales force and Professional see total revenue decline generated by our Supply Chain business.
Services consulting unit, leading to a higher Adjusted operating profit for the German in 2014.
However, the overall quality of bid proposals being segment, which excludes the three onerous performance of the submitted.
The implementation of the Group contracts, reduced by 8.0 per cent on a Operating Model in 2013 has also resulted business improved constant currency basis to 33.2 million in appropriate governance procedures being 2013: 36.1 million, and by 12.4 per cent significantly towards the in place to ensure service quality and the on an as reported basis.
Statutory profit delivery of projects on time and to budget.
end of the year, with Q4 increased by 169.3 per cent in constant currency to 34.2 million 2013: 12.7 2014 representing a 30 million, and by 154.6 per cent on an as reported basis.
Performance review continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Supply Chain performance Germany revenue m Germany revenue by business type Our Supply Chain business had a challenging % year in 2014.
Notwithstanding a very strong 2014 1,448.3 performance in the fourth quarter which saw 2013 1,497.8 revenue growth of 16.0 per cent in constant 2012 1,473.1 currency, Supply Chain revenue for the year 2011 1,415.3 as a whole reduced by 5.0 per cent in 2010 1,176.7 constant currency, and by 9.8 per cent on an as reported basis.
A disappointing product sales performance during the first half of Our Professional Services business continued the year was exaggerated by the loss of to benefit throughout 2014 from significant a single low-margin software licence of demand for our workplace offerings.
We circa 30 million sold in the second quarter currently have a strong Professional Services of 2013 and not repeated during the year, forward order book in place, and anticipate as previously disclosed in our 2014 Interim Workplace 19% further growth in 2015.
The Supply Chain business was Datacenter & Networking 30% renovated its IT infrastructure and introduced also materially impacted by the loss of one Software 8% a Private Cloud environment for over 100 significant customer contract during the Third Party Services 9% applications used by the business, in order second quarter of 2013 and a weaker Professional Services 9% to provide a more cost-effective and faster performance by our datacenter business Contractual Services 25% solution for its customers.
Computacenter in the first half of the year.
planned, designed and installed the complete solution within 12 months of the initial instruction by the customer.
Whilst revenue in our Managed Services business reduced by 3.0 per cent in constant currency and 7.9 per cent on an as reported Reiner Louis basis, this performance was impacted by our Country Unit Director, Germany prioritisation of governance procedures over 11 March 2015 investment in new Managed Services bids during 2013, and as previously explained, the loss of a significant customer contract in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Our Managed Services pipeline has strengthened gradually through the year, which should underpin services growth in 2015.
Managed Services margin levels have also improved as the efficiencies delivered by the implementation of our Group Operating Model continue to take effect.
This has also been accompanied by a significant increase in the levels of customer satisfaction being generated by our services business.
This improvement has been recognised externally within a survey by the Whitelane Research Group, which evaluated the top 100 IT spending organisations and over 300 IT outsourcing contracts.
The survey listed Computacenter as the number one provider of end-user computing services in Germany.
The Groups strategy of focusing on the enablement of IT end users has been well received, both internally and by our customers, and we believe it is well suited to the ongoing move of German enterprise and corporate organisations towards the tower-based procuring of IT services, as has previously been seen in the UK.
Our focus The Groups on end users has contributed to the business winning a number of Managed Services bids strategy of during the year, including what we believe is the biggest IT service help-desk contract put focusing on the out to tender in Germany in 2014.
We believe that current Managed Services market enablement of opportunities in Germany align well with our specific portfolio of offerings, and in order to support Managed Services growth IT end-users in 2015, and drive further efficiency gains, the business will invest in areas such as has been well field force automation, IT asset management and business take-on.
