| 2 248 48 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Financial and operating performance result in high levels of demand for, and sales of, our products Financial and operating performance and services.
Economic activity in turn is affected by government Our main activities are the provision of products and services in monetary and fiscal policy as well as by global trading relation to long-term insurance and savings, fund management conditions and external shocks such as terrorist activity, war and and general and health insurance.
The benign financial market conditions experienced in 2013 Factors affecting results of operations continued during 2014, albeit with increased volatility in the Our financial results are affected, to some degree, by a number second half of the year.
of external factors, including demographic trends, general The economies where the Group has operations that were economic and market conditions, government policy and impacted in 2014 by estimated low or negative growth include: legislation and exchange rate fluctuations.
Economic growth in the UK information Risk and capital management' for more 1 was encouraging at 2.6% and the Canadian economy information on these and other risk factors.
In addition, our 1 remained solid with estimated growth of 2.4% in 2014.
Some financial results are affected by corporate actions taken by the of our other markets experienced stronger growth, for example Group, including acquisitions, disposals and other actions aimed 1 1 c. 3% in both Poland and Turkey, and 7.4% in China.
at achieving our stated strategy.
We believe that all of these 1 The world economy is expected to grow c. 3.5% in 2015 factors will continue to affect our results in the future.
1 and 3.7% in 2016, slightly higher than the previous two years 1 growth was 3.3% in both 2013 and 2014.
Emerging markets During the year, sterling strengthened against the euro, Canadian are expected to sustain high growth, although lower than predollar and Polish zloty which has impacted the overall results and crisis highs.
The US is projected to continue leading the performance.
See IFRS financial statements note 2 Exchange developed market recovery, with Canada and the UK also rates.
In addition, the Group undertook the following actions which achieving reasonable growth, while eurozone growth is impacted the overall results and performance: expected to be low, with downside risks.
The Group completed the sale of a number of operations during the year, including operations in Italy Eurovita Capital and credit market conditions Assicurazioni S. p. A, Spain CXG Aviva Corporacion Caixa An important part of our business involves investing client, Galicia fide Sueguros Reaseguros, S. A., Turkey Aviva Sigorta policyholder and shareholder funds across a wide range of A. S., South Korea Woori Aviva Life Insurance Co. Ltd, and financial investments, including equities, fixed income securities the US River Road Asset Management, LLC.
Our results are sensitive to volatility in the Financial statements - note 4 Subsidiaries' for further details.
market value of these investments, either directly because we The Group continued to undertake restructuring and bear some or all of the investment risk, or indirectly because we transformation activity to align our business operations with earn management fees for investments managed on behalf of our strategy.
Integration and restructuring costs of 140 policyholders.
Investment market conditions also affect the million 2013: 366 million mainly include 94 million of demand for a substantial portion of our life insurance products.
Solvency II implementation costs 2013: 79 million.
In general, rising equity price levels have a positive effect on the Compared to the prior year, integration and restructuring demand for equity-linked products, such as unit trusts and unitcosts have reduced by 226 million principally driven by a linked life insurance products, and conversely have a negative significant reduction in transformation spend.
effect on the demand for products offering fixed or guaranteed In addition, there was a favourable movement of 1,662 minimum rates of return.
Declining equity price levels tend to million 2013: 674 million adverse relating to the Group's have the opposite effects.
staff pension schemes which has been recognised in other comprehensive income.
This was principally due to the main With-profits business UK staff pension scheme largely as a result of positive asset With-profits products are mainly written in our UK & Ireland performance driven by a fall in interest rates, partly offset by operating segment, with small funds in France and Singapore.
an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
See 'IFRS These funds enable policyholders to participate in a large pool of Financial statements note 49 Pension obligations' for diverse investments, therefore reducing their exposure to individual further details.
The investment pool is managed by us with returns to with-profits policyholders paid through bonuses Demographic trends which are added to the value of their policy.
In order to provide an Our results are affected by the demographic make-up of the element of stability in the returns to policyholders, bonuses are countries in which we operate.
The types of products that we designed to reduce policyholders' exposure to the volatility of sell reflect the needs of our customers.
For example, in countries investment returns over time and to provide an equitable share of with a high proportion of older people, a larger proportion of surplus earned, depending on the investment and operating our sales will reflect their needs for pre-and post-retirement performance of the fund.
Shareholders also have a participating planning.
Our sales levels will also be impacted by our ability to interest in the with-profits funds and any declared bonuses.
help provide useful information to such policyholders on Generally, policyholder and shareholder participation in with-profits retirement planning and to offer products that are competitive funds in the UK is split 90:10. and respond to such policyholders' needs.
Shareholders' profits arising on with-profits business under In our long-term insurance and savings business we make IFRS depend on the total bonuses declared to policyholders on assumptions about key non-economic factors, such as the an annual basis.
mortality rate that we expect to be experienced by our The level of bonuses declared to policyholders is influenced by policyholders.
In countries where the life expectancy is growing, the actual returns on investments and our expectation of future this will need to be reflected in our pricing models as lower rates of return.
Whilst bonuses can never be negative, a predicted mortality rates will increase profitability of life insurance sustained fall in equity markets could lead to a reduction in regular products but will reduce the returns on annuity products.
We and final bonus rates, thereby reducing both policyholder returns review our assumptions against our own experience and and shareholders' profit under IFRS.
In 2014 and 2013 we made increases in the majority of final bonus rates.
Economic conditions Our results are affected by the economic conditions in our geographic markets and, consequently, by economic cycles in those markets.
High levels of general economic activity typically 1 International Monetary Fund world economic outlook
