CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT In line with new regulations governing the disclosure and The Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure approval of directors remuneration, our Directors Remuneration remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards Report is split into two sections: the delivery of shareholder value.
As such, it has implemented a remuneration policy which provides Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy 62 a framework for making decisions, including those Annual Report on Remuneration 75 covering the remuneration of Executive Directors.
PREPARATION OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Establish the selection criteria, appoint and set the terms The committee considers that a successful remuneration REMUNERATION REPORT of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out Our Directors Remuneration Report covers the the committee future changes in the Companys business environment and the remuneration policy for the Directors and, subject to remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors in remuneration practice.
There must be transparency and Monitor regulatory developments, including those approval, will take effect from 16 October 2014, the date of of IG Group Holdings plc.
In line with new regulations alignment to the delivery of strategic objectives at both affecting UK-listed companies and financial services the AGM.
governing the disclosure and approval of directors a Company and an individual level.
There must also be firms, to ensure the Companys remuneration policy is remuneration, the report is split into three parts: the THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE scope to reward for exceptional effort and achievement that consistent with these preceding annual statement from the Chairman of the The committee is responsible for making recommendations delivers value both for the Company and the shareholders.
The Board determines the remuneration of Remuneration Committee, a Directors Remuneration Policy to the Board on the Groups senior executive remuneration Likewise, failure to achieve, individually or at Company level, Non-Executive Directors.
and an Annual Report on Remuneration which follow.
Operating within defined and agreed terms of will not be rewarded.
reference, it determines an overall remuneration package OBJECTIVES OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY We have prepared the Remuneration Report in accordance The committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an for the Executive Directors in order to attract and retain The Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward high-quality Directors capable of achieving the Groups remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as for the individual, the Company and our shareholders.
The committees terms of reference can be growth of shareholder value.
As such, it has implemented a amended, and it complies with the Financial Conduct When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree found on our corporate website at iggroup.
remuneration policy which provides a framework for making Authoritys Listing Rules.
In developing our remuneration of stretch in performance conditions and the balance of decisions, including those covering the remuneration of policy, we have taken into account the principles of the UK The committee sets and agrees with the Board a equity and cash within a package, consideration is given Executive Directors.
The remuneration policy is set to Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views of our competitive and transparent remuneration framework which to obtaining the appropriate balance of each so as not to ensure that remuneration has the ability to attract and retain major shareholders.
is aligned to the Company strategy and is in the interests encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
As well as financial risk, senior executives of a high calibre, remains competitive and of both the Company and its shareholders.
The committee the committee also ensures that there is an appropriate The disclosures required under Article 450 of the Capital provides appropriate incentive for performance.
determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other focus on regulatory and governance matters.
Requirements Regulation are provided on the corporate benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including The committee has agreed that all matters relating to website and accordingly are not detailed within the The total remuneration package is structured so that a performance-related incentive arrangements, pension remuneration of Group employees should: Directors Remuneration Report or elsewhere in the significant proportion is linked to performance conditions, rights, compensation payments and share-incentive awards.
and it is the Companys policy to ensure that a high Align with the best interests of the Companys The committees other responsibilities are to: proportion of the potential remuneration package is provided shareholders and other stakeholders Unless otherwise stated, information and disclosures via share-based instruments.
This ensures that executives within the Directors Remuneration Report are unaudited.
Determine and review the Groups remuneration policy, Recognise and reward good and excellent performance have a strong ongoing alignment with shareholders through The regulations require the Companys auditors to report on ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management of employees that helps drive sustainable growth of the Companys share price performance.
the audited information in the report and to state that this across the Group, and to consider the implications of this the Group section has been properly prepared in accordance remuneration policy on risk The table on pages 64-69 summarises each element of the Focus on retaining high-performing senior management with these regulations.
The audited sections, which fall remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, explaining Determine and agree the policy for the remuneration of Be consistent with regulatory and corporate within the Annual Report on Remuneration, have been how each element operates and how each part links to the the Board Chairman and the Executive Directors governance requirements clearly identified.
Review and note pay and employment conditions and the Be designed to achieve effective risk management The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a remuneration trends across the Group Be straightforward, easy for employees to understand binding shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General Approve all share-based awards under the Groups and easy for the Group to monitor Meeting AGM.
employee incentive schemes, to determine each year Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately whether awards will be made and, if awards are made, to increases the Groups exposure to risks monitor their operation, the size of such awards and the performance targets to be used 62 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 63 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Key elements of remuneration RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING BASE SALARY Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain key Salaries are normally reviewed by the committee annually, and The general policy is to pay around No performance metrics apply to base salary.
No recovery employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the strategic are usually fixed for 12 months commencing 1 June.
Any salary mid-market levels, with annual or withholding objectives of the Company.
increase may be influenced by: increases typically in line with the applies to wider workforce.
Reflects the market value of the role and the postScale, scope and responsibility of the role holders experience, competency and performance Increases beyond the percentage Experience of the individual and his or her performance within the Company.
increases granted to the wider Average change in wider workforce pay workforce may be awarded in Business performance and prevailing market conditions exceptional circumstances, Commercial need such as: Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable Where there is a change in the companies selected on the basis of comparable size, individuals responsibility complexity, geographic spread and business focus Where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role An above-market positioning may be appropriate, in exceptional circumstances, to reflect the criticality of the role and the individuals experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2015 are: T A Howkins 472,200 C F Hill 330,500 P G Hetherington 354,300 FTE BENEFITS Competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and Benefits may include, for example, private medical insurance, The aim is to provide marketNo performance metrics apply to benefits.
No recovery retain Executive Directors and senior management.
discounted health club membership and life assurance.
competitive benefits, and their or withholding value may vary from year to year, applies to benefits.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these depending on the cost to the benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Benefits constitute a small Director is required to relocate.
PENSION Market-competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits The Group contributes to Executive Directors personal The company may contribute up to No performance metrics apply to retirement benefits.
No recovery or attract and retain executives.
Executives have the option to receive part, or 15% of base salary to pension, an withholding all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in lieu of equivalent cash allowance in lieu, or applies to Company pension contributions.
64 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 65 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Key elements of remuneration continued RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN SPP Approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, the SPP We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five The maximum plan contribution The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on The committee provides a single incentive plan for Executive Directors consecutive plan years.
The first plan year was the financial in respect of a plan year is an performance against performance targets set by the may decide within rather than having separate annual and long-term plans.
year ended 31 May 2014. award of shares with a market committee for each relevant financial year.
three years of a value of no more than 500% of an plan contribution It provides a simple and competitive incentive Awards of shares either in the form of par value options, Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted executives annual rate of salary.
that the mechanism that encourages and rewards both annual nil cost options or conditional awards, known as plan earnings per share DEPS targets, Total Shareholder underlying award and sustained long-term performance, linked to the contributions, are made after the announcement of results Return TSR and non-financial measures.
Performance is will be subject to Companys strategic objectives.
relating to each plan year.
measured over single plan years financial years except clawback.
This for TSR from plan year 2 awards in respect of financial The SPP encapsulates traditional annual bonus and Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement may happen year ending 31 May 2015.
We currently intend to apply long-term incentive plans.
It is entirely share-based, against applicable performance targets and accumulate where there has the following performance criteria: encouraging executives to build up a substantial stake within a participants plan account.
been a material in the Company, thereby aligning the interests of DEPS a sliding scale of targets will apply for each misstatement in Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in management with shareholders.
The targets will be set at the start of each the Companys the plan account vests ie options or awards are released plan year.
Targets and performance will be disclosed financial results to participants.
retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration or an error in Therefore, a participants plan account will comprise the for the relevant financial year-end assessing any sum of the plan contribution if any being made in relation applicable Relative TSR the Companys share price plus to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards performance dividends reinvested performance will be measured registered in the plan account from previous plan years.
It may against an appropriate comparator group.
For the also be triggered first plan year, performance is based on that plan In the first five plan years, a participants plan account vests if there has year alone: for the second plan year, performance is as follows: been substantial based on plan years 1 and 2: thereafter performance failure of risk Following % of cumulative shares in is measured over three plan years ending with the management, or plan account vesting plan year being reported on.
The committee retains if the participants the discretion to scale back the level of award if it Plan year 1 40.0% employment feels the Companys underlying financial performance Plan year 2 40.0% is terminated does not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR Plan year 3 33.3% for serious performance alone Plan year 4 33.3% misconduct.
Non-financial these may comprise strategic The clawback Plan year 5 33.3% goals, operational and client satisfaction measures may be satisfied for each plan year.
Targets and performance will be by a reduction After plan year 5, the committee may at such time or at a disclosed retrospectively in the amount of later date during the life of the SPP close the operation of Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set.
For any subsisting the plan.
the DEPS and relative TSR measures, no more than 25% plan account, a If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards is payable for achieving threshold performance, rising to reduction in the remaining in the plan account will vest in tranches of 50%, full payout for achieving a more challenging target.
vesting of any 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of subsisting vested The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial the SPPs closure.
The same principles will apply on a later awards or future metrics may vary from year to year in accordance with termination of the plan.
share awards strategic priorities and the regulatory environment.
and or a Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery At the time of determining the contribution for plan requirement of vested shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends year 5, in the event that the committee feels the to make that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan Companys underlying financial performance over the first cash payment.
account adopting a first-in, first-out basis.
This amount may five plan years has not been satisfactory, the committee assume dividend reinvestment.
Dividends will not accrue on may scale back the final balance of the plan account.
66 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 67 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Key elements of remuneration continued RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES All employees including Executive Directors are The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
Partnership, HMRC or non-UK plan equivalent No performance metrics tend to apply, although they No recovery encouraged to become shareholders through the free, dividend and matching shares may be granted under the SIP.
limits will apply to any all-employee may be introduced where applicable and if appropriate.
or withholding operation of an HMRC-approved share-incentive plan schemes that may be introduced.
applies to allIf other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they SIP and or such other all-employee share plans as the employee share will operate in accordance with HMRC guidance and limits.
This currently constitutes a small Company may adopt in the future.
proportion of Executive Directors Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK total remuneration.
employees and Directors to participate.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY Aligns the interests of management and shareholders A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year Not applicable.
and promotes a long-term approach to performance ending 31 May 2014. and risk management.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment to the Board.
The committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE Choice of performance measures: The performance measures that are used in the share performance plan SPP are a subset of the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Metric Rationale and link to the strategic KPIs How performance measures are set Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the total return to IG Groups shareholders, both through share price The committee sets the requirements for each plan year.
The current benchmark group comprises the constituents of the TSR relative to a suitable growth and dividends paid, and as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
benchmark group TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a range of other metrics, including Current weighting: 35% financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and nonfinancial indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
Diluted earnings per share DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for shareholders, and a reflection of The committee determines appropriate performance targets each year, taking account of the annual and longer-term DEPS both revenue growth and cost control.
DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the committee reasonably selects eg adjusting for the effects Current weighting: 45% of any share buybacks.
Non-financial performance Current weighting: 20% Customer satisfaction We measure customer satisfaction against a number of indicators.
One such indicator is We assess performance by comparing IG Groups performance against other companies in the sector, with the aim of the Net Promoter Score NPS data supplied by Investment Trends.
NPS is a measure of maintaining a high NPS score relative to the sector average.
whether clients would recommend IG Group.
It is calculated by asking respondents how likely they are to recommend the Company to a friend or colleague.
Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters those answering 9 or 10 minus the percentage of detractors those answering 0-6.
In addition, the numbers of active and new clients and revenue per client are indicators of client satisfaction and sustainability of revenues.
System reliability uptime System reliability or uptime is a key measure of the resilience of our trading platforms, The committee assesses performance relative to prior years, internal targets and sector averages.
which is an essential element of revenue generation and client satisfaction.
Other Other non-financial criteria may include, for example, effective risk management, Criteria are set each year by the committee, and assessed in the round, taking account of activities and achievements execution of strategic initiatives, sustaining the Companys excellent reputation and during the year.
maintaining a good standing with regulators.
68 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 69 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE CONTINUED REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Annual DEPS targets and non-financial performance measures, where used, are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in 000 advance, for commercial reasons.
We will, however, disclose the measures and targets where applicable used, and the 3,000 extent to which we have achieved them, on a retrospective basis, at the end of the relevant performance period.
Fixed pay SPP 81% Incentive plan discretions 2,500 The committee will operate the current SPP and other share plans still in operation according to their respective rules and 81% 84% the policy set out above, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
Copies of the SPP rules are 2,000 68% available on request from the Company Secretary.
As is consistent with market practice, the committee retains discretion over 1,500 a number of areas relating to operating and administrating these plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: 73% 68% Who participates in the plans 1,000 The timing of grant of award and or payment 100% 32% 19% 500 27% 16% 100% The size of an award and or a payment within the plan limits approved by shareholders 100% 32% 19% The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and the Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum rules of each plan including the treatment of delisted companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group T A Howkins C F Hill P G Hetherington Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive-plan purposes, based on the rules of EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules Each Executive Director is employed under a service contract with IG Group Limited a wholly-owned intermediate holding Adjustments required in certain circumstances eg rights issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a company for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
change of control The period of notice for existing Executive Directors does not exceed six months and, accordingly, Executive Directors Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As employment contracts can be terminated on six months notice by either party.
appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of Legacy arrangements his or her contract, the committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
All For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Company has authority to honour any service contracts are continuous, and contractual termination payments relate to the unexpired notice period.
commitments entered into with current or former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders previously.
This On a Directors departure, the Company may at its sole discretion pay base salary and the value of any benefits including includes awards made under the deferred bonus plan, the value-sharing plan VSP and any other share plans operated by pension that would have been receivable in lieu of any unexpired period of notice.
In the event of termination for gross the Company.
misconduct, the Company may give neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice.
Where the Company, acting reasonably, REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS believes it may have a right to terminate employment due to gross misconduct, it may suspend the executive from As a result of the Companys remuneration policy, a significant proportion of the remuneration received by Executive employment on full salary for up to 30 days to investigate the circumstances prevailing.
Directors depends on Company performance.
The chart on page 71 shows how total pay for the Executive Directors varies The Company may place an executive on gardening leave for up to the duration of the notice period.
During this time, the under three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum: executive will be entitled to receive base salary and all contractual benefits including pension.
At the end of the gardening Minimum leave period, the Company may, at its discretion, pay the executive base salary alone, in lieu of the balance of any period of This comprises the fixed elements of pay, being base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary and pension was effective at notice given by the Company or the executive.
1 June 2014 and the benefits value is the actual value for the year ending 31 May 2013.
When considering payments in the event of termination, the Remuneration Committee takes into account individual Target circumstances.
Relevant factors include the reasons for termination, contractual obligations and the relevant incentive plan This comprises fixed pay and the target value of SPP 250% of salary.
When determining any loss-of-office payment for a departing Director, the committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company, while complying with the contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at Maximum the time.
The committee reserves the right to make additional payments, where such payments are made in good faith in This comprises fixed pay and the maximum value of SPP 500% of salary.
discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or No account has been taken of share price growth, or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the deferred element of compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
bonus and SPP awards over the deferral performance periods.
For new executive appointments, the committee has discretion to offer a longer notice period of up to 12 months to secure an appointment.
Any payments in lieu of notice will be at the committees discretion, and will be limited to base salary and the value of any benefits including pension as set out above.
70 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 71 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED in accordance with the sustained performance plan limit, Sustained performance plan awards Deferred bonus share awards legacy plan being 500% of salary.
As a general rule, if a participant ceases to hold As a general rule, awards which have not vested will lapse employment or be a Director within the Group, or gives when employment ceases.
For the same good leaver In many cases, where we make an external appointment, notice of leaving, they forfeit any entitlement to receive reasons as set out above under the VSP, awards will vest on the individual will forfeit incentive awards connected with further plan contributions.
All awards subsisting in their plan the date of cessation unless the Remuneration Committee their previous employment on resignation.
The committee account at such time are forfeited in full.
determines that the original vesting date should apply.
may therefore decide to offer further cash or shareThe committee has the discretion to determine that an based payments to buy out these existing entitlements However, the situation may be different if the participant Executive Director is a good leaver.
by making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the ceases to be an employee or a Director within the Group committees view.
These awards can be made either under certain circumstances.
These include injury, disability, The Executive Directors contracts do not provide for any under the Companys existing incentive plans or via other retirement, redundancy, the sale of the participants enhanced payments in the event of a change of control arrangements.
In determining the appropriate form and employing company or the business for which they work out of the Company, nor for liquidated damages.
Copies of amount of any such award, the committee will consider of the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the the Executive Directors service contracts are available for various factors.
These include the type and quantum of committee.
In this case, participation in the plan will cease inspection at the Companys registered office.
award, the length of the performance period and the once the plan contributions in respect of the plan year in REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS THE COMPANY performance and vesting conditions attached to each which the cessation arises are determined.
This will take We have designed the remuneration policy for the forfeited incentive award.
into account the proportion of the full plan year worked.
Executive Directors and senior management with regard to Ordinarily, the participants plan account will then vest, Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different the policy for employees across the Company as a whole.
yielding one third immediately and thereafter the remaining performance measures may be set for the SPP for the year The committee is kept updated through the year on general balance in equal parts on the first and second anniversary of of joining the Board, taking into account the individuals employment conditions, basic salary-increase budgets, such determinations.
role and responsibilities and the point in the year when the level of bonus pools and payouts and participation in they joined.
For the purposes of any awards permitted to vest to share plans.
The committee is therefore aware of how total leavers as described above, the committee retains remuneration at the Executive Director level compares For an internal appointment, any variable pay element discretion to reduce the level of vesting that would to the total remuneration of the general population of granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to otherwise result.
It may refer to such time-based employees.
Common approaches to remuneration policy pay out according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate adjustments as it considers appropriate.
which apply across the Company include: to take into account the terms of the Executive Director appointment.
The committee will carefully determine the Where awards are granted in the form of options, any Consistency in pay for performance, with annual bonus base salary level for a new Executive Director, taking into vested awards already held at the time of cessation schemes being offered to the vast majority of employees account the individuals background, skills and experience, ie vested awards held outside the plan account but Offering pension, medical and life assurance and the business criticality and nature of the role being unexercised will remain exercisable for a limited period.
benefits for all employees, where practical given offered.
It will also consider the Companys circumstances The exception is when dismissal has been for misconduct, geographical location and relevant external and internal benchmarks.
Above in which case such awards lapse in full.
Ensuring that salary increases for each category of all, the committee must exercise its own judgment in Value-sharing plan VSP awards legacy plan employee are considered, taking into account the overall determining the most appropriate salary for the As a general rule, awards which have not vested will rate of increase across the Company, benchmarking, and new appointment.
This may differ in certain Company and individual performance In certain circumstances, the committee will have set a circumstances when there is a good reason for leaving.
Encouraging broad-based share ownership through the starting base salary which is positioned below the relevant Examples include injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, use of all-employee share plans, where practical market rate.
It may then wish to adjust the Executive the sale of the participants employing company or RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY Directors base salary, at a level above the average increase the business for which they work out of the Group, or The committees overriding objective is to appoint in the Company, as the individual gains experience and other circumstances at the discretion of the committee.
Executive Directors with the necessary background, skills establishes a strong performance track record in the role.
The committee has the discretion to determine that an and experience to ensure the continuing success of the Conversely, the base salary may need to be positioned Executive Director is a good leaver.
In this case, the award Company.
We recognise that the pace of change and above the relevant market rate in order to attract the most will not lapse but will continue or, if the committee decides, technology development in our industry, as well as the appropriate candidate for the role.
will vest on cessation to the extent the performance global nature of IG Group, mean that the right individuals condition is satisfied.
A time pro-rated reduction will apply We will provide benefits in accordance with the approved may often be highly sought-after.
unless the committee determines otherwise.
We may pay relocation expenses or allowances, of death, awards will vest at that time to the extent that We set the remuneration package for a new Executive legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment performance, in the opinion of the committee, has Director in accordance with the Companys approved as appropriate.
remuneration policy, as detailed on page 71 of the We will set fees for a new Non-Executive Director or Directors Remuneration Report, subject to the additional Chairman in accordance with the approved policy.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding any buyout arrangements that we can offer to a new executive on an annual basis will be 72 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 73 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-Executive Directors.
This part of the report includes a summary of how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 May 2015, and how we implemented it in the financial year ended 31 May 2014 including payment and awards in respect PURPOSE of incentive arrangements.
We also give details of the Remuneration Committees operation, the Directors share interests PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY and how shareholders voted at the 2013 AGM.
METRICS WITHHOLDING STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015 Base salaries To attract The Remuneration The Chairman No performance No recovery Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the committee.
The Remuneration Committee decided to and retain Committee receives a single metrics apply.
or withholding increase base salaries by 3% for the forthcoming year, which is below the average salary increase across the workforce Non-Executive determines the fee fee to cover all applies.
Base salary is the only pensionable component.
Directors of for the Chairman their Board duties.
The base salaries as at 1 June 2014 and increases from the prior year are: appropriate without the Non-Executive calibre and Chairman present.
Increase The Board is a fee for carrying responsible out their duties.
T A Howkins 472,200 458,500 3% for setting They may receive C F Hill 330,500 320,900 3% Non-Executive additional fees 1 P G Hetherington 283,400 275,200 3% Directors fees.
if they chair the The Non-Executive primary Board 1 P G Hetherington is paid a reduced pro-rata salary of 283,400, calculated as 80% of his full-time equivalent salary of 354,300, to reflect his flexible working arrangements.
Directors are not committees, and involved in any for holding the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees discussions or post of Senior The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees were reviewed in July 2014 and the fee levels for the forthcoming financial decisions by the Independent year are: Board about their Director.
Chairman: 191,500 unchanged during the financial year ending 31 May 2014 and to apply until Jonathan Davie steps down own remuneration.
Committee from the Board on 16 October 2014.
Fees are within membership fees Chairman Designate: 235,000 Andy Green will succeed Jonathan Davie and his current fee shall remain unchanged.
the limits set by may be paid.
The fee was set by the committee after taking into account the experience of the individual and Chairman fee levels in the articles of Details of current the market.
association and fee levels are take account of the Each year, the Board reviews the Non-Executive Director fees the Remuneration Committee reviews the Chairmans fees.
set out in the commitment and This year as part of the review, the Board instructed New Bridge Street, the companys remuneration consultants, to carry Annual Report on responsibilities of out an external benchmarking exercise to assist the Board with the fee-review process.
Following the review, a decision was Remuneration.
made to set the Non-Executive Directors fees as follows: Non-Executive Director base fee: 55,000 increased from 53,000 during the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts: they are engaged by letters of appointment.
Each Non-Executive Chairman of the Audit Committee additional fee: 15,000 increased from 13,500 during the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
Director is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on three months notice.
Chairman of Board Risk Committee additional fee: 15,000 introduction of fee during the financial year ending 31 May 2015.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS Combined role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director fee: 15,000 introduction of The committee engages proactively with the Companys major shareholders.
For example, when making any material fee during the financial year ending 31 May 2015. changes to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will not receive an additional fee.
and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
During June to August 2013, the Chairman, Jonathan Davie, and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Roger Yates, consulted with the main shareholder advisory bodies, the ABI and Benefits and pension ISS RREV, and our major shareholders.
They discussed the proposed sustained performance plan, which was approved by We will provide benefits and pension in line with the information set out in the Key Elements of Remuneration table on shareholders at the October 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM.
page 64 pension to a maximum of 15% of base salary, cash of equivalent value or a mixture of both.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company.
The Group operates in a number of different environments, and has many employees who carry out diverse roles across a number of countries.
All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, and base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
When considering salary increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce, however no remuneration comparison measurements have been utilised to date.
The committee does not formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
The committee is periodically updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across the Company.
74 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 75 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Sustained performance plan IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014 For the awards to be granted in respect of plan year 2, which will end on 31 May 2015, the plan contribution maximum Single total figure of remuneration for each Director audited opportunity of 500% of annual rate of base salary will apply for Executive Directors.
Contribution to 4 SPP plan account Legacy incentives The performance targets for these awards are as follows: Fees basic Benefits Vested Deferred Annual MEASUREMENT 2 3 5 Name of salary in kind Pension element element Total bonus VSP Total MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL WEIGHTING PERIOD PLAN YEARS Director Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Diluted The committee has determined a sliding scale of Financial year ending 45% T A Howkins 2014 459 1 69 498 748 1,246 179 1,954 earnings targets that will apply for the financial year ending 31 May 2015.
C F Hill 2014 321 1 48 349 523 872 107 1,349 DEPS 2013 299 1 45 280 625 Relative Performance is measured against constituents of the The two financial years 35% 1 P G Hetherington 2014 275 1 41 374 561 935 107 1,359 Total FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts.
2013 256 1 38 300 132 727 Shareholder this element will be awarded if performance is below Return TSR median.
25% will be awarded for median, increasing Non-Executive Directors on a straight-line basis, with full vesting for upperJ R Davie 2014 192 192 quartile performance or better.
The committee's 2013 186 186 discretion to scale back vesting will apply as set out in S G Hill 2014 53 53 the Directors Remuneration Policy.
2013 52 52 NonThe measures will include: Financial year ending 20% D M Jackson 2014 67 67 financial 31 May 2015.
System reliability 2013 65 65 measures Maintaining good standing with regulators J A Newman 2014 40 40 Customer satisfaction 2013 Reputation and PR S J Tymms 2014 53 53 Risk management 2013 1 1 Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives R P Yates 2014 53 53 2013 52 52 The committee will ensure the EPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching.
We deem the EPS and non-financial 1 P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro-rata salary of 275,200, based on a 344,000 full-time equivalent salary, to reflect his flexible working arrangements.
measures themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively.
However, we will provide As in previous years, and consistent with the previous legacy arrangements, his SPP opportunity is based on his full-time equivalent salary.
retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them in next years Remuneration Report.
2 All Executive Directors are entitled to receive private medical cover, discounted gym membership and life assurance cover.
3 The Group contributes 15% of base salary to personal pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension entitlement in cash.
The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits.
T A Howkins elected to restrict pension contributions to 50,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
C F Hill elected to restrict pension contributions to 46,770 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
P G Hetherington elected to receive the full pension contributions as an additional cash payment.
4 Figures provided are the SPP plan contributions for the year ended 31 May 2014.
The vested element is the proportion of the plan contribution that vests shortly following the end of the financial year.
The deferred element is the proportion that remains deferred in the plan account.
Details of SPP awards held in the plan account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the Outstanding Share Awards table on page 82.
5 The 2010 VSP awards had a performance period ending on 31 May 2013.
Half the awards vested on 29 October 2013, with the remainder vesting on 29 October 2014.
The value is based on the actual share price on the date of vesting for the first tranche, and we have used the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year ending 31 May 2014 to estimate the value for the second tranche vesting later in 2014.
The 2011 VSP awar ds had a performance period ending 31 May 2014.
Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remainder vesting on 20 July 2015.
We have used the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year ending 31 May 2014 to estimate the value of these awards.
76 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 77 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DETERMINATION OF SPP PLAN CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014 Non-financial measures Performance targets for plan year 1 financial year ending 31 May 2014 comprise diluted earnings per share DEPS targets, The committee approved a basket of non-financial measures, comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
Performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2014 was satisfaction measures, for the year ended 31 May 2014.
These measures are also utilised for 25% of the staff general bonus measured over the period from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2014. pool.
These measures, and the assessment of performance, for the year ended 31 May 2014 are set out in the following table.
An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures, combined with performance under the Threshold Plan execution and delivery measure, resulted in an overall assessment of 90.5% of the potential payout under this element of the 25% payout for contribution as plan being awarded.
Performance Potential of TSR and Maximum Actual percentage of measure Weighting base salary 0% for DEPS 100% payout performance base salary METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT DEPS 45% 225% 37.50 pence 42.00 pence 40.18 pence 134% TSR 35% 175% Median ranking Upper-quartile 149 of 301 47% ranking companies SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES Non-financial 20% 100% See See See 90% commentary commentary commentary System The two main measures are core uptime per month and maximum 85% on page 79 on page 79 on page 79 reliability percentage downtime in any one day.
The Group strives to achieve 99.8% uptime for the first measure and less than 4.0% for the second measure.
During the Total 100% 500% 271% year, core uptime per month was never breached and maximum percentage downtime was breached on a single day in January 2014.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL Overall, system reliability was better than in the prior year.
The Group will YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2014 AUDITED continue to undertake further work in this area a graphical representation Diluted earnings per share of performance on this measure against the prior year is provided in the Key At the start of the year ending 31 May 2014, the committee established a diluted earnings per share DEPS range for Performance Indicators section of the Strategic Report.
payout under the SPP, which was demanding given the strategic investment the business is making in new technology and capability.
In setting the DEPS range, the committee took account of the following considerations: Maintaining The Group maintains constructive and open relationships with regulators.
90% The higher budgeted costs resulting from the planned significant investment in strategic objectives in the year to good During the year ending 31 May 2014, the Group was subject to scrutiny by 31 May 2014, for which revenues are expected in subsequent financial years.
This included the development of an standing and on behalf of regulators across the markets in which it operates.
This execution-only stockbroking product, the establishment of the Groups new office in Switzerland and continued relationships included an external audit on behalf of the Swiss regulator: an in-depth investment in the Groups mobile offering with regulatory audit in Singapore: an  processes review in The actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2013 of 38.80 pence regulators Australia and a number of other regional reviews.
None of these gave rise to any material issues and the Group has been pleased with the outcomes.
Developments in the business and levels of market activity between the time of Board agreement of the budget and shareholder committee approval of the SPP, which contributed to the committee setting a threshold that was higher than Based on the above, the Remuneration Committee concluded that the Group that budgeted continued to perform well and to make further progress under this metric.
Analyst DEPS consensus for 2014 Reputation The Remuneration Committee assessed whether there have been any events 100% As a result, the committee approved the threshold for payout under the DEPS measure of 37.50 pence with SPP awards resulting in negative media coverage or reputational damage during the year.
starting to accrue from this point, with maximum at a DEPS of 42.00 pence being 12% above threshold performance.
For the year ended 31 May 2014, there was one instance of negative media Actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2014 was 40.18 pence, resulting in 59.6% of the potential award under this measure coverage, which was incorrect.
The publisher printed a retraction and no being granted.
In setting the DEPS range for the 2015 financial year, the committee has taken into account the relevant factors in place at Risk The Remuneration Committee used a number of indicators to judge 100% the time, including internal and external factors and an appropriate degree of stretch on prior year performance.
management performance against this measure, including: the level of bad debts Total Shareholder Return throughout the year: the number of material market risk incidents throughout The committee approved a threshold of median-quartile ranking TSR performance against a peer group comprising the the year and the number of loss-making days throughout the year.
constituents of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts, at which 25% of the maximum award would be granted.
Full This year the Group enjoyed very low incidence of bad debt less than 0.4% payout under this measure required upper-quartile ranking or better, with payout determined on a straight-line basis for of revenue.
There were no material market risk events nor any loss-making performance between these points.
The actual TSR performance for IG Group, as measured by New Bridge Street, for the year ended 31 May 2014 was 19%.
Against the peer group, this performance was sufficient to rank IG Group at 149 out of 301 companies and resulted in 27% of the potential payout under this measure being awarded.
78 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 79 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Overall summary METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Based on performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2014, we will grant awards under the SPP to the value of 271% of base salary 54% of the maximum potential payout as plan contributions to the Executive Directors after the announcement of the results.
The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Directors plan accounts will be based on the SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES CONTINUED ten-day average share price immediately prior to grant.
LEGACY VALUE-SHARING PLAN VESTING IN RELATION TO PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDING 31 MAY 2014 Customer The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure 80% The legacy value-sharing plan VSP, which was approved by shareholders in 2010, comprises annual awards.
It provides the satisfaction performance against this metric.
Executive Directors and other senior staff with a pre-defined number of shares for each 10.0 million of surplus shareholder Net Promoter Score data is collected independently by Investment Trends.
value created over three years above a hurdle.
Surplus shareholder value was calculated under two criteria: Total IGs Net Promoter Score has improved in France and Germany but dropped Shareholder Return TSR and profit before taxation PBT.
In relation to the 2011 VSP, despite growth in PBT of 19.5% to slightly in other regions.
Nevertheless, the Groups high ranking relative to 194.7 million and a TSR of 54.7% over the three-year period ended 31 May 2014, only 3.2% of the maximum award vested.
competitors has been maintained, while we also scored significantly better The total surplus shareholder value created under the 2011 VSP was 109.7 million, and an explanation of the than the industry average.
Please refer to the Key Performance Indicators calculation follows.
The Chief Executive receives 5,000 shares and other participating Directors receive 3,000 shares for section of the Strategic Report for Net Promoter Score disclosures.
each 10.0 million of surplus shareholder value created.
This resulted in the following awards vesting: During the year, the Group commissioned an independent study, carried out T A Howkins 28,596 shares by Ipsos Mori, to conduct a mystery shopping programme against a number of competitors.
The study found that the Group was at least joint-first in each C F Hill 17,158 shares of the categories assessed.
P G Hetherington 17,158 shares An independently conducted customer satisfaction survey, undertaken by The VSP awards made in October 2011 2011 VSP had a performance period ending 31 May 2014.
The calculation of surplus Investment Trends with regards to UK leveraged trading, reported that clients shareholder value created in relation to this plan is explained below: rated the Groups service as good or very good 89% and 88% of the time for spread betting and CFDs respectively.
i TSR element 60% : This is based on the value created from the difference between the TSR of IG Group Holdings plc and that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index, multiplied by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation.
The Remuneration Committee also assessed the customer scores collected The latter is defined as the average market capitalisation in the three months to 31 May 2011, which was 1,671 million.
by the Groups trading services team.
Their survey assesses the overall level of customer service received, the quality of information provided, the IG Gr oups TSR, as measured by Kepler, over the three-year period ending 31 May 2014 was 54.7%.
This level of return knowledge of the customer service representative and his or her attitude.
was enough to outperform the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index by 4.0%.
Based on a starting market capitalisation of This showed an upwards trend on most metrics.
1,671 million, the 4.0% outperformance has resulted in 66.6 million of surplus shareholder value and only 4.0% of the maximum award vesting.
The Group also launched IG Think Tank, an online community and forum which helps us engage with clients and include their feedback into our IT ii Profit before taxation PBT 40% : This is based on the growth in PBT over the three-year period, multiplied by a development cycle this has proved to be a very valuable tool in developing fixed multiple determined by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation, plus net equity cash flows to our future offering.
The multiple for the 2011 VSP was 10.75.
This is derived by dividing the starting market capitalisation of 1,671 million by EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES the PBT for the year ending 31 May 2011 155.4 million.
The required hurdle return was 12% per annum.
Execution As part of the Boards strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic 90% The surplus shareholder value for this element is 43.1 million, calculated as the difference between: and delivery projects set down for delivery in the short-to-medium term.
PBT for the year ending 31 May 2014 of 194.7 million multiplied by the 10.75 multiple plus net equity cash flows to of key The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance against shareholders, ie 194.7 million x 10.75 288.8 million 2,382.5 million, and strategic this metric.
There were several key strategic projects delivered, all of which The starting market capitalisation of 1,671 million multiplied by the hurdle rate of return 12% per annum over the initiatives were achieved successfully and on time.
3 three-year period, ie 1,671 million x 1 12% 2,339.4 million Examples of such projects include the international rollout of IG.
com: the For the purposes of the single-figure table disclosed on page 77, the value of the all the options vesting under the 2011 VSP rollout of the MetaTrader platform: setting up an office in Switzerland: has been estimated using the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year ending 31 May 2014. continuing to develop the Nadex exchange and developing the stockbroking offering for pilot and launch in the first half of the year ending 31 May 2015.
Specific examples and detailed case studies of the progress made towards our strategic objectives are given throughout the Strategic Report.
80 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 81 Corporate Governance Report | Directors Remuneration Report
