Performance review Caribbean performance review Operational review L IME is on the pathway to becoming a leaner, fi tter organisation.
We are acting to replace thedecline in voice usage by providing the highquality data services our customers now want.
Our focus on reducing our operating costsmeans we are also operating a more effi cientbusiness.
Martin Roos, CEO, Caribbean It was a challenging year in which we reduced costs and improved The launch of high speed LTE mobile data services in February 2014 services in several key markets.
However, declines in fixed voice and gave our Bahamas customers access to services on a par with the enterprise revenue weighed on the business.
United States, helping our business to prepare ahead of the expected introduction of mobile competition later this year.
We appointed several new senior managers to the business.
Martin Roos was appointed CEO for the Caribbean region.
We also We also strengthened our relationship with the Government our appointed new leaders for our operations in the Cayman Islands, co-shareholder in the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC Barbados and to our two new clusters for the Northern Caribbean by agreeing to establish a local charitable foundation.
The BTC Antigua and Barbuda, Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Montserrat, Foundation will be funded through our contribution of 2% of our St. Kitts & Nevis and Turks & Caicos Islands and Southern Caribbean BTC shareholding.
We remain the largest overall shareholder and Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
have retained management control and a majority on the BTC Board.
As part of our efficiency programme, we outsourced the We launched TV services in the Cayman Islands last year as the management of the maintenance, installation and repair of networks centrepiece of a new quad play package and launched LTE services in 13 markets.
This has significantly improved the competitiveness which saw data revenues jump up 53%.
We will complete the roll out of our cost base.
of high speed fibre broadband services in both the Cayman Islands and Barbados in 2014 15, further enhancing the quality of TV In Jamaica, we attracted an extra 165,000 mobile customers during services in both locations.
the year, as we confirmed our position as the markets value-formoney leader.
Our Talk EZ mobile price plan continued to win We are also planning to launch LTE in Antigua and Barbuda.
customers, and won an award at the American Advertising Awards We have entered into a partnership with the Antigua and Barbuda 2014.
We have secured further spectrum in Jamaica which will Government to improve access to technology and training for the enable us to expand capacity in our networks and launch Long Term disabled and job seekers.
Evolution LTE in the future.
However, there was a further decline in fixed voice revenue.
Paul Carey a BTC customer As a busy real estate Broker and Appraiser I certainly appreciated the responsive nature and helpful service during the set-up of our BTC Business Enterprise communication package.
Paul Carey, Broker Appraiser Realty Team Bahamas 26 Cable & Wireless Communications
