Performance review continued Panama performance review Operational review We are continuing to win in the mobile market by being at the forefront of providing the best mobile data service to our customers.
We have focused ongetting the basics right a great network, with reliable customer service.
Our services fulfi l an important role in the lives of many Panamanians.
We have invested to ensure we can continue to meet their expectations.
Jorge Nicolau, CEO, Panama Our Panama business had a solid year, as demand for our mobile wallet with the ability to transfer money or securely pay for goods data services grew rapidly, and our broadband and TV services and services in shops and also to make convenient payments such as made good progress.
We remain the leader in the countrys highly competitive four-player In our business-to-business and  division, mobile market and during the year agreed a new 20 year mobile we enhanced data services by upgrading our international data licence agreement running until 2037, and secured valuable new centres, which subsequently won an international award for having radio spectrum.
the highest standards of quality and efficiency in the region.
As demand for mobile data services increased we upgraded our We won Government contracts to install and maintain telecoms network to improve coverage and mobile data speeds.
We plan to services for the new Metro train network and National Assembly make further upgrades utilising our new spectrum in the near future.
We are also launching services and applications that customers can We also continued our strong support of community projects, use on our data networks, improving the experience and encouraging including our ninth annual National Oratory Contest, a public usage.
During the year we created a simple service enabling speaking event involving thousands of high school students.
customers to place classified advertising more easily in newspapers Our efforts to maintain an engaged colleague base were by allowing them to complete a simple template on their mobile phone acknowledged in a survey by the Great Place to Work Institute, and pay using their prepaid balance.
We also developed a mobile which marked out Cable & Wireless Panama as having a dynamic money service MovilCash that launched in May 2014.
MovilCash will and effective culture.
allow any of our mobile customers to use their phone as an electronic Ricardo Gago a Cable & Wireless Panama customer The customer service my business receives is highly personalised and very diff erent from the experience we previously had with other operators.
I have also moved my personal broadband, mobile, xed line and TV contracts to Cable & Wireless Panama because I trust their reliability and technical expertise and know that they will always strive to quickly solve any problems I might have.
Ricardo Gago Salinero, President, Importadora & Exportadora Hermanos Gago, S. A.
28 Cable & Wireless Communications Financial review Mobile revenue up 4%, continued growth in subscribers taking data packages 185,000 37% growth in data usage driven by prepaid subscribers Strong EBITDA conversion, margin greater than 40% Licence extension and new spectrum secured Revenue at US$591 million was 1% higher than the prior year continued to decrease by 2 percentage points as customers as mobile data growth offset the continued decline in fixed and substituted to other products, but the rate of decline slowed mobile voice.
due to the impact of triple play offerings.
Mobile revenue at US$336 million was up 4% against prior year.
Enterprise, data and other revenue at US$78 million reflected an Subscribers increased by 317,000, driven by prepaid activations for economically stable year ahead of the elections in Panama which data plans as we launched more affordable smart devices.
Data took place in May 2014. revenue was up 37% on the prior year more than offsetting voice Gross margin at US$398 million was in line with the prior year.
Data penetration of subscribers As a percentage of revenue, gross margin was 67%.
increased by 4 percentage points in the year to 35% as the wider Operating costs were down 1% against the prior year due to range of data plans stimulated both prepaid and postpaid usage.
increased productivity following cost reduction initiatives.
This Mobile ARPU was lower than the prior year due to reduced inbound resulted in EBITDA of US$242 million, 1% better than last year.
roaming traffic and lower rates due to competitive pressures and The EBITDA margin for the year was 41%.
A change in tax legislation from 1 January 2014 means that Cable & Broadband and TV revenue of US$64 million was 7% higher than last Wireless Panamas corporate tax rate reduced from 30% to 25%.
Broadband subscribers were up 4% and TV subscribers rose by 14%.
Bundling of products was an effective retention tool with Panama has secured a new 20 year mobile licence agreement until 82% of TV and 79% of broadband subscribers taking more than 2037 and an additional 30MHz of spectrum, including 20MHz in the one service.
700MHz LTE band, for a cost of US$100 million.
Fixed voice revenue of US$113 million was 7% down against the CWCs proportionate ownership of Panama EBITDA for the year prior year as an increase in international transit traffic revenue ended 31 March 2014 was 49%.
was more than offset by lower national usage.
Subscriber numbers Year ended Year ended 31 Mar 31 Mar % 2014 2013 change Subscribers 000s 1 Mobile 2,159 1,842 17 Broadband 131 126 4 Fixed 372 376 1 2 ARPU US$ Mobile 14.3 15.7 9 Broadband 28.8 28.5 1 Fixed 25.2 26.6 5 Revenue US$m 591 586 1 EBITDA US$m 242 239 1 Margin % 41% 41% 1 Active subscribers are fide ned as those having performed a revenue-generating activity in the previous 60 days.
2 ARPU is average revenue per user per month, excluding equipment sales.
