Performance review Caribbean performance review Operational review L IME is on the pathway to becoming a leaner, fi tter organisation.
We are acting to replace thedecline in voice usage by providing the highquality data services our customers now want.
Our focus on reducing our operating costsmeans we are also operating a more effi cientbusiness.
Martin Roos, CEO, Caribbean It was a challenging year in which we reduced costs and improved The launch of high speed LTE mobile data services in February 2014 services in several key markets.
However, declines in fixed voice and gave our Bahamas customers access to services on a par with the enterprise revenue weighed on the business.
United States, helping our business to prepare ahead of the expected introduction of mobile competition later this year.
We appointed several new senior managers to the business.
Martin Roos was appointed CEO for the Caribbean region.
We also We also strengthened our relationship with the Government our appointed new leaders for our operations in the Cayman Islands, co-shareholder in the Bahamas Telecommunications Company BTC Barbados and to our two new clusters for the Northern Caribbean by agreeing to establish a local charitable foundation.
The BTC Antigua and Barbuda, Anguilla, British Virgin Islands, Montserrat, Foundation will be funded through our contribution of 2% of our St. Kitts & Nevis and Turks & Caicos Islands and Southern Caribbean BTC shareholding.
We remain the largest overall shareholder and Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
have retained management control and a majority on the BTC Board.
As part of our efficiency programme, we outsourced the We launched TV services in the Cayman Islands last year as the management of the maintenance, installation and repair of networks centrepiece of a new quad play package and launched LTE services in 13 markets.
This has significantly improved the competitiveness which saw data revenues jump up 53%.
We will complete the roll out of our cost base.
of high speed fibre broadband services in both the Cayman Islands and Barbados in 2014 15, further enhancing the quality of TV In Jamaica, we attracted an extra 165,000 mobile customers during services in both locations.
the year, as we confirmed our position as the markets value-formoney leader.
Our Talk EZ mobile price plan continued to win We are also planning to launch LTE in Antigua and Barbuda.
customers, and won an award at the American Advertising Awards We have entered into a partnership with the Antigua and Barbuda 2014.
We have secured further spectrum in Jamaica which will Government to improve access to technology and training for the enable us to expand capacity in our networks and launch Long Term disabled and job seekers.
Evolution LTE in the future.
However, there was a further decline in fixed voice revenue.
Paul Carey a BTC customer As a busy real estate Broker and Appraiser I certainly appreciated the responsive nature and helpful service during the set-up of our BTC Business Enterprise communication package.
Paul Carey, Broker Appraiser Realty Team Bahamas 26 Cable & Wireless Communications Financial review M obile revenue up 1% and data growth of 14% at constant currency Reported EBITDA of US$298 million up 8%: margin improved by 5 percentage points to 31% insecond half Jamaica mobile service revenue up 28% at constant currency: subscriber growth of 31% LTE launched in Th e Bahamas and Cayman Islands driving signifi cant mobile data growth Cost reduction on track LIME outsourcing progressing, headcount down across the region Caribbean revenue was 7% down on the prior year.
At constant Enterprise, data and other revenue fell by 22% to US$142 million largely currency and adjusting for the change in accounting following the due to a change in accounting following the outsourcing of our LIME outsourcing of our LIME directory businesses, revenue would have directory businesses.
Adjusting for this change, enterprise, data and only been US$15 million or 1% lower.
other revenue would have been broadly flat on constant currency basis.
Mobile revenue was up US$4 million against the prior year at Gross margin at US$827 million was 3% down compared to the prior US$531 million as increasing demand for mobile data was offset by year reflecting the reduction in revenue and increased investment in declining voice activity.
We expect this shift in mix from voice to subscriber acquisition costs, partially offset by lower outpayments data to continue as we invest in high speed networks.
During the year following the MTR reduction in Jamaica and improved margins on we successfully launched LTE in The Bahamas where we saw mobile outbound roaming traffic.
As a percentage of revenue, gross margin data growth of 13% and in Cayman where mobile data revenue grew increased by 3 percentage points to 79%.
Jamaica momentum continued as we saw a positive response Operating costs reduced by US$48 million 8% to US$529 million to new pricing propositions following a further fall in mobile as we began to realise the benefits of the ongoing cost reduction termination rates MTRs in July.
Over the year there was a 31% rise in initiatives.
We have made good progress in outsourcing our field Jamaica subscribers to 705,000 where mobile service revenue grew services teams in our LIME businesses and have reduced staff costs by US$7 million or 12% and was 28% higher on a constant currency by US$29 million with headcount 36% lower than last year.
ARPU for the region was broadly in line with the prior year.
this initial focus on staff efficiency we are now also working on other Broadband and TV revenue was in line with the prior year.
projects such as exiting non-core property assets with associated Broadband subscribers rose 8% with growth in most of our key utility costs and introducing initiatives to reduce power consumption.
markets, offset by competitive pricing pressure which drove Across our Caribbean business we remain on course to deliver the Average Revenue Per User ARPU lower.
We have grown our TV targeted cost reductions in line with the timescales previously set out.
subscribers by 21% compared to last year and have introduced EBITDA increased by 8% to US$298 million, of which The Bahamas fibre based services in Barbados and Cayman.
contributed US$128 million up 7%, driven principally by lower Fixed voice revenue at US$252 million declined by 13% as a 10% operating costs.
The EBITDA margin at 29% was up 4 percentage fall in ARPU, driven mainly by rate reductions due to competition points against the prior year and was 31% in the second half.
and bundling as well as by lower termination rates across the region, Our proportionate ownership of Caribbean EBITDA for the year was compounded by a 3% drop in the subscriber base.
Year ended Year ended 31 Mar 31 Mar % 2014 2013 change Subscribers 000s 1 Mobile 1,506 1,515 1 Broadband 240 223 8 Fixed 683 701 3 2 ARPU US$ Mobile 27.3 27.6 1 Broadband 39.6 42.1 6 Fixed 30.4 33.9 10 Revenue US$m 1,045 1,120 7 3 LFL revenue US$ 1,045 1,082 3 EBITDA US$m 298 275 8 Margin % 29% 25% 4 1 Active subscribers are fide ned as those having performed a revenue-generating activity in the previous 60 days.
Subscriber numbers have been restated to exclude subscribers with credit balances but no activity in the proceeding 60 days.
Prior periods have not been restated however the eff ect has been to remove 225,000 subscribers in the six months ended 31 March 2014.
2 ARPU is average revenue per user per month, excluding equipment sales.
3 Like-for-like LFL adjustment relates to enterprise, data and other revenue due to change in accounting following the outsourcing of our LIME directory business.
