Directors and corporate governance report continued Appointment and replacement of Directors The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are management, significant changes in the Groups businesses and the contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they provide elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate the Board with monthly financial information, which includes key risk such persons.
The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures include the following: The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this approved by the Board.
At each Executive meeting and each Board way retires and stands for election at the first AGM following meeting, actual results are reviewed and reported against budget his appointment.
and, when appropriate, revised forecasts.
Senior management within our businesses are required on a quarterly basis to certify The Companys members may remove a Director by passing an compliance with the Groups financial reporting requirements ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given.
Any Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: i they resign: Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly fide ned policies for ii they offer to resign and the other Directors accept that offer: capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed iii all the other Directors being at least three require it: iv they appraisal and approval processes via the Cable & Wireless are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them Investment Committee and post-implementation reviews to cease to be a Director: v they have missed Directors meetings for such expenditure for a continuous period of six months without permission and Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a the other Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: programme of internal audits.
The Internal Audit function reports vi a bankruptcy order is made against them, or they make an to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the arrangement or composition with their creditors: vii they are eff ectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control.
Any prohibited from being a Director by law: or viii they cease to improvements required are identi ed, management actions be a Director under legislation or are removed from office under assigned and implementation timescales agreed: progress against the Articles.
these actions are monitored on a monthly basis and reported to the Audit Committee Internal control, risk management and financial reporting The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Financial and nonfinancial controls: the Group has dedicated and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The Groups resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses.
system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than It operates a number of self-assessment exercises, which include eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and monthly, quarterly and annual processes to certify compliance can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against with key financial and nonfinancial controls via the Business material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance Assurance Checklist BAC.
The BAC requires management to recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed assess and certify the eff ectiveness of its fundamental controls the expected benefits.
over all aspects of its operations.
The Group is committed to a process of continual improvement in the eff ectiveness and The Group operates a risk management process under which the effi ciency of the internal control environment, particularly regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their in respect to parts of our Caribbean business likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage those risks and the effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them.
The risk Whistle blowing: the Group operates an Ethics Helpline which register is presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12-month is administered by an independent third party and is available basis.
The principal risks identified by the Group are set out on to all employees pages 18 to 21.
In addition to the regular updates and reports during the year, the Board was also updated on cyber-security threats and the controls in place to protect against them 42 Cable & Wireless Communications
