RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT in Argentina partly offset by the impact Financial review of restructuring actions elsewhere in the region.
UNDERWRITING RESULT foundations from which our Action Plan can deliver future improvements.
Excluding Ireland, the core operations of the business remains encouraging, and representing a weather loss ratio of successful disposals produced strong gains.
However, work to overhaul our balance sheet was expensive, and market headwinds, business mix improvements and especially from exchange rate changes and relatively benign experience in Scandinavia, partly offset by the earthquake in Chile which impacted the Latin America and Group Re result.
PREMIUMS The current year underlying loss Excluding Ireland the underlying basis excluding completed disposals, Motability and the adverse development reinsurance cover.
Our premium base is smaller than last year due The prior year result was a loss of to portfolio restructuring, disposals and foreign exchange.
with good focus on increasing rates across the book.
Canadian premiums c lai m s a n d Ma ri ne p re mi ums.
W e expect in Commercial premiums due to the sustainable prior year releases to RICHARD HOUGHTON underwriting actions we have been taking on the portfolio.
UK premiums but there is the potential for volatility g ive n o ur co m m itme n t to transparent re se rv e m ar gi ns.
INVESTMENT RESULT with particular focus on UK Personal The investment result, which now Motor where premiums were down includes investment expenses of our target returns.
Ireland premiums increases during the year in key lines requiring remediation, which affected retention rates.
Latin American FINANCIAL RESULTS MANAGEMENT BASIS m 2014 Net written premiums 7,465 Net earned premiums 7,874 7,179 Underwriting result 90 Investment result 327 Insurance result 417 Central costs and other activities 52 100 Operating result 365 Non-operating items 90 275 Tax 199 179 76 98.8 Tangible net asset value m 2,900 Notes: claims, earned commissions and earned operating expenses are all expressed as a percentage of net earned premiums.
All years shown above have been restated on this basis.
B as ed o n cu rr en t f or w ar d bond yields NON-OPERATING ITEMS a nd f or eig n ex ch a ng e rates, it is e sti m at ed th a t in v estment income to a charge of 90m and included and the liability discount unwind th e fo llo w in g. discount unwind was lower than lo w s, th es e inc o m e n u m be rs are gains in respect of the sale of equities se n si tiv e t o m arke t c h an ge s. T his The discount unwind will fall further the sale and leaseback of our Swedish o f s ha rp ly lo w er b on d yie ld s and Scandinavian discount rates.
depreciation of our major overseas gains on property assets.
together with the ongoing impact of maturing high yield bond positions.
amortisation and 10m of pension continued impact of the low bond net interest costs.
TOTAL CONTROLLABLE COSTS yield environment.
Total Group controllable costs were write downs mainly relating to software write downs in the UK, Ireland and Scandinavia: 110m of redundancy and restructuring costs cost reduction has come from our UK business, with good progress in and geography.
Average book yield across the whole full time equivalent FTE employee be further broken down as follows: the re-estimation of deferred on year.
reduction plans are in place for our core acquisition costs and dilapidation provisions in respect of leasehold properties, resulted in charges of within our core businesses FTE was of the Groups reinsurance accounting % 6 8 A % 3 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT INVESTMENT RESULT 2014 Bonds 354 7 Equities 23 Cash and cash equivalents 29 Land and buildings 28 Other 5 11 Investment income 439 11 Investment expenses 29 Unwind of discount 83 97 Investment result 327 10 RES E RV IN G UNDERLYING RETURN ON TANGIBLE as a result of a remediation process, We believe that the culture, EQUITY % better information has become methodologies and governance available, which has resulted in around the Groups reserving process 2010 13.5 drive a prudent reserving policy and revisions to certain accounting reserves 2011 16.7 predominately relates to Ireland.
right side of best estimate.
Our own 2012 16.7 assessment of the margin in reserves 2013 6.9 for the core Group the difference to a change in the interest rate used to 2014 9.7 between our actuarial indication and discount long-tail liabilities in Sweden and Denmark.
The decline in market yields for the assets we hold backing COMPOSITION OF INVESTMENT booked claims reserves, though there these liabilities has required this PORTFOLIO % have been movements between adjustment.
As a result, the discount regional businesses during the year.
A Fixed income rate has been lowered in Sweden and B Cash C Equities D Property E Other unchanged as this remains broadly development across most major lines in matched by the yields on the assets Scandinavia, UK Commercial Property, backing these liabilities.
The 14.2bn assumptions will be re-examined biannually going forward and Professional Indemnity strengthening.
for UK Deafness reserves and also in UK TAX Asbestos, relating to revisions to The Group has recognised a tax charge estimates of reinsurance recoveries to of 199m for the year.
Included in this is sheets of non-sterling denominated a deferred tax asset impairment charge operations gave rise to foreign across accident years.
CAPITAL conclusion that the carrying value of the The Group monitors a range of capital deferred tax assets in the UK and Ireland positions.
Strategic actions taken during are no long fully supportable following the resetting of the Group strategy in these capital measures.
the impact of the rights issue proceeds, Tangible net assets have increased by Ireland.
This accounting charge has no capital generated including disposal economic consequences as the tax gains, the reversal of a hybrid debt losses remain available to us.
The restriction which took effect at the carrying value of the remaining deferred gains, partly offset by adverse foreign exchange movements.
of fair value gains on available-for-sale assets.
Foreign exchange movements The Groups estimated economic capital on the retranslation of the balance E % 3 % 1 D % C 7 B capital requirement.
The movement The Scheme Actuaries also carry out DIVIDEND in the year was driven by capital interim assessments on an annual basis We are pleased to recommence generated including disposal gains and the rights issue proceeds, partly offset by the impact of lower yields, adverse s ha re.
T hi s i s a m o fide st a bs ol ut e foreign exchange movements, pension not formally agreed between the Group movements, and model calibrations.
a s we ll as th e w or k r ema in in g o n ca p ital b uil d. W e re ite ra te a m edium-term contributions paid.
We analyse our main For completeness, in addition to GROUP OUTLOOK modelled risks, including underwriting, calculating the funding valuation, the catastrophe, reserve, market, credit and Scheme Actuaries also provide an complete the Groups strategic currency, pension and operational risks.
estimate of the cost of full risk removal restructuring and related inorganic b y p u rc ha si ng a nn ui tie s fro m a n capital improvements.
Focus will generated within our capital model, insurance company to meet the existing continue on actions to improve resulting from the nature of the retirement obligations.
This is a core business performance on a different types of business written, theoretical calculation and does not sustainable basis.
geographic spread of our business, Foreign exchange moves will continue and the non-correlation of risk events schemes.
In common with most UK to impact Sterling reported results.
we target an end to the shrinkage are materially higher than on an ongoing of core business written premiums.
RATING AGENCIES Underlying loss ratios should improve S&P and Moodys provide insurance there was estimated to be a shortfall again and costs continue to reduce.
Weather and large loss items will remain and its principal subsidiaries.
The Group due to the use of more conservative unpredictable but volatility should be was upgraded by S&P to A stable assumptions in relation to future below that of extreme prior years due in five st m en t re tu rn an d to a le ss er to reinsurance actions.
We expect e xt en t, ho w lo n g me m be rs will live.
sustainable prior year releases to be However, the cost of purchasing PENSIONS The IAS 19 pension has improved during volatile given our commitment to reserving requirements, cost of transparent reserve margins.
We hope to report combined ratios, on an underlying basis, closer to market The purchase of annuities would performance than in recent times.
effectively result in full removal of than expected returns on assets and Investment income will trend all economic and demographic risks contributions, partly offset by changes associated with provision of the to actuarial assumptions the pension conditions.
Alternatively, full removal of investment and economic risk on year, whilst the discount rate fell from transactions, broadly offset by ongoing restructuring and cost be achieved through the use of a fully service costs.
The overseas pension programme expenses.
matched swaps based investment strategy.
This effectively eliminates the primarily by lower discount rates.
return on tangible equity target remains basis of equity and credit investments At the most recent funding valuations in place.
Foreign exchange and interest that form part of the asset mix of the funds.
The Trustees investment advisers have estimated that as at ambition for combined ratios.
agreed funding plans at that time to this approach the funds would remain exposed to longevity and other The funding plans will be reviewed behavioural and demographic risks.
following the next triannual funding valuations, which will have an effective RICHARD HOUGHTON % 0 2 B D 1 % 7 7 % 1 A RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Scandinavia OUR OPERATIONS IN SCANDINAVIA In Scandinavia we operate in Sweden Our Scandinavian business performed strongly as Trygg-Hansa and in Denmark and N orway as C oda n. W e are th e th ird largest insurer in Sweden and Denmark, Our focus remains on sustaining these strong and the sixth largest in Norway, whilst we are third overall across results whilst driving continuous operational the region.
Importantly, RSA is the improvements.
only multinational insurer operating with scale in Scandinavia.
Our business is split evenly between Personal and Commercial lines and is principally directly distributed with strong agent relationships, call centre capabilities and a growing TYPES OF BUSINESS IN SCANDINAVIA bancassurance channel.
We have A Household B Personal motor particular strengths in Sweden through C Personal accident and other our Motor and Personal Accident D Commercial property businesses, and our Danish Commercial E Commercial motor F Other business, while our Norwegian business is developing.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our Scandinavian business performed PATRICK BERGANDER CEO Scandinavia at constant exchange, with volumes 1.8bn 89.4% Net written Combined ratio premiums OUR BRANDS IN SCANDINAVIA Personal driven by Household and Personal Accident due to a combination of good new business levels and rate increases.
Danish Personal premiums C 1 7 % % 7 1 F % 2 1 E O U R ST R AT E GY O u r s tr at eg y in Sc an dinavia is returns with three key levers.
Commercial premiums were up These are: the portfolio, good new business through business targeting, levels in Workers Compensation and expansion of distribution good growth in Renewable Energy.
channels and improving Our strategic partnership in Norwegian our brand offering: Hospital Care insurance continues strongly, and as a result Norway TEACHING WATER SAFETY claims and underwriting Trygg-Hansas Baby buoy capabilities: and in the year.
In Sweden, premiums programme teaches small actions to rationalise our Commercial improvement through rigorous with the overall aim to reduce the portfolio and increase rate.
cost management and targeted number of drowning accidents.
systems and infrastructure The Baby buoy was developed The Scandinavian underwriting result investment.
by Trygg-Hansa together with The Swedish Life Saving Society SLS.
It is an important part of Trygg-Hansas focus on water investment returns net of discount experience was broadly in line with safety in the Swedish market, expectations.
The weather ratio of together with the sponsorship of outdoor summer swim schools and the initiative swim school for everyone where people from other nationalities are trained mix.
The underlying current year loss to become swim school teachers, performance in Swedish Personal in order to train others in their Accident following product native language.
and there were good improvements enhancements and rate actions.
in both Sweden and Denmark.
Prior normalised for likely future outlook.
underlying performances across Controllable expenses are in line our Danish business and in Swedish Liability and Motor.
SCANDINAVIA FINANCIAL SUMMARY OUTLOOK We expect the Scandinavian P&C premiums Underwriting result COR markets to grow in line with local 1 GDP growth, and we target top line m % growth 2014 m 20 14 % performance broadly in line with Personal 969 3 162 83.0 the market.
Our focus is on sustaining Commercial 790 2 25 11 96.9 strong Personal lines results in Total 1,759 3 187 89.4 Sweden and improving Commercial cost improvements in Denmark: Sweden 956 2 138 Denmark 633 1 47 in Norway.
% 9 2 A % RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Canada OUR OPERATIONS IN CANADA In Canada we are the third-largest 2014 has been a challenging year for our insurer, establishing our market position Canadian business with adverse weather through a combination of strategic acquisitions and organic growth.
However, the underlying a national insurer, operating across all provinces with a broad multiproduct, performance of our business remains multidistribution offering.
The market supportive of improved future results.
is stable and consolidating with the top market share.
Our portfolio is well balanced with TYPES OF BUSINESS IN CANADA Marine.
Approximately half of our A Household B Personal motor Personal business is directly distributed C Commercial property D Liability through brokers under the RSA brand, E Other FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE After a record bad year for weather weather conditions continued into the has been challenging for our Canadian business.
However, the underlying ROWAN SAUNDERS President & CEO, RSA Canada OUR STRATEGY 1.5bn 98.0% In Canada our strategy is to drive Net written Combined ratio in our targeted segments.
premiums We focus on improving our revenue capabilities through OUR BRANDS IN CANADA enhanced pricing, risk selection and sales capabilities: investing in our technology capabilities and developing industry-leading digital customer offerings: and robust management of our cost base.
9 % E 8 B D 4 0 % % 4 1 C performance of our Canadian business remains supportive of improved province, drivers are simply not future results.
getting the message to pay attention to the road.
Net written premiums in Canada were Our survey found that almost every Canadian driver has witnessed other have witnessed drivers texting.
Yet admit to texting while behind the wheel.
Despite public awareness campaigns, and in Ontario increased premiums included double-digit rate DRIVEN TO DISTRACTION convicted, distracted driving is still increases on renewal business as the Motoring research by RSA Canada a huge issue.
market responded to the weather events showed that distracted drivers are th re e tim e s mo r e l ike ly to b e in an As a result, RSA Canada made ac ci fide nt th a n a tt en ti five d riv er s and a ca m pa ig n o f dr ive r ad vi ce a he ad relationships, lower new business driver distraction.
We wanted and rate in Ontario, and competitive people to think about what they The research and campaign was conditions in Quebec.
are doing behind the wheel.
one of RSA Canadas most successful So we surveyed drivers across in terms of media coverage, with In Commercial, premiums were down the country, and despite increased attention on distracted driving the advice reaching a potential been taking on the portfolio, particularly in almost every where we have been re-underwriting or exiting poorer performing accounts.
segmentation of the portfolio for In Commercial, the reallocation of driven by underwriting actions taken reserving purposes.
This has led to a in Quebec, and Liability reductions reallocation of reserves as reported in an increase in Liability reserves and a release in Motor, impacting their programmes and market-leading the book, and a 19m release of margin.
remains under pressure given a highly The level of weather losses, although competitive market, with adverse weather and large loss experience impacting results.
At a total Canadian After including investment returns of Motor were both affected by the weather, with Motor experiencing elevated claims balance sheet work across the Group frequency as a result of severe driving has included in Canada a more granular 1 CANADA FINANCIAL SUMMARY OUTLOOK premiums Underwriting result COR for RSA in Canada.
However, we 2 anticipate the business returning m % growth 2014 m 20 14 % to better performance patterns, Personal 1,039 2 11 99.0 subject to volatile items such as Commercial 471 5 19 96.0 weather trends.
Our focus will be Total 1,510 3 30 98.0 on delivering operational improvement, Notes: particularly underwriting and claims above exclude Noraxis.
and modernisation of technology and infrastructure.
% 1 1 B D 2 4 % % 5 2 A RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 UK and Ireland OUR OPERATIONS IN UK AND IRELAND In the UK, we have made good progress In the UK, we are the second largest in 2014 with underwriting and portfolio Commercial insurer with key positions in Property, Motor, Liability, and Marine, actions as well as operational improvements.
and exposures across the SME, MidMarket and Global Specialty customer segments.
We operate across the year as we continue our recovery process.
key UK market centres, as well as six European locations.
We are a leading international Marine player through the London markets.
We also have strong positions in the UK Personal Household, Motor, and Pet markets.
We have a direct insurance TYPES OF BUSINESS IN THE UK offering through our MORE TH N brand, A Household B Personal motor C Pet and a broker portfolio focused on D Commercial property E Liability F Commercial motor G Marine and other the major UK retailers.
We are a leading player in Ireland with particular strengths in Household insurance and in direct sales through UK FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In the UK, we have made progress with management action on pricing and underwriting that included both planned exits and focused growth.
STEPHEN LEWIS CEO, UK & Western Europe together with reserve additions in 2.6bn 99.5% UK net written UK combined However, expenses are coming down premiums ratio and the good progress made with cost into the second half, including a reduction OUR BRANDS IN UK AND IRELAND At a headline level, UK premiums of premiums excluding Motability were 1 Excluding Legacy C % 1 1 1 0 % G % 8 % F 1 1 E in M o tab il ity p re m ium s as a result of our n ew c on tr ac t te rm s w hic h to ok e ff ect OUR STRATEGY softening rate environment.
In Personal I n UK C omme rc ia l, o u r s tra tegy result of our portfolio actions and f oc u sin g on o u r r ev en ue pricing discipline, although the steep in Marine mainly due to adjustments generating capabilities and to p ri or ye ar p re m iu m s a ft er a ch an ge expense reductions.
In UK in accounting methodology.
Excluding planned exits, Personal we will continue to w ri tin g Sp ec ia lty L in es business in focus our business on our target G er m an y w ith e ffe c t f rom 1 October Smart Wheels black box telematics reducing our cost base and product aimed at young drivers, and and grow our Marine business there.
MORE TH N Drive, an app that allows SME, one of our areas of focused In Ireland we have some drivers to track their driving behaviour, important market positions which are showing promising growth.
targeted activity in Engineering upon which future success can be built, but we will need underlying movement after removing to invest to achieve marketprior period accounting premium leading capabilities in pricing and data, underpinned by by rate increases.
Across Commercial we have maintained underwriting discipline in a competitive and a Commercial loss of 9m.
The prior market and a soft rate environment.
SUPPORTING SOCIAL ENTERPRISE their talent into sustainable solutions Our CSR strategy seeks to deliver to poverty and disadvantage.
Over th e th re eye a r p ar tn er ship we are To meet this objective and in line with providing bursaries to fund social our Commercial strategic focus on entrepreneurs through the SSE SMEs, we have established a unique Fellowship Course.
We are also partnership with School for Social providing senior RSA mentors to Entrepreneurs SSE thats delivering support the students.
Graduates of positive impacts for our business, our people, SSE, entrepreneurs and ultimately our communities.
SSE supports individuals to set-up businesses with a social purpose.
By Chartered Insurance Institute Public taking part in SSEs programmes, social Interest Awards, Best corporate entrepreneurs are able to transform social responsibility initiative.
1 UK AND IRELAND FINANCIAL SUMMARY premiums Underwriting result COR 2 m % growth 2014 m 20 14 % UK Personal 1,176 6 49 95.9 UK Commercial 1,393 22 34 102.1 Total UK 2,569 15 15 99.5 Ireland 295 5 107 132.3 Notes: RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Household continued to perform loss ratios were higher than expected OUTLOOK a nd lo ss p at te rn s h a five re m ained volatile In the UK, continuing improvements in a s d at a is cle an s ed a nd n ew p a tterns our core trading performance together e st ab lis he d. P ric in g an d un fide rwriting with ongoing cost actions give us a highly competitive market but a return to modest top line growth.
In Ir el an d, o ur go a l re m a ins to return the in line with long-term trends but for which we have implemented rating marginally worse than plan, while underwriting improvement and cost and indemnity actions to address.
reduction, and from there to return The UK Commercial underwriting 1.1 points worse than trend.
to greater than cost of capital returns in the future.
development of the prior year a combination of updated reserving which we reported on at both H1 of the latest development experience, heavy weather losses following storms authority scheme, changes to reinsurance retentions, and the impact in Europe, plus marginally elevated large of lower discount rates following losses.
Commercial Motor produced a High Court ruling in December.
O ur re m ed ia tio n work is ongoing, and across the book.
we are taking will restore the business T he Ir ish e xe c ut ive m a na ge m e nt te am h as b ee n co m pl ete ly re s tru c tu re d a n d for the UK business.
The large loss ratio c rit ica l ma n ag eme n t v ac an ci es w it h a ne w C EO, CF O, C OO a nd C hi ef average.
The current year underlying Cost reduction plans are in place, and underwriting actions should improve current year underwriting performance IRELAND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE now largely complete, although some for RSA in recognising further losses beginning the recovery process.
On pricing we have applied strong 107m, recorded as a current year loss requiring remediation, with year-onNo substantive new issues were focus, premiums for the year were remediation, reserve strengthening and the level of required underwriting improvement has been greater than impairment review of the carrying value that expected at the start of the year.
of Irish goodwill and intangible assets.
relating to goodwill and 17m relating to the ongoing impact of the issues software and customer lists.
This leaves inadequate pricing on pre-remediation in the Irish business.
In addition to this business that came through in earned we have also written down our Irish premiums.
Once claims reserving was became apparent that in key portfolios UK Legacy Survival ratio is an industry standard measure of a companys reserves, Our UK Legacy portfolio comprises exposure expressing the number of years that to asbestos and other long term liabilities.
Our carried reserves will be available if the exposure to these claims arises from Employers levels continue.
The table below outlines the asbestos provisions and Public Liability policies written over the past 50 years.
While these account for the majority by risk and survival ratio.
of liabilities, the portfolio also includes a variety One year average ratios are inherently more volatile and impacted by the size of London Market related legacy liabilities.
in the year, with the three-year average providing a more stable benchmark.
For UK risks written in the UK, the The UK Legacy underwriting result for ASBESTOS paid survival ratios have remained A sb e sto s te ch ni ca l p ro v isio n s stable, with the incurred survival ratio loss and was primarily driven by a impacted by changes in the level combination of asbestos, deafness and abuse reserve additions.
The asbestos additions are mainly due to revisions levels closely.
For US risks written to estimates of reinsurance recoveries in the UK, the remaining reserves U S ris ks w rit te n in th e UK.
A s in previous are relatively small in total and will claims across accident years.
years, and as a standard part of our therefore be particularly sensitive reserving practices, these asbestos provisions have been reviewed by reserves were 1bn with a discounted size and timing of claims payments external consultants.
These provisions and settlements during the year.
can be analysed by survival ratio.
ASBESTOS RESERVES UK risks US risks written written Total in the UK in the UK Provisions in m Net of reinsurance 829 Net of discount 506 Survival ratios Gross of discount On payment One year 29 Three-year average 30 One year 25 Three-year average 23 10 % 8 3 A RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Latin America OUR OPERATIONS IN LATIN AMERICA RSA is a top 10 international insurer in In Latin America, the markets we operate in Latin America.
We are geographically continue to be fundamentally attractive, driven Chile no.
1 market position, Argentina by growing insurance penetration.
Performance a leading niche position in the Brazil Marine market, and businesses in earthquake in Chile in April.
Although economic growth in the region has slowed, the non-life insurance market continues to offer attractive growth prospects.
TYPES OF BUSINESS IN LATIN AMERICA business is distributed through brokers A Personal B Commercial with the remainder predominantly with a strong track record in the FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Net written premiums in Latin America growth.
The impact of foreign exchange HILARIO ITRIAGO CEO, Latin America There was strong growth in Argentina 0.7bn 100.3% Net written Combined ratio premiums We have also taken action to restructure the business which includes the exit of Risk Managed Property, Construction and Engineering and Liability.
In Chile conditions and actions taken on our Motor portfolio.
B 6 2 % During the year we have restructured our business in Colombia.
We have OUR FOOTPRINT IN LATIN AMERICA announced the exit of Personal and Commercial Motor, and intend to pursue in the year.
10m in respect of the Chile earthquake Group Re result bringing the total event average, whilst weather losses of OUTLOOK In Latin America, the markets we operate in continue to be attractive on a fundamental basis, though competitive, driven by low insurance penetration and a growing middle class across the region.
Given the softer economic outlook, we anticipate growth continuing at a more subdued pace than historical levels, with improving LATIN AMERICA FINANCIAL SUMMARY OUR STRATEGY Our strategic aim is to become premiums Underwriting result COR a sustainable player delivering 2014 2014 attractive returns on capital in 1 m % growth m m % our chosen markets supported by Chile 166 4 17 102.4 initiatives across three key areas: Argentina 210 32 10 1 94.9 1.
D eveloping our customer and Brazil 119 2 13 110.9 distribution relationships: Mexico 88 4 2 97.2 Colombia 61 31 1 1 99.1 underwriting discipline: and Uruguay 46 15 2 1 94.7 Total Latin America 690 4 2 100.3 on costs across the region Notes: together with improvements 1.
