Strategic report Financial review The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Through the Groups with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board emphasis on maximising IASB and adopted for use by the European Union and productivity and maintaining in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of rigorous cost control, the EU IAS Regulation.
Centamin has continued Through the Groups emphasis on maximising productivity and maintaining rigorous cost control, Centamin has to return strong earnings continued to return strong earnings and cash flow and cash flow generation generation despite the weaker gold price environment, with average realised gold prices of US$1,257 per ounce despite the weaker gold being US$127 per ounce lower than in the prior year.
Now in its sixth year of production, the Sukari Gold Mine remains price environment.
highly cash generative, with a competitive cash operating cost of production of US$729 per ounce and solid EBITDA of US$165.4 million.
Centamin remains committed to its policy of being 100% exposed to the gold price through its unhedged position, Pierre Louw and maintained a robust cash and cash equivalents balance Chief Financial Officer of US$125.7 million as at 31 December 2014.
Centamin announced a maiden interim dividend in August 2014 of 0.87 US cents per ordinary share US$9.9 million total distribution and, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 18 May 2015, a final dividend of 1.99 US cents per share totalling approximately US$23 million is proposed to be paid on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register as of 24 April 2015.
The exdividend date is 23 April 2015 for LSE listed shareholders and 22 April 2015 for TSX listed shareholders.
During the first half of the year the Group acquired Ampella Mining Limited for a total consideration of US$48.5 million.
This included a cash component of US$9.3 million and assets of US$1.6 million.
The transaction has been accounted for as an asset acquisition, using fair value measurement principles, with exploration rights covering 2 2 an area of 2,200km in Burkina Faso and 1,200km on Cte dIvoire, recorded as an addition to mineral properties in the period.
38 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information The Company proposed a final dividend for 2014 of 1.99 US cents per share approx.
US$23 million, for a total full year dividend of 2.86 US cents per share.
Revenue Other operating costs Revenue from gold and silver sales has decreased by 6% to Other operating costs reported comprises expenditure US$473 million, as a result of a 3% increase in gold sold to incurred for communications, consultants, directors fees, 375,300 ounces offset by a 9% decrease in the average gold stock exchange listing fees, share registry fees, employee price to US$1,257 per ounce.
entitlements, general office administration expenses, the unwinding of the restoration and rehabilitation provision, Cost of sales foreign exchange movements, the share of profit loss in Cost of sales represents the cost of mining, processing, associates and the 3% production royalty payable to the refinery, transport, site administration and depreciation and Egyptian government.
Other operating costs increased by amortisation, as well as preproduction costs incurred prior 40% to US$30.4 million, as a result of: to commercial production and movement in production a a US$12.5 million increase in net foreign exchange inventory.
Cost of sales is inclusive of exceptional items of movements from a US$9.5 million gain to a US$62.5 million refer to Note 6 to the financial statements US$2.9 million loss: and for further information and has increased by 29% to US$358.3 million, as a result of: b a US$1.1 million donation loss on disposal of assets of two generators to Marsa Alam: offset by a a 16% increase in mine production costs to c a US$1.6 million decrease in the share of loss of US$275.9 million, primarily due to an increase in associate, as a result of having written off the costs activity year on year with tonnes moved increasing associated with the interest held in Sahar during 2013: by 7% and tonnes treated by 48%: d a US$0.9 million decrease in royalty paid to the b a 66% increase in depreciation and amortisation from government of the ARE in line with the decrease in US$50.8 million to US$84.2 million, a result of an increase gold sales revenue: and in the underlying and mine development properties due to the commissioning of Stage 4 in addition to the e a US$2.3 million decrease in corporate costs.
change in accounting estimate of the useful economic Other charges life of the Sukari plant and equipment capitalised within Impairment charges have been recorded as follows: plant and equipment: offset by c a US$1.9 million credit for movement in production a a US$2.3 million write off of capitalised exploration costs inventory a result of an increased addition to the ROM in relation to the joint venture with Alecto Minerals plc: ore stockpile.
and b a US$0.4 million impairment loss recognised in relation to the investment in Nyota Minerals Limited.
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 39 Strategic report Financial review continued Finance income Noncurrent assets have increased by US$48.0 million or 5% to US$1,077.4 million, as a result of: Finance income reported comprises interest revenue applicable on the Companys available cash and term a exploration and evaluation assets have increased by deposit amounts.
The movements in finance income are in US$64.2 million to US$124.0 million as a result of the line with the movements in the Companys available cash drilling programmes in Sukari Hill, the Sukari tenement and term deposit amounts.
area, Ethiopia, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire, this increase is inclusive of a US$2.3 million write off of Net profit expenditure in relation to the joint venture with Alecto As a result of the factors outlined above, the Minerals plc: Group recorded a net profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2014 of US$81.6 million b a US$4.8 million increase in prepayments to EMRA in 2013: US$184.0 million.
relation to advance payments against future profit share: c a US$65.0 million increase in property, plant of Earnings per share equipment, mainly relating to net capitalised Earnings per share of 7.21 cents compare with 16.87 cents workinprogress costs of US$68.3 million comprising in 2013.
The decrease was driven by the lower net profit, as US$3.4 million for the Stage 4 processing plant, outlined above, as well as an increase of 4.4% in share count US$4.5 million for the open pit mining fleet expansion, as a result of the Ampella acquisition.
US$20.7 million for open pit development, US$31.1 Comprehensive income million for underground development and US$8.6 million for other sustaining capital expenditure and Other comprehensive income has decreased by US$4.3 million in relation to the acquisition of Ampella US$6.8 million to US$0.1 million as a result of the Mining Limited, offset by a US$5.2 million reduction in revaluation of availableforsale financial assets.
The prior the rehabilitation asset and disposals of US$2.3 million.
increase was a result of the cumulative loss that had This is offset further by a depreciation and amortisation been recognised in other comprehensive income being charge of US$84.2 million: and reclassified from equity to profit.
d a US$0.6 million decrease in the availableforsale Financial position financial assets to US$0.4 million as a result of: At 31 December 2014, the Group had cash and i a US$1.0 million devaluation including foreign cash equivalents of US$125.7 million compared to exchange loss in the shares held in Nyota US$106.0 million at 31 December 2013.
The majority of together with the sale of eleven million shares for funds have been invested in international rolling shortterm US$0.1 million: offset by higher interest money market deposits.
ii a US$0.4 million increase as a result of the receipt of Current assets have increased by US$24.0 million or 9% to the KEFI shares.
US$293.4 million, as a result of: Current liabilities have decreased by US$43.9 million a stores inventory has increased by US$3.6 million to to US$34.4 million as a result of the management of US$104.9 million as a result of the commissioning of creditor days.
Mining stockpiles and ore in circuit inventory has Noncurrent liabilities reported during the period have increased by US$1.9 million to US$35.8 million as a result decreased by US$4.6 million as a result of: of the increase in gold in circuit at period end: b the completion of the Stage 4 expansion resulting in a a change in estimate of the future rehabilitation costs as an increase in the cash inflows and a US$19.0 million a result of a detailed review having being undertaken as increase in the cash reserves: offset by at year end as a result of the commission of Stage 4: and c a US$0.6 million decrease in gold sale receivables.
b the unwinding of the discount on the provision for rehabilitation.
Issued capital has increased by US$49.1 million due to the issue of shares in relation to the acquisition of Ampella and vesting of awards offset by US$1.7 million of own shares acquired.
40 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Share option reserves reported have decreased by Net cash flows used in investing activities comprise US$1.6 million to US$4.1 million as result of the forfeiture exploration expenditure and capital development and vesting of awards and the resultant transfer to expenditures at Sukari including the acquisition of financial accumulated profits and issue capital respectively, offset by and mineral assets.
Cash outflows have decreased by the recognition of the sharebased payments expense.
The primary use of the funds during the year was for investment in capital Accumulated profits increased by US$73.1 million as a result workinprogress in relation to the Stage 4 development, of the increase in the profit for the year attributable to the the open pit and underground development, additional shareholders of the Company of US$81.6 million together mining assets and exploration expenditures incurred, which with a US$0.1 million loss on availableforsale financial was offset by US$9.3 million cash acquired through the assets in relation to the KEFI shares and a US$1.5 million assets acquired in Ampella Mining Limited.
transfer from the share options reserve as a result of the forfeiture of awards, offset by the US$9.9 million interim Net cash flows generated by financing activities comprise dividend payment.
the exercising of shares issued under the Companys Loan Funded Share Plans LFSPs and options under Cash flows the Employee Share Option Plan ESOP respectively in Net cash flows generated by operating activities comprise addition to dividends paid.
During the year: receipts from gold and silver sales and interest revenue, a 1.7 million of the Companys own shares valued at offset by operating and corporate administration costs.
US$1.7 million were acquired and awarded as part Cash flows have decreased by US$133.5 million to of the Deferred Bonus Share Plan: and US$111.6 million, primarily attributable to: b a US$9.9 million interim dividend was paid during a a decrease in revenue, due to a lower average realised the year.
price offset by higher gold sales: Effects of exchange rate changes have decreased by b an increase in cash outflows flows in relation to US$2.0 million as a result of the strong performance of the receivables and payables: US$ to the Euro and A$.
c a decrease in gross margins as a result of the decrease in the average realised gold price: offset by d a decrease in cash outflows in relation to inventories Pierre Louw and prepayments, as a result of the commissioning of Chief Financial Officer Stage 4.
2 EBITDA and cash operating costs are nonGAAP financial performance measures with no standard meaning under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation IFRS.
3 Results reflect an exceptional provision against prepayments to reflect the removal of fuel subsidies refer to Notes 3 and 6 to the financial statements for further details.
