58 The Strategic Report Group performance Group Finance Directoros introduction Normalised free cash ow was up 150m at 2,450m, ahead of the outlook of around 2.3bn we gave at the start of the year.
Strong cash generation across the group has enabled us to invest for the future at the same time as growing our free cash ow.
We have reduced our net debt by 769m whilst funding the pension scheme, buying back shares and paying progressive dividends to our shareholders.
2013 14 performance against our outlook Outlook Result Underlying revenue Improved trend Up 0.5% a excluding transit b Adjusted EBITDA 6.0s6.1bn 6.1bn Tony Chanmugam Group Finance Director Broadly level with c Capital expenditure Down 4% 2012 13 b Normalised free cash{ow c. 2.3bn 2.45bn Dividend per share Up 10%s15% Up 15% Weove delivered strong financial Share buyback programme c. 300m 302m results, ahead of market expectations.
a 8nderlying revenue excluding transit is dened on page 184.
Continuing to deliver on our investments b Adjusted EBITDA and normalised free cash ow are dened on page 185. c Before purchases of telecommunications licences.
whilst transforming our cost base will enable us to generate sustainable, Future outlook profitable revenue growth.
Our investments are delivering for the business and we expect them to support our goal of sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
We are also confident there are significant opportunities across the group for further cost transformation.
Together, these will drive long-term cash ow growth for the business.
We will continue with our prudent financial policy of investing in our Our financial performance business, reducing net debt, supporting the pension fund and paying We have made strong progress this year.
Our results were in line with progressive dividends.
or{ahead of the outlook that we announced at the start of the year.
Underlying revenue excluding transit was up 0.5% compared with the Future outlook 3.1% decline in the prior year.
Our investments are delivering and more 2014 15 2015 16 than oset the regulatory pressures on our business.
Underlying revenue Broadly level Growth a This year all of our lines of business made good progress in transforming excluding transit their costs.
In BT Global Services, we are rolling out learnings from our b Adjusted EBITDA 6.2bns6.3bn Growth UK cost transformation programmes to our operations worldwide.
The b progress it has made on costs underpinned its strong cash ow growth Normalised free cash ow Above 2.6bn Growth for the year.
Across the group we have focused on improving end-to-end Dividend per share Up 10%s15% Up 10%s15% processes which span our lines of business to increase eciency and reduce the cost of failure.
Over the past five years we have reduced our Share buyback programme c. 300m c. 300m operating costs and capital expenditure, in aggregate, by around 5bn a 8nderlying revenue excluding transit is dened on page 184. and this has created the oxygen for us to invest.
b Adjusted EBITDA and normalised free cash ow are dened on page 185.
Adjusted EBITDA of 6.1bn was at as our strong cost control oset our{investment of around 450m in BT Sport.
Adjusted profit before tax was 2.8bn, up 6%, and adjusted EPS of 28.2p was up 7%.
These reect the benefit of our focus in recent years on capital expenditure eciencies and debt reduction.
We invested 2.4bn in capital programmes our eciencies have Tony Chanmugam enabled us to do more for less.
Our bre rollout has passed more than Group Finance Director 19m premises, around two thirds of the UK, bringing benets to homes, 7 May 2014 businesses and communities across the nation.
The Strategic Report 59 Group performance Group financial results We have made good progress in a number of areas and delivered strong financial results for the year.
The investments we are making will support our goal to deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
Before purchases of telecommunications licences.
e See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 127 for further details.
See denition on page 185 and summarised cash ow statement on page 64. b Items presented as adjusted are stated before specic items.
See page 184 for further details.
