Strategic report Chief Executives review A year of strong performance Carolyn McCall OBE Chief Executive Highlights 581m 20.5% Profit before tax ROCE 2013: 478m 2013: 17.4% 45.4 pence per share Proposed ordinary dividend 2013: 33.5 pence per share FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MARKET OVERVIEW Competitive landscape easyJet delivered record profit before tax of 581 The European short-haul aviation market can be divided million, an increase of 103 million from 2013 with into legacy carriers and low-cost carriers.
The legacy a profit before tax margin of 12.8%.
Profit before carriers include for example Air France-KLM, IAG and tax per seat rose by 1.09 year-on-year to 8.12.
Legacy carriers operate short and long-haul networks.
The short-haul operations are partly used to Return on capital employed grew by 3.1 percentage 1 provide connectivity for passengers to transfer onto the points to 20.5%.
In light of the continued strong financial more profitable long-haul.
Low-cost carriers, like easyJet, performance and confidence in the future, the Board typically operate point-to-point business models with has decided to increase the ordinary dividend pay-out no or limited connectivity to other flights.
Due to a ratio from one third of profit after tax to 40% of profit after less complicated business model, and cost advantage, tax, which has resulted in a 35.5% increase in the ordinary low-cost airlines have consistently generated higher levels dividend from 33.5 pence per share to 45.4 pence per share.
of profitability compared to the legacy carriers.
The performance in the year was driven by: After several years of low market capacity growth continued revenue per seat growth in a higher the European short-haul market has returned to more capacity environment: normal levels of capacity growth.
In the 12 months to 30 September 2014 the total number of European shorta 1.3 percentage point improvement in the load factor: 2 2 haul seats increased by 4.3% and by 3.0% on easyJets continued digital and data initiatives: markets.
easyJet grew slightly ahead of the market with seat growth of 5.1% in the 2014 financial year.
easyJet better than expected cost performance driven by the expects that capacity and demand will be broadly easyJet lean programme, one-off benefits of the CFM aligned over the next five-year period.
This is based on engine selection and the continued scale advantages confirmed short-haul European fleet orders, conservative of increasing the proportion of A320 aircraft in the fleet: assumptions on aircraft retirements and GDP growth and in easyJets main markets.
rigorous focus on capital allocation and returns with Several airlines have launched initiatives to improve continued strategy of allocating aircraft to highest profitability, rationalise capacity and reduce costs.
In some returning parts of the network.
cases these airlines have also been dependent on external 1 Return on capital employed shown adjusted for leases with leases capitalised at 7 times.
2 Capacity and market share figures from OAG.
Size of European market based on internal easyJet definition.
Historical data based on 12 month period from October 2013 to September 2014. www.
com 9 Chief Executives review continued funding to support operations and strengthen balance point-to-point airlines.
This has been accompanied by sheets.
For example, UK-based airline Monarch has continued pressure on regulated charges at a range announced a restructuring programme including a material of airports across Europe.
easyJet remains focused reduction in its fleet size.
Etihad made an investment for on addressing this and has an on-going dialogue and a 49% stake in Alitalia which is undergoing significant programme of work with both regulators and the European restructuring.
Air Berlin announced additional restructuring Commission on regulated charges at EU airports.
at its full year results, and has since cancelled part of its fleet After the year-end the UK Supreme Court effectively order to reduce future capital expenditure commitments.
upheld a Court of Appeal ruling in favour of paying Legacy carriers are also trying to reduce costs by EU261 compensation to passengers who experience transferring capacity, primarily on point-to-point routes, a cancellation or a delay of more than three hours due to lower-cost subsidiaries.
For example, Lufthansa Group to certain types of technical failure.
easyJet operates a has begun to transfer capacity to Germanwings in young and reliable fleet and fully complies with all Germany and also announced plans to set up Eurowings applicable rulings relating to EU261.
Air France-KLM has announced plans There has also been mixed progress on airspace charges.
to further expand its low-cost subsidiary Transavia.
easyJet In some EU Member States, in particular the UK and a has a cost advantage over these low-cost subsidiaries, an range of smaller nations, airline pressure has ensured advantage of a pan-European network and an established that providers will deliver reductions in airspace charges.
brand which allows it to drive high load factors from both However, other Member States are continuing to support departure and arrival markets.
easyJet will continue to oppose these increases, Primary airports are becoming increasingly capacity and is working with other airlines on this issue.
With long planning and easyJet remains concerned with the continued increase investment cycles to expand existing airports, several in taxes on aviation across Europe, which is undermining more airports are expected to be capacity-constrained in European growth and ultimately jobs.
easyJet has a competitive advantage from its undertaken work to demonstrate to governments that network driven by its well-balanced portfolio of slots at these taxes are not in their interest or those of consumers congested primary airports, which has taken a number or people working within the sector.
The forthcoming of years to build up and cannot be readily replicated.
general election in the UK provides an opportunity for Regulatory environment APD to be addressed in the UK.
The regulatory environment remains an important issue for easyJet and, while the Company has seen significant progress in some areas, easyJet continues to see monopoly infrastructure providers imposing unreasonable price increases.
At Gatwick, easyJets largest base, the Company worked to make changes to the regulatory environment which has allowed it to reach a long-term agreement with the airport that provides a lasting advantage for the Company.
There has also been a willingness to reconsider how airports are regulated in France and Switzerland: in particular easyJet has focused on ensuring that airports are effectively regulated and are not able to retain the commercial revenues from passengers through the airport and instead have to use them to offset airport charges.
However, there have been significant increases in charges at Rome Fiumicino airport in particular, where the airport has structured charges in a way that discriminates against 10 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2014
