Review of operations and finance FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2014 included a benefit from the strengthening of the pound against 14 both the euro and US dollar.
The information presented here relates to the 52 weeks to 27 December 2014 and the 52 weeks to 28 December 2013, Selling and distribution costs, and administrative expenses continuing operations before exceptional items, unless 1 increased by 55.2m to 504.7m.
The increase reflects the otherwise stated.
costs of new depots, investment in growth and the impact of inflation, including on payroll costs.
The financial performance of the Group during 2014 benefited from the Groups competitive position and the continuing focus Operating profit increased by 49.1m to 189.8m.
We also benefited from the continuation of improved market conditions seen since the The net interest charge fell by 4.7m to 1.0m, due to a lower summer of 2013. finance expense in respect of pensions.
The net result was profit before tax rose by 53.8m to 188.8m.
Total Group revenue increased by 134.3m to 1,090.8m.
Revenue m 2014 2013 Profit before tax m Group 1,090.8 956.5 Change 53.8m comprising: Howden Joinery UK depots 1,075.5 940.7 Howden Joinery French depots 15.3 15.8 Howden Joinery UK depot revenue rose by 14.3% to 1,075.5m, increasing by 10.8% on a same depot basis.
This growth was achieved through a number of factors and is a testament to the strength of the Howdens business model.
We have continued to open new depots and increased the number of customer accounts.
As well as driving an increase in revenue, the The tax charge on profit before tax was 40.1m, an effective business continued to focus on price discipline and margin.
Sales by our French depots of 15.3m increased by 2% on a Basic earnings per share were 23.2p 2013: 15.9p.
same depot basis in constant currency terms, whilst falling slightly on a reported basis.
Profitability has improved following In 2014, there was an exceptional profit after tax from changes to the commercial strategy in our French depots.
This mainly comprised income of 11.1m arising from the release of a tax creditor Gross profit rose by 104.3m to 694.5m.
The gross profit following partial resolution of a dispute with HMRC regarding margin for the year increased to 63.7% 2013: 61.7%.
This the tax treatment of certain expenses relating to our legacy reflected the continuing focus on efforts within supply to reduce properties, partially offset by a charge of 2.2m relating to an the cost of manufactured and bought-in products, and price increase in the provision for our remaining legacy properties.
discipline and margin achievement across all depots.
It also At 27 December 2014, the pension deficit shown on the balance sheet was 142.6m 28 December 2013: 54.3m.
Gross profit m The increase in the deficit was due to higher liabilities arising Change 104.3m primarily from a decrease in the discount rate, which more than offset the Groups contribution to fund the deficit and better than expected asset returns.
We saw strong cash flow in 2014.
There was a net cash inflow from operating activities of 147.8m.
This was after a cash contribution to the Groups 2 pension schemes, in excess of the operating charge, of 32.8m and payments relating to legacy properties totalling 5.3m.
1 T here were no exceptional items from continuing operations in 2014.
In 2013, there was an exceptional operating cost before tax of 4.5m from continuing operations.
In 2014, there was an exceptional profit after tax on discontinued operations of 9.1m.
There were no discontinued operations in 2013.
2 As previously announced, an additional one-off payment for the pension year ending April 2015 of 10m will be paid in 2015.
2013 590.2 Price revenue 32 Volume & Mix revenue 102 Volume & Mix COGS 39 Cost avings, etc.
4.7 2014 188.8 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Excluding the legacy property payments, underlying working OPERATIONAL REVIEW 15 capital was broadly unchanged.
Increases in stock and The business model of Howden Joinery is To supply from local debtors were offset by an increase in trade creditors.
stock nationwide the small builders ever-changing, routine, integrated kitchen and joinery requirements, assuring best Also included within net cash flows from operating activities local price, no-call-back quality and confidential trade terms.
Since it started in autumn 1995, the business has opened Payments to acquire fixed and intangible assets totalled new depots and increased turnover continuously, except for a 32.8m 2013: 24.7m.
Reflecting the above, there was a net cash inflow of 77.2m in Even today, with nearly 600 depots across the UK, we 2014, the Group having net cash of 217.7m at the end of the continue to see the opportunity to transform the scale of the year 28 December 2013: 140.5m net cash.
business, seeing scope for at least 700 depots.
We continue to invest in all aspects of the growth and performance of the DIVIDEND AND RETURN OF SURPLUS CASH TO business, including new depots and depot operations, existing SHAREHOLDERS and new employees, product development, and manufacturing The Groups dividend policy is to target dividend cover of and distribution.
between 2.5x and 3x, with one third of the previous years dividend being paid as an interim dividend each year.
Given UK depot network and operations the operational performance of the business and the cash During the course of 2014, 30 new depots were opened, generation in 2014, in light of this policy, the Board has bringing the total number of depots trading at the end of the decided to recommend to shareholders a final dividend of 6.5p, year to 589.
In addition, two depots were relocated and three giving a total dividend for the year of 8.4p 2013: 5.5p.
equates to a dividend cover of 2.75x, the Board intending to pursue a progressive dividend policy in future years.
In the summer of 2012, we began trials of a 'virtual showroom' that is designed to support our 1,000 depot-based kitchen As previously stated, the Board intends to target a capital designers.
When working with our account holders' clients in structure that is both prudent and recognises the benefits of our depots, this allows kitchen designs to be shown on a large operational and financial leverage, and, after considering our HD television screen or projected on to a wall in the depot in a capital requirements, to return surplus cash to shareholders large high-definition format, along with other material designed as appropriate.
The Group has significant property leases for to support product sales.
Often, this will be accompanied by a the depot network, and continues to have a material deficit refurbishment of the office in which the designers work.
This in the Group pension fund and a small number of remaining project to roll-out 'virtual showrooms' across all of our depots legacy liabilities related to the Groups former ownership of has been completed.
Taking into account this underlying level of gearing, the Board believes it is appropriate for the Group to be able to To support our account holders and improve our service to operate through the annual working capital cycle without their clients, we undertook a project to install A3 printers in all incurring bank debt.
These provide builders with a technical drawing of each kitchen design that is much more usable The Board has reviewed the cash balances in light of the on-site.
They also allow more impressive visualisations of Groups future investment opportunities, expected peak the kitchen to be provided to the builder's client.
This project working capital requirements and trading outlook.
As a result, it has also been completed.
has decided to return 70m of cash to shareholders by way of a share repurchase programme.
This will commence shortly and Our account base continues to grow, having increased by over will be implemented over the course of the next two years.
Initiatives to stimulate account openings meant this was double the number seen in Shares that are bought in the market by our brokers will either previous years.
While there has been a significant increase be held in treasury, to use for future obligations for company in accounts in recent years, our debt collection performance share schemes, or cancelled.
Review of operations and finance continued Product and marketing We are close to completing a two-year project to replace obsolete 16 We continue to enhance our product offering, having boilers and the associated heating infrastructure at our site in introduced a number of new products during 2014 across Howden with a state-of-the-art biomass heating system.
This all our product categories.
will ensure that we continue to be compliant with environmental emissions legislation and will reduce manufacturing costs, as the Notable amongst these were eighteen new kitchens, which heat generated attracts payments provided by the Renewable included: six gloss options and two matt options in our Heat Incentives programme.
Greenwich family: three options in a new, lower-priced, gloss integrated handle range, Clerkenwell: and three options in a We have completed the replacement of the 100 'tractor units' for new, premium, Tewkesbury framed family.
These are Euro 6 compliant and are fitted with the latest technology for environmental compliance.
In addition, To ensure we cater for all budgets and price points, we have they have enhanced safety features, including: introduced a number of new products, including: a premium crash avoidance technology that assists the driver when it touch control Lamona pyrolytic oven, combination microwave detects the risk of a collision: and and warming drawer: a collection of premium handles and a forward facing cameras for incident recording, to help with range of competitively priced rose handles: and a new entry accident investigation and insurance claims.
Replacement of 400 trailer units for our fleet of lorries will begin In addition, we continue to enhance our other product offerings, in the spring.
including new products in our worktops and backboards, sinks, doors and flooring ranges.
We also started a trial of Continental Europe selling affordable granite worktops from stock, beginning in As we set out at the interim results in July, we have amended a small number of depots.
Initial results from this have been the pricing strategy in our French depots.
As a result, we encouraging and the trial has recently been extended to an have seen an improvement in the financial performance of additional 40 depots.
the depots, notwithstanding the widely reported economic headwinds in the country.
We continue to invest in our marketing communications and brand advertising.
As well as updating our range of marketing This has given us the confidence to add a second phase of literature and the Howdens website www.
com, depots to our operations in northern France, our plan being to we embarked on a partnership with pottery designer and open seven new depots during the second half of 2015. manufacturer Emma Bridgewater.
Emma designed for us a pair of Howdens mugs and fluted bowls that were given away It has also given us the confidence to extend the trial, both in with every kitchen plan for limited periods, the partnership France and in other countries in continental Europe.
First, we being featured in our adverts and on the Howdens website.
To have opened two depots in Belgium that are the same format further raise awareness of the Howdens brand, we attended as our existing French depots and will allow us to learn about 13 county shows and agriculture fairs throughout the UK during a slightly different market.
Second, we have opened an outlet the summer.
with a new format and branding further south in France, with another planned to be opened late in 2015.
This is larger Manufacturing and logistics operations than existing depots, and will be used to test a number of new Our UK-based manufacturing and logistics operations play a initiatives.
We also intend to begin a trial in Holland, where we vital role in ensuring that we are able to supply our small builder plan to open a similar larger format depot towards the end of customers from local stock nationwide at all times, having this year.
the flexibility to respond to each depots individual needs.
We continue to invest in these operations so as to ensure that this aspect of the Howdens model is never compromised, even during our critical Period 11, when sales are more than double the level seen in other periods.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 GROUP DEVELOPMENTS The Group remains committed to its view that the number of 17 depots in the UK can be increased from its current level of 589 Legacy properties to at least 700.
During the course of 2015, we are currently The Group continues to reduce its legacy property portfolio.
planning to open up to 30 depots in the UK.
One lease was terminated in 2014, at a cost of just over 3m, We are well positioned and look forward to continued growth.
and one lease, with less than six months remaining, was As in recent years, we will act quickly and appropriately adapt released early.
In addition, the leases of two properties expired our business model to the market and economic conditions during the year.
This means that there are now five legacy properties remaining, KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS with net annual rent and rates of less than 1m.
The Group uses a number of financial performance indicators to INVESTMENT PROGRAMME measure operational and financial activity in the business.
Non-financial indicators are discussed further in the corporate We have undertaken a review of the medium and longer-term social responsibility report on pages 22 to 27. growth prospects for the business and have identified more significant opportunities than previously foreseen.
Kitchens Total sales growth continue to grow in complexity as kitchen users expect Growth in sales of the UK Howden Joinery depots is key increasing functionality as well as a constant flow of new to enhancing shareholder value.
This measure, along with designs.
At the same time, our account base continues to grow, monitoring our programme of depot openings, tracks the ability and we are focused on delivering better and better local service of the Group to grow the business.
to more and more builders.
Operating profit Following on from this review, we have been considering how to The Group targets steady growth in operating profit before ensure that we are best placed to deal with and take advantage exceptional items over the medium-term.
of what the future might bring.
Earnings per share EPS In respect of our supply operations, a number of areas have We believe that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible measure been identified for investment in the coming years.
These include of the returns we are generating as a Group for our shareholders, preparing for future growth and improved resilience of our and also has the merit of being auditable and well understood.
cabinet manufacturing operations, a new national distribution The key measure of short-term financial performance is basic centre NDC for bought-in products, increased manufacturing earnings per share before exceptional items.
capacity in non-cabinet products and replacing aged manufacturing assets.
As a result, we expect capital expenditure Depot openings across the business to average around 60m per annum over The business model is based on individual depots providing the next three years.
The exact phasing of this will depend on the kitchens to small builders within a local community.
The timing of the building and fitting-out of the new NDC.
continuing drive to open new depots in new localities is therefore key to the Groups growth prospects.
Howden Joinery CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK FOR 2015 currently intends to open 30 depots in 2015, although it should Howden Joinery UK depot sales in the first two periods of 2015 be noted that we have the ability to adjust the rhythm of the to 21 February were up 9.9% on the same period last year opening programme in line with economic conditions.
this excludes the first week, which had one less trading day in 2015 than in 2014, in line with our expectations.
Along with the evidence we have of trading prospects, this would suggest that market conditions remain unchanged.
Review of operations and finance continued USE AND MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, In addition, our pension trustees, who carry a charge over 18 AND EXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL RISK the share capital of Howden Joinery Limited, have a separate covenant test around the EBITDA of Howden Joinery Limited.
The Group holds financial instruments for one principal purpose: to finance its operations.
The Group does not currently The Groups latest forecasts and projections have been use derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to stress-tested for reasonably possible adverse variations in interest or exchange rate movements.
The Group finances its trading performance and show that the Group will operate operations by using cash flows from operations, and it also has within the terms of its borrowing facility and covenants for access to longer-term loan facilities from banks if additional the foreseeable future.
Treasury operations are managed within policies and procedures approved by the Board.
At the 2014 year end, the Group had 131.9m of cash, 85.0m of short-term investments, and 112.0m of funds available to The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments borrow under the committed borrowing facility in line with the are funding and liquidity risk, interest rate risk, counterparty levels of stock and trade debtors at the year-end.
risk and foreign currency risk, which are discussed below.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other Interest rate risk instruments is permitted.
The Treasury function does not The Group has not had any borrowings during 2014 and does operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the not consider interest rate risk to be significant at present.
Counterparty risk Funding and liquidity Group Treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to The Groups objective with respect to managing capital is those with a minimum Standard and Poors Moodys short-term to maintain a balance sheet structure that is both efficient credit rating of A-2 P-1.
It also places limits on the maximum in terms of providing long-term returns to shareholders amount which can be invested with a single counterparty.
and safeguards the Groups ability to continue as a going Investments mainly consist of bank deposits, UK Treasury bills concern.
As appropriate, the Group can choose to adjust its and liquidity funds.
The Group continuously reviews the credit capital structure by varying the amount of dividends paid to quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit shareholders, returns of capital to shareholders, issuing new exposures and categories of investments.
shares or the level of capital expenditure.
Foreign currency risk The Group began 2014 with an asset-backed bank facility The most significant currencies for the Group are the US which allowed borrowing of up to a maximum of 160m, dollar and the Euro.
It is the Groups current policy that routine dependent on the actual levels of stock and trade debtors transactional conversion between currencies is completed at held at any time.
This maximum amount reduced to 140m in the relevant spot exchange rate.
This policy is reviewed on a May 2014 in line with the terms agreed at the inception of the regular basis.
The facility is due to expire in July 2016.
The facility was not used at any point during 2014.
The net impact of exchange rates on currency transactions in the year was 8.0m.
The Group does not have many overseas The Groups committed borrowing facility contains certain assets liabilities, so the impact of currency translation on financial covenants which have been met throughout 2014.
The these items is not material.
covenants are tested every four weeks and are based around: i fixed charges: ii tangible net worth: and iii earnings before Set out in the table below are the principal exchange rates interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA for versus the UK pound affecting the profits of the Group: Howden Joinery Limited.
2014 2014 2013 2013 Principal exchange rates versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.65 1.56 1.56 1.64 Euro 1.24 1.27 1.18 1.19 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 19 The Group implemented IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits during the year.
This has had the effect of decreasing the profit for the period, and of increasing other comprehensive income for the period by equal and opposite amounts.
It has had no net effect on total income or net assets.
Details of the adoption of this IFRS are given in note 2 to the financial statements, and details of the amounts and line items affected is given in note 21.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT Certain statements in this Annual Report are forward-looking.
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected in these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because these statements contain risks and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
By order of the Board Mark Robson Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 25 February 2015
