DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 52 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 53 Audit & Risk Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE ROLE AND ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED BY THE COMMITTEE Michael Wareing Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee The Committee is authorised by the Board to review In preparation for each year end, the Committee reviews during the year was as follows: the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and the significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements internal controls and risk management systems together with to be applied in the financial statements and discusses their Committee members Number of meetings held in 2014 procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting application with management.
The external auditor also Eligible to attend Attendance of key risks.
A summary of the key matters considered by considers the appropriateness of these assessments as part of Michael Wareing 5 5 the Committee during 2014 is set out below: the external audit.
In accordance with the Code, the external Committee Chairman auditor prepares a report for the Committee on both the half Audit & Risk Committee agenda items 2014 Edward Astle 5 5 year and full year results, which summarises the approach to 1 Christopher Knight 5 4 Financial statements and reports Feb May Jul Sep Nov key risks in the external audit and highlights any issues arising Lena Wilson 5 5 Full year results 2013 out of their work on those risks, or any other work undertaken 1.
Christopher Knight was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 on the audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and considered the following areas of judgement to be exercised Management highlights Throughout 2014, the composition of the Committee was DEAR SHAREHOLDER in the application of the accounting policies: memorandum in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the On behalf of the Board, the Audit & Risk Committee Code.
As required by the Code, Michael Wareing has recent Going concern assessment Claims Committee has a pivotal role in scrutinising the conduct and relevant financial experience as he was formerly the Chief Fair, balanced and understandable From time to time the Group is involved in various claims of the business, its management and auditors to protect the Executive Officer of KPMG International until his retirement in assessment and lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business.
In order to do this, the Committee September 2009 and also in 2014 chaired the Audit Committee Significant accounting policies The Committee considered the claims provision which reflects reviews the integrity of the financial statements ensuring that at both Cobham plc and Wolseley plc.
Edward Astle and the estimates of amounts payable in connection with identified Half year results 2014 the judgements made by management are appropriate and Christopher Knight both have relevant financial experience claims from customers, former employees and others.
The monitors the external auditors to ensure that they remain as detailed in their biographies on pages 46 and 47.
Committee noted that once claims have been notified the independent and objective and the audit continues to be External audit finance teams liaise with the business to determine whether effective.
As part of this process, the Committee also ensures All of the Committee members are considered to be Audit strategy & plan 2014 a provision is required, based on IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent that the Annual Report and Accounts contain the necessary independent in accordance with the Code criteria.
New Audit fee proposal 2014 liabilities and Contingent assets IAS 37.
The level of information to enable shareholders to assess the Companys Committee members receive an appropriate induction, provision is subsequently reviewed on a regular basis with Engagement letter performance, business model and strategy.
It also includes the consisting of the review of the Terms of Reference, previous the Head of Legal, taking into account the advice of external oversight of the Groups internal controls and risk management Committee meeting papers, information on the Companys Non-audit fees review of policy, legal counsel.
The Head of Legal briefs the Committee at systems with the aim of ensuring that the risks that could financial and operational risks and also have access to senior spend and cap every meeting on the latest status of key claims and the level impact the business and therefore shareholder value are operational staff and the Groups internal and external auditors.
Update on non-audit fees of provision.
The Committee, following assurance from managed.
Therefore, I am pleased to present the Audit & Risk Update on audit strategy & plan The business of the Committee is linked to the Groups financial management and review of the report presented by the Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 KPMG highlights review memorandum calendar of events and the timetable for the annual audit.
external auditor, considered and agreed that the claims which outlines these activities and the responsibilities At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman, Chief KPMG effectiveness provision was appropriate given the size, status and number of the Committee in more detail.
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial of claims reported during the year.
Letter of representation to the auditors As part of the Committees programme of increasing its Controller, Head of Legal, the Head of Internal Audit and the External audit tender proposal Taxation understanding of the business it received presentations during audit partner and audit lead from KPMG attended all meetings.
The determination of profits subject to tax is calculated the year from Business line leaders to present an overview of Other senior executives were invited to attend the Committee Internal audit according to complex laws and regulations, the interpretation the inherent risk issues and how they are managed, and from meetings and give presentations as highlighted in the table on and application of which can be uncertain.
In addition, deferred 2015 audit plan Regional Chief Financial Officers providing an overview of the page 53.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the function, governance and controls that are in place within their on the Companys website at www.
Internal audit reports amounts to be recognised, with consideration given to the regions.
The Committee also ensures that it has separate Internal audit effectiveness timing and level of future taxable income.
The main areas meetings with the Chief Financial Officer, Head of Legal, Head of judgement in the Group tax calculation are the expected of Internal Audit and the external auditor without management Governance, risk and assurance central tax provisions for the full year and the recognition present to provide a forum for any issues to be raised.
Risk management strategy of the UK deferred tax asset.
Twice a year, the Committee Finally, an annual evaluation of the performance of the receives a report from management providing an evaluation Group risk register Committee was conducted, and it was shown that the of existing risks and tax provisions which is reviewed and Compliance and operational risk Committee is able and effective in discharging its duties challenged by the Committee.
The Committee also considered Key claims report in accordance with its Terms of Reference and the requirements reports presented by the external auditor before determining of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee will Code of Ethics and hotline that the levels of provisioning were appropriate.
continue to work to deliver its role as part of the assurance roll-out update and governance framework.
Update on the development and effectiveness of key anti-bribery and corruption initiatives in China Inherent risk assessment including presentation from Industry Services UK Corporate Governance Code Other Presentation by Business Line Leaders and Regional Chief Financial Officer Group-wide finance transformation update DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 54 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 55 Audit & Risk Committee continued Restructuring A verification process dealing with the factual content to re-appoint KPMG as the external auditor.
The Board has We have implemented a verification programme to check that In reviewing the provision for restructuring, details of which of the reports to ensure accuracy and consistency: accepted the recommendation and agreed that the resolution all the statements made in the Annual Report and Accounts are contained in the financial review on page 34 and in note Comprehensive review by the senior management team be included in the Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
are accurate and the verification files for this process have been 13, the Committee reviewed details of each of the activities to ensure overall consistency and balance: prepared.
Interteks Manual of Accounting Policies and AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES pursued as part of the restructuring to ensure that the Review conducted by external advisors and the external Procedures is issued to all finance staff and gives instructions One of the main responsibilities of the Committee is to ensure appropriate level of provision is put in place.
The Committee auditor on best practice with regard to the content and and guidance on all aspects of accounting and reporting that the continued independence and objectivity of the Groups also sought confirmation from the external auditor that the structure of the Annual Report and Accounts: apply to the Group.
The Intertek Core Control Framework is external auditors.
The Company has set out a policy on the restructuring plan met the criteria for recognising a provision Review and consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts a key Group-wide framework that provides an easy reference provision of non-audit work by the external auditors to make under IAS 37 before determining that the provision was by the Audit & Risk Committee: and to the core elements of the Groups Governance Framework.
sure that the auditors independence is safeguarded.
Final sign-off provided by the Board.
It includes those mandatory policies applying across the Group external auditors are precluded from engaging in any non-audit in all locations and provides a single place where each The Committee received a report following the process work that would compromise their independence or violate any Impairment employee has easy access to mandatory policies.
During the undertaken to ensure compliance with the Code together laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors The Groups strategy includes acquisition-led growth to year, this was reviewed and refreshed to reflect the changes with ensuring robust challenge of judgemental statements or would lead a reasonable and informed third party to regard generate new services and expand into new locations.
These in the risk and governance environments.
to ensure that they were reasonable within the context of the the objectives of the proposed non-audit service as being acquisitions, being in the service sector, generate significant Report.
This enabled the Committee, and then the Board, inconsistent with the objectives of the audit.
The Committee goodwill that benefits the Group as a whole and specifically Group Core Control Framework to confirm that the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, taken annually reviews and approves the framework of permitted the business to which the acquisition relates.
Goodwill, as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides non-audit services taking into account any changes in aggregated at the business line level, must be tested annually the information necessary for shareholders to assess the legislation and best practice.
An annual cap for non-audit for impairment under IAS 36 Impairment IAS 36, or when Business Line Policies there are indicators of impairment.
These indicators include Companys performance, business model and strategy.
services is presented to the Committee for approval, with Mission & Strategy Group Policies Support Function Policies poor performance compared to budget.
The Committee caps assigned to each category, compared to spend in the EXTERNAL AUDITORS Approved by the Board Approved by Executive Approved by Strategy reviewed and challenged the impairment consideration and previous two years and prior approval is required for all items Management Unit COO Mission Statement The Committee monitors the relationship with the external RCA review new policies Non-Mandatory calculations prepared by management, considering the trading over an agreed level.
A report is presented to the Committee Group Strategy auditors, KPMG, including the provision of any non-audit atGroup Level Mandatory Across Focus on Customer assumptions, the discount rates used as well as the sensitivities twice a year showing year to date spend against each category theGroup Business Line Policies &Shareholders services.
It also seeks to ensure the continued independence included by management, details of which are contained of the annual cap previously approved by the Committee.
Technical Dedicated Policy Owners and objectivity of the external auditor.
The Committee discusses Support Function Change Control Process in note 9.
The Committee also took into account the work Policies Non-Technical any fees paid to KPMG for non-audit work and the reasons why A summary of the fees paid for non-audit fees is set out undertaken by the external auditor in respect of impairment they were appointed for such work.
During the year, KPMG in the table below and further information is contained in and is satisfied that no impairment of goodwill is required.
met with the members of the Committee without any note 4 to the financial statements on page 87: Any material breaches of the Groups systems of internal Accounts receivable and accrued income management being present.
In the interests of independence 2014 2013 and risk management controls that are identified by the The Group takes a balanced approach to provisioning of and objectivity, the engagement audit partner is rotated every Auditor fee breakdown m m Groups control review procedures are reported to the accounts receivable balances and the Group provisioning policy five years unless there are exceptional circumstances in which Total non-audit fees 0.6 0.7 Committee and corrective action is taken.
The Committee is to provide 25% of balances six to 12 months old and 100% case the Committee may approve up to a further two years.
Audit fee 2.3 2.1 endeavours to ensure that the Group has in place the most of balances greater than one year old.
Where there are specific KPMG has been the Companys external auditors since the % of audit fee 26% 33% appropriate and effective controls, checks, systems, and risk circumstances, central adjustments may be made to material management buy-out from Inchcape in 1996 17 years and management techniques so as to be in line with best practice.
individual items based on reviews by the Group Financial since then the Group has not formally tendered the external INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The control environment within the Group is further Controller and Regional Chief Financial Officers.
However, the Committee has continued to keep under The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the strengthened by two internal Committees.
The Risk Control also has potential exposure within accrued income, particularly review and discussed the requirement contained in the UK Groups system of internal control and risk management and and Assurance Committee RCA has the remit of overseeing on long-term contracts within the Technical Inspection Corporate Governance Code to put the external audit contract for reviewing its effectiveness.
This manages and helps mitigate the development of the internal control and an Investment business.
The Committee reviewed and challenged the update out to tender at least every ten years and also considered the the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide Committee IC is in place with the remit of reviewing and from management at year end on the approach taken to the subsequent proposals of both the Competition & Markets reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
approving material expenditure and other key actions provisioning and took into account the opinion of the external Authority and the European Commission.
In November 2014, Risk management and internal controls are embedded in the throughout the business within certain limits as outlined in the auditor.
The Committee after due consideration agreed that the Committee agreed to start the process for the formal running of each business line, country and support function.
Further information on the membership the current provisioning policy adopted by management is tender of the external audit with the intention of selecting The risk register process follows the global organisation, and and remit of the RCA and IC is on pages 50 and 51. appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
a new external auditor to be appointed for the year ending risk registers are produced for each business line and support INTERNAL CONTROLS AND REPORTING FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE ASSESSMENT 31 December 2016 following the completion of the 2015 function and then consolidated at Group level.
The time In order to provide assurance that controls and policies are One of the key intentions of the Annual Report and Accounts year end process and recommending their appointment commitment and breadth of data gathering in completing the being followed, a process of self-assessment and hierarchical is that it gives a fair, balanced and understandable view of the at the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting.
risk registers have been expanded and this year risk registers reporting has been established which provides a documented Groups position and prospects, as well as providing the have also been produced for the largest 20 countries following EFFECTIVENESS OF EXTERNAL AUDIT trail of accountability.
These procedures are applied across necessary information for readers of the Annual Report and risk discussions with country managers.
The country risk The Committee conducts an annual review of the performance Group operations and support functions and provide for Accounts to assess the Groups performance for 2014, its registers have not been used to feed into the Group Risk of the external auditor.
In order for the Committee to be able continuing assurances to be given at increasingly higher business model and its strategy, in order that the Committee Register as they are country specific but will serve as a useful to assess the effectiveness of the audit, a process has been levels of management and finally, to the Board.
This process can explicitly state that view.
In justifying this statement, the indicator to see whether Group-wide risks are replicated at a developed which involves the external auditor presenting is facilitated by Company Secretariat using an on-line Audit & Risk Committee has considered the robust process country level.
This has helped to validate the previous process its approach to maintaining audit quality annually to the questionnaire which also provides assurance as to the operation that underpins it, which includes: and no significant changes were made to the Group Risk Committee and a questionnaire being circulated to those within and validity of the system of internal control and risk Register.
The Committee reviews the Group Risk Register twice Clear guidance and instruction given to all contributors, Intertek who were involved in the audit process seeking their management.
Planned corrective actions are monitored a year and presents the register to the Board for final approval including at business line level: views on the service provided as to adequacy of planning, for timely completion.
Revisions as a result of regulatory requirements were resources, fieldwork and quality of reporting.
Following monitored on a regular basis: the feedback received from the internal review, and having Pre year-end discussions held with the external auditor reviewed the performance of the external auditor, the in advance of the year-end reporting process: Committee has recommended to the Board a resolution Pre year-end input provided by senior management and corporate functions: DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 56 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 57 Audit & Risk Committee continued Nomination Committee The Committee can confirm that it reviewed the Groups plan of Internal Audit.
The annual plan of action for Internal Other attendees at Committee meetings include the Chief Sir David Reid Chairman of the Nomination Committee internal controls and risk management systems and concluded Audit is reviewed and approved by the Committee.
Where Executive Officer, Group Vice President, Human Resources, Group that there was a sound and effective control environment in there is not the internal expertise to perform a specialised audit, Company Secretary and appropriate external advisors as necessary place across the Group during 2014 and up to the date upon a third party auditor with the requisite skills will be appointed THE ACTIVITY OF THE COMMITTEE which these financial statements were approved.
No material to undertake the audit, the findings of which are reported During the year, the Committee spent a significant amount of weaknesses had been identified.
An external review of the effectiveness of time overseeing the processes which lead to the announcement the Internal Audit function will be undertaken during 2015. of Andr Lacroix being appointed as Chief Executive Officer in AUDIT AND RISK STRATEGY QUALITY ASSURANCE AUDITS 2015 and Edward Leigh as Chief Financial Officer in 2014.
In both The Audit and Risk Strategy was presented to the Committee The Company carries out quality assurance audits across searches, the Committee considered the experience, competency during the year.
The strategy has focused on ensuring that the the Group and the findings are reported to management.
and personal qualities that would be required for these positions programme is annually strengthened and enhanced to reflect Each business line has at least one compliance officer who in order to create detailed role specifications, candidate profiles the size and global reach of the Intertek Group.
The Group has undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from and a timetable to ensure an orderly and efficient process.
a programme of training and on-line courses for compliance quality assurance audits or from other sources, such as routine The external search firm, Egon Zehnder, was used to assist with matters, covering topics such as health and safety, anti-bribery, DEAR SHAREHOLDER compliance questions.
As part of our quality assurance and the identification of suitable candidates for the Chief Executive and integrity.
The Group has a zero-tolerance policy to any During the year, the particular area of focus and business assessments, internal quality audits are undertaken.
Reports Officer role and then subsequently for calibration, benchmarking bribery.
Every employee is required to sign a zero-tolerance for the Nomination Committee Committee was on the of significant findings are presented to the Committee and referencing of candidates.
Spencer Stuart was used for the document confirming their understanding that any breaches implementation and successful completion of succession which monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the benchmarking of internal candidates for the Chief Financial of the Groups Code of Ethics will result in disciplinary action planning for the roles of the Chief Executive Officer and internal audit function.
The consultants used for both appointments have that may include summary dismissal.
Each year as part of the Chief Financial Officer.
Extensive work was undertaken and appraisal process every employee is asked to confirm their no other connection with the Company.
a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure was followed PRIORITIES FOR 2015 understanding of and adherence to the Code of Ethics.
by the Committee on the search for two new executive The priorities for the Committee over the next 12 months After a rigorous and transparent selection process involving a board directors.
At the end of the process, the Board, upon As highlighted last year, our Code of Ethics was reviewed are as follows: number of candidates for both roles, which included interviews the unanimous recommendations of the Committee, and updated this year to simplify and consolidate Interteks being held with all Directors, Andr Lacroix and Edward Leigh continue to support the efforts of the external auditor and approved the following: approach to compliance and has reinforced the Intertek were deemed to be the most suitable candidates based on merit, the Internal Audit and Risk Management functions with Compliance principles in respect of integrity, conflicts of against objective criteria and taking into account their skills and With effect from 1 October 2014, the internal appointment respect to the ongoing development of the Groups total interest, confidentiality, anti-bribery and fair marketing and experience together with the Committee having due regard for of Edward Leigh as Chief Financial Officer, previously the assurance and risk management framework: strengthened our approach to protecting our environment.
the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Group Financial Controller, following the resignation of Lloyd prepare for and implement any relevant changes in the The Code of Ethics is available on the Groups website.
Pitchford: and corporate governance and regulatory arena: Also during 2014, the Board, upon the recommendation of An on-line training program has been developed for the With effect from 16 May 2015, the external appointment continue to monitor the impact of external economic factors the Committee, took the decision to reappoint Alan Brown, Sir new Code of Ethics that will be rolled out to employees of Andr Lacroix as Chief Executive Officer, currently Chief on the business of the Group and its financial position: and David Reid and Michael Wareing as Non-Executive Directors of during 2015.
The Code of Ethics had also been translated Executive Officer of Inchcape plc, upon the retirement of progress the external audit tender process.
the Company for a further three years.
Where the reappointment into 28 languages, which covers the Groups employees.
of a member of the Committee is being discussed, they are GOING CONCERN CONFIDENTIAL HOTLINE precluded from any involvement in the discussions and the The main role of the Committee continues to be in ensuring Current guidance requires that the Directors make Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues Senior Independent Director chaired the Committee when that the composition of the Board retains the right balance of an assessment that the Group has adequate resources of integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed the reappointment of the Chairman was discussed.
skills, experience, industry and technical knowledge to provide to continue in operation for the foreseeable future, being openly.
A new global hotline system was put in place during the quality of leadership necessary to implement the strategy at least 12 months from the date of signing the annual report, DIVERSITY ON THE BOARD 2014 which is operated by an independent third party.
This and achieve the strategic objectives necessary for the long-term in order to conclude on the going concern assumption.
The Board has endorsed the recommendations made by Lord provides a web-based system, which has been translated into success of the Company.
The structure of the Board is evaluated Davies of Abersoch in his report issued in 2011 on Women on 24 languages, for the confidential reporting of any suspected Management has provided the Directors with an assessment every year bearing in mind the need to refresh and review the Boards and its policy of diversity is available on our website at or real breaches in compliance by any employee, contractor, of the levels of facilities expected to be available to the skills necessary as the Company evolves and the business www.
The Committee is committed to achieving customer or other stakeholder.
There is also a telephone hotline Group, based on levels of cash held, Group Treasury funding changes.
We will continue to monitor the diversity of the Board a Board which includes and makes the best use of differences where calls are answered 24 7 by trained specialists.
This projections, and Group financial projections for a period and our objective will be to always appoint, from a wide range in culture, gender, skills, background, regional and industry underpins the ethics programme and also helps the business to 31 December 2017.
All the current borrowing facilities of backgrounds and experience, the best candidate for the role.
experience as well as other qualities.
All of these factors are protect itself against any unethical behaviour.
The details of the are expected to be available at 31 December 2015, except considered by the Committee in determining the composition The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on hotline have been communicated to staff through the Groups for 90m, and at 31 March 2016, except for 129m.
of the Board as outlined above.
The Company has already the Companys website at www.
I will be available main intranet page and by posters at Intertek locations.
All In making this assessment, management has considered made significant progress towards achieving Lord Davies at the forthcoming AGM to answer any questions on the work reports are investigated thoroughly, with action taken when the covenants attached to the Groups borrowing facilities recommendation and an analysis of the diversity of the Board of the Committee during the year.
Reports of significant matters raised on the hotlines and performed downside scenarios on the Groups financial by gender as at 31 December 2014 is provided below: are also provided to the Committee, if appropriate.
Detailed COMMITTEE MEMB ERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE projections of 10% and 20% reduction in EBITDA forecast.
statistics about such issues are provided to each meeting of Board of Directors Membership and attendance at meetings of the Committee Even in these circumstances, there is significant headroom the Committee.
Reports are made of resolutions for all matters during the year was as follows: on the debt covenants.
Male together with information about any employees who have Female left the Group due to wrong-doing.
After making diligent enquiries the Directors have a reasonable Committee members Number of meetings held in 2014 20% 80% expectation based upon current financial projections and bank Eligible to attend Attendance INTERNAL AUDIT facilities available, that the Group has adequate resources to As part of its annual programme, the Committee reviewed Sir David Reid 6 6 continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly Committee Chairman the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function and 1 they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Edward Astle 6 5 considered findings from Internal Audit as part of its annual the Groups financial statements.
Christopher Knight 6 6 programme of reviews.
Reports from Internal Audit to the 2 Michael Wareing 6 5 Committee included assurance on the Groups internal controls 1.
Edward Astle was unable to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
and risk management systems, findings and follow-ups from 2.
Michael Wareing was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
the audit of businesses, functions and processes and the annual DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 58 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 59 Remuneration report We believe that a significant proportion of remuneration Directors Remuneration for senior executives should be related to performance, Policy Report with part of that remuneration being deferred in the form of shares and subject to continued employment and longerThe Directors Remuneration Policy Report was approved by term performance.
We also believe that share-based binding vote at the AGM on 16 May 2014 and the Committee remuneration should form a significant element of senior is proposing no change for 2015.
The Policy set out on pages executives compensation so there is a strong link to the 59 to 62 is included here only for information.
sustained future success of the Group.
POLICY OVERVIEW The Committee considers shareholder feedback received We continue to focus on ensuring that our remuneration policy in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting following is appropriate for the nature, size and complexity of the Group, the AGM.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received encourages our employees in the development of their careers during any meetings from time to time, is then considered and is directed to deliver continued profitable growth.
as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
Our remuneration strategy is to: In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with align and recognise the individuals contribution to help major shareholders and their representative bodies should us succeed in achieving our strategy and long-term any material changes be proposed to the remuneration policy.
CHRISTOPHER KNIGHT business goals: Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attract, engage, motivate and retain the best available last years remuneration policy and report and any matters people by positioning total pay and benefits to be competitive discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the relevant market and in line with the ability of the in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
calibre to lead Intertek in its next stage of development.
Details business to pay: DEAR SHAREHOLDER When determining salaries and other elements of remuneration of his package including the buy-out are set out on page 64. reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities 2014 was a challenging year for Intertek as external trading for our executives we take account of general pay movement and performance: and conditions remained tough.
The general slowdown in growth In the course of the year, Edward Leigh was promoted to the and employment conditions throughout the Group, as well engage motivated high performers and, through variable in global trade led to challenges across many of our markets, position of CFO and appointed to the Board.
Mr Leighs new as the relevant general markets.
This is achieved by reviewing bonus schemes and long-term incentive plans, share the exacerbated later in the year by the effects of sharply reduced salary was set at 360,000 which was some way below the detailed information for four of the areas mainland China, Groups success with those who build and lead Intertek oil prices.
market, with the intention that it would be reviewed at the end the US, UK and Hong Kong in which the Group employs as a world class business and encourage them to increase As a result, our 2014 results did not reach the levels of the of the year subject to performance.
Having confirmed that he the greatest number of people.
The Company has not formally shareholder value.
stretching targets we set ourselves and this was reflected in the has successfully settled into his new role and is performing well, consulted with its employees on the design of its senior Each year the Committee approves the overall reward strategy overall reward to the executive directors and the wider group the Committee increased his salary to 400,000 with effect executive remuneration policy.
The Committee will keep for the Group and considers the individual remuneration of of global executives.
The annual bonus payments to the CEO from April 2015.
All other elements of Edward Leighs package, this under review.
the Executive Directors and certain senior executives.
and CFO represented 38.4%of their maximum opportunities set out on page 64, are within our approved policy.
and the 2012 long-term incentive plan LTIP vested at 25.2%.
Edward Leigh replaced Lloyd Pitchford, who resigned in The Committee reviews the balance between base salary and At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved our Remuneration September 2014.
The Committee considered Mr Pitchfords performance-related remuneration against the key objectives Policy which set out a new remuneration structure for executive leaving arrangements: he received no pay in lieu of notice and targets so as to ensure performance is appropriately directors.
The new structure separates the determination and both his annual and long-term incentives were forfeited.
This also ensures outcomes are a fair reflection of LTIP granting levels from the results of the annual bonus, of the underlying performance of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee continues to keep the a change suggested by several of our investors during recent As a global service business, our success is critically dependent remuneration structures for the Group under review, to ensure feedback.
We were pleased with the high level of support on the performance and retention of our key people around they continue to support our strategic goals in the context of for both our policy and remuneration report.
Employment costs represent the major element a rapidly evolving sector and the changing landscape of global changes to our pay structures were implemented successfully of Group operating costs.
As a global Group our pay trade and recognising that there continues to be a scarcity in 2014 for the executive directors and other senior executives.
arrangements take into account both local and international of international talent experienced in the sector.
We strive During 2014, the Committee considered the arrangements for markets and we operate a global Remuneration Policy to ensure our reward policies and practices support our the retirement of the current Chief Executive Officer, Wolfhart Framework to achieve our reward strategy, with each operation growth plans and are aligned with the long-term interests Hauser, and for the appointment of the new Chief Executive, retaining the freedom to navigate within that framework of shareholders.
That said, no changes to our policy are Andr Lacroix.
Dr Hauser will step down as Chief Executive at proposed for 2015. to find the best local solution.
the AGM and remain as an employee until the end of 2015 to Yours sincerely, Our peer groups for the majority of our employees consist of conduct a smooth handover to Mr Lacroix.
During this time, he international industrial or business service organisations and will receive his normal salary but no bonus.
Details of these similar-sized businesses.
For our more senior executives we base arrangements are set out on page 64. our remuneration comparisons on a blend of factors, including Andr Lacroix will take over as Chief Executive Officer following sector, job complexity, location, responsibilities and the AGM.
On joining, his salary will be 895,000.
All aspects performance, whilst recognising the Company is listed of his remuneration package are within the policy approved in the UK.
In order to compensate Mr Lacroix for awards CHRISTOPHER KNIGHT he lost when leaving his previous employer, we agreed to buy Chairman of the Remuneration Committee out these awards on a basis of their potential value adjusted to reflect the performance conditions that were attached to them.
The elements specifically required to be audited within This results in a large buy-out package but, we believe, one that the shaded sections of pages 65 to 68 have been audited is reasonable given the awards being replaced: moreover, the by KPMG Audit Plc in compliance with the requirements Committee and the Board strongly believe it is in shareholders of the Regulations.
interest to secure a candidate of Andr Lacroixs experience and DIRECTORS REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60 Directors report INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT 61 Remuneration report continued SUMMARY OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS SELECTION OF PERFORMANCE METRICS The following table sets out the key aspects of the remuneration policy for Directors: The annual bonus is based on performance against a mix of financial measures and personal performance.
The mix of financial measures is aligned to the Groups Key Performance Indicators KPIs and is reviewed each year by the Remuneration Committee Element Purpose and link to ensure that they remain appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
A sliding scale of targets is set of pay to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures for each KPI to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of stretch performance.
Base salary To attract and retain The Committee reviews salaries There is no prescribed maximum annual Individual performance is The LTIP is based on EPS growth and TSR performance.
EPS is a measure of the Groups overall financial success and TSR provides high performing annually, taking account of the scale of increase.
The Committee is guided by taken into account when Executive Directors to the general increase for the employee salary levels are reviewed.
an external assessment of the Companys performance against the market.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with responsibilities, the individuals experience lead the Group.
population but on occasions may need the returns received by shareholders.
A sliding scale of challenging performance targets is set for each measure.
The Committee to recognise other factors including Whilst the Committee takes benchmarking reviews the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each LTIP grant.
The development in role, change in information into account, its decisions responsibility and or variance to market Committee reserves the discretion to set different targets for future awards, without consulting with shareholders, providing that, are based primarily on the performance levels of remuneration.
of the individual concerned against the in the opinion of the Committee, the new targets are no less challenging in light of the circumstances at the time than those used above factors to ensure that there is no previously.
The targets for awards granted under this remuneration policy are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
unjustified upward ratchet in base salary.
Benefits To provide Benefits include annual medicals, life The total value of these benefits n a There are no material differences in the structure of remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the general competitive benefits assurance cover of four times base will not exceed 12% of salary.
employee population, aside from quantum and participation rates in incentive schemes.
to ensure the wellsalary, allowances in lieu of a company being of employees.
car or other benefits and private REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS medical insurance.
The charts below illustrate how the Executive Directors remuneration packages vary at different levels of performance under Pension To provide Directors can elect to join the Companys Up to 30% of salary.
n a the ongoing policy, which will apply in 2015 for both the CEO and CFO: competitive defined contribution pension scheme, retirement benefits.
receive pension contributions into their Value of remuneration packages at different levels of performance personal pension plan or receive a cash sum in lieu of pension contributions.
000 LTIP award Annual To drive and 50% paid in cash and 50% deferred For 2014, maximum 230% of salary for The majority of the annual Bonus Incentive Plan recognise annual into shares which will vest after a period the CEO and 200% of salary for the CFO.
bonus will be subject to Base salary, benets and pension AIP performance against of three years subject to continued Group financial measures 4,500 For 2015 onwards, up to 200% of salary targets which are a employment.
and no more than 20% 4,265,475 for all Executive Directors.
mix of business and of the bonus will be subject Targets are reviewed each year and are 4,000 personal objectives.
The Committee has the ability to to personal performance a balanced set of measures designed reduce bonus payments if it believes measures.
that short-term performance has been The stretch targets, when 3,500 Not pensionable.
achieved at the expense of the Groups met, reward exceptional long-term future success.
The Committee 43% Clawback provisions apply.
can adjust upwards the bonus outturn 3,000 The minimum is zero.
up to the maximum set out above to recognise very exceptional 2,624,550 circumstances or to recognise that 2,500 circumstances have occurred which 2,100,546 were beyond the direct responsibility 35% 2,000 of the executive and the executive has managed and mitigated the impact 38% of any loss.
1,500 34% 1,300,546 Long-Term To retain and reward Annual grant of conditional shares Up to 250% of salary.
LTIP awards are subject to 28% Incentive Plan Executive Directors which vest after three years, subject performance conditions based 1,000 983,625 31% LTIP for the delivery of to Company performance and continued on Earning Per Share EPS 38% long-term employment.
The shares will also be growth and relative Total 31% 500,546 500 performance.
subject to a six-month holding period Shareholder Return TSR.
At least a quarter of each To support the award will be based on each 100% 38% 24% continuity of the Accrued dividends during the vesting 0 of these measures.
leadership of the period to be paid in cash or shares at Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum business.
vesting, to the extent that shares vest.
25% of an award will vest for achieving threshold To provide long-term Wolfhart Hauser, Chief Executive officer Edward Leigh, Chief Financial officer performance, increasing alignment of pro rata to full vesting for executives interests Points relating to the above table: the achievement of stretch 1.
Salary levels are based on those applying on 1 April 2015. with shareholders performance targets.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits as disclosed for the year ended 31 December 2014. by linking rewards under the TSR element of 3.
The value of pension receivable by the CEO and CFO in 2015 is taken to be 25% of salary and 20% of salary respectively.
to Interteks the LTIP are also subject to 4.
The on-target level of bonus is taken to be 50% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
The on-target level of the LTIP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant.
Share price movement and dividend accrual have not been incorporated into the values shown above.
Share To increase alignment Executive Directors are required to retain CEO: 200% of salary.
n a APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT AND PROMOTIONS ownership between executives any vested shares net of tax under the CFO: 150% of salary.
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director base salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive guidelines and shareholders.
Groups share plans until the guideline is met.
awards would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys prevailing approved remuneration policy at the time The guideline must be met within of appointment.
The Committee may set the base salary at a value to reflect the calibre, experience and earnings potential of a five years of appointment.
candidate, subject to the Committees judgement that the level of remuneration is in the Companys best interest.
In addition, the Non-Executive To attract and retain Fees are paid mostly in cash, with As for the Executive Directors, there n a Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements to take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the Directors fees high calibre Non- 10% of fees paid in the form of shares.
is no prescribed maximum annual former employer when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
Any such awards Executive Directors increase.
The Committee is guided by Fees are determined based on the through the provision the general increase for the employee would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration it is intended to replace.
responsibility and time committed to of market competitive population but on occasions may need the Groups affairs and appropriate fees.
to recognise other factors including For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses and market comparisons.
change in responsibility and or variance continuing allowances as appropriate.
Additionally, in the case of any Executive Director being recruited from overseas, or being No other benefits are provided, other to market levels of remuneration.
recruited by the Company to relocate overseas to perform their duties, the Committee may offer expatriate benefits on an than to the Chairman, who receives a car allowance of 25,000 per annum.
ongoing basis subject to their aggregate value to the individual not exceeding 50% of salary per annum.
