184 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2014 8.
Other Information Basis of Reporting Non-Financial Data Johnson Matthey continues to use a reporting Revised Edition and the GRI indicator Accident Calculation Definitions approach based upon the GRI G3.1 protocols as appropriate.
Any exceptions Johnson Mattheys definition of an accident guidelines and has applied them in an are noted.
for the purposes of this report is any acute appropriate context to the group by All non-financial performance data is unplanned event that causes harm to examination of the definition, explanatory reported on a financial year basis unless individuals, making them unable to attend notes and self diagnosis tests to ensure otherwise stated.
Where necessary data work on days after the date of the event.
a fair, balanced and understandable has been restated, for example to reflect Accidents are further subdivided into description when assessed against the changes in the business e. g. divestments accidents that result in more than three reporting criteria.
In addition, feedback and site closures, to take account of days work lost and those that cause three received on the 2013 Annual Report and changes in best practice methodologies or fewer days to be lost.
Accident incidence Accounts and a well structured management for reporting and changes in calculating rates are calculated based on the rate of approach early in 2014 have shaped the emissions.
Certain safety data has been these accidents per 1,000 employees.
reporting of non-financial content and restated to include four lost time accidents The following metrics are used in this context.
Due consideration has been that occurred during 2012 13 but that were report: given to relevant international standards not declared as having resulted in lost time such as the International Organization for until after the year end.
For employee data, Incidence rate for all lost time accidents Standardizations voluntary standard on percentage calculations are made in relation in the year number of greater than three social responsibility, ISO 26000, the to the number of permanent employees in day accidents in the year number of three progress of the International Integrated the group unless otherwise stated.
day or less accidents in the year x 1,000 Reporting Framework, the GRI G4 reporting Global warming potential in tonnes of average number of employees in the year.
guidelines and other emerging regulations carbon dioxide CO equivalent includes 2 and standards for non-financial reporting.
We report Incidence rate for greater than three day This report has been developed to greenhouse gas GHG emissions from accidents in the year number of greater incorporate the groups significant economic, process and energy use and convert the than three day accidents in the year x 1,000 environmental and social impacts and is total group energy use to tonnes CO 2 average number of employees in the year.
set within the context of the United Nations equivalent using national and regional Brundtland definition of sustainability 1987 conversion factors for each emissions Lost work days per 1,000 employees per and our own Sustainability 2017 goals.
In June 2013 Defra year total lost work days in year x 1,000 Understanding the relevance of local, national, published new guidelines for the reporting of average number of employees in the year.
regional and global issues, regulation and carbon emissions related to the consumption legislation is taken into account when of grid electricity.
We have therefore Frequency rate for all lost time accidents considering reporting.
The AA1000AS calculated the Scope 2 emissions on this in the year number of greater than three assurance standard principles of inclusivity, basis for 2013 14 and have restated our day accidents in the year number of three materiality and responsiveness help to historical Scope 2 data.
day or less accidents in the year x 100,000 shape the structure of the report and in In 2013 14 Johnson Matthey adopted number of hours worked in the year.
the UK mandatory GHG reporting There are no limitations on the scope requirements.
Under this new legislation we Calculation of Occupational or boundary of the non-financial data in are required to ensure that the quantification Illness Rates this report.
The non-financial information of GHG emissions and data reliability is Incidence rate for occupational illnesses presented covers the sustainability activities sufficient to meet our obligation under in the year number of new occupational and performance of Johnson Mattheys the UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic illnesses diagnosed in the year x 1,000 global operations and includes the parent & Directors Reports Regulations 2013. average number of employees in the year.
company and its subsidiaries as listed on The data we have presented for our global page 176.
Environmental performance data warming potential in this report contains all covers manufacturing, research and Johnson Mattheys material GHG emissions warehousing operations of the parent and therefore meets the requirements of this company and its subsidiaries.
We have included a mandatory performance data from acquired facilities is GHG report in the table on page 72. only included after the first full year of Certain employee data is included in Johnson Matthey ownership.
Environmental the accounts which is subject to external performance data from new facilities is audit.
The groups other social, health and included from the point at which the facility safety and environmental data is collected is fully operational.
The report also explains annually at a group level.
The data is how we are continuing to build sustainability collated through questionnaires based on into our business planning and decision the requirements of the Global Reporting making processes and how, through our Initiative third generation GRI G3.1 governance processes, we manage social, guidelines.
It is completed by businesses environmental and ethical matters across and signed off by the general manager for the group.
The reported site Data measurement techniques, including level data is a combination of actual calculations for social, environmental and measurement and estimates.
The processes health and safety performance, have used in place to internally verify the reported data internationally recognised protocols such as are described in the Verification section on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate page 185.
