SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW OUR RELATIONSHIPS AND COMMITMENT TO STAKEHOLDERS F or more information, visit: www.
com sustainability 42 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We contribute to the economic growth of our host communities, regions and countries to assist the progression of sustainable socio-economic development.
Acacias direct economic contribution is made The distribution of Acacias taxes includes EDUCATION up of the economic value we add bypaying royalties, indirect taxes VAT payable on ouremployees, Governments, suppliers, domestic goods and fuel levies, payroll taxes shareholders, contractors and communities.
inclusive of social security payments and other 28 However, our true economic contribution is far taxes such as withholding taxes, stamp duties Key Projects supported in 2015 greater once the wider effects of our presence and environmental levies.
Theseinclude the indirect the majority of our taxes are paid in Tanzania, effects of people spending their wages, being the location of our operating mines.
US$4.1m Governments distributingtax and royalty Our net taxation contribution was US$109 million Amount invested in 2015 revenues, andneighbouring communities using in 2015, compared toUS$121 million in 2014, the infrastructure developed for our operations.
as a result ofthereduction in our workforce HEALTH Ourdirect economic contribution in 2015 was reducing payrolltaxes.
US$889 million compared to US$920million in 2014.
9 Key Projects supported in 2015 US$1.2m Amount invested in 2015 WATER AND SANITATION 6 1 1 2014 Net tax contribution 2015 Net tax contribution Key Projects supported in 2015 US$million US$million 17 16 US$0.6m 41 38 Amount invested in 2015 INFRASTRUCTURE 63 54 9 Key Projects supported in 2015 Royalty Government Royalty Government Payroll taxes including social security Payroll taxes including social security Other taxes including WHT, stamp duties, Other taxes including WHT, stamp duties, US$2.7m environmental levies environmental levies Amount invested in 2015 1 Excludes refundable indirect taxes.
LIVELIHOODS Direct economic contribution 2014 % 5 2015 Key Projects supported in 2015 100 80 US$0.3m 60 Amount invested in 2015 40 COMMUNITY COHESION & OTHER 20 0 16 -20 Key Projects supported in 2015 -40 Interest and Dividends Taxes and Employees Available for Suppliers, Repayment non-controlling Government net of tax reinvestment contractors and of borrowings shareholders royalties utilised communities US$4.0m for growth Amount invested in 2015 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 43 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Community relations In addition, we progressed our planning for Breakdown of n ew grievances lodged We continued to make good progress across the development of an artisanal and smallby mine site all of our community relations initiatives during scale mining project, in collaboration with Total number the year, with our efforts being recognised the World Bank, AngloGold Ashanti and the in Tanzania as North Mara emerged as the Tanzanian Ministry of Energy and Minerals.
overall CSRE Champion in the Presidential CSRE Initial recommendations of this project 236 awards, as well as the winner in the large mining include establishing a processing centre: it is companies category.
Buzwagi also emerged anticipated that this will lead to improved gold as the winner in the community infrastructure production, increasing earnings for the miners, category.
whilst minimising the health and environmental 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 impacts associated with the current artisanal Bulyanhulu 7 During the year we spent US$12.9m on a range gold recovery processes.
Buzwagi 1 of community-related initiatives, primarily through North Mara 228 the Acacia Maendeleo Fund.
These included: In 2015, we continued our efforts to publicise Tracking of grievances was introduced in 2011. the availability of the Grievance Mechanism Total excludes 12 grievances registered in Kenya.
upgrading of the Bwirege Secondary School at all the sites and encouraged the reporting near North Mara: of any grievances through this Mechanism.
upgrading the Bugarama Health Centre Breakdown of new grievances lodged by type As a result, we have seen an increase in the near Bulyanhulu: and % registration of some categories of grievances, 9 6 revamping of Nyangoto Water pipeline including human rights grievances, against the 6 near North Mara.
2014 reporting period, with a total of 248 new grievances lodged during the year compared 37 We also launched two initiatives in 2015 to to 77 new grievances in 2014.
The majority build local community cohesion.
We championed of these grievances are at North Mara and 42 the Mahusioano sports tournament involving relate to land issues at North Mara, where teams from our surrounding communities speculative investments have delayed the across a range of sports and formed a strategic land compensation resettlement programmes partnership with Sunderland Football Club for as well as intruder related human rights related Environmental grassroots football coaching and development grievances.
Whilst our assessment is that a Security Human Rights for youths in the communities around our mines.
number of these grievances are not justified, Land and property we are encouraged by the increased usage of Livelihoods the Grievance Mechanism which demonstrates Other that this Mechanism is accessible and seen as a credible option by members of the communities in which we operate.
Total community investment US$million 12.9 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Acacia Maendeleo Fund Bulyanhulu 2.9 We established the Acacia Maendeleo Buzwagi 1.9 Fund in 2011 as part of our commitment North Mara 5.4 to promoting sustainable development Corporate and other 2.7 in the communities in which we operate.
Since that time we have invested US$35.0 million into a range of areas including education, health, water, infrastructure and livelihoods.
F or more information, visit: www.
com sustainability  44 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION During the year, we developed Acacias new Sustainable Communities strategy.
This new ambitious strategy advances beyond traditional models of corporate social responsibility as it is anchored on the concept of creating shared value within the Acacia business and the communities in which we live and work.
Shared value strategies engage the scale and innovation of companies such as Acacia to advance social progress.
The focus is on creating value, developing peoples capabilities and enhancing resilience both within the Acacia business and the communities in which we live and work.
Our Sustainable Communities strategy will help to contribute to more prosperous communities and greater alignment of interests between the community and Acacia, and will focus on advancing three connected areas: A thriving local economy: We will invest to provide training and support to promote local business development and help to build an enterprising economy that Ending child labour in artisanal In June 2015, they were trained by SFCG can create employment opportunities media experts and Tanzanian journalists and small-scale mining for local people and reduce dependency on data collection and how to write and on our operations.
In May 2015, Acacia and Search for Common produce articles, presentations, social Strategic social infrastructure: We will Ground SFCG co-funded a six-month media entries and radio programmes.
invest in strategic social infrastructure project aligned with Acacias initiative to Equipped with recorders, cameras and in order to enhance communities ability end children in mining, something which notepads, the students interviewed men to generate wealth.
remains prevalent in Tanzanian rural mining and women, old and young, workers on areas.
Child labour in mining is classified by Community cohesion: We will invest in mine sites and others who had never set the International Labour Organization ILO initiatives to enhance the social capital foot there.
They then held presentations as the worst form of child labour.
between the communities near our with the results of their interviews for village operations and the mines, with a focus leaders and community members, asking The project involved members of the on sport, music and culture.
for their leaders to take action.
Unity Peace Club, a youth group originally set up by SFCG with funding from Acacia We will start to implement the new strategy As a result, a valuable discussion began to transform the inter-clan conflicts in the in 2016, working in partnership with others on the importance of education and the surrounding area.
Many of the Unity Peace including NGOs, social enterprises and need to end all child labour, not just in Club students worked at artisanal and Governments to implement our strategy.
With support from SFCG, child small-scale sites on weekends and holidays, We will also align our commitments to protection committees were created in and knew other children who were working Sustainable Communities with national each village around North Mara, and the on these sites full-time.
government development ambitions, community leaders began finding strategies and the new UN international Sustainable to identify children in their community Eighty of the Unity Peace Club students Development Goals.
who were out of school, and mapping out were selected to participate in the the reasons why.
They also committed to project to research the reason for children fundraising for school fees as a community, in mining, and their reports would be and supporting each other to keep the used as a basis for adults taking action.
They decided to call themselves The Voice of North Mara Youth.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 45 SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Employees Health and safety Group-wide turnover We continued to make noticeable progress Group-wide Total Reportable Injury Frequency Percentage within operations across a variety of employee initiatives Rate TRIFR was 0.68 for 2015 compared throughout 2015, whilst maintaining to 0.86 in 2014, a 21% improvement.
A key 27.8% acceptable levels across core employee driver behind the commendable improvement metrics.
Annual turnover across our was thefull implementation of the WeCare operations was approximately 27.8%, a programme Tunajali.
This behavioural safety considerable increase on 2014 23% due programme is now embedded as part of toongoing organisational and labour reviews the safety culture ateach of the mine sites across all themine sites and offices which and is expected tocontribute, together with 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 have resulted in a significant right-sizing other health and safety initiatives, to further Bulyanhulu 37.1% ofthe workforce.
Wecontinued to progress improvements inAcacias safety and health Buzwagi 26.8% our commitment to the localisation of our performance.
North Mara 8.0% workforce throughout 2015, with annual national employment levels amounting to Over the past year we have continued to evolve approximately 96% of our total workforce, our critical risk control standards covering Localisation of workforce anincrease on 2014 levels 94%.
the top 11 risks that Acacia personnel are Percentage of nationals in operational workforce exposed to.
As part of this we have focused 95.6% We continued to invest in training and on those risks at each mine site where the development programmes throughout majority of the High Potential Incidents occur.
theyear, notably through the continuation These are regarding light vehicles, mobile ofTufanikiwe Pamoja, our cultural equipment, ground control, explosives, working transformation programme, the WeCare at height and lifting operations.
As a result, programme, ourenhanced health and and to drive further improvement in safety safetytraining programme, and a number performance, we will implement and audit 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ofadditional business improvement and updated standards covering these risks Bulyanhulu 94.4% project management programmes.
Buzwagi 99.0% also maintainedour focus on longer-term North Mara 94.6% training programmes, such as our Rainbow We also progressed a number of initiatives leadership training programme for first line within an occupational health and safety leaders whichis ready for roll out in 2016. context to increase the effectiveness of Female representation 51apprentices graduated from the Integrated existing occupational health programmes and Percentage of overall workforce Mining Technical Training IMTT programme.
continued to progress health assessments, including malaria control assessments, 9.0% Approximately 9% of our overall workforce for our employees and wider community base.
iscomprised of women, something which This is incorporated into an updated Acacia isreflective of gender diversity generally Occupational Health and Safety Management withinthe mining industry.
Of this, female System which will be rolled out in 2016. representation across our management structures equalled approximately 10% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR at Boardlevel and 17% at senior leadership Frequency rate Bulyanhulu 6.5% level.
All levels are broadly consistent with Buzwagi 9.0% female representation levels in 2014.
North Mara 8.3% Corporate and other 27.3% 0.68 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bulyanhulu 1.03 Buzwagi 0.66 North Mara 0.33 46 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Environment We completed an annual assessment of our Group average total water used Environmental performance for 2015 was performance against a number of international Litres used per tonne of ore milled goodoverall, with the Group successfully standards and principles, including the completing the majority of key initiatives Voluntary Principles on Security and Human andpriorities for the year.
Key achievements 451 Rights and use of force protocols.
The include the environmental approval for Gokona outcome of these reviews was encouraging, Underground mining at North Mara mine, showing consistent levels of improvement agreement with the Ministry ofEnergy and across all operations.
A review of the Minerals as regards the requirement to post Company-wide Grievance Mechanism was rehabilitation bonds for each of the mine sites, also conducted, resulting in revisions to 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 implementation of Acacias environmental procedures and processes to embed learnings Bulyanhulu 578 management system inline with the ISO14001 from prior years.
We increased specialist Buzwagi 408 requirements and enhancement of the mine staffing in thisarea at North Mara over the North Mara 408 site environmental team capabilities through course of2015 in order to increase capacity training to better identify and manage the and expedite the resolution of grievances.
identified environmental risks at our mines.
An overview of the grievances lodged in 2015 Group average energy used per tonne of ore milled We continue to be fully ICMI compliant at utilising the Company Grievance Mechanism Mega joules North Mara and Buzwagi.
Bulyanhulu is in is set out on page 44. the process of implementing an action plan 464 to regain full ICMI certification in order to We affirmed our commitment to the activities address historical WAD cyanide inconsistencies of Search for Common Ground SFCG, within the TSF which occurred as a result of aninternational NGO focused on conflict the commissioning of the new carbon-inleach transformation and building sustainable circuit.
We expect to complete this programme peace through dialogue, media and community in 2016 at which point we will re-apply for engagement.
Search for Common Ground 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 certification.
conducted over 180 sessions with more than Bulyanhulu 430 16,000 stakeholders in the communities Buzwagi 463 Acacias GHG emissions continued to be around Buzwagi, Bulyanhulu andNorth Mara, North Mara 493 impacted by interruptions to the electricity most of them large-scale open-air meetings supply in Tanzania and our reliance on together with government, civil society and self-generation of power.
Land issues, environmental emissions equalled 370,092 tonnes of CO, Security and human rights impact and mine intrusion were some of the 2 in line with 2014 levels.
However, our energy The positive progress made in security in topics addressed.
usage, assessed on the basis of mega joules 2014continued into 2015.
This was based upon of energy used per tonne of ore milled, a five-pronged security strategy: understanding According to SFCG, perception surveys decreased by 12% when compared to our operating environment: striving for andfocal group discussions with more than 2014 usage levels as a result of increased operational excellence: people valuing and 1,000community members in 2015 have throughput at Bulyanhulu.
Further information helping to develop ourselves andothers: shown remarkable improvements to the on Group GHG emissions is provided on improving our reputation and engagement with relationship between the community and page 84. stakeholders: and ensuring sufficient resources themines, especially in North Mara.
SFCG are in place to deliver onthe strategy.
At provided training to almost 1,000 members Our water usage in 2015 decreased by 4% as North Mara, this strategy has resulted in an ofTanzanian Police units based in the vicinity a result of increased throughput at Bulyanhulu, improvement in day to day operational security of our operations on the Voluntary Principles partially offset by marginally increased and a reduction in security related fatalities on Security and Human Rights, which teaches water usage.
We will look to enhance water and injuries.
Furthermore, theintegration of international standards in the use of force management practices further in 2016 as part security operations with ourcommunity relations and firearms, procedures for arrest and of overall Group water management practices.
efforts has had a positive effect, resulting detention, and prevention of sexual in a reduction in confrontations.
Company, improvements have been made to the information and investigation functions with afocus on improving policies and procedures to ensure meaningful oversight and compliance measures are in place.
This will continue to be an area of focus through 2016 to ensure transparency and compliance.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 47
