74 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Introduction by Ken Hanna, Ethics Committee Chairman Integrity and honesty are core values for Aggreko.
We expect all Aggreko employees, consultants and those acting on behalf of Aggreko to adopt these values at all times.
We are proud that we have a reputation for conducting business fairly and professionally and we are committed to maintaining these values in all of our business dealings.
We recognise that our business is exposed to risks of unethical conduct because of the nature and value of many of our contracts: standards of integrity are not consistent across all the countries in which we operate.
However, we have a robust compliance programme in place which allows us to manage these risks effectively.
Ken Hanna The effectiveness of the compliance programme is monitored by the Ethics Committee Chairman Ethics Committee.
The Ethics Committee is currently made up of two independent Nonexecutive Directors, with myself as Chairman.
I have been a member of the Committee since its first meeting in February 2011 and became Chairman of the Committee in April 2012.
In 2015, the Committee met THE ROLE OF THE ETHICS COMMITTEE IS TO three times.
ENSURE THAT AGGREKO CONDUCTS BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY AND HONESTY AND IN To the left there is a summary of the key actions of the Committee in ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW.
2015 and intended areas of focus in 2016.
Role of Ethics Committee Advise the Board on the development of strategy and policy on 2015 Key achievements ethical matters.
Reviewed and approved changes to the ethics policies.
Advise the Board on steps to be taken to establish a culture of integrity and honesty in all of the Companys business dealings.
Monitored the implementation of an ethics training programme for employees.
Monitored the introduction of a Supplier Code of Conduct and the phased Oversee the Companys policies and procedures for the implementation of a risk based due diligence programme for suppliers.
identication, assessment, management and reporting of ethical risk.
Monitored the introduction of ethics as a performance factor in Oversee the Companys policies and procedures to prevent persons employee appraisals.
associated with the Company from engaging in unethical behaviour.
Reviewed the findings of an independent review of the effectiveness of the compliance controls relating to sales consultants and the wider Monitor and review the operation of the Companys ethics policies compliance programme.
Reviewed the compliance procedures in place to manage sanctions risks.
Main activities of the Ethics Committee during the year Third-party monitoring Members in 2015 We recognise that the conduct of third-party sales consultants remains one of the most significant risks to Aggreko.
The number Meetings attended of third-party sales consultants used by the business has reduced Ken Hanna Ethics Committee Chairman over the last few years but there is a continued requirement for third Diana Layeld Non-executive Director parties to help support some areas of the business.
We have risk management measures in place which require all third-party sales Ian Marchant Non-executive Director consultants engaged by Aggreko to conduct business in compliance with the standards set out in our ethics policy and allow us to monitor compliance with these requirements.
We also have controls in place Areas of focus for 2016 in relation to the remuneration of sales consultants and we monitor all payments to sales consultants.
At the first meeting of each year, we Oversee the full integration of the risk based due diligence into the supply receive a brieng on all payments made to sales consultants during the chain processes.
prior year to ensure that the payments were appropriate and in line with Oversee the implementation of the refresher ethics training course for policy requirements.
Oversee the implementation of measures to manage modern slavery risks We recognise that there are also other categories of third-party supplier in the supply chain.
relationships which potentially could also attract risk for the business.
In response to this risk we received a brieng on the risk based supplier Oversee the implementation of the revised ethics policies.
due diligence process which is currently in the process of being implemented across the business.
Ethics Committee terms of reference: www.
pdf OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 75 Effectiveness of the compliance programme An overview of our compliance programme We reviewed the findings of two separate reports completed by Internal Audit following its independent review of the effectiveness of the Our compliance programme is coordinated by our full-time Head compliance controls relating to sales consultants and the effectiveness of Compliance with support from the business units and the of the wider compliance programme.
The review provided comfort central functions.
that the programmes are working well to effectively manage risk Our compliance programme has a number of elements designed and highlighted some areas where further improvements could be toensure that we effectively manage compliance risks: introduced to further enhance the compliance programme.
Ethics Policy Ethics policies Every employee receives a copy of, and is required to sign, the Ethics In 2015, we approved revised versions of our Gifts, Entertainment Policy when they join Aggreko.
We also require all employees to sign & Hospitality Policy, Charitable Donations Policy and Sponsorship an annual compliance statement conrming that they have complied Policy.
These policies were amended to reect the structural changes with and will continue to comply with our Ethics Policy and the to the business following the reorganisation and to take account of relevant laws.
recommendations made following a risk assessment and review of the effectiveness of the ethics policies.
Whilst the policies were working well Training in ensuring that all employees comply with the high ethical standards Every employee receives training, which is refreshed every two years expected throughout Aggreko, we introduced certain improvements to via our multi-lingual online ethics compliance training programme.
ensure that the policies remain robust and continue to meet the needs This online training is supplemented by additional ethics workshops of the business.
with senior management to ensure they remain alert to risks.
Online learning platform Third-party risks We are committed to providing regular training on ethical issues to All of our sales consultants are comprehensively reviewed before employees to ensure that employees remain alert to risks and are they are engaged by Aggreko and this exercise is refreshed at least regularly reminded of the standards expected by Aggreko.
An online every two years.
Our sales consultants are contractually required to training programme was launched in 2013 and has been successfully comply with our Ethics Policy and we require our sales consultants to rolled out to all employees.
A separate online module was launched in confirm compliance with the policy annually.
We also provide ethics January 2015 which required all employees to read and acknowledge training to our sales consultants to ensure they remain alert to potential compliance with Aggrekos Ethics Policy.
We also have controls in place in relation to the remuneration briengs at each of the meetings of the Committee on the progress of consultants and we monitor all payments to sales consultants of the training and the ethics policy acknowledgement throughout to ensure that the remuneration structure does not incentivise the business.
This training has also been supplemented by additional unethical behaviour.
ethics workshops with senior management.
The ethics training programme has recently been refreshed and will be launched again in We recognise that some supply chain partners could also early 2016 for all employees to complete.
potentially attract risk for the business owing to the nature of the services performed.
We have adopted a risk based due diligence Sanctions review process for our supply chain partners which is currently being We received a brieng on the compliance procedures currently in place implemented globally.
to manage sanctions risks including new measures implemented in response to the introduction of sanctions relating to Russia and Crimea.
Gifts, entertainment and hospitality We have a clear approval process for all gifts, entertainment and Review of the effectiveness of the Ethics Committee hospitality offered by or given to Aggreko employees.
All gifts, The independent Board evaluation exercise undertaken in 2015 entertainment and hospitality above a nominal value are recorded confirmed that the Ethics Committee was working effectively.
centrally and monitored by the Head of Compliance.
Sponsorship and charitable donations We have a clear approval process for all sponsorships and charitable donations made by Aggreko.
All sponsorships and charitable donations require senior management approval and are recorded centrally and monitored by the Head of Compliance.
Speaking up We encourage all employees to speak up if they have any concerns.
We have an independent compliance hotline operated by an external agency.
This multi-lingual hotline is available to all employees and allows any employee who has any concerns to report them on an anonymous basis.
All reports are followed up, and we regularly analyse the types of reports we receive.
Where appropriate, our Group Internal Audit team is asked to investigate the issue and report on the outcome.
