4 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 OVERVIEW REORGANISED TO BETTER FOCUS ON OUR CUSTOMERS Since joining Aggreko in January of Business Priorities BUSINESS last year we have had a very busy In August of last year I laid out the year and, although trading conditions MODEL priorities for the business for the have undoubtedly been difficult, I am coming years which will deliver growth OUR BUSINESS pleased with the progress we have MODEL IS STRONG in margins and returns of around 20% AND UNIQUE.
On a personal note I have in the medium term.
These priority thoroughly enjoyed my first year at Read more areas are our customer, ourtechnology Page 14 Aggreko and, having seen the Group in and our efficiency.
action all over the world, I reiterate the Against the first priority, our view that I laid out in August: that we customers, we have a number of have an entirely appropriate business initiatives underway, each of which is model, a great market position and a sponsored by one of the Executive respected brand, all made possible by team.
These include rening our dedicated and skilled people who are understanding of our customers passionate about the business.
requirements: customer segmentation: It is clear that we full a critical need, strategies for key sectors: sales P OWER IS AN we provide modular, mobile power training, deployment and incentives.
ESSENTIAL PART OF EVERYDAY wherever it is needed most in the In turn these are supported by a plan LIFE.
WE HAVE MADE GOOD world and I believe that if we focus on to enhance our CRM systems and PROGRESS OVER THE LAST our three priorities: our customers, to provide a digital platform for our 12 MONTHS TO IMPROVE our technology and our efficiency, customers.
To date I am pleased with OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION then we will drive growth across all our progress.
AND MAKE OUR POWER our businesses in the medium term, Under our technology, the objective SOLUTIONS MORE ATTRACTIVE atattractive margins and returns.
is to reduce the overall cost of TO CUSTOMERS.
power for our customers, thereby Trading performance bringing a benefit to our customers Overall, 2015 has been a challenging whilst at the same time making us year with the impact of lower commodity more competitive.
prices and difficult trading conditions in a number of our markets having an In terms of our diesel product, we have Chris Weston impact on our performance: resulting made good progress in the past by Chief Executive officer in revenues down 3% and trading introducing the G3 engine into our profit down 14%, on an underlying eet: this requires an in-house retrot basis.
However, as was discussed at of our original G3 engines, improving the Business Priorities presentation both power output and fuel efficiency.
in August, Aggreko has a number of The retrot programme will continue advantages, including scale and sector and we have plans to further improve and geographic diversity.
This has the efficiency of this engine.
benefited the Groupthis year and Regarding our gas product, the next despite oil and gas revenue being generation gas engine is currently down 14% and Power Solutions Utility undergoing eld trials and performing revenue being down 11%, the Group as we expected.
From this point overall is only 3%down.
forward any gas engine produced will It is also important, particularly at times be the next generation engine.
of volatility, to have the stability of a Finally, we continue to assess HFO strong balance sheet and core to this, product options, particularly proven exibility around capital expenditure.
technology that could be adapted to I am pleased to say that in this regard our business model, that is mobile, we have maintained our financial modular and able to produce the gearing at 0.9 times net debt to required returns.
I will update you EBITDA, within the range that had at the appropriate time in terms of been previously communicated.
To manage and drive this we have a fully resourced Manufacturing and Technology team based in Dumbarton, led by Volker Schulte, who is a member of my Executive team.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 5 DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE GROWTH OUR EQUIPMENT IS DESIGNED TO MEETTHE TOUGHEST COMPLIANCE LEGISLATION AROUND THE WORLD.
Read more about sustainability Page 48 Finally, on efficiency, there are a Outlook number of steps we are taking.
Our Power Solutions Utility business These are designed to improve our has started the year with a strong order competitive position and to help drive book: a healthy prospect pipeline: growth.
The most immediate action 140MW of new orders: and the signing was to reorganise the business, to of a two year extension of our 148MW remove duplication and to improve of diesel contracts in Japan.
We expect the management of our procurement the level of contracts off-hiring in the function.
The reorganisation of year to go back up to a more normal Aggreko into Rental Solutions and level, of around 30%.
Due to the timing Power Solutions was a major step: of contract start and end dates there it allowed management to focus on will be a reduction in first half profits at unique priorities in each business, in a Group level.
We continue to monitor turn allowing for more effective and thegeopolitical situation in Yemen, efficient delivery.
This work is on track Libya and Venezuela.
and will deliver a reduction in our cost In our Power Solutions Industrial base capital and operating costs of business we are seeing softer trading 80 million by 2017. conditions in Singapore and some of Other initiatives under this last our markets that are more exposed priority include assessing our to the mining sectors.
However year depot infrastructure and network: to date power volumes are up on the site deployment: and the systems prior year, driven by continued good and processes that underpin performances in the Middle East, our operations.
WE HAVE AN ENTIRELY The Rental Solutions business unit, APPROPRIATE BUSINESS MODEL, People and Culture in particular our North American A GREAT MARKET POSITION, We employ close to 7,300 people in ANDARESPECTED BRAND.
business, has had a slow start to 2016 around 100 countries.
In my first year following a lower run rate exiting 2015 I certainly cannot claim to have visited than we had expected and we are all 100 countries.
I have, as you would cautious on our outlook for this part expect, visited a number of them ofour business.
and I have consistently found a team Watch Chris video online: that is committed, very focused on At a Group level we anticipate investing www.
com delivering for our customers, and doing around 250 million on eet capex, so with great passion and pride for focussing on investment in our more the business.
In short, I recognise the fuel efficient gas and diesel engines: importance of orange blood in doing as ever we will maintain our capital what we do so well.
discipline and ex this spend according to market conditions.
Overall, we Clearly 2015 has been a difficult year expect profit before tax and exceptional for our people, particularly in terms of items to be slightly lower than the prior the reorganisation and dealing with 1 year on a constant currency basis, the removal of over 700 roles from the inline with current consensus.
I know that we have work to do to nalise and to embed the new structure and to enhance and reinforce Aggrekos powerful culture: it is an area that we are going to be working on in the early part of this year.
Finally, I would like to thank the whole team for their hard work and commitment in 2015 and also those that have left Aggreko for their service to the business.
It is a great business and I am proud to be part of it.
1 The constant currency impact is a headwind of 16 million applying the end of January 2016 spot rates, including the step devaluation of the Argentinian peso.
In relation to 2016 the Power Solutions Utility contracts in Argentina have contractual protection that offsets the impact of the devaluation.
