48 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS THE BIGGER PICTURE Aggrekos role in society W e live in a world reliant on power: it is an essential part ofeveryday life.
Huge numbers of people across the globedo not have access to reliable on-demand power and sometimes this is forgotten in the developed world.
Perhaps more importantly, electricity helps ensure survival in hospitals and educate children in schools, whilst also helping to improve peoples quality of lifethrough simple appliances such as airconditioning units and fridges.
Our Power Solutions Utility business typically provides power to government utilities tosupport a countrys grid infrastructure, thus helping to keep the lights on.
In our Power Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions businesses, we provide temporary power or adjacent products to individual businesses across many sectors, including Oil & Gas and Mining, helping them to grow and by extension helping economies grow.
We service the sport and entertainment industry and have powered some of the worlds most famous events, such as the Olympics and the World Cup.
In 2015 we powered the Red Bull Air Race Championships, the PanAm Parapan American Games, Case study: Panama theinaugural European Games in Baku and Glastonbury, theworlds largest music festival.
Powering a future generation: Helping a local school Read more about our activities in 2015 at Aggrekos commitment to the communities we operate in continues long after www.
com media-centre press-releases a temporary power plant goes online.
Aggreko operated at Cerro Azul, Panama from March 2014 to June 2015, providing power directly to the grid to support It is important that we conduct ourselves with integrity at Panamas hydro-electric plants during the dry season.
We are committed to ensuring we conduct our The local Aggreko team identied a need to create a safe, secure learning business dealings ethically and safely and aim to minimise environment for the children attending Vista Hermosa school, a school in our impact on the environment whilst working to support our the village close to the Cerro Azul site.
Aggreko provided the materials and customers and their communities.
manpower to build a perimeter fence around the school to protect the children, providing a safe and secure learning environment and area to play between classes.
Aggreko also provided much needed equipment for the schools kitchen and local staff volunteered for a day to clean and decorate classrooms to improve the health and wellbeing of over 850 children, aged between five and 13 years old attending the school.
Watch the video online: www.
com OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 49 Our approach to sustainability Sustainability reporting is an evolving process and one that we Our equipment and solutions are designed to comply with applicable plan to develop further: we have recently hired a manager who laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we operate in will be responsible for sustainability.
The Group is committed the world.
We innovate both in response to customer demand and to ensuring that our success also brings long-term social and to improve the efficiency of our products and therefore reduce their economic benets to the communities and countries where environmental impact where we can.
As fuel is the greatest element we operate.
of cost in producing temporary power, particularly diesel, we have worked to improve the fuel efficiency of our diesel engines and will continue to do so under our new business priorities.
In the last couple Responding to our customers of years we have introduced a solution for our customers in the Oil & The provision of power and temperature control are essential Gas sector whereby we are able to take the gas by-product from wells activities in our global economy: however, they come with challenges, and rather than are it, use it to run our gas generators.
In addition, particularly environmental challenges.
We are committed to growing we support low-carbon emissions generation such as wind and our business and supporting our customers.
As a consequence of the hydro, and help to make these solutions viable.
Renewable energy products that we use it is inevitable that some of our activities will have is intermittent and therefore providing support is a core part of an impact on the environment.
What matters most There are four areas of sustainability focus within the business: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT Priorities Priorities Ensure the health and safety of our people at work Engage with local communities and work in partnership Minimise our environmental impact Recruit, train and develop local people Be accountable and transparent with regards to our Participate in activities that make a difference environmental footprint Outcome for the business Outcome for the business Build business longevity Maintain our reputation for consideration of health, safety and Gain new talent for the organisation environmental matters Read more about social contribution Gain commercial benefit Page 51 Read more about HSE Page 50 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY OUR PEOPLE Priorities Priorities Ensure we operate with integrity and honesty Promote equal opportunities Make sure that we are in compliance with laws and regulations Provide career and personal development through engagement Outcome for the business Ensure security whilst at work Maintain our reputation for integrity Operate with due regard for human rights Outcome for the business Attract and retain the best people Read more about ethics and integrity Read more about our people Page 74 Page 19 50 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We recognise our responsibility to understand It is essential for us to manage emissions-to-air HEALTH, SAFETY AND the risks associated with our operations and and to ensure that we meet new emissions how they could potentially affect people and requirements in order to enable us to continue ENVIRONMENTAL the environment.
Aggreko is committed to operating in a number of countries.
It is equally MANAGEMENT monitoring and ensuring the effectiveness important that we play our part in helping to of designed control measures and taking reduce the global environmental impact of Context action as appropriate.
complies with legal requirements as a Our activities, the generation of minimum and takes a transparent approach to Carbon dioxide emissions power, cool air and heat, while reporting any incidents that may occur.
We are constantly exploring new ways of essential to the global economy, reducing emissions and have gradually over produce waste and greenhouse Safety the last few years increased the use of more gases and pose health and safety Rigorous safety processes are absolutely environmentally friendly gas fuelled generators.
risks in the ordinary course of essential if we are to avoid accidents which Gas generators now represent 10% of our could cause injury to people and damage to eet.
Natural gas is a fossil fuel, however, business.
We are committed to property and reputation.
Leadership on safety it is more environmentally attractive, with minimising these wherever possible, comes from the Executive Committee and we emissions of sulphur dioxide that are negligible which not only reduces harm consider safety processes a basic benchmark in comparison to coal or oil and levels of NOx to the environment and keeps of operational discipline.
and CO2 that are signicantly lower.
Where gas people safe, but helps us to gain fuel is essentially a by-product of production, Aggreko monitors safety performance using such as in the US shale exploration, or derived commercial benefit.
Frequency Accident Rating FAR : this is one from a biological source, we can help reduce of our KPIs.
Read more about FAR Our approach In addition to the work we have undertaken Page 24 Aggrekos equipment is designed to developing natural gas-powered generators, function in all environments.
By careful we are regularly reviewing product Key HSE actions in 2015 and future design and use of the most suitable technologies, looking for advances that we actions technology, we manage all of our can adopt into our product portfolio, including During 2015, we initiated a number of actions operations in such a manner to ensure bio-fuels, fuel cells and renewables.
to help us further improve our capabilities in minimal negative impact on our people, Read more about our greenhouse gas emissions mitigating HSE risk.
our neighbours and the environment Page 98 in which we operate.
We take a Appointment of Group Director of HSE: robust approach, considering each Ken Bradley joined in September 2015 and Exhaust gases and particulates element of HSE in our product design, reports to the Group Chief Executive, raising system design and client interfaces.
In an increasing number of countries, the prole of HSE.
We complete task and activity risk air quality regulations stipulate emission assessments to manage our on-site HSE Review: In January we engaged standards for new equipment.
Generally, operations during the installation and a specialist consultant to undertake an countries allow mobile equipment already operation of our equipment.
The two independent review of HSE, benchmarking operating to continue to do so for its useful life: major environmental issues we have to our policies and processes against global this is called grandfathering.
deal with are emissions-to-air from our best practice and we are implementing All our engine suppliers produce engines generators and the safe handling and the recommendations.
which comply with the latest emissions disposal of fuel and oil.
Energy Safety Rules: Controlling worker standards and we gradually introduce these exposure to energy sources, including new engines to our eet.
Our generator HSE policy electricity.
These were first introduced range to meet USA engine emissions for the The Executive Director with overall in2014 and are being rolled out across Tier4Interim level is complete, with 700 units responsibility for HSE is Chris Weston, Chief theentire group in 2015 16. in use.
The next step in the USA legislation Executive officer, and our commitment to programme to reduce emissions is called HSE Metrics: The new Group Director of HSE is reected in our Global HSE Policy Tier4 Final and we have now introduced the HSE is undertaking a full review of the HSE Statement.
During the year we appointed a first 150 generators into our rental eet in line processes used across the business.
Group Director of HSE, whose responsibility with this stringent specication.
The European is to ensure that the HSE policy is effective, engine emissions regulations are different to implemented and its operation monitored Emissions-to-air USA and the current level in EU is referred throughout Aggreko.
The Board and the Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product to as Stage 3a.
We also have a complete Executive Committee are committed to of hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the product range of generator products to ensuring that the necessary organisation and years, as engines have become more efficient meetthis standard.
resources exist to facilitate the achievement and legislation to limit emissions has become We continue to work closely with engine of our HSE goals and we monitor this through stricter, emissions have reduced sharply.
manufacturers and primary technology monthly reporting.
Aggreko works in cooperation with the developers to derive appropriate solutions for manufacturers of engines in order to meet these requirements.
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 51 To further reduce emissions-to-air for specic Minimising noise projects, we have developed an afterNoise pollution is another important SOCIAL treatment that can be applied to our existing environmental factor that we take very CONTRIBUTION eet at our customers request.
We aim to provide helpful have used a special unit to reduce NO by x solutions to our customers, minimising the 90%, in order to meet Japanese air quality noise associated with producing power or Context standards.
This technology can be readily air solutions.
applied globally as an operational bolt on to Aggreko is fortunate to work in a We have built a competitive advantage through our standard equipment.
wide variety of countries and our a eet that minimises external noise.
This is social contribution is one way of done through the use of custom-built acoustic Refrigerant emissions enclosures as well as high performance giving back to the community.
Its In accordance with the timelines set out isolation and attenuation systems.
In addition, about supporting the communities by the Montreal protocol, Aggreko has in designing a Power Solutions Utility site, we phased out chlorouorocarbon CFC in which we work, whilst being aim to position the equipment such that the plant from its temperature control rental respectful of different cultures.
noise it does produce has the least effect on eet and is in the process of phasing out the immediate environment.
Hydrouorocarbon HFC product, the Our equipment achieves noise performance Our approach replacement for CFC and HCFC, is available standards that are within the maximum levels Each year, Aggreko engages in a across our full equipment range and has been permitted by current European legislation.
number of initiatives which give back adopted as standard for all new eet.
to the communities in which we work.
Waste and re-cycling During 2015, Aggreko contributed to Pollution incidents In the normal course of our business, we a range of charitable, community and Aggreko and its customers handle a regularly have to replace consumables such disaster relief organisations.
Our policy considerable quantity of diesel fuel and as engine oil and lters.
If these are not encourages employees to support local the occurrence of accidental fuel spills appropriately disposed of, they can cause initiatives, particularly those relating to is an area that we monitor very closely.
environmental damage such as leakage into childrens welfare, education and social The management of pollution is extremely the ground water and contamination of the health projects, and is based on giving important to Aggreko, both from a safety local water supplies.
If left unattended they are donations to many organisations which andenvironmental perspective.
also unsightly and typically not biodegradable.
are involved with the communities in Therefore it is imperative that we remove and which we work.
Our equipment is specically designed to safely dispose of our waste products.
minimise the risk of uid spillage through Community investment features such as double-walled storage tanks These are normally returned to our service and fail-safe valves.
In the event of a fuel We actively engage in supporting the local centres where they are safely disposed of, spill, corrective action is taken immediately communities we work in and we do this or re-cycled where appropriate.
On our to reduce any potential impact, with spill kits in a number of ways.
We are proactive in project sites we have procedures in place to used by trained staff for small-scale spills recruiting locally from the community: for collect waste on-site and then site-specic and for large quantity spills the appointment example, in Medan in Indonesia, 90% of the arrangements are made for the safe handling of specialist contractors to assist with the workforce is comprised of local Indonesian of these items.
We commit to returning our collection of spilt uid and ground remediation.
We provide extensive on-the-job project sites to the condition in which we Following any instances, we review our training for new recruits and give them the found them, and therefore work very hard to processes and equipment to identify any skills to become technicians.
This benets minimise the impact we have.
the business as we are able to train people on our equipment.
It also helps us build Reporting of fuel spills is reviewed monthly by relationships in the local community which are the Executive Committee.
The performance very important when we might be operating a measure used is the Petroleum Release contract for a number of years.
Our charitable Rating PRR, which is calculated as follows: donations are largely focused on the Litres of Diesel Oil Spilt education and wellbeing of children.
In 2015, to Ground we contributed to a school and a community PRR health centre in the vicinity of our Cerro Azul MW on Rent site in Panama.
PRR performance in 2015 was 0.17, which is a significant improvement over our 2014 performance and way ahead of our 2015 target of 0.35.
Statement on United Nations Paris Conference The United Nations Climate Change Overall in the energy sector the agreement Renewables including solar, wind and Conference held at the end of the year will increase the emphasis on: biogas as part of the energy mix: and in Paris resulted in a global agreement to Reducing greenhouse gas emissions from Stopping highly polluting practices like pursue efforts to limit the increase in global burning fossil fuels by: aring gas and either processing the temperature to 1.5C.
gas for general use or burning it in a more efficient generation To support this most countries have already controlled and therefore cleaner way to and distribution: outlined how they propose to control produce power.
their emissions of greenhouses gasses the increased use of natural gas that There are likely to be some local legislation typically for the period up to 2030.
For many has a lower carbon ratio than diesel and incentives to drive these changes, but developing countries the commitments made or coal : for many developing countries the priority will are conditional on receiving funding.
