48 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT SUSTAINABILITY BUILDING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS THE BIGGER PICTURE Aggrekos role in society W e live in a world reliant on power: it is an essential part ofeveryday life.
Huge numbers of people across the globedo not have access to reliable on-demand power and sometimes this is forgotten in the developed world.
Perhaps more importantly, electricity helps ensure survival in hospitals and educate children in schools, whilst also helping to improve peoples quality of lifethrough simple appliances such as airconditioning units and fridges.
Our Power Solutions Utility business typically provides power to government utilities tosupport a countrys grid infrastructure, thus helping to keep the lights on.
In our Power Solutions Industrial and Rental Solutions businesses, we provide temporary power or adjacent products to individual businesses across many sectors, including Oil & Gas and Mining, helping them to grow and by extension helping economies grow.
We service the sport and entertainment industry and have powered some of the worlds most famous events, such as the Olympics and the World Cup.
In 2015 we powered the Red Bull Air Race Championships, the PanAm Parapan American Games, Case study: Panama theinaugural European Games in Baku and Glastonbury, theworlds largest music festival.
Powering a future generation: Helping a local school Read more about our activities in 2015 at Aggrekos commitment to the communities we operate in continues long after www.
com media-centre press-releases a temporary power plant goes online.
Aggreko operated at Cerro Azul, Panama from March 2014 to June 2015, providing power directly to the grid to support It is important that we conduct ourselves with integrity at Panamas hydro-electric plants during the dry season.
We are committed to ensuring we conduct our The local Aggreko team identied a need to create a safe, secure learning business dealings ethically and safely and aim to minimise environment for the children attending Vista Hermosa school, a school in our impact on the environment whilst working to support our the village close to the Cerro Azul site.
Aggreko provided the materials and customers and their communities.
manpower to build a perimeter fence around the school to protect the children, providing a safe and secure learning environment and area to play between classes.
Aggreko also provided much needed equipment for the schools kitchen and local staff volunteered for a day to clean and decorate classrooms to improve the health and wellbeing of over 850 children, aged between five and 13 years old attending the school.
Watch the video online: www.
