Corporate Responsibility Andrew Memmott, Supply Chain Director STRONG ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our activities around the CSR agenda HIGHLIGHTS As a company with a history going back are co-ordinated by the Corporate Social This year we have: almost 140 years, we know how important Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is Responsibility Committee.
It brings together Taken the lead in improving how we in business.
skills and knowledge from across the inform consumers by implementing the business to make sure we keep CSR Governments new voluntary traffic light Since the business was first established high on our agenda, as well as keeping Front of Pack Nutrition labelling scheme in 1875, we have played a crucial part in our employees up to date with what the across all A. G. BARR owned brands.
the lives of many thousands of employees, business does as a responsible employer.
Made significant operating improvements as well as supporting local communities in our factories at Cumbernauld and and charities.
We have also led the way As a business, our CSR programme is Milton Keynes, where we are reducing on environmental initiatives: recycling, broken down into four key areas: the impact of our transport and water reusing and driving down our impact Our people: consumption.
Our Environment: Focused on employee engagement and Our Consumers: and communication, in particular using the The world has of course moved on since Our Communities.
valuable insights from our employee 1875, but as a company that started out as survey Your Voice Matters and our a family business, we still put people first successful sponsorship of the Glasgow whether those people are our employees, 2014 Commonwealth Games.
our consumers or our customers.
Celebrated as sales from the BRU store, a unique pop-up shop in Glasgows Merchant City, enabled us to donate 20,000 to the Prince and Princess of Moving Annual Total for RIDDOR Accidents 2006 2014 Wales Hospice, just one demonstration 35 of the Companys broader commitment to charity work.
30 OUR PEOPLE Managing the safety of our employees is our top priority.
Investing in our employees is a vital part of what makes A. G. BARR a 25 successful business, whether thats offering opportunities to develop skills or engaging in programmes to enhance what we deliver 20 as a business.
Safety management is at the centre of all 15 we do and this year has been about building on key safety programmes introduced in 2013.
This included: 10 Ensuring our near miss reporting initiative makes further progress across our total workforce: 5 Building-in behavioural safety training and initiatives through our safety conversations: and 0 Maintaining a safety and quality 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 audit programme.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 30 SAFETY MANAGEMENT IS AT THE CENTRE OF ALL WE DO.
ANDREW MEMMOTT, SUPPLY CHAIN DIRECTOR A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Corporate Responsibility Continued Slips, trips and low level falls form the main During 2014 15, a total of 1,259 safety Safety performance types of near miss categories reported and, conversations have been carried out.
There has been a slight increase in reportable RIDDOR accidents in the as a result, we have taken action through a year to January 2015 and in particular variety of safety briefings, new equipment Training safety in our English Direct Sales Delivery DSD and workplace re-designs.
An internal training programme was operation involving manual handling related delivered to 21 employees, which injuries.
As a result we carried out corrective We have introduced a near miss close-out included participants carrying out action through retraining and we have also rate to ensure that action is taken within a safety improvement project.
installed a trial back-of-vehicle camera an agreed timescale corresponding with system.
This will give us better visibility the level of risk.
The red near miss reports Each employee was asked to complete of safety practices when the delivery team more serious safety concerns are acted a safety report for their site, using works off-site, which we hope will help us on immediately, while we have set a the skills learned in their training.
The reduce future manual handling injuries.
close-out time scale of up to 20 days for improvements were then implemented amber near miss reports safety concerns by the sites concerned.
The lost days measure has also increased and up to 30 days for green near miss marginally, in line with the increase in reports safety observations.
Half day training sessions were also rolled the reportable incidents across our out across all our operations as part of our entire operation.
We have also tried to ensure consistent ongoing safety programme.
standards of reporting by holding monthly The chart on page 30 shows the moving meetings where we sample the quality of Audit standards annual total for RIDDOR since 2006. near misses reported.
Most significantly, The internal safety audit programme we have seen the level of red near miss measures how our sites are performing The near miss reporting initiative NMR reporting drop from 333 last year to 180 in all areas of safety management.
and safety conversations this year.
The audit score is a measure of each The near miss initiative continues to sites overall level of safety management.
enable our workforce to: Our safety conversations initiative observes Highlight and record safety hazards: tasks and people behaviour and discusses As the graph shows, three sites are Act on them if appropriate: and the observed behaviour in the workplace.
now in the yellow category as opposed Map trends in safety to ensure progress All our sites now carry out these safety to two last year.
Yellow is the highest is being made.
conversations and it has had a significant performing category, showing a high effect in raising safety awareness.
degree of management control, and sites that are pro-active in communicating safety initiatives and improvements.
Our Scottish H&S Annual Audit Scores 2014 15 vs 2013 14 DSD operation came first in the audit for the fourth year running and represents the 93.0% benchmark for all other functions and sites.
SDSD 92.8% 91.6% The remaining sites are in the black Ballindarg 88.8% category, which represents a good degree 91.0% of management control and compliance Moston 90.8% with health and safety requirements.
Cumbernauld 89.9% Logistics None of our sites were in the bottom two 89.6% categories which are associated with poor 89.9% Newcastle to reasonable safety performance.
89.2% 87.6% Cumbernauld Production 85.9% 87.2% Wednesbury 91.5% 86.8% Milton Keynes 86.9% 86.6% Shefeld 80.0% 86.2% Forfar 85.8% 85.8% Walthamstow 86.2% 0.0% 10.0% 20.0% 30.0% 40.0% 50.0% 60.0% 70.0% 80.0% 90.0% 100.0% A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 32 Corporate Responsibility Continued Aspiring managers programme CASE STUDY: The Aspiring Managers Programme is a leadership development programme that aims to help employees develop the THE COMMONWEALTH GAMES knowledge, skills and confidence to enable them to move into a team leader role if and A ONCE IN A LIFETIME OPPORTUNITY when an opportunity arises.
A. G. BARR was an Official Supporter While this was taking place, 100 The programme is recognised and of the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth more colleagues attended the Mini accredited by the Institute of Leadership Games held in the summer.
Commonwealth Games fun day which and Management ILM, a widely recognised was held in Milton Keynes.
We were determined to try to help employees across the U. K. engage and interact with the The Queens Baton Relay Visits Healthy staff Commonwealth Games experience as much Cumbernauld, June 2014 as possible.
We were honoured to receive the Queens As a signatory of the Governments Public Baton to our Cumbernauld HQ on 23 June Health Responsibility Deal, we have Physical Become a Clyde-sider 2014.
Chief Executive Roger White and more Activity Champions PACs among our All A. G. BARR employees were invited to than 200 employees welcomed the baton workforce whose role it is to encourage become Games volunteers or Clyde-siders when it visited.
The Queens Baton visited our people to stay active.
A total of 18 Clyde-siders 70 countries on a 248 day global journey from A. G. BARR were chosen by the across the Commonwealth and our factory The Cycle, Swim, Run Challenge Do More Commonwealth Games organisers to work became one of the stops made on its final leg, in 2014 proved to be a particularly popular in a selection of roles at the Games.
initiative with employees across all our U. K. Nominate a Baton Bearer sites.
Encouraged by their PACs, employees All employees were invited to nominate were asked to record online the number someone from the business for their charity of miles they clocked-up in these specific or community work to become a Baton Bearer sporting activities for the year.
In total, and carry the Queens Baton as it toured the employees completed 27,789 miles, which U. K. Happily nine of our employees were is the distance from Cumbernauld to the chosen by the Games organisers to take part.
The Barr Family Day We were delighted to be able to organise a Family Day on 26 July where 1,200 of our employees from across the U. K. their families and friends, attended the Rugby 7s event at Ibrox before spending time at our Cumbernauld HQ.
A total of 3,003 Chief Executive Roger White alongside was raised for The Prince and Princess four A. G. BARR Baton Bearers: Tracy Wilson, of Wales Hospice in Glasgow on the day.
Claire Dalgleish, Valerie Gibson and Liz Ross.
We believe in creating the right environment Learning and development for our people to develop successful Our goal is to make A. G. BARR a great place to work, both now and in the future.
careers at A. G. BARR: We recognise that our people are critical Every employee has their own agreed to the future success of the Company and Performance Review Development Plan we continually invest in our employees to to help them deliver their personal, team increase their capability to successfully and business goals.
In 2014 15, 229 internal, external and e-learning courses were delivered and 1,137 employees trained, covering over 4,846 hours of learning.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 33 Corporate Responsibility Continued Gender diversity Human rights CASE STUDY: We recognise the benefits and importance We respect all human rights and are of diversity for our business, including the committed to conducting business significant value it adds to the quality of in an open and ethical manner.
SUGAR DISSOLVER discussion and decision-making.
We seek to have a positive impact on AT CUMBERNAULD A. G. BARR is committed to equality on all employees, customers, consumers levels and is striving to improve diversity and the wider communities on which Our Cumbernauld factory has installed a balance in all areas of our workforce.
we impact through our policies and sugar dissolver, taking crystal sugar and procedures, including those relating to: dissolving it to produce the liquid sugar The table below shows the gender split Employment: that goes into some of our products.
By at different levels within the organisation, Health & Safety: changing from deliveries of liquid sugar to as at 26 January 2015: The environment: dry sugar, we can obtain more sugar per Anti-corruption: delivery, which has reduced the number of Board members and company secretary Data protection: and deliveries by a third, thus reducing transport Whistleblowing.
Male 7 We seek to engage with suppliers who Female 2 adopt an ethical approach to human rights, working conditions and the environment, Total 9 in line with our own values.
Our direct suppliers are required to adhere to our ethical trading policy.
Senior managers The Group monitors the effectiveness of all Male 70 our policies and has not been made aware Female 16 of any incident where the Groups activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
Total 86 OUR ENVIRONMENT Our environmental performance is of Other employees great importance to us as a business and as such we have held certification to the Male 755 Environmental Standard ISO 14001 since Female 276 2003.
With this certification, we have developed comprehensive environmental Total 1,031 procedures and monitoring systems and ensured legal compliance.
The last few years have seen A. G. BARR work to reduce emissions and increase our commitment to sustainability.
We continually monitor our processes to make sure were meeting our environmental obligations as well as looking for areas where we can improve and use fewer resources.
Some of the areas we measure are: Energy use across all our factories and distribution depots: Water use by our factories so we can reduce both the water we use and the waste water that we put to drain: Fuel use so we can optimise our deliveries which reduces our greenhouse gas emissions and pollution: and Waste quantities and how we can best The sugar dissolver silo is installed.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 34 Corporate Responsibility Continued Transport and logistics Energy use and carbon emissions CASE STUDY: Careful logistical planning has paid off in In 2014 15 we continued to meet our climate-change target in our energy use the area of fuel efficiency.
We are continually across all our manufacturing sites.
This reviewing our delivery routes, and by making WATER SAVINGS can be seen as an endorsement of the subtle changes on an ongoing basis, we decision taken in 2013 to install new energy have increased the number of cases of AT MILTON KEYNES monitoring systems at our Forfar and product delivered per litre of fuel by 20% Tredegar sites and to update the existing over the past five years.
We continue to Our Milton Keynes site uses reverse system at Cumbernauld.
invest in new fleet and the latest engine osmosis RO to purify its water for use technology means we can reduce emissions.
The RO process results A. G. BARR has reduced its energy in around 25% of the concentrated filtration consumption per tonne of product Waste water being put to drain.
In 2015 A. G. BARR expects to achieve secondary RO water plant, we have halved its aim of putting zero waste to landfill.
the amount of wasted water, which will A. G. BARR p. l. c. GHG Emissions At present 99% of our waste streams save the site two million litres of water a in tonnes CO are recycled.
Milton Keynes also has a rainwater harvesting system, which collects rainwater 2013-14 2014-15 All of our packaging has industryin a large storage tank and this water is Scope 1 5,432 5,421 recognised logos which state which used for toilet flushing, saving mains water.
type of material it is made from, making it Scope 2 11,096 11,698 easier for our consumers to recycle their Intensity Ratio 38.16 37.22 product containers.
Intensity ratio is kg of CO e per 1,000 litres OUR CONSUMERS 2 of product produced.
We have an important role to play in helping our consumers choose products that are right for them.
By making our packaging Scope 1 has remained level with the clear and transparent, all consumers can last financial year, the increased energy usage by higher factory production output exercise choice, in particular in relation being offset by better sales delivery fuel to calorie consumption.
Scope 2 has increased in line with the increase in production volume.
Our soft drinks provide hydration, The Intensity Ratio has decreased by 2.5% refreshment and enjoyment for millions which is on track with our Climate Change of consumers daily and can be enjoyed Agreement commitments.
as part of a varied, balanced diet and a healthy, active lifestyle.
We have developed Water consumption and disposal a wide choice of soft drinks from regular Management of water as a resource is and low no sugar drinks, energy drinks, a key activity of our site teams.
juice drinks, plain and sugar free flavoured water, to sugar-free squashes and fruit A. G. BARR is a signatory to the Federation juices to meet our consumers different House Commitment.
This is an initiative drinking requirements and occasions.
across the food and drink sector to reduce water use, excluding water in products, by Public Health Responsibility Deal 20% by 2020.
We calculate this as a ratio of In support of the U. K. Governments Public total water used against water in products.
Health Responsibility Deal we are taking a number of practical actions to help secure In 2013, this increased by 5.3% to 1.51 litres progress against a number of public health per litre of product with the introduction of objectives where we have: a new site at Milton Keynes.
However, now Pledged to reduce calories: that this site has been up and running for Implemented the new voluntary Front more than a full year with improvements of Pack Nutrition Labelling Scheme: and implemented during 2014 15, we are back Continued to offer our employees on track to meet our 2020 target.
healthier choices when purchasing food at our sites and encouraged Improvements include: them to increase their physical activity.
Optimising our rinsing water process The secondary Reverse Osmosis Water Plant.
to increase efficiency: Rainwater harvesting: and Installation of additional water recovery systems.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 35 Corporate Responsibility Continued Portion size Overall, soft drinks contribute 3% of CASE STUDY: Our soft drinks are sold in a wide range calories in the average diet National Diet and Nutrition Survey, 2014 including fruit of pack sizes from family sharing 2 litre juice.
Through our calorie reduction pledge, bottles to 150ml packs to assist consumers THE IRN-BRU STORE our commitment was to reduce the average with portion control and in regulating their calorific content per 100ml of our drinks calorie consumption.
RAISES OVER 20,000 portfolio by 5% by 2016.
Recycling and litter Our first ever IRN-BRU Store, located in We are pleased to report that we have We have always believed that used packaging Glasgows Merchant City, was launched achieved this target.
should be treated as a resource and collected during last summers Glasgow for recycling, not discarded as litter.
By our portfolio of drinks we are referring to the brands that we own and are in control of.
A small % of All of our packaging, including cans, The BRU Store made entirely from our business is in franchised brands which we do not PET, glass and cartons, are recyclable.
seven BRU-coloured shipping containers own and therefore these are not included in our pledge.
provided a unique brand and retail We support Keep Britain Tidy, carrying experience.
Merchandise on sale included the tidyman logo on all of our packs everything from key rings to hoodies and to encourage our consumers to Responsible advertising and marketing posters to onesies, with prices ranging act responsibly when disposing of We take our responsibility to children in from 1 to 35. relation to how we market, promote and our packaging.
advertise our products very seriously.
Over 150,000 IRN-BRU fans visited the We are also partners alongside Zero Waste store during its four-week residency.
Not We follow Ofcom regulations, which provide Scotland in an out-of-home recycling only was it one of the most engaging and a clear set of responsible guidelines relating scheme for aluminium cans in Scotland exciting activities running during the Games, to the advertisement of food and drinks to called Every Can Counts.
we also donated all post operation profits, a children.
We also apply these same principles sum of 20,000, to the Prince and Princess of Wales Hospice Brick By Brick appeal.
to all of our other marketing activities beyond We recently announced a new partnership TV, for example online and cinema.
with Keep Scotland Beautiful where we are undertaking a number of new anti-litter We also follow the industrys CAP and initiatives in 2015 as part of their Clean BCAP codes and fully comply with both the Up Scotland campaign.
letter and the spirit of the Ofcom regulations in all of our other marketing, promotion, As a signatory in 2013 to Waste and sponsorship and on-line activities.
Resources Action Programmes WRAP Courtauld Commitment we are working on Labelling optimising our PET packaging by improving We provide clear calorie and content its design and recyclability and minimising guidelines on all of our product packaging our production waste.
In the last 10 years to enable our consumers to make an our PET and glass bottle lightweighting informed choice.
programme has removed 27m 500ml PET and 1.69m 330ml glass bottle equivalents.
This year we also adopted and implemented the Governments new voluntary traffic light We have also signed up to DEFRAs Soft Front of Pack Nutrition labelling scheme Drinks Sustainability Road Map which FoPL across all A. G. BARR owned brands.
covers the entire soft drinks production The front-of-pack labelling uses colour-coded process from sourcing ingredients to icons for fats, saturates, sugar and salt.
recycling packaging where we will be working on a range of objectives to further We believe that consumers will find it the enhance our sustainability and improve most useful way to find the information our use of resources, which we believe will they need about the nutritional content have a positive effect on reducing litter.
Standards The quality assurance at A. G. BARR complies with national and international standards as well as ISO guidelines.
We are certified to the ISO 9001 quality standard as well as to Grade A status against the Opening ceremony star Jock the Scottie Dog British Retail Consortiums Global Food outside the BRU store.
A A.. G G. B. BA AR RR p R p.. l l.. c c.. A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 36 Corporate Responsibility Continued For example, we supported a number OUR COMMUNITY CASE STUDY: of community and charity road races by A. G. BARR has always worked closely with and provided support to the communities providing more than 500,000 bottles of in which we operate by providing financial, Strathmore spring water and continued STRATHMORE DO MORE in-kind, practical and employee volunteering our support of The Big Issue Scotland.
support to charities, good causes and In 2014 Strathmore Spring Water launched community groups.
Education partnerships its Do More With Strathmore campaign Our partnerships with local schools have which aimed to encourage everyone to We work with national U. K. charities such always been very important to us and take some simple steps to increase their as The Princes Trust which offers support 2014 15 saw A. G. BARR continue to build physical activity.
to 13 to 30 year olds who are unemployed upon these relationships.
We have three or struggling at school.
We also support Scottish-based Enterprise in Education The campaign ran in conjunction with the brands game-changing sponsorship international charities such as the British Partners Lenzie Academy, Our Ladys as Official Water of the 2014 Glasgow Asian Trust.
High School and Westfield Primary School Commonwealth Games, exposing the the latter two in Cumbernauld.
Strathmore brand to millions of consumers Keeping it local U. K. wide.
We support a number of local community Across these three schools we take part in a and charity organisations who work in areas number of events to help pupils understand To communicate effectively with this local to our sites.
In 2014 15 this included more about business, as well as helping them wide U. K. audience the brand created working with: with softer skills around career planning.
Team Strathmore by joining forces with The Cumbernauld Theatre.
three Commonwealth Games athletes: Now Youre Talking Health and Wellbeing Looking ahead paralympic sprinter Libby Clegg, gymnast in Cumbernauld, a group which supports Corporate Social Responsibility will Dan Keating and swimmer Robbie Renwick, who all helped to inspire the nation to and helps people to build a balanced life.
continue to be a major area of focus for Do More as brand ambassadors.
The Steve Prescott Foundation, which A. G. BARR.
As consumers become more raises funds for The Christie Hospital discerning, its more important than ever The public were invited to participate in in Manchester.
that we place great emphasis on the part come and try days and coaching sessions FareShare, a unique charity fighting we play as a company in our local, national hosted by Team Strathmore in the build up hunger and its underlying causes by and international communities.
to and during the Commonwealth Games redistributing surplus food to hundreds timetable.
Alongside inspirational and of local charities across Scotland, helping encouraging videos and blogs, these events to feed thousands of vulnerable people were shared and accessed by thousands of every day.
enthusiastic people online through social media sites.
Andrew Memmott Some of our key areas of community Supply Chain Director Strathmore was also the Official Water support in 2014 were in the areas of of Scottish Rugby and the Scottish active lifestyles, helping socially excluded, Professional Football League throughout disabled people and those in education.
Do More is the consumer facing proposition which brings these sponsorship properties to life with a relevant message, which can inspire and encourage everyone to Do More on an everyday basis.
Gold medal winning Strathmore para athlete Libby Clegg with running partner Mikhail Huggins.
