Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics HSSEE committee Members The HSSEE committee comprises only independent The core role of the HSSEE committee is to non-executive directors.
The quorum for the committee is assist the board in upholding the Companys two members.
In 2015 there were three scheduled committee principal value of doing the right thing, to review meetings held, and no unscheduled meetings.
the HSSE policy statement and to satisfy The company Chairman, the executive directors, the General itself that all significant health, safety, security, Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chief Compliance Officer and the Global Head of HSSE also attend each meeting environmental and ethics risks are identified by invitation.
The membership of the committee is detailed below.
Membership and attendance of the HSSEE committee Dear shareholder during 2015 On 1 January 2015, the board created the HSSEE committee to replace the ethics committee and its terms of reference were Meeting attendance extended to include health, safety, security and environmental Linda Adamany Chairman 3 3 matters full details of which can be found on amecfw.
The purpose of the HSSEE committee is to provide an additional Neil Carson 3 3 level of governance in respect of Amec Foster Wheelers health, Stephanie Newby 3 3 safety, security, environmental and ethics activities.
Kent Masters from 14 February 2015 3 3 Our employees have the right to work in a safe and secure environment, which is particularly important in a group that has Key responsibilities of the HSSEE committee over 40,000 people working in more than 55 countries.
Over the The committee reviews Amec Foster Wheelers HSSE policy course of 2016 we will be refreshing our Beyond Zero initiative, at least annually to ensure it remains fit for purpose and which is aims to deliver first-class protection from harm for our meets legal and regulatory requirements in all respects.
people, our assets, our environment and our customers.
It also examines the processes in place to satisfy itself that There is a strong framework in place that has supported all significant health, safety, security and environmental risks Amec Foster Wheeler as it has become a more global business are identified and mitigated.
following the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
This ensures that The committee oversees the operations and activities of the our employees, and those who work with and for us, act with HSSE review committee which is a management committee, integrity wherever they are based.
Our employees have access details of which are outlined on page 56. to a third-party reporting system to enable them to report any concerns in complete confidence.
All such calls are investigated The committee reviews and monitors business ethics within the and actions taken where appropriate.
Group, including compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and current best practice.
It also reviews and approves the This year the committee has overseen the launch of a new Code Groups Code of Business Conduct at least annually.
of Business Conduct and successful Code of Business Conduct and anti-bribery and corruption training across the Group, with It considers and reviews the scope and planning of all ethical very high completion rates being achieved.
Further training compliance activity within the Group and reviews the extent programmes are scheduled for roll-out in 2016 to further raise and effectiveness of the Groups internal training and external awareness and assure compliance.
reporting of compliance and ethics matters.
In the event of an actual or suspected material breach of the Code of Business Conduct or any other serious matter, a member of the committee will normally take responsibility for and manage any investigation into the relevant matter with Linda Adamany the support of the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Security, Environmental and Ethics Committee 10 March 2016 Amec Foster Wheeler Annual report and accounts 2015 63 Additional information Financials Governance Strategic report Accountability continued Health, safety, security, environmental and ethics HSSEE committee continued Activities of the HSSEE committee The committee reviewed the revised Amec Foster Wheeler Code of Business Conduct in March 2015 and endorsed its content.
This document combined the codes of business conduct of the former AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses into one new code.
The separate ethics reporting systems for the AMEC and Foster Wheeler businesses were combined into a single system during the second half of the year.
During the year a total of 104 concerns were raised in Amec Foster Wheeler in respect of alleged or suspected ethical breaches, most of which were reported through the independent third-party reporting systems.
Each report was taken seriously and investigated.
The outcome of these investigations resulted in disciplinary action where appropriate as well as enhancements to the existing control environment where necessary.
Over the course of the year, the number of matters reported has increased, which we see as a positive outcome, emanating from the increased publicity and the independent nature of the reporting process.
The Global Head of HSSE attends each committee meeting and gives a full report and update on HSSE matters.
Areas of focus during the year included risk mitigation and high potential incidents, particularly those that occurred within joint ventures.
The committee was pleased to note the deep dive reviews that were undertaken in respect of each incident and that the outcomes and lessons learned were taken on board throughout the business.
As part of the externally conducted board effectiveness review undertaken in 2015, the performance of the committee was assessed and was rated highly.
Improvements to the safety reporting process for the committee and the board, identified in the review, are being implemented.
The committee also reviewed its terms of reference in December 2015 and recommended to the board that the terms of reference continued to be fit for purpose and to meet the requirements of the group.
Amec Foster Wheeler 64 Annual report and accounts 2015
