Sustainability Growth in demand drives the competition for skills and expertise within the industry that we need to deliver a resilient Sustainable development is shaping our business world.
We will resource for a diverse and inclusive workforce, every day.
It is at the heart of our values.
introducing new people both experienced and new entrants to the resource pools in order to create a business with genuine Greenhouse gas emissions diversity of thought.
Innovation 2015 2014 CO2e CO2e Delivering innovative technologies, solutions and services emissions in emissions in Year ended 31 October tonnes tonnes that add business value for our customers whilst minimising environmental impacts.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 838,073 24,355 We will drive long-term growth for Amec Foster Wheeler by developing and encouraging a growing portfolio of innovative Electricity, heat, steam and cooling environmental technologies, solutions and services which add purchased for own use 59,682 35,434 value to our customers and our business.
Per employee 22.83 2.17 Delivery Per 1m revenue 164.57 15.74 Being a trusted partner by embedding a consistent sustainability standard across our projects.
Based on AMEC revenue only for 2014.
Our customers demand high standards, and sustainability is a The figures show scope one and two emissions from our global fundamental part of this.
We will ensure a consistent approach to business where we have operational control.
inherently embedding sustainability into the core of our projects, The 12-month period to 30 September the carbon reporting and implement a value-add sustainability framework to be used year, rather than the calendar year, has been used.
for those clients with advanced sustainability objectives.
This ensures actual data can be reported, even for those We want to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very regions where energy fuel usage is more difficult to access.
core of our business and within our decision-making processes.
By reducing reliance on estimation, a more accurate footprint We want to be acknowledged as a leader in sustainable can be provided in a timely manner.
business practice, continually validating our social licence We have use accepted methods of calculation based on to operate by ensuring employees behaviours and actions are the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and in line with our values.
Further details on our approach and our Reporting Standard revised edition.
We have used national strategy can be found on our dedicated sustainability site at conversion factor guidelines eg Environmental Protection www.
com sustainability Agency, Environment Canada where appropriate.
Additionally we: Our 2015 footprint is markedly different from previous year X developed and launched our Resilient World due to the inclusion of emissions from two power generation sustainability strategy facilities which came as part of the Foster Wheeler acquisition.
Our 2014 data represents the AMEC business only.
The 2015 X launched an online interactive sustainability report footprint represents the Amec Foster Wheeler business with on our new sustainability website Foster Wheeler data being incorporated into the carbon report X re-committed to the UN Global Compact principles from 1 January 2015. as Amec Foster Wheeler Our approach to sustainable business X continue to support SOS Children as our global strategic Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing charity in 2015 we raised just over 140,000 for them, on our customers and how we deliver our projects safely reaching 5,568 beneficiaries.
We also developed a new and sustainably.
memorandum of understanding with the International In 2015 we developed and launched our sustainability strategy Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies IFRC, for Amec Foster Wheeler Resilient World, where natural to support them in designing transitional shelters to be used resources are cleaner and more efficient, and we work in in disaster situations partnership with others to respond to changing demands for X collated and reported a new carbon footprint baseline for the a stable and secure supply of natural resources.
Our strategy Amec Foster Wheeler business from which future reduction focuses on the opportunities to work with others to help solve targets will be set these challenges, as well as manage our risks, to deliver value to Amec Foster Wheeler and its customers.
Our strategy X became a partner of 100 Resilient Cities 100RC pioneered focuses on three key areas: by the Rockefeller Foundation to give urban centres across the world access to ground-breaking tools allowing them to better People plan for potentially destructive weather events Investing for tomorrow by developing a diverse, inclusive and talented workforce which exhibits our values and behaviours X convened a working group to address the due diligence to drive sustainability.
and operational processes required to address the Modern Slavery Act Amec Foster Wheeler 22 Annual report and accounts 2015
