42 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Our people Growing and enabling the organisation that shapes the connected world Jenny Duvalier ARM was founded 25 years ago with a team of 12 people, and EVP People by theend of 2015, that team had grown to 3,975.
ARM provides individuals with the capabilities, processes and infrastructure that enable them t them to o develop and thrive as our business scales and strengthens.
A At tthe s the ame time, we seek to retain a work culture that is grounded f f fr r rom ou om o r days as a start-up: to maximise the creative potential of iin n nd diivi vid dual u s and to enable our people to be their brilliant selves.
In 2 In 20 01 15 5 we continued shaping and strengthening our organisation, ands andset ou et rselves the goal of being the best place to work in our iin ndus dust tr ry.
We laid new foundations by introducing an updated Vision, M Mis iss siio on and S n trategy and set out ARMs Core Beliefs and Behaviours.
Thes These e c connect all of our people with the heritage of the last 25 years and g a an nd giiv five e us a collective view of our future.
They define how our people w w wo o or rk k t to ogether to create technology that invisibly enables a globally c co onnec nnected population.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 43 Culture Capability Connection Giving our people the best Strengthening the organisation, Enabling colleagues to engage working experience teams and individuals with each other, and with ARM ARMs Core Beliefs and Behaviours represent the essence of what Through new hires and acquisitions, we expanded our workforce As we grow, it is ever more important to bring people together, and makes ARM unique.
They unify people from different countries by net681 people in 2015, taking the total to 3,975 2014: 3,294. weorganise several events a year to connect colleagues across the and backgrounds, guide how we make decisions, and permeate We opened offices in Deereld, Miami and Chandler, Arizona, globe.
Our annual Global Engineering Conference brings together all ARM processes and systems, including our new approach to andnowhave 35 offices worldwide.
We also invested in building 15%of our engineers to discuss important development issues that performance management.
the capability of individuals and teams through training and personal affect our business, especially those that cross the organisational development.
Our robust induction programme seeks to accelerate boundaries of function, location, and department.
In 2015, 585 recent People at ARM are recognised for how they work together, how they theramp up of our new colleagues through a combination of starters attended a Big Picture induction event and 155 colleagues drive innovation and how they support our customers.
ARM gives information sharing and networking.
participated in the Global Graduate Conference.
managers the exibility to recognise and reward excellent performance, and gives individuals control of their career development, enabling them In 2015 we enhanced our technical, management, leadership and We also promote connection through online collaboration and to progress their technical and leadership skills.
When hiring, we assess business skills training.
We also refreshed our approach to talent communication.
We recently relaunched ARMs intranet to act as candidates for their cultural t with ARM: that they are inquisitive and management, improving the way we evaluate potential and focus the a central hub for all of our people to nd and share information.
passionate about the success of others.
development activities of our colleagues.
We will continue to roll out Our internal social media network is used by over 65% of our employee and embed this approach in 2016, ensuring we have robust succession base each day, and hosts regular ask me anything sessions with ARM completed four acquisitions in 2015.
We seek out companies plans in place throughout the organisation to ensure that ARM thrives our CEO.
that complement our strategy and share our values.
When deals are now and in the future.
completed, we strive to ensure our new colleagues nd their feet Our engagement survey shows that our people are proud to work quickly at ARM, and this year we launched an M&A People Toolkit From our earliest days, we recognised the importance of diversity at ARM, and this includes pride in our heritage.
In November 2015, to ensure that the due diligence and integration process runs smoothly and inclusion in building a highly innovative business.
In 2015 we ARM celebrated its 25th anniversary with events in all of our global for everyone.
reviewed how we could include diversity in our hiring and leadership offices.
We were joined by company founders and guest speakers to programmes, and how we could encourage young women to consider explore ARMs history and how ARM technology has helped shape the We recognise the importance of social capital and engagement, listen to acareer in engineering.
Gender diversity at ARM is close to the industry connected world.
our employees and act on feedback.
Our employee engagement survey average, with women in 10% of engineering positions, and 30% of other has run for 13 years.
The commitment of ARM employees continues groups see page 47 for further details.
One of the objectives of our Connecting with people in our local communities is important to ARM.
to be high, with 85% of our employees saying that they are sustainably Corporate Responsibility programme is to encourage more young All ARM people can spend at least one day each year on volunteer engaged, an increase on 2014 and signicantly higher than industry people, particularly girls, to consider a career in engineering.
work through our TeamARM programme and they will receive full norms.
Nine out of ten are proud to work for ARM, and even more pay for that day.
In 2015 more than 20% of our workforce took this are willing to put in discretionary effort to help ARM succeed.
opportunity, devoting 4,385 hours to skills-based volunteering, with more than 90% of our offices actively engaged in TeamARM activities around the world.
