44 ARM Strategic Report 2015 Corporate responsibility Delivering social impact at scale Graham Budd ARM technologies are appearing in an increasing Alongside this, we aim to improve our measurement CR strategic principles range of devices.
Some have the potential to approaches so that beyond measuring the number of Chief Operating Officer Our CR strategy is informed and inspired by the solve some of the greatest challenges of our time.
people reached, we can understand both qualitative wider ARM business model, innovation, trust, and Through partnerships, we are working with others and quantitative impact.
Linking back to the core business to deliver social impact at scale.
metrics with each of our key partners covering enables us to deliver a more strategic impact over indicators like the number of lives saved, as well a longer timescale, and to share expertise through In 2014 we announced our objective to develop as education, health and livelihood outcomes.
a Corporate Responsibility CR programme that For example: wo woul uld h d help elp m milli illio on ns of people.
Since then, we Our CR principles reect ARMs values and Education helping teachers and society e es st tiim ma ate we w te we will h ill have helped over 300,000 people operating model: demonstrate technologys potential to improve t thr hro ou ug gh a co h a com mb biin nation of improved access to the world and inspire the next generation educ educa ati tion on, medic medical a services, charitable donations Building an ecosystem of partners with a shared to h to he ea allt th h a an nd e d ed du ucation providers and support purpose, enabling us all to achieve more with a Health improving global health outcomes of p of pr ro og gr ra am mm me es s.. O Over 80% of those are in some lower financial investment in developing countries through long-term of t of the he p poor oore es st t p pa arts of the developing world.
partnerships, supporting innovation and through Working with experts who are specialists in Fo For r m more ore in inf for orm ma ation see our 2015 CR Report at the use of ARM technology our project areas to generate credible evidence www www.. ar arm.
of impact 2015 saw the introduction of the United Nations O Ou ur r n nex ext t s st tep ep is is to b t ring about measurable Encouraging collaboration among Partners Sustainable Development Goals UN SDGs and, im imp pr rove ovem me en nt ts s in in t the livelihoods of millions of people and encouraging the open-sourcing of relevant asa member of the UN Global Compacts Advisory iin n t th he n e ne ex xt t five five ye years.
This means delivering positive research and analysis Board, ARM contributed to their development.
ch cha an nge to o ge to on ne m e milli il on people by 2016: and ten million Nurturing innovation and creativity to We will be applying these goals to help guide and by 2 by 2020 020.
It t i is s a an n a am mbitious target building on our tackle complex problems that may have no measure our own performance, and to structure p pr rev eviio ou us c s co om mm miit tm ments and will only be attainable established precedent our reporting.
w wiit th h t th he h e he ellp p of o of our long-term charity partners that e en na ab ble le u us s to r to re ea ac ch h communities at scale.
Measuring our performance Further information about the impact our programme is having can be found in our CR Report Robust monitoring and evaluation help ensure and disclosures supplement.
These are available for eachproject remains on track.
Our programmes download from the ARM website.
are mapped to each of the 17 UN SDGs and we report according to the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI best practice benchmark.
In 2015 we achieved entry into the European Index of the DJSI with a 74% ranking, and we have targeted inclusion in the World Index by 2017.
Indeed, a key 2020 goal is to achieve 90% or higher percentile ranking in the DJSI.
ARM Strategic Report 2015 Overview Strategy Performance Commitment Financials 45 Contributing to Communities Our CR focus areas Health Environment We have decided to focus on four areas of impact We are proud of our strategic partnership with We are on track to achieve our 2020 target of 15% During 2015, we signicantly expanded our reach that reect our skills, technology and ecosystem see UNICEF, which began in May 2015 and has already reduction in energy consumption per employee, and impact across communities.
Working with charity partners and a range of shown how wearable technology can change however we have not achieved the level of progress launched our employee volunteering programme internal and external stakeholders, we prioritise: childrens lives for the better.
The Wearables we had hoped in addressing our target of a 30% which has seen 4,385 hours contributed by our for Good challenge had over 250 entries from reduction in carbon emissions per employee during employees globally.
We also donated over 200,000 Education 46 countries, with seven countries represented 2015.
This is due partly to an increase in the size to local community charitable projects in our among the ten nalists.
The winners are now being and complexity of our global estate, and partly neighbourhoods.
In addition to time and money, Over the past year, ARM has been working with its supported by ARM to turn their concept into a to the delay in establishing new programmes to we have worked to bring together our partners technology Partners and the BBC on the micro:bit, viable prototype, and we are matching all ten nalists reduce the direct environmental impact of our and businesses to collaborate on shared objectives a pocket-sized device that will be given free to every with funding and commercial partners to incubate business operations.
For example, we have 12 year old in the UK.
The micro:bit seeks to engage ideas.
For more information go to: set up a working group of Cambridge businesses to youngsters in computer coding in the same way that http: wearablesforgood.
We remain committed to our 2020 targets, and tackle issues pertinent to the local community.
educational computers from the BBC Micro to the have identied carbon offset opportunities, as well as Raspberry Pi have inspired many of the engineers Looking forward We are also working with UNICEF on its technology energy efficiency opportunities across our estate to at ARM over the years.
This initiative reects our platform, U-Report, which supports 1.7 million achieve them.
wider commitment to inspire a new generation of The partnerships that we formed and strengthened young people across Africa.
By offering technical engineers and entrepreneurs.
over the year will help improve outcomes for millions Additionally, ARMs low-power technology has an and financial support we will help UNICEF scale this of people.
By 2016 we expect that at least one important role to play in reducing global emissions service across more countries in Africa.
Over one million micro:bit devices will be given project will be reaching over a million more people by enabling greater efficiencies in areas such as the to children in 2016, and ARM is now working and that all our projects are contributing to a Group data centre, factory automation and building control.
Other health projects include Literacy Bridge, which, onprojects that will help teachers integrate them goal of improving ten million lives by 2020.
Our technology is also at the heart of new strategies in 2015, reached 175,000 of the poorest farmers in intolessons and broaden the usability of these the world and Simprints, which has begun its first that will deal with other environmental and resource mini-computers for older age groups.
major health data capture trials with 22,000 mothers challenges such as the management of energy grids and children in Bangladesh.
Other education projects in 2015 included the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics STEM Scholars Programme, gathering data to show how to improve STEM uptake and attainment: and the Global STEM Alliance, mentoring thousands of children across the world.
