OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Operational review Managing a sustainable business Sustainable development is an essential component of the Groups decision-making process and business model.
To achieve this aim, the Group is committed to the continuous assessment and improvement of safety, health, environmental and social performance across all of its business operations.
Sustainability focus Reporting on progress The Groups sustainability priorities are This section of the Annual Report The Group respects the those issues of material risk to the business, summarises the Groups sustainability its employees and contractors, to the performance in 2015.
The 2015 rights of its employees and environment in which it operates and Sustainability Report is published separately contractors, as well as those to the Groups national and international and is available at www.
of everyone that comes into stakeholders.
In 2015, the Group built upon The 2015 Sustainability Report is the the materiality assessment carried out in contact with the business.
Companys ninth and has been prepared 2014 addressing high risk and high impact in accordance with the Global Reporting areas.
Specifically, the Group focused on Initiative GRI G4 reporting standards the following: and verified by .
implementing its new community The Report also covers the mining engagement approach, strengthening divisions compliance with the ICMMs itssocial licence to operate on the basis of tensustainable development principles.
regular dialogue and agreed contributions to the communities in which the Los Pelambres and Centinela Cathodes Group operates: are certified under the international standards ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and developing human capital finding, OHSAS 18001.
Until its closure, Michilla developing and maintaining a high-quality was certified under ISO 9001 and and committed workforce to achieve the OHSAS 18001 and had a management Groups business strategy: system in line with ISO 14001. auditing and assessing business operations to ensure safe work practices and strengthening leadership and operating procedures in higher risk areas: identifying opportunities to improve the efficient use of water, energy and other natural resources: and developing the first Group-wide response to climate change.
While there were significant highlights in 2015, regrettably the Group suffered the loss of a contractor at the Michilla mine.
In addition, there were protests bythe Salamanca community, close to Los Pelambres, concerning water shortages inthe region.
Antofagasta plc 53 Operational review Managing a sustainable business Environmental and social governance Why it matters Antofagasta is committed to high levels of corporate environmental and social governance, starting with leadership from the Board of Directors.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that sustainability is embedded in all decisions throughout the mining cycle.
The Board is supported by five committees Respecting Human Rights ICMM and FTSE4Good including the Sustainability and Stakeholder The Group respects the rights of its Management Committee whose role is to employees and contractors, as well as those oversee implementation of the Companys of everyone that comes into contact with safety, environmental and social policies and the business.
This is reflected in the Groups standards.
This Committee met six times commitments to employees, contractors in 2015. and local communities: At the operational level, the transport Employees and contractors division and each mining company has High safety and health standards itsown sustainability manager responsible Fair wages and good labour relations Antofagasta Minerals was accepted as for environmental, community, public affairs and communication issues.
a member of the International Council Prevention of discrimination, harassment Further information regarding the Sustainability on Mining and Metals ICMM in May and bullying and Stakeholder Management Committee is 2014.
The ICMM was founded in 2001 included on pages 93 and 94.
Opportunities for training and development to improve sustainable development Provision of good-quality accommodation, Upholding Ethical Standards andValues in the mining and minerals industries.
services and facilities at the operations The Groups Code of Ethics and Member companies are required Crime Prevention Handbook set out Communities to improve their sustainability the responsibilities of employees Prevention of corruption and malpractices performance based on ten guiding and contractors in relation to human Prevention or mitigation of environmental principles and to report on their rights, corruption and bribery, codes of and social impacts conduct, complaints management and progress annually using the GRI whistleblowing.
The Code reflects the Respect for communities rights, culture G4 standard.
In 2015, Antofagasta Groups core values of: and heritage Minerals worked towards closing the Respect Engagement in dialogue through the gaps identified during its application mining cycle from exploration to closure to ICMM.
Sustainability Listening and responding to grievances Excellence In June 2015, the Company was Support for community development added as a constituent of the Safety and health FTSE4Good Index.
This index The Group is sensitive to the different Innovation cultures, ethnicity and diversity of the is made up of companies with Forward-thinking places in which we operate.
None of the strong Environmental, Social and Groups current operations or projects Employees and contractors are trained Governance ESG practices as involve indigenous people, however, in the Code and are encouraged to measured against 300 indicators, Antofagasta has had some very earlyreport any unethical conduct through 14 themes and three pillars as stage, short-term exploration activities established channels.
which have required engagement with assessed by FTSE International.
The Group has been successful in maintaining a respectful and mutually beneficial relationship in accordance with ILO Convention 169 andICMM recommendations.
54 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Environmental protection Why it matters Mining operations can have significant environmental impacts and concern for long-term environmental integrity, including climate change impacts, is high and of increasing public interest.
Mining involves the alteration of habitats, the use of water and energy resources, the generation of noise and air emissions and of large quantities of waste-rock, spent ore and tailings.
Legal permits, the social licence to operate and good community relations all depend on sound environmental stewardship.
Compliance Optimising water resources Key Water Indicators Environmental protection is highly regulated Water is a scarce and valuable commodity in Chile.
Mining projects must undergo a in the centre and north of Chile, particularly Total water consumption stringent environmental impact assessment, in the Choapa Valley near Los Pelambres, including social and heritage aspects.
If the which is a key area for agricultural % water supply from sea water project is approved by the National Agency production.
Water availability is increasingly Zero water discharged for Environmental Assessment, its impact affected by changes in the climate and prevention, mitigation and compensation the prolonged drought in central Chile % water recirculated measures are included in the Environmental isanongoing concern.
They become The Groups priority is to ensure that it legally-binding and are subject to review by has sufficient water to operate without the Environmental Agency.
Non-compliance compromising the quality or availability with RCA commitments can result in fines ofwater for the local community.
and eventual revocation of the operational permit.
In 2015, the Group submitted the Antofagasta is always looking at ways EIA for the construction of the Centinela to minimise the use of continental water Second Concentrator project.
resources through increased efficiency and the use of sea water as it does in its Michilla, Centinela and Antucoya operations.
The Group has achieved high water reuse rates of up to 72% at each operation.
The remainder of the water either evaporates or remains in the tailings dam with no discharge to the environment.
In 2015, the mining division consumed 3 45.2 million m of water and sea water accounted for 45.6% of it, up from 3 44.6 million m and 44% in 2014.
All of the Groups mining operations have water management plans and water quality monitoring results are submitted to the Water Bureau and Health Service.
Since 2012, the Choapa community has also been actively involved in water quality monitoring.
In addition, Los Pelambres provides direct financial support to local farmers in the Choapa valley for water efficiency projects such as large-scale drip irrigation schemes and the lining ofirrigation canals.
Antofagasta plc 55 Operational review Managing a sustainable business Managing waste To date, the Group has secured renewable El Mauro energy from two principal sources: Large-scale mining operations generate tailings dam waste rock, spent ore and tailings the El Arrayn is the largest wind farm in Chile material left over after the process of with an installed capacity of 115MW and Los Pelambres has two tailings separating the valuable portion of the ore is operated by Pattern Energy.
El Arrayn from the uneconomic portion.
Since 2008, its tailings have provided approximately 20% of Los Antucoya and Centinela Cathodes, which Pelambres energy in 2015 and operates been deposited in the Mauro Dam, use leaching to produce copper, have fully under a long-term PPA: and located in the Pupio Valley 13 km from permitted spent ore dumps.
Los Pelambres Caimanes, the nearest community.
Javiera solar photovoltaic farm in and Centinela Concentrates, which use the Atacama Desert is operated by With a capacity of 1.7 billion tonnes, flotation, deposit their waste in licensed SunEdison.
The farm has an installed tailings storage facilities.
it was designed to withstand extreme capacity of 69.5MW covering a site of weather conditions and severe Centinela is the first mine in the world to 180 hectares and supplies Los Pelambres earthquakes.
This was tested in use thickened tailings technology on this with approximately 10% of its total scale.
It provides many advantages including September 2015, when a major energy requirement.
greater water efficiency and stability and earthquake of magnitude 8.3 on the By the end of 2015, the Groups biggest better dust control.
Richter scale struck off the coast of operation, Los Pelambres, was being Other solid non-mining wastes are supplied with 33% of its energy from Chile, some 100 km from El Mauro.
segregated and stored prior to final disposal renewable sources and this is expected The dam continued to operate as in compliance with Chilean regulations.
toreach 80% by 2019. normal and there was no structural The Group has pioneered the use of With a core focus on resource efficiency, damage to the infrastructure.
thickened tailings deposits, which have the Group seeks to further reduce energy Immediately after the earthquake, alower environmental impact.
consumption per unit of production and Los Pelambres invited representatives increase the percentage of total energy Sustainable energy from the local community to verify generated from renewable sources.
In 2015, energy accounted for approximately the structural integrity of the dam.
15% of the total operating costs of the mining division.
Total energy demand is rising as production grows, transportation HSE Indicators: distances increase and ore grades decline as the Groups operations get Total energy demand MW older.
There isalso greater use of sea water, whichneeds to be pumped to % energy supply from themine sites.
renewable sources Investment in new and clean energy sources has major commercial as well asenvironmental benefits.
56 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Mitigating climate change Climate change Decoupling growth from CO emissions 2 Changes to the climate have a direct impact on the Groups operations in relation to the availability of water, droughts and other Antofagastas new climate change standard establishes a strategy to mitigate its extreme weather events.
Chile is a country carbon emissions, despite the Groups increasing use of sea water.
With 75% which is vulnerable to the effects of climate change, reflected in higher temperatures of its emissions associated with electricity consumption, the first priority was and reduced rainfall in the north and centre to diversify its energy sourcing and by the end of 2015, Los Pelambres was of the country.
The Chilean government has receiving 33% of its energy from clean sources.
By 2019, this will increase recently committed to a 30% reduction in to 80%.
GHG emissions below 2007 levels by 2030, despite a global contribution of only 0.2%.
The new standard guides the implementation of initiatives to mitigate CO 2 The Groups approach is to limit emissions at current operations and future projects.
To achieve this, the Group contributions to climate change by has identified the critical activities and designed projects to reduce emissions controlling GHG emissions through that are both technically and economically feasible according to the marginal improved energy efficiency and to source abatement cost curve.
This methodology allows for the comparison of the an increasing proportion of its energy needs benefits of each project, measured in terms of potential reduction against cost from clean energy sources.
The Group has reported its Scope 1 and 2 direct and savings per tonne of copper abated, which is particularly relevant in the current indirect GHG emissions, as defined in the cost control environment.
GHG Protocol, to the CDP since 2009.
In 2015, it developed its first integrated In 2016, Antofagasta will start executing specific projects to increase energy climate change strategy, which was based efficiency in its operations which allow it to set goals for GHG reduction.
The main features of the standard are: identifying the risks and opportunities of climate change impacts on the Groups operations: encouraging innovation to improve energy efficiency and the use of clean energy: mitigating GHG emissions: and measuring progress and reporting results, including CO emissions, in 2 accordance with the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
Growth in production will inevitably result in increased GHG emissions.
However, the Company will seek to balance this through greater energy efficiency and increased energy supply from non-fossil fuel sources.
2 Total CO2 emissions per tonne of fine copper produced scopes 1 and 2.
4 Antofagastas Intensity figure against revenue.
Antofagasta plc 57 Operational review Managing a sustainable business Protecting biodiversity implement the closure plans.
These plans Social closure must be updated every five years and were The Groups targets are zero net loss of of the Michilla mine last updated at Michilla, Los Pelambres and biodiversity and to add value to biodiversity Centinela in 2014. wherever possible through direct support Michilla is located in a remote coastal forconservation projects and effective In November 2014, the Group announced private-public partnerships.
area of the Atacama Desert, close to the closure of the Michilla mine, which was acquired by the Company in 1980.
Caleta Michilla, which has some 800 The greatest biodiversity challenges for the The announcement was made 14 months Group are at Los Pelambres which is located inhabitants.
Following the completion in advance of closure and a comprehensive in an agricultural valley.
of mining activities in 2015, the mine social closure plan was implemented, The Company has voluntarily restored the and processing plant were put on which included trying to transfer as many Laguna Conchali coastal wetlands, near its care and maintenance.
The water employees as possible from Michilla to port facilities, to create a nature sanctuary other Group operations.
For the remainder, extraction facilities at Caleta Michilla that has been classified as a Wetland of generous severance terms, beyond those will continue to be used by Antucoya International Importance under the Ramsar required by law, were agreed with the mines and Centinela.
The Group has also put in unions.
This approach helped to minimise place a programme to protect one of the uncertainty and provided enough time for Antofagasta created a dedicated few remaining Chilean palm forests at employees to plan ahead.
committee to co-ordinate the Monte Aranda and since 2014 has also During the year, the Group began been protecting Santa Ins, one of the actions associated with the closure, developing corporate closure standards that rarerelicforests in the region.
comprising representatives from the move beyond those required under Chilean Los Pelambres and Centinela monitor Human Resources, Environment, law, and following ICMM best practice that their impact on the marine ecosystems Safety, Risk and Public Affairs provides guidance for environmental and at their port facilities in Los Vilos and social issues.
The committee focused Caleta Michilla to prevent impacts on on the timely announcement of the themarine environment.
Air quality control closure 14 months in advance, In addition to naturally occurring dust, In 2015, the Group worked with the a recruitment and re-employment miningoperations generate particulate Wildlife Conservation Society to develop emissions from loading and hauling activities.
plan for employees around 25% a biodiversity standard, aligned with Dust can affect health, particularly through ICMMs principles, to achieve no net loss of employees have been placed in the smaller, ingestible component and is of ofbiodiversity across the business through positions in other parts of the mining particular concern at Los Pelambres where the application of the mitigation hierarchy.
division, and the management the communities are closer to the mine than Cultural heritage of the long-term and legacy at some of the Groups other operations.
At Centinela, dust is also an issue as there are environmental impacts.
The Group participates in various initiatives several other active mining operations around to protect and increase public knowledge the town of Sierra Gorda.
In 2014, Los Pelambres opened an exhibition hall at Monte Aranda Dust levels are monitored across all sites HSE Indicators: in the Choapa Province focusing on rural and at nearby communities to ensure life and local customs.
Some residents compliance with Chilean government CO direct and indirect emissions 2 of Caimanes now work there as hosts.
The Group uses a preventative In 2016, the Group will open a 25-hectare CO intensity per tonne of approach to manage air quality and limits 2 rock art park, also at Monte Aranda, which dust emissions through operational controls copper produced will exhibit over 240petroglyphs recovered like road wetting and covering of conveyors fromthe areawhere the Mauro Dam and stockpiles including crushed materials.
Key innovations to limit dust include: In the Antofagasta Region, the Group introduction of a preventive warning is involved in conservation and the system at Los Pelambres and Centinela enhancement of cultural heritage, based on mining operations and weather supporting local organisations such as conditions in conditions of strong the ProLoa and Fundacin Chacabuco, winds, certain operational activities which are dedicated to the preservation of suchas blasting may be rescheduled: regional heritage.
It has sponsored a number introduction of a system of mist cannons ofbooks on the archaeological heritage at Los Pelambres: and oftheAntofagasta and Choapa regions.
working in conjunction with other mine Managing mine closure operators, the local authorities and the Chilean legislation requires that mining regional environment agency to diagnose operations have comprehensive closure and plan a solution to control the dust plans approved by the national geology inSierra Gorda.
and mining agency SERNAGEOMIN, Antofagasta has no significant gaseous which defines measures to control risks emissions other than GHGs, which are and demonstrate appropriate funding to addressed under climate change.
58 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Community relations Why it matters Managing the operations sustainably requires preventing and mitigating their impact throughout the mining cycle from exploration to closure, fulfilling their commitments and becoming a more visible and effective contributor to local development.
Over the last couple of years, Antofagasta has been innovative in its community engagement approach to strengthen its social licence by becoming more active in regional long-term development, based on a long-term vision developed together with local stakeholders and close collaboration with the municipalities and the government.
Approach to community engagement In September, Los Pelambres began a consultation process with the Caimanes Each mining operation has a sustainability community to discuss their concerns Los Pelambres began a manager with overall responsibility regarding the Mauro Dam, including the for community relations including the consultation process with flow of a local stream and other topics of implementation of the social investment the Caimanes community to common interest.
The community and the and stakeholder engagement programmes.
Company discussed the implementation discuss the implementation Engagement is through both formal and of initiatives to improve the communitys informal channels including holding regular of initiatives concerning the access to water, introduce additional open meetings, joint community-company safety measures at the dam, improve the Mauro dam.
Considerable task groups for monitoring and discussing emergency communications plan and to specific local development issues, use of progress has been made.
set-up a development fund for the benefit social media and regular visits for members of the community and local residents.
of the community to the mine sites.
Considerable progress has been made In 2013, Los Pelambres developed a new and agreement on a lasting solution to this model for community relations called long-standing issue is expected in 2016.
Somos Choapa We Are Choapa which represented a major increase in the dialogue Supporting regional development and involvement of the community with The Groups mining division has designed the Company.
The Groups operations in and implemented a social investment the Antofagasta Region also participate programme which aims to bring sustainable in local development alliances such as business and development opportunities CREO Antofagasta.
to the communities in which the Group operates.
Conflict management Over the years these have included the: Upset because of a long drought, in February 2015 some neighbours from development of sustainable agriculture Salamanca blocked the road leading to Los schemes, including investment in a Pelambres demanding that the Company large-scale drip irrigation project and build a desalination plant and stop using technical support to small farmers: water from the Choapa river.
However, support to artisanal fishermen at Los Vilos: using the new engagement model, the crisis was managed by bringing together investment in infrastructure projects to local government, members of congress improve public areas in local communities and water consumer organisations, as well such as in the town squares, sport as the protesters and representatives from facilities and schools: Los Pelambres.
An agreement was reached support for a number of education after about ten days of negotiation that programmes and award of scholarships included undertakings by both public and to top candidates at local schools private parties to address the core issue toallow them to attend university of finding short and long-term solutions orreceivetechnical training: towater shortages in the area.
More information in the 2015 provision of vocational Sustainability Report.
training opportunities: Antofagasta plc 59 Operational review Managing a sustainable business investment in healthcare facilities Somos Choapa We Are Choapa including completion of the first Primary Our new approach to community engagement Health Care facility at Alto Choapa investment of $2.0 million : provision of clean drinking water through co-financing $3 million water towers and wastewater facilities for the towns ofSierra Gorda and Baquedano: provision of running drinking water for Caleta Michilla through co-financing a desalination plant run by the Mejillones The Groups new engagement model aims to strengthen its social licence to municipality: and operate and grow.
It is based on a methodology to sustain ongoing dialogue contribution of funds to a coastal bicycle between the Company, local communities, authorities and other local path as part of the CREO Antofagasta master plan.
stakeholders to enhance the Groups contribution to local development and social capital.
The models key characteristics are: Responding to community complaints 1.
E ngaging with the communities, the local authority and other local Unethical behaviour can be reported through the Companys website, via the stakeholders to: internet or on the telephone.
All complaints i dentify local challenges and opportunities will be investigated and can be made whether related to mining or not : anonymously if the complainant prefers.
The Ethics Committee is responsible for b uild a shared vision for the regions development: and investigating these complaints in a timely manner and their work is supervised by d esign a portfolio of projects and programmes to fulfil this vision.
theAudit and Risk Committee of the Board.
Taking an integrated and long-term approach to the challenges faced by The Group also has a grievance system the Choapa provinces four municipalities, through the design and execution atall of its operations for members of a portfolio of projects instead of isolated contributions.
of local communities to express their concerns to the Company.
Working through alliances with national, regional and local government, allows forconsultation and feedback, using both private and public funding to implement the agreed projects.
with grievances from local communities generally handled by the operations 4.
Explicit commitment to transparency and accountability of decisions, community engagement team.
Chile Transparente the Chilean arm of By providing these different means for Transparency International has accepted the Groups invitation to oversee complaints to be made about the Company Somos Choapa.
and for them to be handled efficiently, the Board intends that any contentious issues Somos Choapa has been accepted with growing enthusiasm by local can be raised early and resolved before stakeholders.
By the end of 2015, some 49 discussion forums had been held they develop into potentially serious areas in the province with the participation of 3,600 neighbours.
From this process of contention.
18 strategies emerged, involving 57 specific initiatives.
A dozen were already in their tendering stage by the end of the year.
Somos Choapa constitutes an integrated platform for the sustainable development of the Choapa province and a common charter for both public and private investment in the short, medium and long term.
60 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Employees Why it matters Retaining, developing and engaging employees is key to operating a successful business.
Supporting the business The Group ensures its own and its In 2013, the Group designed a corporate contractors compliance with all Chilean human resources strategy for all its laws and regulations, and with the Groups The Groups Executive companies.
New programmes and tools values and Code of Ethics, including the Committee, led by the CEO, were introduced in 2014 and consolidated fundamental respect for human rights.
made seven visits to the in 2015, in line with the corporate Costs Labour agreements which cover salaries, andCompetitiveness Programme.
working hours, compensation and operations in 2015, to verify employment benefits, are negotiated with More information on Key inputs and cost base the critical controls for on pages 19 to 21. the unions at all of the Groups operations.
These agreements were last negotiated in the key risks were being The aim of Antofagastas Human Resources the mining division in 2013 and 2014 and implemented effectively.
strategy is to develop and ensure it has cover a period of up to four years.
There are the organisational capabilities to sustain its ten unions in total, three at Los Pelambres, business strategy over the short, medium three at Centinela, twoat Zaldvar and one and long term.
The strategic objectives are: at each of Michilla and Antucoya.
The Group recognises employees rights to union developing a Group organisational membership and collective bargaining, model through the capture of best and promotes equal opportunities in practices, promoting synergy and the workforce.
supporting competitiveness: Group employees receive a fair salary, strengthening Group culture through commensurate with industry benchmarks.
promoting shared values, principles Training opportunities are available for and ethics while enhancing the all employees and job opportunities are leadership model: advertised internally to promote internal Talent Management including mobility.
The Group strives to offer a development programmes and safe work environment, good quality tools, performance management and accommodation, medical and other support.
succession planning for key positions: and The maximum number of working hours is prescribed under Chilean law, which also enhance employees engagement forbids child and forced labour.
In 2015, women represented 10% of the Labour relations mining divisions workforce and 8% of Antofagasta is one of the largest mining them are supervisors or above.
There is one operators in Chile.
In 2015, the Group had a woman on the Executive Committee and total workforce of approximately 19,200 of one on the Board.
which some 27% were employees and the Contractors and suppliers balance were contractors.
The workforce declined compared with 26,151 in 2014 Contractors form some 72% of the mining due to the completion of the construction divisions workforce and therefore the of Antucoya and the departure of the management of contractors and maintaining contractors working there.
their high standards of performance is key tothe Groups successand reputation.
Antofagasta plc 61 Operational review Managing a sustainable business The Group audits its main contractors In 2016, the focus will be to monitor and Talent management on a regular basis to ensure compliance audit the safety performance and to extend and development with Chilean labour legislation and the all procedures to contractors to strengthen Groups labour and safety standards theperformance of contractor companies.
including monthly audits to ensure that all Training for employees enables The Groups Executive Committee, led wages and associated social contributions the Group to keep improving the by the CEO, made seven visits to the are paid by the contractors employers, operations in 2015, to verify the critical skills of the workforce in line with before the next invoice is paid.
In addition, controls for the key risks were being the current and future needs of contractors employers are required to pay implemented effectively.
Providing personal their employees a minimum salary that is approximately 70% above the lowest legal Among other initiatives, on-site supervision development opportunities helps wage in Chile.
of key safety risks, near-miss reporting, to motivate employees and keep distribution of newsletters about the Contractors receive training on the Groups them with the Company for the causes of severe accidents, extended safety and other standards and are required long term.
The Company has a talent site management meetings that focus on to uphold the same high level of safety management programme to develop safety, and public recognition for employees practices as the Groups own employees.
that demonstrate the best safety conduct personnel within the Company, Additionally, a new Group-wide procedure help raise safety awareness.
The Group and a succession plan for key has been implemented on particular safety also trains and supervises employees and prevention techniques and actions to be positions.
Since 2010, the Group oversees safety standards and practices executed by each relevant contractor under has a specific initiative to recruit forall contractors.
the supervision of the contractors employer.
During 2015, 3,904 people were trained Safety: risk-based in key aspects of the safety and health preventative approach model such as incident reporting, investigation of high-potential near-misses In 2013, the Group adopted a new safety HSE Indicators: and Antofagastas new safety and health model in line with international best guidance for contractors.
Total number of employees in 2015 The pillars of this model are: All employees complete a safety and health 5,300 induction course before starting work.
identifying and understanding key fatality There are regular refresher workshops on Total number of contractors or serious injury risks: safety policies and procedures, to discuss implementing critical controls: 13,900 lessons learned from near-miss incidents and share examples of best practice.
reporting and investigating near misses: and Safety performance is reported weekly increasing on the ground senior leadership.
to the Executive Committee and monthly Analysis of the key risk areas identified to the Board.
Fatal and serious accidents that, between 2006 and 2015, 11 types of are reviewed in detail by the Boards risk were responsible for all of the fatalities Sustainability and Stakeholder Management and 95% of the high-potential near misses.
Operational safety reviews are The Group concentrated on these risk conducted by the Executive Committee areas increasing leadership and awareness, across all operations.
assigning responsibility for risks and auditing safety procedures.
62 Antofagasta plc Annual report and financial statements 2015 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM MENTS ENTS O OT TH HE ER R I IN NF FOR ORM MA ATI TIO ON N Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR All Injury Frequency Rate AIFR Number of fatalities 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Chilean mining 1 industry 3.1 2.9 2.6 2.5 2.0 N A N A N A N A N A 26 25 25 27 16 Mining Division 2.1 1.3 1.1 1.1 1.1 9.1 5.4 3.9 5.0 6.9 1 2 5 1 Transport Division 9.6 13.0 10.3 10.3 10.9 28.3 28.6 17.7 22.2 17.8 1 Group 3.0 2.5 1.9 1.7 2.0 11.4 7.8 5.1 6.1 7.8 1 1 2 5 1 LTIFR: Number of accidents with lost time during the AIFR: Number of accidents with and without lost time period per million hours worked.
during the period per million hours worked.
1 S ource: National Mining and Geology Service Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera, Sernageomin.
Safety performance Health While over the years the Group has The Group analysed the cause of health steadilyreduced the severity and frequency risks across the business and identified the of accidents, fatalities have not been six main risks as: exposure to airborne dust eliminated.
In 2015, one contractor died and particulates including silica : exposure at the Michilla operation.
Fatalities are not to acid mist: ionising radiation: solar acceptable and this incident has further radiation: exposure to elevated noise: and heightened the Groups awareness of its working at height.
To prevent each of these safety responsibilities.
Important lessons risks, new critical controls were introduced have been learned and new measures in 2015 and these will be verified in the are being implemented to strengthen the fieldduring 2016 so as to reduce the risks operational control of our contractors and toallmembers of the workforce.
toaccelerate their adoption of the new A complete medical check-up to establish safety and health model.
fitness to work is mandatory for new The Groups objective is to achieve zero employees.
Every year all employees fatalities for employees and contractors have access to a preventive age-adapted in each and every year.
All contractors are medical check-up paid for by the Company required to comply with the new safety and done in the best available clinics and and health procedures and, going forwards, inCompany time.
this will be further strengthened through Health service provision at each operation The Groups objective is to technical support audits and monitoring.
includes a fully operational medical Compliance with the safety and health achieve zero fatalities for centre providing full first aid emergency model is audited twice a year at each of the arrangements and paramedic support.
employees and contractors Groups operations and exploration projects.
The results of these audits are reported to in each and every year.
the Group CEO and the GeneralManager ofeach mining operation.
