Awards In March 2015 we won Deloitte Employer of the Year at the Retail Week Awards.
For a full list of the award we won this year go to the inside back cover of this report.
Strong management and culture Our employees Happy people care more and require a lot less management.
So we make sure theyre happy by giving them autonomy where appropriate, support where needed and a great environment to work in.
They are empowered: they Our team are incentivised: and they There are nine of us on the Group Executive Team and we have know they are trusted.
an average length of service of over eight years.
It means we We love watching them know the business inside out, trust each other and communicate grow and thrive.
The pace and energy it fuels is intoxicating.
Deliveries Customer facing Our UK in-house delivery We believe that the standard system runs from Crewe and of the in-house delivery eight stockless outbases service we provide is crucial: around the UK, and in its a key part of our pixie dust, Germany from our NDC in given that delivery teams are Bedburg to currently three typically the only face-to-face outbases around Germany interaction that customers with more on the way.
Delivery and installation options, speed and reliability are important as are the removal and recycling of Processes the old.
and systems End-to-end service We now run a dual branded fleet as our two-man delivery service is also used by a small IT number ofthird parties who Our core IT systems have all Our automated stock forecasting ask us to deliver their own and ordering system is integrated been developed in-house products through our and their functionality has with suppliers systems meaning network on their behalf.
that we can combine high levels been assessed as best-in-class.
The systems are bespoke: built of availability for next-day delivery with the efficient use for and continuously adapted to fit the needs of the business.
It also means that we can optimise resources They are therefore not easily replicable by any competitor and by, for example, loading trucks most efficiently.
they are scalable and resilient.
Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 27 Corporate Social Responsibility This year we redefined our five core values across the business.
We are relentless Genuine people make We deliver what others cant.
the difference We dont give up and do You cant pay people whatever it takes.
We have the courage to try We find the We think in an best way unconstrained way We are smart through to go beyond understanding conventional limits.
If you enjoy what you do, you do it better Work is serious and we do it with a smile on our face.
We live and breathe these values......
It helps us all to row in the same direction.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 At AO we believe that happy staff equal happy customers, and our People are our business... As we have broadened and expanded the business this year, unique culture hinges on the belief that you cant pay people to care and you cant tell people to have fun with customers: theyve got to maintaining our culture was of paramount importance.
Recruiting, engaging and retaining staff with the right AO DNA is of uppermost importance to us and we have spent the last We have continued to do what is best for our employees as we do for our customers and this means supporting our people through good year creating a working environment that supports our values.
We care, we support, we provide an environment in which our employees can flourish.
We celebrate when things have gone right The result is we have employees who live and breathe our values: they care about the customers we serve.
This focus on our people and if things dont go quite to plan we all rally around each other.
Above all we work together as a team.
and culture was recognised by the industry when we were awarded the Best Employer Award at the Retail Week Awards 2015.
Featured value #2: Bold Running to work Featured value #1: Caring I had only been training for two weeks An early foray into Europe for AO when a colleague said why dont you In my previous life as a Customer run to work tomorrow.
I said that was Service agent, I spoke to an elderly ludicrous as it was a 36 mile trip 12 chap who was having trouble miles was the furthest Id ever ran understanding the instruction manual I then said if you can raise 250 by the for his washing machine it turned time I come out of my hour meeting out that the gentleman was a British Ill do it.
An hour later hed raised over ex-pat living in France, and had 400.
I set off at 2am, got into work bought his machine from a local late at 9:20 but the whole business dealer.
Even though he wasnt one of even the senior team stopped their our customers, I posted out an English meeting to come outside was there version of the manual he needed.
About a year later, I got a call from reception to say I had a visitor Colin Steele unbelievably, he was in the UK for his UI Design Manager Grandsons wedding and had stopped by to say thank you for my help and to deliver a bottle of wine from his own vineyard!
Daniel Leyland Senior Operations Analyst AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Employee empowerment We are big on empowering our people.
After all, happy employees are more engaged, deliver better service and require less management.
Over the last year we have focused on giving employees autonomy, where appropriate and support where needed.
Our staff are empowered and trusted to do what is right and fair by our customers, and as a result we are seeing more customers than ever returning to AO to shop.
In preparation for our continued growth, we launched our first Group intranet: called The Fridge this is to ensure people can collaborate across different offices and countries.
The Fridge is a social intranet that allows individuals to connect with each other, share ideas, best practice and update each other on progress across different areas of the business through status updates, comments, likes, shares and groups.
The Fridge is a key part in strengthening the culture across the Group in our UK operations and to instil it in our new overseas colleagues.
There have been some incredible examples of people going the extra mile to help our German colleagues find their feet and learn processes, strategies and we are delighted with the way our culture has transferred to our new territory.
We also have our monthly state of the nation, which updates our colleagues on business activities as well the social side of life across the Group.
In February this year we launched our second save-asyou-earn scheme which was open to all employees who had passed their probationary period.
Once again the take-up was strong with 17% of eligible employees participating in the option scheme.
AO is also committed to an equal opportunities policy.
We aim to ensure that no employee is discriminated against, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or national origins, sexual orientation or gender, marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or on the grounds of age or frankly anything else and recruit on this basis.
Across our business of approximately 1,450 employees, female employees represented approximately 30%: although there are no females on the Group Executive Team, 28% of the senior management team were women, as at 31 March 2015.
Featured value #3: Fun Its a Knockout!
We had only been live for a number of months at Crewe when we took a coach load of old and new employees and their families to compete in the local Its a Knockout competition.
I jokingly told everyone that they would not be allowed back on the coach unless they won.
They literally took me on and, guess what, they all pulled together and won.
This was the beginning of the competitive DNA growing in our business.
Julia Bent Apart from people who People Development Manager dont care of course We dont want them!
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Investing for the future With the UK facing a digital skills gap in years to come, a huge challenge facing UK businesses is the predicted shortage in digital skills, with the UK needing a minimum of 745,000 digitally skilled Featured value #4: Smart workers by 2017, with over 169,000 of these being young people.
Breakfast bet Last year we initiated programmes to build and nurture a future I once had a bet with Steve Caunce that AO talent pool.
I could redesign the Appliance Deals website in record time.
His wager was As part of our programme to develop the next generation of leaders, that if I got the work done he would we enrol our younger colleagues on the Duke of Edinburgh DofE take me for a round of golf with a full scheme.
The programme is focused on instilling the values and English breakfast afterwards.
Sure behaviours that make AO what it is and what it will be in the future.
enough, I did the work on time and It enables employees to develop their own skills while also enabling Steve was true to his word and came them to give back to the local community.
Twelve people achieved through with the golf and the food.
their DofE Golden Business Award in September 2014, and 23 others continue to progress on the scheme.
Johnny Shepherd Software Developer Featured value #5: Driven You cant process commitment I remember when we won our first key client and that they asked for our Customer Service Process Manual an encyclopaedia of all our processes covering what if situations on a customer journey.
The big obstacle was that we didnt have one all in one place during the early days!
We worked tirelessly for a couple of weeks.
It made us think about the entire customer journey, in detail.
On the day of the presentation we had three copies of the manual.
The Head of Customer Services for the client said, If you dont mind we dont need We also became one of the first UK businesses to launch a digital to run through it with you, its just apprenticeship scheme, which was undertaken in conjunction with a great to know you have everything number of certified providers.
We held our first AO Apprenticeship documented!
Challenge where we invited 20 people from four local schools into our head office for a challenge, culminating in presentations to John It actually forced us to do the right Roberts.
The successful seven now have apprenticeships in our IT, thing for the business, challenge what marketing and facilities functions, learning the secrets of e-commerce we did, and make improvements and gaining a broader understanding of life in a fast-paced business where we needed to.
See the following page for a day in the life of one of our focused on ensuring we did the right apprentices, Jacob Grigg.
All of which remain at the backbone of the Other people initiatives launched in the year include the Driver business today.
Academy which develops and trains existing and new drivers to achieve the new EU regulated CPC qualification: our Star programme Martin Hanley at Crewe where people who show potential are put on a special Director of Business Development scheme to nurture and develop ability: and our cycle to work scheme that not only helps the environment but also keeps our cyclists as fit as fiddles!
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued exciting!
This went really well, loads of people were talking to me Jakes story Ill start right from the very beginning of my AO experience on twitter and it got over 600 retweets: for someone who on their personal twitter had only ever achieved seven retweets I was almost shall we say.
I remember the first time I walked into the building for my interview at 9 am, after a 5.30 am start to get here on the train.
considering investing in some small domestic appliances myself!
Obviously Id done my research and I was thrilled that Id been given an interview.
It was a group interview and everyone was After a couple of weeks of tweeting my desk was moved over to the brand team: although I was sad to leave my first ever desk I was waiting in reception together.
There were the awkward hellos as you could tell everyone was weighing up the competition... Well, I excited to be having a fresh start in a role that I was really enjoying.
I felt at home almost straight away in the brand team and Id like to was!
Anyway, long story short it went swimmingly and I was called back for a second interview, which didnt go quite as well as the first think I get on with all the team!
and I wasnt sure whether Id blown it!
But luckily after what felt like a lifetime of waiting I got the call from the recruitment team to say After joining the brand team and using my twitter account I was given the massive responsibility of the official @ao twitter account, Id got the job!
I was over the moon: I obviously had my doubts with having to leave home at 17 and everything, especially as I struggled which I was actually both surprised by and quite proud of the fact I was being trusted with it really, I was eased into it until eventually to cook, wash or look after myself in any way, shape or form but I sorted somewhere to stay in a room down the road and I was ready being given full responsibility for AOs twitter.
This was at first pretty scary but I would like to say I thrived under the responsibility and to face whatever the world had to throw at me... Well, almost!
over 90 days the twitter account had gained over 4,000 new followers, which Im quite proud of.
Ive also learnt some of the A fortnight after receiving the good news my first day arrived at long last!
I was pretty nervous but soon felt far less on edge after the basics on Photoshop so Im now able to create my own images for twitter competitions.
infamous induction tour, which I think could make most people forget any nerves.
I was then introduced to my team: the projects and Ive also contributed to blogger outreach campaigns, set up optimisation team and my manager Nicole.
Everyone was really lovely to me and made me feel comfortable almost before Id sat promoted twitter campaigns, assisted the team with some of the planning for the recent Media event: as well as featuring regularly down.
I learnt a lot in my first couple of months and gained exposure to things I may never have otherwise had the chance to learn about, in the live stream, Ive tried my hand at cordless vacuum racing which is a must try!
Last, but not least Im now making waves in which was great!
After a couple of months it was time to dip my toes into a new World and fortunately Nicole introduced me to a the modelling world, as I make fridge freezers look bigger than they actually are... Ive also been given the amazing opportunity certain Yossi Erdman, who I was of course well aware of due to the captivating fortnightly live streams.
Yossi asked me if Id be interested of doing the DofE Gold Business Award.
in having a go at some work on social and the rest is history!
Overall my experience at AO has been brilliant and I look forward to what will hopefully be a bright future here... After being told what to do, I created a twitter account named @JakeAtAO and tweeted a little bit mainly about things I was Jake Grigg interested in and then I was told I was going to be given a kettle to give away.
This may not sound like much but for me this was pretty AO Digital Marketing Apprentice Community engagement During the year AO also supported Comic Reliefs Red Nose Day: all of our trucks were dressed with the infamous red noses and we AO actively encourages all employees to support and give back to their local community and the AO Smile Foundation was launched transformed our customer service centre to be an official Red Nose Day call centre.
Almost 150 employees gave up their time on a Friday during the year to facilitate this.
Fifty-three per cent of our UK employees now make a regular monthly gift to the charity, and night for Comic Relief and over 57k was raised for the cause.
during the year over 50k was raised through payroll giving, which makes the process of giving as easy, flexible and tax We also encourage colleagues to have a positive impact within their local communities and give each employee two make a difference efficient as possible.
The Foundation holds a Gold Award from the Institute of Fundraising, and the Group supports the charity days per year to work with a charity.
by providing, free of charge, a charity manager and other services such as financial, payroll and legal support.
We have also joined forces with Money Saving Movement MSM which is a new social enterprise with Government backing and National Lottery funding.
MSM is looking to provide more affordable white goods to those in relative poverty, giving people an option not to have to purchase goods on expensive finances.
We will be providing MSM with a select range of products which will be made available to MSM customers.
Keeping people safe Were committed to maintaining the highest standards of health and safety practices for our employees, customers, visitors, contractors and anyone affected by our business activities.
Health and safety is a standing agenda item and a full report is made to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Weve continued to embed Health and Safety responsibility into our AO culture, increasing awareness across the business via a number of campaigns, such as see it, sort it, report it.
We are replicating this structure within our new German territory.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Our emissions predominately arise from the fuel used in the vehicles Environment We are mindful of the effects of our business on our environment.
we use to deliver orders to customers and from gas combustion and electricity used at our offices, national delivery centres and outbases.
We are committed to meeting or exceeding legislative requirements across the board, in particular with regard to packaging and waste In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable electrical and electronic equipment WEEE waste in the territories in which we operate.
factor associated with our activities, we have used revenue as our intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of our growth and is To ensure minimum environmental impact all handling processes aligned with our business strategy.
are developed to fully utilise supplier packaging with less than 0.1% additional packaging added from receipt into our warehouses to Greenhouse Gas Emissions data delivery to our consumers.
More than 95% of packaging collected during delivery to the consumer is recycled with more than 1,300 Tonnes of CO e 2 tonnes of card and plastic including Expanded Polystyrene recycled each year across all our operations.
Year ending 31 March 2015 2014 Emissions from operations and combustion We offer a collection and recycling service to our customers for of fuel Scope 1 20,192 12,936 their old appliances for a small charge or, alternatively, we accept Emissions from energy usage Scope 2 3,245 1,949 any WEEE free of charge which is delivered directly to our warehouse.
Old appliances are mostly broken down into recyclable parts.
Total 23,437 14,884 A proportion are refurbished and put back into the market: re-use Intensity ratio: is, after all, the ultimate in recycling.
Last year over 25,000 tonnes tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 49.16 38.67 2 of WEEE was processed.
Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions in relation to the delivery of orders Energy efficient operations to customers and operational visits and combustion of fuel gas.
We aim to run our operations with a strong focus on environmental impact, fuel management and operational efficiency and constantly Scope 2 comprises our energy consumption in buildings electricity, seek at both a corporate and local level to help improve our heat, steam and cooling.
During the year we were proud to become a member of the ECOSTARS Fleet Recognition Scheme and to CO e conversion factor in respect of the Groups German operations unavailable 2 achieve an overall maximum operational rating of 5 Stars.
This therefore CO was used.
2 scheme provides recognition for best operational practices, and guidance for making improvements and is based on the pillars of Fleet Composition, Fuel Management, Driver Skills Development, Vehicle Specification & Preventative Maintenance, IT Support Systems and Performance Monitoring & Management.
In order to drive energy efficiencies: All our UK and German delivery vehicles have telematic monitoring systems installed to enable us to identify any possibilities to reduce John Roberts vehicle carbon emissions: Founder and Chief Executive Officer We also try to maximise our fuel efficiency by, for example, employing double-decker trunking so that we can deliver more products in one go to our outbases: and We offer our UK customers an environmental delivery option enabling customers to choose a delivery date when we are already scheduled to be in their area, rather than making a special trip.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement As AO is listed on the London Stock Exchange we are required to measure and report our direct and indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
This year we have reported on all material emissions from both our owned and leased assets for which we are responsible across both the territories in which we currently operate.
Last years comparable figures have therefore been restated as appropriate.
Emission factors used are from UK Government DEFRA conversion factor guidance current for the year reported.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Lets not forget AO has been around for over 14 years.
Go online for our full company history.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Our Performance Performance from our first full year of being a Plc.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
