Strategic report Responsible business report This is how we work The Group Risk Committee provides the Audit Committee, and Being a responsible business is a crucial part of who through them the Board, with a comprehensive annual report on we are and how we work at Ashtead.
It means we seek, its activities including new legislative requirements, details of areas through our sustainable business model, to improve the identified in the year as requiring improvement, and the status of lives of our customers, employees, investors and the actions being taken to make those improvements.
It also facilitates communities where we live and work.
the coordination of the environmental, health, safety and risk management activities of Sunbelt and A-Plant so that best practice Being responsible builds the trust on which our business depends.
and new initiatives in one business can be shared with, and adopted Our customers trust us to deliver the equipment they need, on time, by, the other.
Our employees trust us to keep them safe and reward them well for their efforts.
Investors trust us to deliver the Our commitment to the highest ethical standards means that the returns we have promised into the long term.
So being responsible Group Risk Committee also works to ensure these continue to be is fundamental to who we are.
communicated and upheld throughout the business.
Our group-wide ethics and entertainment policies are communicated directly to Below are the responsible business elements that we judge to be the employees through dedicated communication and training most material to our business and which we discuss in detail here.
Whistle-blowing arrangements, in place in both the assess why each matters, how we have performed and our objectives.
US and the UK, allow employees, in confidence, to raise concerns about any alleged improprieties they may encounter.
ENSURING ASHTEAD REMAINS The Group Risk Committees priorities last year included: A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS The obligation for ensuring Ashtead remains a responsible business assessment of the Group Risk Register: rests with the Groups board of directors.
It is assisted in this function prioritisation of business risks: by the Group Risk Committee which is chaired by Suzanne Wood, reduction in accident rates: our finance director.
Other members of the Committee are: continued training on driving hour and vehicle fleet compliance: health and safety training: the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk, environmental and enhanced training capabilities: safety teams: continued evaluation of driver behavioural software tools: UK and US counsel: refresher Competition Act and Bribery Act training: the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance standards updated business continuity plan: internal operational audit teams: and disaster recovery plan testing: the Sunbelt board member to whom the risk, environmental performance standards audits: and and safety teams report.
HEALTH AND OUR PEOPLE Recruitment SAFETY Implementation Career development and training Monitoring Reward and benefits Training Diversity and equal Customers and staff opportunities COMMUNITIES THE ENVIRONMENT Community investment Resource efficiency Helping out in emergencies Control of hazardous substances Mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 Responsible business report continued This is how we work continued HEALTH AND SAFETY How we monitor performance We monitor health and safety by the number of reported incidents Why it matters that occur during our work.
We track and analyse all incidents to Health and safety are fundamental to our business as we need to enable us to identify recurrent issues and implement preventative provide equipment that is safe to use and minimise the risks our improvements.
The importance of health and safety is reflected in the people and our customers may encounter.
A strong reputation for fact that the number of reportable accidents is one of our group-wide excellent health and safety is a significant competitive advantage KPIs see page 23.
Last year we saw continued improvement in our for us.
In addition, an ever-changing regulatory focus on safety and safety metrics.
Sunbelt had 608 reported incidents in the US relative more stringent requirements for all operators, continues to assist to a workforce of 8,401 2014: 579 incidents relative to a workforce our growth.
It is easier and cheaper to outsource responsibility of 7,375, whilst A-Plant had 274 incidents relative to an average for equipment safety to us than for customers to worry about it workforce of 2,593 2014: 276 incidents relative to an average themselves.
As mentioned elsewhere, this has been an important workforce of 2,370.
For the purposes of our internal tracking, the factor in the shift to rental that has underpinned our growth in the term incident does not necessarily mean that an employee was hurt US and reinforces our position in the UK.
Rather it represents an event that we want to track and Our extensive health and safety programmes monitor, develop and report for monitoring and learning purposes under our health and maintain safe working practices while reminding our employees safety management policies.
of the need to be safe at all times and look after their own health.
Reportable accidents continue to be defined differently in the US Our continued improvement is accomplished through a combination and UK.
Under the relevant definitions which generally encompass of proactive safety and leadership training, enhanced safety more accidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt had 179 OSHA programmes and timely incident response and investigation.
We Occupational Safety and Health Administration recordable accidents also help our customers ensure the safety of their own employees 2014: 163 accidents which, relative to total employee hours worked, including providing safety training as required.
In addition, we make gave a Total Incident Rate of 1.59 2014: 1.65.
In the UK, A-Plant a considerable annual investment in ensuring our rental equipment had 29 RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous meets or exceeds the latest safety standards, as well as providing Occurrences Regulations 2014: 25, reportable incidents which, health and safety advice and materials along with each rental.
relative to total employee hours worked, gave a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.55 2014: 0.52.
In order to compare accident rates between the US and UK, Sunbelt also applied the RIDDOR definition to its accident population which gave a figure this year of 101 RIDDOR reportable accidents in the US and a RIDDOR reportable rate of 0.45.
We remain committed to reducing these rates as much as possible.
01: GOAL FOR 2014 15 BREAK THROUGH INTERDEPENDENT STAGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 2013 14 INDIVIDUAL VALUES CURRENT 2014 15 APRIL GROUP CULTURE 2015 DEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INTERDEPENDENT SAFETY CULTURE SAFETY CULTURE SAFETY CULTURE Management intent Management commitment Leadership vision Authority and fear Personal value and caring Open reporting culture Rules and procedures Safe practices and habits Teamwork and help others Emphasis on goals Recognition of hazards Group accountability REACTIVE PROACTIVE Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 34 Injury rates Strategic report A-Plant has similar initiatives in place and has recently, for example, Safety initiatives been working with Eve Trakway to reduce the risks in lorry-mounted At Sunbelt we are focused on moving our culture from a dependent crane operations and reduce accidents during track laying and lifting safety culture to an interdependent safety culture.
A review found that a mobile control unit enables the shows what we mean by this and how being an interdependent driver to move to a position where he has a clear view of the lifting safety culture means we are all responsible for safety including area and any persons entering the lifting area.
As a result, remote for one another.
control crane controls are to be retrofitted to all Eve vehicles and During this year Sunbelt ran the sixth instalment of Safety Leadership drivers are being retrained in the use of these controls.
Training to all field-level employees responsible for the management or supervision of others.
Quarterly management reviews monitor the Health programmes progress of our increased focus on pro-active safety excellence with Having a healthy workforce has always been important to us and the ultimate goal of Zero Harm.
we work hard to look after our people and help them look after themselves.
When our staff are on top form, they provide the best With a fleet of over 3,000 commercial vehicles on the road in the US, service to our customers.
Virgin Pulse is a programme that rewards for example, transportation safety remains our greatest exposure staff for healthy behaviour, so they are incentivised to track their in terms of risk and potential for harm to our employees and the health and invest in it to reap the rewards that we are investing in the public.
In response to this ongoing risk exposure, the Sunbelt risk programme on their behalf.
Staff get savings on their healthcare costs management department continues to administer risk mitigation if they exercise, for example.
Some 38% of US staff are currently training to counter the most significant exposures.
Training enrolled in the scheme and 52% of those are earning health miles.
programmes such as PACE Behavioural Driving Training, Loading Members have earned $39,000 in rewards and 76% reported in a and Unloading Hazard Awareness, Driver Safety Observations, survey that Virgin Pulse had improved their life in some way.
our Compliments and Concerns feedback programme, and Fall Awareness Training for Drivers all reinforce our commitment to Working on safety with our customers and suppliers transportation safety.
We carry out regular observation of our drivers Part of being a responsible business is sharing our safety culture with and are pleased that our focus on training has led to a significant our customers and suppliers whenever appropriate.
For example, decrease in driver-related violations.
A total of 723 driver-related Sunbelt has dedicated aerial work platform, forklift and earth moving violations were noted on inspection in 2011 in the US but by last year operator trainers who train customers and we build customised the number had more than halved to 297. training programmes to fit their needs.
In the US, Zachry and NBC Universal are two examples of customers where we worked with the Our US risk management department consists of 20 full-time customers safety team to develop customised aerial work platform occupational health and safety professionals whose sole role is to and forklift training courses, sometimes for a specific jobsite, the work with our field personnel to identify hazards and reduce incidents.
passing of which becomes a requirement for the customer operator.
This team of safety professionals is spread throughout the country In the UK, A-Plant regularly participates in training days for major and serves each of our operating divisions to promote direct customers, demonstrating safe use of equipment and running training coordination with our operational units.
Safety audits are carried out seminars.
This is in addition to the routine safety briefings that at each store regularly with appropriate follow-up activities to ensure accompany equipment rental.
major risks identified are mitigated.
All stores must conduct at least one safety meeting per month to discuss weekly safety topics and all employees must take a monthly safety quiz.
We also hold an annual Safety Week both in the US and the UK.
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: SOPHIE JONES Sophie joined A-Plant in 2011 having secured a place on the apprenticeship scheme focusing on customer service.
She quickly demonstrated her drive and ambition and succeeded in completing her three-year apprenticeship some seven months early.
She particularly liked being able to combine work with study, rather than going to college and sitting in lectures.
Sophie has now progressed to being rental manager at Barnstaple depot despite being the youngest of a team of 10 members of staff there.
She is the first point of call for customers and delivers excellent service while enjoying the friendly working environment.
Sophie has a great future ahead of her.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 Responsible business report continued This is how we work continued 150 apprentices in 2015, our largest ever intake.
OUR PEOPLE Recruitment With our rapid growth, recruiting new employees has become more Why they matter challenging recently in both the UK and the US.
At Sunbelt we have We hire the best people, train them well and look after them so that completely reorganised our recruitment department so that it can they provide the best possible service for our customers.
We aim to support an average of 750 job openings at any given time.
We also keep employee turnover as low as possible to enable us to build on restarted and enhanced a number of programmes, which include: the skill base we have established.
This is core to the success of the business and our competitive position and therefore staff turnover the Jumpstart Sales Programme a programme which identifies is one of our KPIs see page 23. top talent out of college and puts them through an accelerated training programme with incentives for staying with Sunbelt after In general, the rental industry suffers from high staff turnover, the programme has ended: particularly within certain job categories such as mechanics and a partnership with the Universal Technical Institute to identify and delivery truck drivers, with turnover being particularly high within hire top technicians to date we have hired more than 70 students the first year of employment.
We increasingly find our staff targeted and the applications continue to increase: by competitors which, whilst a compliment, means we have to talent reviews and formal succession planning: work harder to retain them.
interview skills training for managers: and Our employees are driven, conscientious and loyal and we like to internship programme implementation.
keep them that way through market-leading training and development and superior reward and benefits.
Both Sunbelt and A-Plant have A-Plant apprenticeship programme extensive programmes in place to ensure high standards of A-Plants apprenticeship programme continues to be one of the recruitment, training and the appraisal, review and reward of our most successful and highly valued schemes in the equipment rental employees.
In addition, we endeavour consistently throughout the industry.
Last year we increased the numbers of trainees taken on to year to maintain and develop arrangements aimed at involving 39 to meet operational demands and combat a general skills shortage employees in the Groups affairs and hearing their views.
This year we will be recruiting 150 new apprentices, meetings are held at stores to discuss performance and enable our largest ever intake, reflecting the growth of the business.
Our employees to input into improvements as well as providing feedback apprenticeship programmes take between two and three years to on their own levels of satisfaction.
complete and usually include outside training and a formal NVQ qualification, in addition to on-the-job training.
We have five apprentice streams plant maintenance, customer service, driver, HIGH-RISE LIFTING IN THE CITY OF LONDON A-Plant specialist business, FLG Services, is a leading lifting equipment rental business.
It specialises in designing bespoke lifting solutions for complex problems: for example, helping customers lift facades often on to very high buildings such as the Leadenhall Building in central London and the HSBC headquarters in Canary Wharf.
I h ave worked with FLG on numerous projects I have been in the industry 27 years but from time to time we can all get stumped as to how to make things happen, this is when I call FLG I would say I have never worked with a more proactive company than FLG.
PHIL SEDGE, Facades Operations Director, Mace Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 36 Strategic report WOUNDED WARRIOR SPONSORSHIP In 2014, Sunbelt was the Wounded Warrior 8k Run sponsor with a tent at each race and an opportunity to bring volunteers to work and race.
Our sponsorship was designed to give back to the community and those who have served their country, create an opportunity for employee engagement and generate awareness of our Wounded Warrior partnership and the run series.
We kicked off the sponsorship with a video featuring some of our veterans introducing the sponsorship and describing the Wounded Warrior organisation.
The whole event generated a great deal of interest from our employees and customers and we also hired one of the veteran runners.
The programme was so successful that we are discussing an expansion that would include involvement in the Warriors to Work programme and a large-scale co-branded equipment programme.
We are pleased Career development and training that our efforts to increase diversity mean that a quarter of our Training and development continues throughout the careers of our apprentices are female, which compares very favourably with the employees and we have many programmes in place to ensure they 90% male apprentices average for the construction industry.
Our achieve their ambitions, reach their potential and remain safe, as apprenticeship scheme also has an impressive 80% retention rate outlined above.
Employees welfare and job satisfaction is enormously compared to the industry rate of 66%.
important and we invest significant money and time in facilitating career development.
Military recruitment At a more senior level, we actively recruit military service members Last year was particularly busy for Sunbelt with a new competencyand veterans, appreciating that their experience gives candidates a based educational foundation set up for all our employees, including sense of discipline, dedication, responsibility and a determination to all roles within our stores.
New learning paths are being implemented do the job right the first time.
Each month we feature a former military for all employees to address the knowledge, skills, and behaviours employee as a spotlight on our Military Recruiting page on the Sunbelt required for them to achieve satisfaction in their careers.
This practice is designed to educate our own employees, but completely overhauled Sunbelt University by implementing a new and also to drive interest among retired military personnel in a career at highly sophisticated Learning Management System and rolled out Sunbelt.
Sunbelt is a top 50 military employer.
multiple courses and performance support.
These range from Tier 4 regulatory courses for all customer-facing employees, battery safety Following A-Plants growth we launched a major recruitment drive and maintenance training, and a new Workplace Harassment suite for various positions across the network and as part of this, have that ensures compliance with all federal laws and regulations.
We been working with Career Transition Partnership CTP to increase have also implemented standardised training policies and procedures awareness amongst military personnel, who are due to leave the for developing content or engaging third-party vendors to ensure forces within the next 612 months, about job opportunities.
CTP is quality and consistency of courses and trainers.
the official provider of Ministry of Defence Resettlement Services.
At A-Plant a lot of work is being completed around the recently acquired businesses, ensuring their training programmes meet the standards we set ourselves.
Our upskilling the workforce programme continues to be very successful with vocational qualifications offered across the range of job functions and levels.
Some 577 employees have completed the programme to date.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 Responsible business report continued This is how we work continued TOM WARNER AND HUNTINGTONS DISEASE HD Our community initiatives usually directly reflect the priorities of our staff.
One such example is our work in support of the Huntingtons Disease Society of America HDSA led by Tom Warner, the manager of our San Diego branch.
Toms management has led to tremendous business growth at the branch and he continues to build outstanding customer relationships.
This is all the more remarkable given the heavy impact HD has on his family, most particularly affecting his mother and aunt.
When not working, or helping care for the family, Tom supports the local HDSA chapter and has run several marathons in support of HD and the HDSA.
His branch colleagues also get involved and sponsor the Team Hope Walk for HD, as well as making donations direct to HDSA.
Its a team effort for which Tom is the inspiration.
While our industry has traditionally had many more men than women, Reward and benefits we do have women at all levels in both the US and UK including on the We believe in treating our staff well and rewarding them for the effort Board, on the senior management team and as store managers, sales they put in on our behalf.
While we prioritise recruiting the best We use a combination of competitive fixed pay and attractive incentive people for every role, we are working to make it easier for more programmes to reward and motivate staff and these drive our profits women to join the organisation, particularly as we expand.
Our sales force is incentivised through our 02: WORKFORCE BY GENDER commission plans which are based on sales, both volume and price achieved, and a broad measure of return on investment determined Number of employees Male Female Female % by reference to equipment type and discount level.
Board directors 8 1 11% We flex our incentive plans to reflect the stage of the cycle in which Senior management 20 1 5% we operate, which we believe is an important element in retaining All staff 10,944 989 8% the confidence of our workforce through the economic cycle.
In addition to their core benefits, including pension and life assurance HUMAN RIGHTS arrangements, we have an employee assistance helpline which offers At Ashtead we believe in the rights of individuals and take our free confidential support and advice to those in need.
We also have responsibilities seriously to all our employees and those who may other benefits such as Virgin Pulse, as mentioned above, to promote be affected by our activities.
We have principles in place, such as good health amongst our employees.
whistle-blowing procedures which protect our employees as they Diversity and equal opportunities go about their work.
These principles form part of our way of doing We work hard to ensure equal opportunities for all our staff, as business and are embedded in our operations.
Thus, while we do not well as prioritising employment diversity.
Our recruitment comes manage human rights matters separately, we continue to assess predominantly from the areas immediately around our facilities potential risks but do not believe they raise particular issues for thereby providing opportunities for local people.
We make every the business.
reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing employees who become disabled, opportunities for work, training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
We do not discriminate against any individual on the basis of a protected status, such as sex, colour, race, religion, native origin or age.
In the US we are required by law to monitor ethnicity in our workforce every year and we maintain a diverse workforce.
We also gather ethnicity data as part of the recruitment process in the UK and through an Equality and Inclusion Survey to monitor our diversity.
Increasingly, many local authority and public sector tenders request this kind of information.
We are committed to providing opportunities for people from all ethnic groups and in both geographies we have good representation from ethnic minorities across the organisation.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 38 Strategic report Our stores regularly support and participate in local charity events COMMUNITIES and community service.
For example, we provide support to many Why they matter community sporting events, sponsoring a local softball team in Dallas The communities in which we operate have always been important to and various charity golf tournaments across the US.
As we expand our market share, particularly in the US, we to work closely with our designated charitable partner, the American have ever more impact and influence over the communities where we Red Cross and its affiliates such as the Second Harvest Food Bank for hire staff and make an economic contribution.
Our responsibility to which we have a food drive every November.
We allow employees to those communities increases likewise.
In addition, part of This is who make payroll deductions to contribute to the American Red Cross or we are is the pride that our staff feel in providing a service for the the Sunbelt Employee Relief Fund.
Our business is about helping people and getting things done.
It is about finding solutions, especially when there has been A recent community initiative in the UK was the work of our Leada an emergency or a disaster such as a major flood or a hurricane, for Acrow division in helping students to gain real insight into the world of example.
Contributing to the communities where we operate is an civil engineering and helping to educate the future generation.
Leada important differentiating factor for Ashtead staff as well as being Acrow provided formwork equipment for use during Build Camp, a attractive to new recruits.
collaboration between Think Up and Constructionarium, sponsored by Balfour Beatty and the Institute of Civil Engineers.
As part of a Community initiatives hands-on construction experience lasting four days, students built We have multiple community-based programmes around the stores a railway bridge across a specially created landscape.
For example, our sponsorship of the Wounded Warrior Project in the US supports our wellness focus as well as We also provide help or equipment to community organisations, such providing community involvement opportunities for our employees.
as providing an accommodation unit to solve the sports equipment We also participate in the Holiday Mail for Heroes campaign, where storage problems of the Coddingham Community Centre in Newark.
we sign and complete cards which are sent to troops in war zones One of the primary charities we support in the UK is CRASH, the for the holidays.
In the UK we loaned equipment to help create a construction and property industrys charity for homeless people.
tranquil, therapeutic garden at the Help for Heroes Recovery Centre As patrons of the charity, we get involved in some great initiatives in Colchester.
Raising our profile in the community in this way is to support the homeless such as the new Greenhouse project at the completely consistent with our desire to do more in terms of the Emmaus homeless community in Brighton & Hove.
quality of life of our staff and their families.
EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: KEN WALKER Ken started work as a driver at A-Plant nearly 20 years ago and since then has progressed through many different roles.
He was quickly identified for business development and spent several years setting up a network of safety and lifting equipment depots nationwide.
He worked in sales, was a depot rental manager and then set up our customer training service.
Ken now travels the country training both staff and customers as our senior training instructor.
His years on the job and experience of working with the equipment day-to-day mean he is unmatched in his technical knowledge and ability.
He loves being able to leave a depot or customer premises knowing he has trained people to the highest standard so they will use the equipment safely.
Nothing is too much trouble for Ken.
He embodies our commitment to career development, safety and training, while also inspiring the younger generation to excel.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39 Responsible business report continued This is how we work continued providing lists of required and recommended equipment to new THE ENVIRONMENT store openings for spill prevention and clean-up supplies: Why it matters use of telematics to monitor vehicle idling and driving efficiency: As we set up more stores and develop our service offering, our impact optimisation of delivery routes via our efficiency programme: on the environment around those stores increases.
We make every use of tyre pressure monitors to ensure optimal fuel efficiency: effort to limit any negative impact we may have in the course of our increased fuel efficiency in delivery and service fleet, including work.
This helps us save on costs, on any potential damage to our through improved design: reputation and also helps build that level of trust which our customers providing environmental education reminders to field and service require.
It also helps our staff to feel good about where they work personnel through TechConnect newsletter delivered to their and helps to build good relationships with the communities around homes in the US: and our centres.
use of environmentally and ozone-friendly refrigerants in our Recent initiatives in this area include: cooling equipment.
thorough evaluation of new stores and acquisitions to ensure In the UK, to comply with the new Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme they meet our environmental standards and do not pose an ESOS, all the performance standards team will have ISO 50001 unacceptable risk to the business: awareness training in 2015.
ESOS is a mandatory energy assessment improved safety environmental audit tracking software scheme for organisations in the UK that meet the qualification and database: criteria.
Organisations that qualify for ESOS must carry out ESOS improved environmental information database increasing assessments every four years.
These assessments are audits of the efficiency in addressing permits and various requirements: energy used by their buildings, industrial processes and transport to carbon, waste and other environmental KPIs captured identify cost-effective energy-saving measures.
Organisations must and reported: notify the Environment Agency that they have complied with their increased inventory of Tier 4 engines and training of key staff ESOS obligations.
on their impact and maintenance: national non-exclusive agreements for emergency response and waste disposal in the US: EMPLOYEE SPOTLIGHT: RON POPLAWSKI Ron has worked for Sunbelt for 19 years and epitomises the best of who we are.
He started work as a weekend casual labourer and then took a job erecting scaffold just before the Atlanta Olympics.
In 1999, Rons yard was in desperate need of a manager and Ron was chosen for his commitment to doing a great job.
He stayed there for three years and transformed the yard.
His goal was to exemplify our motto of exceeding our customers expectations through value added services.
He then became a construction manager where he again excelled for five years, before moving into a sales role, making the most of his problem-solving skills and can-do attitude.
Ron is now a store manager in Atlanta and continues to be the role model for others to follow.
He delivers great service to our customers and increased return on investment for the company.
He and his team continue to set the bar for a great work ethic and the belief that anything is possible with a positive attitude.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 40 Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions Greener equipment As we are a growing business with aggressive expansion plans, Wherever we can and where it makes economic sense, we invest in our absolute greenhouse gas GHG emissions will necessarily greener equipment, sometimes also driven by customer demand.
However, we continue to evaluate how best we can limit In addition to the Tier 4 engines mandated in the US, other recent that increase and mitigate the impact.
purchases include dry-ice blasters, natural gas generators, solar light towers and dual fuel man lifts using propane as a fuel source.
Our Scope 1 fuel combustion and operation of facilities and 2 purchased electricity GHG emissions are reported below.
We have To meet increasing demand for environmentally friendly and opted not to report Scope 3 emissions due to the difficulty in gathering energy-saving temporary accommodation, we have developed a accurate and reliable information.
The majority of these arise through range of Green Specification accommodation units.
These units our customers use of our equipment on their sites and projects.
incorporate a multitude of energy saving devices, including increased insulation levels, heavy duty door closers, passive infrared low 03: GHG EMISSION BY GHG PROTOCOL SCOPE tCO e YEAR 2 energy fluorescent lighting, double glazed windows, dual flush toilets, waterless urinals and thermostatically timed heaters.
These units 2015 2014 allow construction companies and other customers to reduce site Scope 1 188,514 162,892 energy consumption without adversely affecting the welfare of Scope 2 33,674 30,250 their teams.
Total 222,188 193,142 We also continue our investment in the award-winning Power Cube, tCO2e year defined as tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year.
an innovative new battery generator that works alongside our current power generation fleet and offers customers significant fuel savings, In order to calculate the GHG emissions, we have used the GHG reductions in carbon footprint and the ability to remotely monitor Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised energy usage.
The Power Cube can be used on its own or in edition, together with emission factors from the UK governments conjunction with a generator or mains supply, and can be supplied GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014, as well as as road-towable, static or even with a solar panel.
the US Environmental Protection Agency.
In the UK, we collect data from all Scope 1 and 2 vendors and hence, there is no estimation involved.
In the US, due to the size of our operation, we collect data from the significant vendors and then use this to estimate emissions attributable to the balance.
At April 2015, approximately 10% of the Sunbelt emissions balance was estimated.
GEOFF DRABBLE SUZANNE WOOD We are also required to give an intensity ratio as appropriate for our Chief executive Finance director business.
Our level of GHG emissions vary with our activity levels 15 June 2015 and we have concluded that the most appropriate intensity ratio for Ashtead is revenue intensity.
Our intensity metric is therefore an indication of emissions per 1m of revenue tCO2e m. 04: REVENUE INTENSITY 2015 2014 Revenue intensity ratio 109.0 118.2 The majority of our revenue is in dollars and so the reported ratio is affected by the exchange rate.
On a constant currency basis using this years average exchange rate our intensity ratio has reduced from 117.9 last year to 109.0 this year.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 41
