Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY THE ETHICAL WAY IN WHICH WE OPERATE A guided business By aggregating these business-byIn our 80 year history wehave The corporate centre plays an important business priorities, we have identified succeeded by empowering governance function to complement our groupwide priorities.
This approach our decentralised structure.
creates focus whilst remaining true to and trusting those who run our culture of decentralisation.
Assuring our ethical culture involves our businesses to make a robust and rigorous process of The groupwide priorities of our CR internal verification.
programme are categorised into four ethical decisions.
groups, or pillars, which you will see A focused business Wehave structures and policies which reflected throughout our communications: Since our 2013 CR report, each business support our employees to make good has been engaged in a process to prioritise decisions but it is our culture which the CR issues upon which they will focus.
establishes our expectations and shapes howwe operate.
We call thisculture the Essence of Associated British Foods.
Formore information see our2015 CR Update at www.
RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP An ethical business At Associated British Foods we believe OF OUR ENVIRONMENT that an ethical business is primarily built by its people.
We nurture ethical business practices BEING RESPONSIBLE through the actions we undertake every day and if we observe something is not FOR OUR PEOPLE right we act quickly to correct it.
A decentralised business We match our high moral expectations with the autonomy that we give to each BEING A RESPONSIBLE business and the individuals employed within them.
NEIGHBOUR Although we have a highly decentralised structure, we are more than simply the sum of our parts.
RESPONSIBLE FOR PROMOTING GOOD HEALTH Further information can be found in the Associated British Foods CR Update 2015.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 49 RESPONSIBLE STEWARDSHIP OF OUR ENVIRONMENT our commitment to managing our Environmental compliance We integrate responsible environmental footprint effectively.
We During 2015, we received four fines stewardship of our environment continue to refine our measurement and totalling 1,000 for environmental matters reporting of these issues.
We analyse including the handling of construction into operational decisions by our environmental data to help us identify waste and a pipe leak.
All issues have investing in technology and opportunities to generate operational been addressed and rectified.
efficiencies, integrate processes and We received 50 complaints, down efficient equipment, employing minimise our environmental impact.
The majority and training people with Our challenges and were related to noise, dust and odour.
achievements this year We regret any inconvenience caused the right skills, sharing best This year a number of our businesses to the communities in which we are practice across our businesses have responded to localised environmental located and continue to seek ways to issues including drought, flooding and eliminate the cause of such incidents.
and constantly developing harsher winters.
These events have had Our sites are often visited by our approach to measurement varying degrees of impact on our direct environmental regulators for routine operations and suppliers, and have been and reporting.
sampling and inspection visits or as a particularly evident in our agricultural and result of incidents.
In 2015, we received sugar businesses.
Despite these difficulties We take an active approach to managing 580 visits which is 7% fewer than in 2014. and recognising that we have increased and reducing our environmental impact.
We always fully engage with national production output by 3% since last year, We are mindful that the success of many and local regulators to help us meet we are pleased with our groupwide of our businesses is dependent on a range or exceed regulatory standards.
Highlights include: of sustainable environmental assets.
Energy With the demand for food and clothing 76% of our waste was recycled: In 2015, our absolute use of energy was increasing as the global population grows, 50% of energy used was from 25,002 GWh compared to 25,416 GWh combined with climate change, regulatory renewable sources: and in 2014.
This is a 2% reduction which uncertainty and increased pressure for is the result of energy efficiency healthy farming land, we have a moral 96% of our sites operated without improvements and a reduction in the and commercial responsibility to an environmental complaint.
amount of renewable fuel used at conserve and, where possible, enhance some of our sugar operations.
the environment in which we operate.
The areas where we have greatest environmental impact and risk are: Total consumption of energy Types of energy used in 2015 the use of energy and the resultant In GWh, split by renewable and 1 Renewables 50% greenhouse gas GHG emissions: non-renewable energy 2 Natural gas 29% 3 Solid fuels 9% Renewable energy the abstraction of water and 4 Electricity 7% Non-renewable energy 5 Imported steam 3% discharge of effluent: and 6 Liquid fuels 2% the generation and disposal 6 1 of waste.
5 13,736 12,493 11,151 4 11,864 10,805 As we have been addressing these issues for a number of years, we are able 3 to report trend data that demonstrates 12,614 12,509 11,922 11,452 11,680 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The majority of our gross emissions are Protocol.
See Our CR Reporting Guidance RESPONSIBLE from the energy we use in our premises.
co. uk for our GHG We generate a large proportion of our methodology and more detail about how STEWARDSHIP energy either through our on-site power we quantify our emissions including stations or from the burning of fuels.
OF OUR ENVIRONMENT The remainder of our energy requirement Water is from purchased electricity and steam CONTINUED Water management has been a priority contributing 1,081,000 tonnes of CO e 2 for the group over the last five years, to our gross emissions.
with a focus on measuring and reporting 50% of our energy consumption is from Of the 6,802,000 tonnes of CO e emitted performance data which appropriately 2 renewable fuel sources, reducing from by our Sugar businesses, two-thirds reflects all the water we abstract, 13,736 GWh in 2014 to 12,493 GWh was generated from the use of bagasse.
The majority of our renewable The combustion of sugar cane biomass energy comes from bagasse which is Previously we have reported the water is regarded as carbon neutral and is the residual fibre that remains after the used in our premises which are primarily therefore included in our calculations extraction of juice from the crushed factories although smaller amounts are of total net emissions.
used in offices, stores, warehouses and This year we are reporting separately accommodation.
For the first time we are A number of our sites generate their the emissions from the generation and reporting the total water abstracted for own energy and often make more than use of renewable energy on our sites.
use in our premises and for agricultural is needed: exporting surplus electricity As described above, the majority of our purposes.
This is in recognition of the to the national grid or other organisations.
renewable energy is steam and electricity fact that we rely on the availability of In 2015, we exported 830 GWh which is generated from bagasse.
The steam is quality water to grow raw ingredients a 5% increase on last year due to longer used to provide the heating requirements as well as process finished goods.
sugar campaigns in Europe and the of the sugar production process and then outcome of energy efficiencies across to generate renewable electricity through our African sites.
As sugar cane grows it Greenhouse gas emissions absorbs carbon dioxide from the air which Last year we reported our greenhouse is then released during cogeneration.
gas emissions for the first time.
Again, As such we have reported emissions we are reporting our total emissions from from the generation and use of renewable the operational and agricultural activities energy as having a net zero effect on our of our businesses for which we are total emissions.
For 2015, our total net emissions are In 2015, our total greenhouse gas emissions 5,246,000 tonnes CO e. This is 8% 2 amounted to 9,607,000 tonnes of carbon higher than last years total net emissions dioxide equivalent CO e, which is primarily due to less bagasse being used 2 consistent with the gross amount emitted across our sugar businesses in Africa last year despite our increased production and China.
Our intensity ratio for 2015 was We developed detailed reporting guidance 751 tonnes per 1m of revenue.
This for our companies including estimation is a small increase on last year due to methodologies and assumptions which a 1% decline in the groups revenue.
have taken into account guidance from ISO 14064 1 and the Greenhouse Gas Our greenhouse gas emissions 2015 emissions 2014 emissions tCO e tCO e 2 2 Total gross emissions 9,607,000 9,656,000 Generation and use of renewable energy 4,361,000 4,788,000 Total net emissions 5,246,000 4,868,000 Emission intensity gross 751 tonnes per 746 tonnes per 1m of revenue 1m of revenue Gross emissions by business division Sugar 6,802,000 71% 7,025,000 73% Other 2,805,000 29% 2,631,000 27% Total gross emissions includes emissions from the use of energy within our factories and stores, our manufacturing processes, the operation of owned and third-party vehicles and from directly controlled agricultural activities.
See Our CR Reporting Guidance 2015 at www.
co. uk for our GHG methodology and more detail about how we quantify our emissions including emission scopes.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 51 The total amount of water abstracted processes and to mitigate the risk of 3 for our use in 2015 was 1.1 billion m. ILLOVOS RESPONSE the spread of pests and diseases by Of this amount, 29% was used in TO CLIMATE CHANGE having a policy which allows for no our premises and 71% was used for more than 30% of the growing area Illovos operations are exposed agricultural purposes, primarily to to consist of one cane variety.
to variable climate conditions in irrigate our extensive sugar beet sub-Saharan Africa.
As a result, focus has been placed Many of our businesses are focused on increasing the resilience of our on reusing water throughout their operations to drought and rainfall operations before it is discharged or variability.
Mechanisms to achieve this used to supplement irrigation water.
include the selection and cultivation Waste water discharged to the local of resilient cane varieties and soil catchment is treated on site to comply moisture management techniques with local standards or taken away aimed at water conservation.
Illovo and managed by local authorities.
continues to cultivate varieties that are As reported last year, Illovo has only developed through conventional been reviewing its approach to water management, culminating in a new strategy for the next five years.
Through Over 700,000 tonnes, which is 76% tighter operational performance of the total waste generated this year, GREENPEACE DETOX CAMPAIGN standards, the strategy aims to reduce was diverted from landfill and reused Primark has a robust process in place unnecessary water losses, maximise or recovered for a beneficial purpose.
to manage chemicals, and we recognise reused water and implement better This is a 24% reduction in the recycled the importance of continuing to evolve monitoring and reporting.
As Illovos waste we reported last year due to the this in line with industry best practice.
water footprint methodology continues introduction of a new key performance In February 2015, we signed up to to mature and as the rest of our indicator to separate the amount of Greenpeaces global Detox campaign businesses continue to invest in water water reused in order to demonstrate and committed to phase out the use management, the data we report in our holistic approach to waste and of certain chemicals within the supply future years is expected to reflect waste water management.
We intend chain by 2020. these developments.
to report this when all relevant sites In 2014, we worked with chemical have finished implementing their Waste management experts and three key suppliers in monitoring processes.
In 2015, we generated 219,000 tonnes China to look closely at how chemicals of non-hazardous waste which is an 31% of our production sites have are used during production of textiles annual increase of 33%.
This increase achieved zero waste to landfill this year and to conduct waste water testing.
can mainly be attributed to the closure with other sites continuing to work We did this in order to gain an in-depth of two sugar beet factories in China.
understanding of current chemical These sites reported larger quantities management practices within dyeing Product and packaging of waste which were generated during mills and washing units.
As our The quantity of packaging used for the process of emptying, cleaning and first pilot in China comes to a close, the containment, protection and safety closing the factories.
Without these we are expanding the programme of our products in 2015 was 238,000 disposals, the groups non-hazardous to include more suppliers in China tonnes which is an increase of 3% waste would have increased by 6%, and Bangladesh.
This increase is in line with most of which is a consequence of Greenpeaces Detox campaign other our manufacturing production and increasing production.
retailers facing similar challenges increasing Primark sales.
came together to found the Zero We recognise that during the year there Since 2011, the tonnes of packaging Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals have been limitations to the monitoring per tonne of product has reduced by ZDHC working group, of which of non-hazardous waste removed 21% demonstrating our sustained Primark is a member.
from sites in northern China.
As such, focus on reducing packaging.
the sites have estimated the weight In 2015, Greenpeace ranked Primark of regularly generated waste based on Responsible sourcing of palm oil as a leader as part of its annual Detox assumptions and experience which we The groups commitment to sourcing Catwalk.
Primark is pleased to be believe provides a good approximation only RSPO certified sustainable palm oil recognised as a leader on this issue, of tonnage of waste disposed.
Further products by 2015 applies across all of one that is particularly important to work will be carried out to improve our businesses.
We aim to buy as much its customers, and the people that measurement of waste at these sites.
physically certified sustainable products as work in its supply chain.
However, as 70% of the volume This year, we have generated 6,000 we procure is in products in which palm tonnes of hazardous waste which is oil or its derivatives are an ingredient, this a 40% reduction on the previous year.
We therefore met The high level last year was unusual our target by utilising the RSPO-approved due to the one-off safe removal of Book&Claim supply chain scheme.
asbestos from one site in Australia.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY safety performance whilst our businesses Injuries to employees continue to grow.
We incorporate our During 2015, we recorded 465 employee established safety practices and ways reportable injuries resulting in our reportable of working into all new sites.
Although there has been an increase overall in During 2015, our businesses invested reportable injuries, there have been 33m in health and safety including over significant and sustained efforts to BEING 13m spent on major safety projects and prevent injuries.
Our operations in Africa, operational improvements.
Australasia and North America have all RESPONSIBLE This year over 20,000 contractors worked continued a downward trend in reportable across our sites.
We treat our people and injuries over the last five years.
on-site contractors in the same way, and FOR OUR PEOPLE We also recorded an increase in employee in return expect the same high workplace Lost Time Injuries LTIs partly due to safety standards from all who work in growth in the business and partly due our operations.
We do, however, recognise to how injuries are treated in specific that more work is required to ensure on-site Maintaining safe working countries.
Despite this increase, 61% contractors adopt the same level of safety of our sites recorded zero LTIs this year environments with strong that we expect from our people.
In parallel, and 36 of our high risk manufacturing our businesses have a duty of care to ethical labour standards for sites achieved at least five years keep contractors safe.
During the year we without an LTI.
our people and all who work published our contractor management guidance which is now being Health and safety compliance with us is core to the way implemented across the group.
During 2015, we received four safety fines for breaches of safety regulations.
Fatal injuries The number of safety fines is the same The prevention of fatalities and serious Health and safety as last year even though the number of accidents in the workplace is an absolute As our businesses strive to achieve operational sites has increased.
The total priority throughout the group.
We have injury-free workplaces, maintaining cost of the fines was 19,000.
Fines robust procedures to minimise risks a strong culture of safety with clear were received for issues around machine including safety communications, training, leadership is of fundamental importance.
guarding, electrical safety, machine regular audits and embedded monitoring Over recent years, there has been isolation during cleaning and as a result and reporting of working practices.
increased engagement with employees of contractor injuries from a vehicle.
For on their own responsibility for reducing We deeply regret one work-related fatality more information see our 2015 CR Update risks to themselves and colleagues.
We this year which occurred in Africa.
also expect our people and contractors clear safety instructions by the vehicle All businesses are required to report to go home from work as healthy as when conductor, a contract agricultural worker to the Group Safety and Environment they arrived, unaffected by their tasks or attempted to board a reversing people Manager the details of their remedial working environment.
He slipped and fell sustaining fatal actions.
These incidents are also shared specialists monitor the working practices head injuries.
A full investigation identified with the safety managers across the across our sites to ensure they are opportunities to further strengthen our group so that each business can learn healthy places to work.
controls and these have been implemented howto mitigate similar risks.
All work-related deaths We have made significant improvements are reported to the Associated British We recognise that despite having to our safety performance over the past Foods board and local management a high safety culture there are always five years but continue to face challenges.
opportunities to improve and a need One of our largest challenges is maintaining continuously to review our approach to safety management.
Reportable injuries Reportable injury rates Reportable according to the laws Percentage of employees having of each country a reportable injury 514 0.61% 465 445 443 0.51% 0.49% 0.48% 372 0.40% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 53 Human rights Associated British Foods promotes PROJECT SAFE human rights and dignity through the Project SAFE is AB Mauris new 4 Continuous improvement employment we create, both directly global approach to health and safety Performance assessments and feedback and indirectly in our global supply chains, which aims to embed a safe working are used to monitor progress and secure and through the positive contribution environment that sustains zero injuries continuous improvement.
our products make to peoples lives.
and zero work-related ill health.
The Project SAFE was piloted at AB Mauris Our commitment to respect human rights project has seen the development of a manufacturing site in Casteggio, Italy.
is founded on a strong ethos of workplace business-wide framework of standards, The experience at this site has formed the safety and employee wellbeing, and is processes and a Health and Safety basis for regional and global engagement supported by our commitment to ensure Management System all aimed at of all AB Mauri manufacturing, distribution compliance with the UN Declaration on changing behaviours and improving and officefacilities.
It has already been Human Rights.
We value our ongoing health and safety outcomes.
implemented in a number of beacon sites engagement and collaboration with a Project SAFE is centred on four areas: including in Brazil, China, India and the broad range of interested and concerned US, and will now be rolled out globally.
We are active in our 1 People collaborative approach, seeking to remain Supporting the development of the With monthly tracking of key performance sensitive to the risk of breaching human right behaviours in employees including indicators, regular internal reporting rights resulting from our products, communications, engagement and and transparency across thebusiness, services and operations.
empowerment, to ultimately enable and visible leadership sponsorship culture change within the businesses.
for the programme, AB Mauri is As a matter of good practice, we already seeing positive changes in risk-assess the impact that our operations 2 Procedures its safety performance.
may have on the protection and respect Discipline to ensure that optimal of human rights.
We ensure a greater processes and procedures exist and focus on operations under the jurisdiction arefollowed.
of governments that have a lesser 3 Places commitment to the protection of human Ensuring that assets and working rights.
This year we have focused on environment, including new and existing identifying the salient human rights risks facilities, are safe to operate and well which we would need to tackle as a maintained in order to remove any group, and the best way to manage potential obstacle to safe behaviours.
A more detailed explanation of our approach to respecting human rights and the focus areas over the next few years can be found within the 2015 CR Update As such we have a number of initiatives management levels in some of our at www.
focused on gender diversity in particular.
However, we have a Our objective is not forced uniformity, long-term commitment towards gender Diversity and inclusion rather a uniform culture where women equality and the promotion of women We are committed to promoting and are respected as colleagues and leaders.
developing diverse talent across all of our businesses.
We aim to run businesses Since 2011, we have implemented Our health, safety and diversity which attract and retain the best talent a number of initiatives including reporting definitions can be found by creating a culture that is welcoming unconscious bias training, mentoring, at www.
In common with many womens development programmes companies, our businesses vary in the and a gender diversity task force.
proportion of women in the workplace.
We know that women are underrepresented at the most senior Gender metrics Number Number of women Percentage Percentage of senior in senior of senior Total of women in management management management employees Men Women workforce roles roles who are women Sugar 37,305 30,732 6,573 18% 240 55 23% Grocery 17,059 11,702 5,357 31% 863 320 37% Ingredients 6,501 4,959 1,542 24% 539 134 25% Agriculture 2,247 1,683 564 25% 242 59 24% Retail 60,645 15,700 44,945 74% 147 51 35% Central 279 162 117 42% 61 21 34% Total 124,036 64,938 59,098 48% 2,092 640 31% Full-time, part-time and seasonal contractors.
Includes directorships of subsidiary undertakings.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPECTING LAND RIGHTS available at www.
co. za As an agricultural business, the issue for its operations and supply chain.
of land rights is important to AB Sugar.
The guidelines articulate the businesss This is a particular concern for Illovo position on land, land rights, land since it operates in countries still BEING A acquisitions and sustainable farming struggling to repair the damage done practices and establishes its zero by years of legislated racial segregation.
RESPONSIBLE In South Africa, Illovo has sold and transferred 52% of its agricultural land Illovo is now working with local holdings to historically disadvantaged stakeholders to embark on a process NEIGHBOUR communities.
It works proactively of identifying the key land-related issues with black farmers, holding training affecting the business, and prioritising programmes that offer assistance to initiatives to address these.
Oxfam new cane growers, thereby supporting called Illovos approach to land rights A good business takes the long-term commercial sustainability bold and noted the businesss genuine seriously its responsibility of their farms.
interest in using their influence to protect the land rights of the communities in to treat the people who live In 2014, Illovo released its Group which it operates.
Guidelines on Land and Land Rights close to its operations with respect and in a neighbourly manner.
We seek to be welcomed around the world as a positive contributor to the life of the community.
Thulas Ngidi is living PRIMARKS CHARITY his late fathers dream, PARTNERSHIP WITH NEWLIFE having acquired his first Primarks partnership with the farm from Illovo on the Newlife Foundation in the UK and KwaZulu-Natal South Ireland started in 2010.
Any items that Coast, and later going are returned to our stores by customers on to purchase two or not required by the organisation further adjacent farms.
are donated to the charity.
The Newlife Foundation will then recycle all of these products in an  GIVING YOUNG PEOPLE AN INSIGHT INTO MANUFACTURING manner and use the profits to support their work with disabled children.
AB Agri supports See Inside Staff have been supporting a group Manufacturing, a national flagship of students with their Green Car These profits go towards purchasing programme devised by the Department Challenge.
The scheme aims to get equipment such as wheelchairs, for Business, Innovation and Skills to give more young people excited in STEM pain-relieving beds, communication young people an insight into modern subjects by involving them in designing, aids, nurse services, medical manufacturing, showcasing opportunities engineering and manufacturing a research, and campaigning and in technology, engineering and science.
The business has awareness activities.
Its Walsingham feed mill hosted a also provided financial support for Last year this partnership was group of school pupils, giving them the performance analysis software and implemented in all stores across opportunity to learn more about how radio communication equipment.
Europe and it has so far generated the business works.
almost 3m in funding for Newlife.
The business also encourages school pupils to think about engineering through a growing partnership between Fair Oak Academy and the Rugeley site team.
With funding raised, Newlife can provide essential equipment like Andrews specialist powered wheelchair.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Strategic report | Corporate responsibility | 55 PROMOTING GOOD HEALTH IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES Supporting child and maternal Twinings Ovaltine relies on suppliers in health in Yunnan, China India and China to source the majority of Since 2011, Twinings Ovaltine has its tea.
These developing countries face worked with Save the Children in numerous challenging health issues and RESPONSIBLE Yunnan to train healthcare providers the business has formed partnerships in this remote and mountainous area with three major international NGOs where there is limited access to health to play a part in mitigating them.
FOR PROMOTING services and a lack of knowledge Protecting girls on tea estates about child health.
To date, 107 village in Assam, India GOOD HEALTH healthcare providers and 15,000 Twinings Ovaltine is currently working caregivers have been trained, and with UNICEF on 63 tea estates to support there has been a 26% reduction in 34,000 girls who live on the tea estates the mortality rate of children through where their parents work.
The project Promoting good health is training healthcare workers and aims to empower and protect the girls educating communities.
a principle our businesses through the formation and strengthening of adolescent girls groups and child put into action every day.
protection committees and nutritionrelated activities such as setting up At the most direct level, this means health food shops, kitchen gardens, striving for the highest standards on cooking demonstrations and food safety and improving the nutritional nutrition sessions.
content of our food and ingredients.
Where we have less control, we aim to use our influence to improve the health of the people around us by implementing employee wellbeing programmes and supporting the health of workers in developing countries.
EDUCATING CONSUMERS ABOUT SUGAR REFORMULATION FOR HEALTHIER PRODUCTS As a responsible business, AB Sugar The consumer-friendly website tackles is actively contributing to the debate myths about sugar as well as offering All our food businesses are engaged about the role that sugar can play as films, guides, recipes and interactive in a continual process of product review part of a healthy, balanced diet.
The website is continually and reformulation.
Our priority is to in September 2014, the Making Sense evolving to reflect the latest scientific respond to consumers needs and of Sugar education campaign consensus, UK dietary guidelines, provide products that help them www.
com consumer questions and feedback.
aims to help inform and educate people Itnow hosts a regular guest blog Our UK Grocery businesses are all about sugar and the role it can play writtenby leading experts plus signatories to the UK governments as part of a healthy balanced diet.
The aGuideto Sugars that helps Responsibility Deal on Public Health content is based on robust science and consumersunderstand the calories and, over recent years, they have made informed dialogue, with information andsugars in some everyday kitchen adjustments to many of their products about sugar provided in a way which and seasonal favourites.
to reduce the sugar, salt and fat content is straightforward and informative.
For example, Jordans, Dorset & Ryvita uses some added sugar in its granola and cluster cereals to add flavour and hold the ingredients together.
Over the past 18 months, it has made incremental reductions and has achieved an average 12% cut in added sugar across the range.
Our Ingredients businesses are well positioned to use their scientific research and development to make essential ingredients healthier.
AB Mauri has created a way to reduce the sodium content of certain ingredients and is working on new lower-sodium baking powders.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
