Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 46 Responsible business Non-financial Key Performance Indicators Trust and integrity P48 1 Ethics enquiries Dismissals for reasons relating 1 tounethical behaviour 2015 257 1, 148 2014 286 Our people P48 Safety Diversity Recordable Male Accident Rate 60,000 per 100,000 73 2 1 employees Total 1,3 15% improvement employees 75,000 2015 732 2014 863 Target achieved UK executive directors 2 5% annual bonus Female 15,000 Resource efficiency P51 Total greenhouse gas emissions Total greenhouse gas emissions 1 3 tonnes C0 e per employee tonnes C0 e 2 2 1, 352,200 18 1% 0% 2015 2015 1,352,200 18 2014 2014 1,336,751 18 1.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance on page 51.
85% including 80% relating to financial objectives see page 16 of the UK executive directors bonuses are based on the achievement of objectives aligned to certain Executive Committee objectives measured on Group-level quantitative key performance indicators, with the remaining 15% basedon the achievement of personal objectives aligned to the delivery of specicelements of the Groups strategy measured using both quantitative andqualitative performance indicators see page 76.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 47 Responsible business in action We are a business that operates responsibly and Increasing the recruitment talent pool with integrity, delivering on customer requirements atrusted partner.
Global support for Responsible business priorities STEM education 2015 priorities 2015 progress 2016 direction Engineering skills are vital to BAE Systems and companies in the global supply Trust and integrity Refreshed Code of Conduct Roll out Code of Conduct Roll out refreshed Code rolled out across the Group via refresher training across the chain.
The Group is reliant on a pipeline ofConduct.
of young talent having studied Science, Implement Ethical Leadership Continued to progress Ethical Continue to instil responsible Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Group NAVEX Global Leadership Group NAVEX behaviour across the Group.
BAE Systems has recommendations to ensure Global recommendations to introduced a number of initiatives which Further integrate the business continued improvement.
drive continuous improvement conduct programme across support the promotion of STEM subjects of business conduct programme.
Continue to drive alignment Group functions.
and careers for young people in the andintegration of the business Integrated business conduct markets in which it operates.
conduct programme with training and reporting with In 2015, the US businesses continued to humanresources, legal and Human Resources, Legal and auditactivities.
support the National Math and Science Initiative and invested in hands-on Our people Sadly, during 2015, there were Continue to drive towards activities to engage and inspire students, Continue drive towards a two air incidents that resulted aworld-class level of safety including ongoing support of FIRST world-class level of safety in seven fatalities, four of our performance.
employees and three from Achieve a 10% reduction in other companies.
Achieve a 10% reduction theRecordable Accident Rate.
In the UK, BAE Systems has committed 15%stretch target in the The Group achieved a 15% 80m a year to skills development and Continue to focus on Recordable Accident Rate.
reduction in the Recordable management and reduction issupporting the Your Life campaign, 1 Accident Rate.
Maintain focus on, and ofsignicant safety risk.
apartnership between educators, 1 management and reduction The number of major injuries Continue to drive a strong industry and government to boost of, significant safety risk.
across the Group increased safety culture through female participation in technology by21% see page 49.
Continue to drive a strong communication, awareness andengineering.
In addition, over the safetyculture through All businesses set diversity and and visible leadership.
last two years, the Group has taken its communication, awareness inclusion plans to address All businesses to continue to schools roadshow into 500 schools, andvisible leadership.
specic issues or strategic aims.
drive a diversity and inclusion engaging with 120,000 young people All businesses to continue to agenda to address business aged 10 to 13. drive a diversity and inclusion needs and strategic aims.
agenda to address business In Saudi Arabia, BAE Systems has needs and strategic aims.
developed close ties with King Saud University, working with it to create Resource efficiency All businesses set and met All businesses to continue anextensive scholarship programme.
All businesses to continue improvement targets for todrive improvements in We also sponsor a graduation award todrive improvements in energy, water and waste, management of materials forengineering students and support management of materials except where additional work andresources.
alecture series on advanced andresources.
opportunities and extremes manufacturing led by our engineers.
In Australia, BAE Systems is a major sponsor of two FIRST Robotics teams.
As well as technical skills, students develop For further information, seeour teamwork, problem solving and critical Corporate responsibility summary thinking skills through the programme.
com crsummary In the United Arab Emirates, BAE Systems recently formed a five-year Student Co-operative Agreement with Mubadala to offer Emirati students an intensive 18-week aerospace and security internship programme in the UK.
In Oman, Qatar and Bahrain, groups of our graduates and apprentices have been leading STEM workshops with schools and universities.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 48 Responsible business continued 1 Introduction processes are working and highlight Enquiries to Ethics Helpline awareness created via the Code of Conduct The Group views Corporate Responsibility 2015 and compliance training.
The number of 1,148 CR as an important enabler in achieving queries raised directly with Ethics Ofcers 2014 sustainable growth in shareholder value by: 1,037 andthe Groups anonymity rate indicates 2013 1,043 instilling responsible behaviour to be a thatemployees feel more comfortable raising 2012 1,024 trusted partner: concerns and that they have trust in the 2011 1,011 Groups system for addressing concerns.
supporting customer confidence in our All enquiries reported to Ethics Ofcers and via business by continuously improving Our governance framework covers the products the Ethics Helpline were reviewed and reported standards of safety for employees and we make and export.
Our Responsible Trading either to the Ethics Review Committee or, in thoseusing our products: BAE Systems, Inc. to the Ethics Review Principles, Product Trading Policy and Pursuit Oversight Committee.
of Export Opportunities Policy help employees developing an inclusive, diverse workplace to make informed decisions about the todrive innovation and performance: and 1 business opportunities we pursue and to 2015 enquiries to Ethics Helpline proactively managing the environmental address any responsible trading risks.
Our impacts of our facilities and products to 1 542 Procurement Policy specically addresses improve efficiencies and cost savings.
2 ethical standards in the Groups supply chain.
217 3 These key enablers are supported by good 170 During 2015, the Group continued to progress relationships with our customers, business 4 102 recommendations from NAVEX Globals 2014 partners and communities.
independent assessment of our business 5 117 conduct programme, focusing on supporting The Group also has programmes in place to middle managers in developing the right support sustainable long-term performance 1 Guidance and advice culture to drive responsible behaviours and bymanaging non-financial risks that can 2 Employee relations and conduct integrating functional programmes on impact delivery of contracts, reputation and 3 Management practices responsible behaviour to leverage engagement shareholder value.
4 Accounting charges practices opportunities with employees.
We set CR priorities for the Group, which 5 Other BAE Systems is committed to respecting areenacted at local level.
These translate Almost half of the ethics contacts received are thehuman rights of our employees in the intobusiness conduct, safety, diversity and requests for guidance and advice.
We will encourage our suppliers environment objectives.
employees to contact us as early as possible and business partners to adopt the same or when a potential incident can still be prevented by timely advice.
Trust and integrity similarly high standards of ethical behaviour.
Managing our operations responsibly and Our people conducting our business in an ethical way Anonymity rate The diversity, skills and innovation of our supports the Group in earning and maintaining people drives performance across the Group.
Our governance system is fundamental to how we do business and We are committed to creating a diverse and 26 % guides the Group in how to conduct inclusive work environment where a diverse businessresponsibly.
The percentage of employees raising ethics range of talented people can work together queries anonymously compares favourably toensure business delivery.
We are creating We continue to instil responsible behaviour with peer companies.
this environment by striving to build a across the Group by supporting employees to diverseworkforce from entry level to senior make the right ethical decisions.
The launch, 1,2 Age diversity management which reects the populations inearly 2015, of our revised Code of Conduct that we recruit from.
gave managers an opportunity to engage 24 years and 60 years younger and older directly with employees on ethical dilemmas Engaging and developing our workforce for 5,000 50 59 7,000 that can take place every day.
The Code was current and future business is key to successfully years 2534 rolled out to employees via face-to-face 2 4,000 years delivering our strategy and customer briengs.
Employees also received compliance 14,000 commitments.
We are continuously looking training throughout the year appropriate toattract, recruit, develop and reward people totheir job role, including training on of the highest calibre.
We want every employee to full their We expanded our Ethics officer network, potential while contributing to the success of which supports our Ethics Helpline by the Group.
We do this through our career providing employees across our sites with frameworks, comprehensive development guidance and support or somewhere to report programmes and the breadth of our concerns.
During 2015, we received 1,148 operations around the world that enable 35 49 ethics queries viaour Ethics officer network employees to make the most of their talents.
years 1 and helpline, with the number of queries 25,000 Our focus is on continuous professional being raised face-to-face via our Ethics officer development that supports personal and network at 51%.
The total number of queries professional growth.
Our workforce demographic is similar to raised is a good indicator that policies and comparable business sectors.
We sustain our workforce capabilities by attracting high-calibre people with a diverse range of experience, growing their skills and knowledge.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 49 The Group has a number of programmes in This progress represents the eighth consecutive Responsible business in action place to improve diversity and inclusion across year of improvement.
However, major injuries Increasing the recruitment the business, including Executive Committee are not decreasing at the same rate, with the talent pool sponsored work streams to foster a culture severity of injuries increasing.
During 2015, the 1 ofinclusion, accelerate the development of number of major injuries increased by 21%.
Investing in skills high-potential women and increase leadership The Group is reviewing root cause analysis of diversity.
This is underpinned by activities major injuries and will continue to focus on in the UK across the Group to improve diversity and risk reduction and embedding safety culture inclusion locally.
During 2015, we recruited 724 apprentices To support our operations and the industry We are saddened to report that, during 2015, and higher-level apprentices, and 292 sectors, we partner with the education there were two air incidents that resulted in graduates to support the talent pipeline systemin countries to ensure the future seven fatalities, four of our employees and inthe UK.
workforce has the core skills and capabilities three from other companies.
We have been todevelop careers and support industrial supporting investigations with air accident UK apprentice and higher-level strategies.
We place particular emphasis on authorities in Saudi Arabia and the US, and are apprentice recruitment encouraging young people topursue careers carrying out internal reviews into the incidents.
2015 in Science, Technology, Engineering and 724 We are committed to creating environments Mathematics STEM see page 47.
2014 583 that enable employees to contribute to 2013 387 The safety of our employees, and anybody improving business performance through who works on, or visits, our sites, remains a ourengagement activities, including regular 2012 291 priority for the Group.
During 2015, the Group feedback to support their success, and drive 2011 277 continued to focus on raising awareness of responsible behaviour and safe working There has been significant growth in the last two employees role in identifying, managing and practices.
We seek to listen to employees years in apprentice recruitment.
This relates in reducing safety risks.
Throughout the year, views and opinions, and keep them informed particular to growth in apprentice recruitment at ourSubmarines business linked to the Successor employees were encouraged to review work about what is happening across the business submarine programme and growth in higher processes to design out potential accidents through a variety of media, including e-enabled  which comprised 123 of and suggest improvements to drive standards channels, leadership blogs, newsletters, ourrecord 724 intakein 2015. of safety across the Group.
management and team meetings, monthly team briefs, and the intranet.
Employees also UK graduate recruitment The Group uses the Recordable Accident Rate have the opportunity to provide feedback via to measure workplace injuries.
This metric, 2015 292 our engagement surveys.
along with the number of major injuries, is 2014 275 used to determine an element of executive The Group welcomes employees becoming 2013 312 bonus see page 76.
During 2015, the shareholders in BAE Systems and offers 1 2012 Recordable Accident Rate decreased by anumber of employee share plans to 247 15%, consistent with the stretch target set.
2011 291 BAE Systems graduate recruitment has remained relatively stable over the last five years, with our Applied Intelligence business taking approximately half our intake each year.
com Gender diversity data as at 31 December 2015 Number Number Total Male Female ofmales offemales number % % Board 72 9 78 22 Executive Committee 92 11 82 18 3 Senior managers 4 Employees in senior executive positions 244 38 282 87 13 Directors of subsidiary companies excluding employees in senior executive positions 79 12 91 87 13 4 Total senior managers 323 50 373 87 13 1,2 Total employees 60,000 15,000 75,000 80 20 1.
Excluding share of equity accounted investments and rounded to the nearest thousand employees.
Senior managers are dened as employees who have responsibility for planning, directing or controlling the activities ofthe Group or a strategically significant part of the Group and or who are directors of subsidiary companies.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 50 Responsible business continued Responsible business in action Improving environmental performance Almost 12,000 solar panels are The panels will provide nearly a fifth of Cost and energy nowlive at three BAE Systems sites the facilitys peak electrical consumption inthe UK and Sweden, reducing and will eliminate 1,500 tonnes of theGroups carbon footprint and carbon emissions each year.
The panels saving initiatives delivering savings for customers.
are part of an extensive programme of investment in renewable technology In Portsmouth, UK, almost 2,000 solar that has gone into the development of panels have been installed as part of the advanced manufacturing centre.
aproject to create an energy-efficient base for the RoyalNavy.
The solar Solar panels have transformed the panel system willtransform buildings newheadquarters of the Swedish into clean energy producing facilities business at rnskldsvik into a 2 and is expected to generate energy powerful solar generator.
At 2,500m, savings of more than 1m over the it is the largest faade-mounted solar next 20 years.
The 1,465 solar panels will generate an estimated In Samlesbury, UK, where 370kW atpeak production, thus componentsforTyphoon, Hawk annually producing an estimated andF-35 Lightning II aircraft are 312MWh of energy and reducing manufactured, nearly 9,000 solar carbon emissions by 187 tonnes.
com Key relationships Our policies and procedures require that weonly work with advisers who have been Strong business relationships with suppliers, approved via our due diligence process and business partners and local communities are authorised by an external panel.
Advisers with key to our success.
whomthe Group has an ongoing relationship We depend on almost 27,000 suppliers to go through this process every two years.
We support our business and provide innovative continue to work with peers across the defence and cost-effective products.
Our relationships industry to improve ethical standards.
During withsuppliers are often long term due to 2015, we continued to participate in the thelength of our product lifecycles, so we International Forum on Business Ethical aimtobuild relationships with suppliers who Conducts industry working group.
share our values and who embrace standards We continue to strengthen relationships of ethical behaviour consistent with our own.
andinvest in the communities in which we The Group sets expectations for its suppliers operate.
This is done via local recruitment and within contracts and within its Supplier employment, contracting with local suppliers Principles Guidance for Responsible Business where possible, the taxes we pay and by being launched in 2016, including standards supporting local charities and not-for-profit on ethical conduct, health and safety, organisations.
Globally, we and our employees, through We also require our suppliers to comply theCommunity Investment programme, withlocal legislation.
Compliance to required 1 contributed more than 11m during 2015 standards is evaluated during the supplier tolocal, national and international charities selection process and, for existing suppliers, and not-for-profit organisations.
aspart of ongoing quality and approvals assurance.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 51 Resource efficiency Deloitte LLP assurance Greenhouse gas emissions The Group is committed to minimising the Deloitte LLP has provided limited data for the period 1 November environmental impact of our operations, assurance on the following whilst innovating to strive to minimise the performance indicators at to 31 October tonnes CO e 2 environmental impact of our products.
Grouplevel: 1 Combustion of fuel within BAESystems We have 82,500 employees, across over Ethics employee and third-party 2 facilities and vehicles Scope 1 500sites internationally, so our focus is enquiries to Ethics Helpline and toproactively manage the impact of our dismissals for reasons relating to 2015 596,515 operations on theenvironment.
Our primary unethical behaviour: 2014 impacts relateto energy used for heating 585,233 Safety Recordable Accident Rate andlighting of ourfacilities.
We do not and the number of major injuries manufacture rawmaterials, so have relatively recorded: few energy-intensive processes.
Electricity and steam purchased for Diversity total employees split 2 Each of our businesses sets clear targets BAESystems use Scope 2 bygender and age: touseresources efficiently with a focus 2015 onreducing energy and water consumption, Community total Community 607,876 andwaste generated.
Environmental Investment programme donations 2014 594,866 management systems areused to monitor : and andmanage targets and impacts.
Reducing Environment greenhouse these impacts will reduce the Groups gasemissions.
Business travel in non-BAESystems environmental footprint and cut costs from 2 vehicles Scope 3 purchased energy, raw materials and waste.
During 2015, businesses across the Group 2015 147,809 More online identied projects to improve environmental 2014 156,652 To see Deloitte LLPs performance, including the installation of solar Unqualied Assurance energy panels see page 50, new LED lighting Statement visit and water efficiency systems.
com  Methodology The majority of our greenhouse gas emissions To see our Basis of The greenhouse gas emissions data is reported come from the energy we use across our Reporting 2015 visit inlinewith the Greenhouse Gas Protocol facilities.
The Groups greenhouse gas www.
com 2015crdata CorporateAccounting and Reporting Standard 2 emissions increased by 1% in 2015 largely Operational Control approach, and emission factors for fuels andelectricity are taken from the dueto increased activity at some of our larger UKgovernments Department for Environment sites.
This includes the bi-annual running of a Food& Rural Affairs DEFRA, published at high-energy test facility at Barrow-in-Furness, www.
co. uk UK, and diesel usage for sea trials of the The CO2e associated with carbon dioxide, methane Landing Helicopter Dock in Australia.
and nitrous oxide is reported.
Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrouorocarbons, From designing submarines with better waste peruorocarbons and sulphur hexauoride are estimated to be immaterial to total emissions and compacting systems to helping customers are, therefore, not reported.
make vehicles last longer, our engineers work The principal record of the Groups worldwide facilities to reduce environmental impacts across the is its legal departments Global Property Database.
This includes reducing the Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily calculated environmental impacts of our products during from energy consumption records reported via the design, research and development, minimising Groups global environmental database.
Where actual usage data is not available for facilities and waste materials during manufacturing, and residences within the Global Property Database, helping to reduce the impact of our products anestimated consumption is used based on the when they are used, upgraded or disposed of.
Greenhouse gas emissions related to business travel include air travel data for the majority of the global business and rail data for business units operating in the UK and US.
These data are taken from suppliers procurement records.
Emissions from joint ventures and pension scheme properties not occupied by the Group are not included.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
See summary of Deloitte LLP assurance above.
