Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 68 Corporate Responsibility Committee report Dear Shareholders, Ian Tyler This is my second report as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
During Chairman of the Corporate 2015, the Committee has continued to provide Responsibility Committee oversight of corporate  matters, with a particular focus on ethics and safety.
This will remain our focus in 2016 and Iam pleased that Chris Grigg has joined the Committee recently to assist us with this work.
He will bring different skills and his ownexperiences which will no doubt further Members broaden our debate and bring fresh challenge Ian Tyler Chairman to our discussions.
In this report, I review the key areas of work that the Committee Harriet Green undertook during the year, throughout Chris Grigg whichIam pleased to report that the Committee continued to enjoy a constructive Governance and open engagement with the Chief The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout 2015 and Executive and senior management.
All its members are independent in accordance with the Last year, I reported on the survey that had provisions of the Code.
been undertaken by Ethical Leadership Group Summary of responsibilities NAVEX Global and the way in which the Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy, and policy findings of this report had been implemented.
onsocial, environmental and ethical matters This is not an activity that we review once andthen put aside until it is time for a formal Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control review: rather the Committee will continue policies and procedures for the identication, assessment, management toreview how management is embedding andreporting of reputational and other non-financial risks ourprinciples of responsible behaviour across Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the Companys the business.
InternalAudit function in relation to corporate responsibility This year, the Committee undertook a deep Providing oversight of the Companys compliance with corporate dive into culture and behaviour across the  policies and procedures business.
As well as progress on the actions from the Ethical Leadership Group NAVEX Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by the corporate Global report, theCommittee also considered responsibility assurer the results ofaCompany-wide employee Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, engagement survey.
The survey provided a environmental and ethical issues helpful insight into responsible business matters at all organisational levels, and also Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate gave us an indication of where the Company corporate  performance objectives for executive directors sits against global norms.
From such surveys, Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to obtain further we gain agood indication of our strengths adviceon ethical issues in confidence and also the areas that we need to focus on for furtherimprovement.
It is important that Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed and reects best we continueto use tools such as this to gain practice for such codes an understanding of such matters and thereby Ensuring the Companys Annual Report includes an examination of ethical assist in providing us with an indication of the business conduct within the Company underlying culture of the business concerning corporate  matters.
More Attendance at meetings work on this will be undertaken in 2016.
The Committee invites the following to its regular meetings: The Committee supports the work that the Chairman: Chief Executive: Managing Director Corporate Responsibility: Company undertakes to continue to embed GroupGeneral Counsel: and Internal Audit Director.
the Code of Conduct in the culture of the Company.
The Code was updated in 2014 Reporting to the Board andissued to employees during 2015, and The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key isthe key reference point for how we do issues discussed at the Committees meetings.
business and how we expect our employees to behave.
This is reinforced through the formal training that accompanies any updates to the Code and employees are encouraged touse the Code as a way to discuss issues thatmay concern them.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 69 For a number of years, the Committee has Performance against safety objectives Responsible business in action monitored the development and roll-out of formspart of the Annual Incentive Plan Developing first-hand understanding asystem of ethics ofcers.
There are now over thatisoperated for the executive directors ofcorporate responsibility 160ethics ofcers across the Group and these andisalso an equal part of the incentive employees continue to provide a first point arrangements for all senior executives in Visit to Mobile ofcontact for any ethical issues or concerns theCompany.
These objectives measure that employees may have.
In addition, the performance not only against key safety and Norfolk Company has had an Ethics Helpline managed indicators, but also improvements in by a third party for a number of years, providing behavioural safety and action taken to a means by whichemployees can raise matters eliminate safety risks.
Our safety culture shipyards, US of concern in confidence and, if the individual wasaparticular focus of the Committee wishes, anonymously.
The Committee during 2015 and will continue to be so monitors the number and nature of calls to throughout 2016.
As part of a deep dive the helpline andalso ensures that it remains review, the Committee reviewed the way effective.
Themajority of issues raised through inwhich cultureinteracts with safety and the Ethics Helpline are usually managed by howlessons learned from other sites can local management in the first instance, but beshared with other parts of the business there is an escalation process that ensures quickly and effectively.
thatthe most serious issues are brought to The Committee also carried out a review theattention of the Committee.
ofour product safety policy, which is aimed A key focus for the Company is ensuring that atensuring that we have a robust approach we have a diverse and inclusive workforce.
toproduct safety across the Group, including Therefore, we monitor where we are currently compliance with contractual, legal and For a number of years, the Committee and, more importantly, the actions that we regulatory requirements.
Finally, the has included a whole-day visit to one cantake to improve the levels of diversity and Committee took time in 2015 to look at our ofthe Companys sites as part of its inclusion across the Company.
A critical part of commercial arrangements and the processes annual schedule of activities.
These this is the need to continue to make progress we have in place governing how we contract visits have proved to be a valuable in developing a talent pipeline which will allow with customers and the behaviours we expect means for Committee members to us to build the right leadership team in the to see from our employees when dealing develop a first-hand understanding of future and allow talented people to reach withcommercial arrangements.
the Companys approach to corporate senior positions.
The work that is done with responsibility and to take a deeper look During 2016, we will continue to undertake schools and universities supports our aim to into certain matters.
In August last year, deep dive reviews into the priority areas and encourage diversity in the engineering sector.
the members of the Committee visited to receive updates on progress against our This is discussed in more detail in the two US shipyards in Mobile, Alabama, objectives for safety, ethics behaviour, and Responsible business section of the report.
and Norfolk, Virginia, to gain a more diversity and inclusion.
Also in 2016, the detailed understanding of the approach We are saddened to report that, during 2015, Committee plans to carry out another site to safety at these sites.
The Committee there were two air incidents that resulted in visitto support its understanding of the chose to visit these two locations seven fatalities, four of our employees and culture of the business and the challenges recognising the challenging safety three from other companies.
environment in which they operate.
has been supporting investigations with air The directors spoke to a cross-section accident authorities in Saudi Arabia and the Ian Tyler of employees in the yards and spent US, and are carrying out internal reviews into Chairman of the Corporate time with management, learning the incidents.
 aboutsafety performance and the The safety of our employees and all those actions being taken to embed the working on our sites continues to be another rightsafety culture.
key focus for the Committee, and an important part of the work we undertook during the More online year was to identify a credible, realistic and baesystems.
com readily reproducible safety benchmark that willallow us to compare our performance relative to organisations that are world class in terms of safety.
The Committee will monitor the work being undertaken by each of our businesses as they seek to achieve the world-class level of safety performance represented by this benchmark.
The drive to improve safety will always be with us as we seek to continually improve performance andwe recognise that progress needs to bemeasured over a number of years, but withannual goals to monitor progress towardsthe agreed benchmark.
