n o i t s n s y e e t e c t i t l i e t a a r n u u t e d q n r a l p e r a p g m t a Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 Sustainability Building and delivering a sustainable business we can sustain the long-term future as well as talent development and At Babcock our priority of our business in ways that also serve management training schemes, are remains focused on the interests of individuals and local essential for the long-term success of economies, for example, through the Company.
Last year we demonstrated creating long-term value apprenticeships, graduate schemes, Babcocks commitment to our people training and general career development by joining the 5% Club, a club which for shareholders through opportunities across the Group.
We work commits to having 5% of our workforce a strong, successful and hard to ensure the health and safety of on a structured training scheme within our employees and others and to avoid the next five years, a target we are on sustainable business.
or keep to a minimum any adverse effect track to exceed.
Another highlight this of our operations on the surrounding year was the Women In Science and To do so, we understand that how we environment.
How we go about Engineering WISE event hosted by deal with our customers, our employees, delivering our commitment to Babcock in Rosyth, recognising the our suppliers and the communities in sustainability is discussed further in this invaluable contribution made by women which we operate, and how we have report, and additionally in the in engineering.
The event proved very regard to the environment, is sustainability section of each of our successful with high-profile industry fundamental to achieving our plans for divisions operational reviews.
figures, joined by HRH the Princess our business.
It is our belief that success Royal, promoting science, technology can only be delivered through upholding Our Group-wide Ethical Policy is and engineering.
Initiatives like these and the strictest standards of business ethics summarised in our Code of Business our continued commitment to enhance while behaving in a responsible way, Conduct, which is supplemented by our highly skilled and diverse workforce and putting safety at the forefront of appropriate guidance and training.
It not are intended to put us and keep us in everything we do.
only sets out the right approach to doing a position to achieve and sustain our business in and of itself, but is also Babcock International Group is the strategic aims.
intended to underpin long-term success UKs leading engineering support services by sustaining our reputation.
organisation with a growing international footprint.
We deliver in a range of Our ability to recruit, retain and develop markets and countries, operating and the people we need now and in the supporting complex infrastructure, future is also fundamental to that equipment and training programmes.
Recruitment Peter Rogers CBE We are therefore required to consider a campaigns and initiatives in the Chief Executive wide and complex range of stakeholders, apprentice and graduate programmes, interests and concerns.
We believe that 44% 530 96% 622 2014: 51% 2014: 442 2014: 95% 2014: 594 Description Description Description Description Percentage, by revenue, of Number of graduates Percentage of senior Number of employees the Groups operations with currently on a Group managers at the beginning currently on apprenticeships environmental management graduate programme.
of the financial year still across the Group.
employed by the Group at the end of the year.
See page 58 for more information See page 56 for more information See page 56 for more information See page 56 for more information n e f e o f g o m r a e r n n e b a o b r m m i m v u r n u o N E N i n e S Strategic report 49 How we address sustainability 1.
Our customer environmental and supplier impact relationships 4.
Ensuring and sustaining safety talent Ensuring recruitment at all levels 1.
Ensuring safety is undertaken in a best for the job approach with a mind to ensuring Act responsibly and ethically at all Committed to a Group-wide a diverse workforce with a zero times in line with the Groups ethical Home Safe Every Day safety culture tolerance policy on discrimination.
policy as summarised in the Group Open, honest and challenging dialogue Code of Conduct between employees and management See pages 56 to 57 for more information Provide the opportunity for employees to ensure continual improvement in to confidentially and anonymously safety culture throughout the Group.
Managing report areas of concern to senior See pages 54 to 55 for more information environmental impact management for investigation.
See pages 50 to 51 for more information Conduct our business in a way that 4.
Developing and is mindful of environmental impacts sustaining talent Monitor with the aim of reducing 2.
Our customer and where possible our global carbon Planning for growth and succession supplier relationships footprint and our greenhouse Focus on recruitment, retention gas emissions levels Building long-term relationships and development of talent Encourage environmentally friendly Delivering business-critical support Encouraging young people into practices on sites we do not own.
using high performing, ethical suppliers the engineering sector through Supporting local economies by using leading apprenticeship and See pages 58 to 59 for more information diverse, locally procured services.
graduate programmes See pages 52 to 53 for more information Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 Sustainability continued policy on how we should all conduct Babcock aims at all times business, which we summarise in the to act responsibly and form of the Babcock Code of Business Conduct.
Compliance with this policy ethically when pursuing is compulsory for employees, business 1.
Ethics and advisers and business partners or, in the and awarding business.
governance case of business advisers and partners, Ethics Policy and Code of they must have equivalent standards and procedures in their own businesses.
Business Conduct We understand that our reputation The Babcock Ethics Policy and Code and good name are amongst our greatest of Business Conduct is a Group-wide assets, which could easily be lost by policy that sets out the following actual or suspected corrupt or unethical principles to ensure that those who behaviour.
To protect the Company and work with or within the Company do reduce these risks we have set out a so to the highest of ethical standards.
Babcock Ethics Policy and Code of Business Conduct or impropriety in the way making facilitation we go about our business payments and will report As a Will not bribe or attempt to appropriate management And our to bribe anyone any request or suggestion company Will not take bribes that Babcock, or anybody employees: Babcock: from anyone working for or with Will be diligent in selecting Babcock, should bribe or our business advisers attempt to improperly Will respect the dignity and Will avoid or properly and partners so that we influence someone rights of its employees and disclose and obtain minimise the risk of our Will seek advice on how place the highest priority clearance for potential reputation being damaged to proceed if they are at on ensuring the safety of conflicts between their by others all unsure whether each other at work and the interests or those of their Will implement and observe something complies safety of others who might friends and families and appropriate training and with our Code of Business be affected by our activities their responsibilities to procedures designed to Conduct or how to apply Will seek to minimise so Babcock or our customers ensure that we and others its associated guidance far as it reasonably can its Will not take bribes working for us understand Will be able to raise impact on the environment and will report to what our Code of Business confidentially if they Will comply with the law in appropriate management Conduct means for them wish, without fear of the conduct of its business any attempt made to bribe in practice unfavourable consequences Will be honest in our or improperly influence Will treat seriously for themselves, any dealings with those with them or another employee breaches of our code or genuine concerns they whom we do or seek to in the carrying out of their its associated guidance.
have that our Code or its do business duties for Babcock associated guidance is Will strive to avoid even the Will not bribe or attempt to not being followed.
appearance of wrongdoing bribe anyone including by Must agree to comply, Should either be willing and actually comply, to subscribe to our Code And our with our Code and this And our and its associated guidance guidance, so far as it is or have equivalent business business relevant to them, as if standards and procedures advisers: partners: they were our employees.
5 1 5 1 4 1 4 0 1 2 0 2 y r n o o g i s e i t v a i c d y y b b Strategic report 51 The Babcock Ethics Policy and Code relationships pages 52 to 53, Conduct, threats to health and safety, of Business Conduct is supplemented the importance we place on health conflicts of interest or improper practices.
by a detailed manual, available on the and safety pages 54 to 55, the New employees are made aware of Groups intranet, that contains guidelines, commitment we have towards the the existence of the hotlines as part of authorisation and other procedures people who work for and with Babcock their induction: details of the hotlines aimed at identifying and reducing both now and in the future pages 56 are advertised at operating sites.
For example: to 57, and our respect towards the wider All whistleblowing incidents are an explanation of the law and how it society and environment in which we reviewed and a method of investigation can apply: red flags to look out for: work pages 58 to 59, as we set out confirmed, which can be by a senior guidelines and authorisation procedures throughout this Sustainability report.
manager not directly related to the for giving or accepting gifts and incident, an external agency or by Whistleblowing hospitality or making charitable or internal audit.
In all cases this review Babcock insists on responsible, political donations: due diligence and is followed up by a report to Group senior transparent and accountable business approval requirements before management.
Where possible, the caller practices in accordance with our Ethics engaging new business partners: and reporting the incident will be notified Policy and Code of Business Conduct.
This of the outcome of the investigation.
Confidential employee whistleblower manual can also be accessed online A report on all whistleblowing calls hotlines are available Group-wide to on the Companys website at throughout the Group, the investigations relay any employee concerns that these www.
undertaken as a result of these calls, standards are not being adhered to for Employees take online training courses the conclusions drawn and the investigation.
The service is provided in anti-bribery and corruption risks.
Each recommendations and actions resulting by independent third parties who division and Group function is required is given to each meeting of the Audit and promptly report messages received to to have a designated member of its Risk Committee.
senior management team with specific Callers can remain anonymous if they responsibility for ensuring the distribution, The total number of whistleblowing wish.
The hotlines are intended for use communication and implementation of reports in the year to 31 March 2015 by employees to report concerns that the anti-bribery and corruption guidance, was 72.
During the same period to they feel unable to raise with line and for overseeing training.
Divisions 31 March 2014, and so excluding the management or if they have raised and Group functions are also required enlarged International division after the matters, but are not satisfied with the to consider carefully whether they need acquisition of Avincis in May 2014, the response regarding financial also to designate business unit level or number was 39.
Details of the number irregularities, non-compliance with site specific managers with the same of cases by division and by category are laws, or breaches of our Code of Business responsibility.
Anti-bribery and corruption set out below.
risks have expressly to be considered each year in business unit risk reviews as an integral part of our risk management arrangements.
Internal audit carries out 1 a review of the implementation of the 5 guidance as part of the annual internal 1 audit plan.
Divisional monthly reports 4 contain information on anti-bribery and corruption compliance, copies of which 2 4 go to each Board meeting.
2 Human rights 3 3 As an international business we recognise our responsibility for upholding and protecting the human rights of 1.
Harassment Bullying Discrimination 12% our employees and other individuals with whom we deal in our operations across 2.
Fraud Theft Dishonesty 32% the world.
Employment issues 24% we have to contribute positively to global 4. International 41% 4.
Operational 6% efforts to ensure that human rights are Total cases 72 5.
Health & Safety 26% understood and observed.
Total cases 72 We believe that a culture of respect for, and promotion of, human rights is embedded throughout our business and can be demonstrated by our commitment to ethical conduct see above, our customer and supplier s s e e s s a a c c g g n n i i w w o o l l b b e e l l t t s s i i h h W W Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52 Sustainability continued objectives, and how and why they make working well and also to look for the their procurement decisions, so that we tell-tale signs of where they might can offer and best deliver what they are encounter problems.
truly looking for and can anticipate and 2.
Our customer Our approach to procurement plan for their future requirements.
Our customers rely upon Babcock and supplier So how do we seek to establish these to deliver critical support to their relationships strong customer relationships?
We need trusted and effective suppliers to support us in delivering Babcock believes that the most reliable service to our customers and in enduring relationships are built seeking to reduce the cost of doing around eight key elements: so.
We buy a wide range of goods Shared goals and objectives We serve a wide range and services and need reliable, Mutual trust high-performing suppliers across all of customers in many Being open and honest in all dealings aspects of our supply chain.
Babcock Identifying and understanding business areas offering seeks to ensure that our customers mutual interests money is spent efficiently and responsibly, complex solutions under Seeking strong inter-personal and that our supply contracts are relationships contracts which typically managed effectively.
We work to ensure Taking the long-term view and that the supply chain adheres to looking ahead run over a number our standards of ethical behaviour, Meeting, and wherever possible environmental, health and safety and of years.
exceeding, expected outcomes other working practices.
Offering what we believe to be cost Our customers effective, technically sound solutions.
Babcock helps sustain its supply chain Given the long-term nature of these through an annual expenditure in We understand that one of the critical contracts, and the profiles of our major excess of 2 billion, with a supplier elements in building a strong business customers, Babcock favours a partnering base of more than 10,000 companies.
relationship is that both parties or collaborative approach and looks We have substantive trading relationships understand and are aware of how the to build strong, long-term customer with over 250 companies.
Our businesses other defines success in a way that relationships: this is at the heart of our have dedicated, local procurement is both identifiable and measurable.
By this collaborative and supply management functions.
Since this cannot be left to chance, approach we aim to develop an in-depth These teams are integrated into local we commission regular reviews of the understanding of our customers, what operations but adopt common high workings of our business partnering they value, what matters most to them, standards, sharing best practices and arrangements to assess if they are their present and future needs and supplier insights across the Group.
Common expenditure across the Company is increasingly being managed and governed using a Group-led category Corporate covenant management approach.
In the UK, Babcock is proud to sponsor the Our approach to procurement and supply Armed Forces and our Reservists.
We are is to: committed to the Total Support Force and select and manage suppliers to support have signed the Corporate Covenant, a our customer service delivery ethos voluntary pledge from organisations who wish and to reduce costs to demonstrate their support for the armed focus our effort on a supply base forces community.
We actively recruit service of longer-term, strategic suppliers leavers and reservists.
We support our who work with us to strengthen employees, including providing paid time off further our proposals and delivery to for training, through our SaBRE recognised our customers Reserve Forces policy.
The commitment, signed employ procurement and supply in 2013 was reinforced with a reservists specialists with the expertise to conference, held in February 2015 to further procure and deliver effective supply, explain the support available to both employees working together with the technical, and their managers to fulfil their important role.
engineering and operational customer teams enter into supply contracts that fairly reflect the risks and rewards with 111 our suppliers Attendees at the Reserves conference Strategic report 53 Community engagement Babcock is committed to promoting the engineering industry to todays aspiring youth.
In July 2014, a group of Babcock graduates hosted a week long Naval Architecture course for 40 16-17 year olds in partnership with the Smallpeice Trust and the University of Plymouth.
Thegraduates were onboard to oversee and help teams of budding young engineers, design, build, test and race a remotely operated submersible.
The event was a huge success with both returning students and Smallpeice Trust facilitators agreeing: Its been the best course yet!
work with suppliers with a shared Diversity of suppliers Payment commitment to all those working on, Supplier credibility, responsibility, quality We want to spend time talking to our or visiting, Babcock operations being and service performance are what matter suppliers about new ideas, operational able to return Home Safe Every Day most.
Many of our suppliers are small and performance and total cost opportunities use category management as the medium sized enterprises.
We select and not about payment.
We understand key approach to developing supply manage suppliers to support our own the importance of predictable customer strategy, selecting suppliers and experienced workforce in delivering payments when running a business.
We select complex, critical and often bespoke That is why Babcock is a signatory in suppliers based on their capability engineering services.
Diversification of the UK to the Prompt Payment Code to support us, and our customers, supply where possible should make our and we would encourage others in our and have a diverse supply base as supply chain more robust in helping us supply chain to be also.
to deliver for our customers.
The varied have critical responsibilities for getting nature of what we do means that we paid on time by delivering on time and Health and safety in the depend on a wide range of talents and in full, following the required billing supply chain abilities from a wide range of suppliers.
processes and adhering to our standards Babcock is committed to creating a for invoicing.
Ethical working and values safe working environment which enables We expect high standards of conduct Supplier development all those working on, or visiting, Babcock from our suppliers in what they do for We work in close collaboration with operations to be able to return Home us or our customers and will not accept selected suppliers big and small.
We seek to work only any behaviour contrary to our codes, Supplier development activities target with suppliers who we believe are able including bribery, corruption and fraud, improvements that will benefit our to both meet and promote our standards threats to health and safety, conflicts of operations and the capability of the those that share our commitment to safe interest and other improper practices.
supplier ultimately driving performance behaviours and performance in delivering We pre-qualify suppliers for certain standards that benefit our customers.
services and solutions for our customers.
types of supply before admitting them Joint teams from Babcock and the Our teams aim to work with suppliers on to the supply chain, and this involves selected suppliers engage together on safety and share continuous improvement satisfying ourselves that they can meet a wide range of issues such as input costs, practices to reduce or prevent accidents our standards.
Certain suppliers will delivery performance, safety, product and injuries.
be selected for audit and close reliability and joint growth opportunities.
Supply chain security monitoring based on risk assessment or Targeted supply relationships use data Protecting the information and physical supplier performance.
Planned reviews dashboards to monitor performance and assets of our customers is an increasingly of supply chain risk are undertaken by progress.
Babcock is actively involved important part of what we do.
with our suppliers in the Aerospace, expect high standards of commercial Defence and Security Supply Chain confidentiality.
For certain types of supply development programme SC21.
we have and are developing exacting standards of security compliance.
For these companies we need to know that information is well managed and protected throughout the supply chain.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 Sustainability continued 3.
Ensuring safety At Babcock we never forget that health, safety and welfare is the single most important aspect of all our work and the decisions we make, governed by the highest standards and compliance, are at the core of operational excellence.
Champion safety Everyone has the right to go Home Safe Every Day.
Risk taking and corner cutting With the integration of Mission Critical is not the way in which we do our work.
Everybody working for us has a responsibility Services we are embodying the Safety for championing safety putting safety first in every job that we do.
Lens element of We share to learn and improve.
The Safety Lens is designed as a In practice this means: mechanism to enable us all to talk about We all employees and contractors will In addition, senior managers, line safety: from the shop floors to the board make efforts to improve safety and managers and supervisors will room, in our teams, to our managers and the environment on our premises promote a positive and to customers all part of our continuing make safety the priority put safety proactive safety culture in our Home Safe Every Day initiative to ensure before production, cost and area of responsibility we are constantly seeking to drive commercial gains be supportive when safety improvement in our standards.
be fully committed to safety and concerns are raised and deal with Our Behaviours and Expectations policy undertake every task we do in a the issues effectively.
outlines the commitment of Babcock to safe manner We will not ensuring the health, safety and welfare communicate with each other on assume someone else is responsible of our employees whilst at work.
It sets safety matters and challenge those for our safety the standard for the behaviours and who do not maintain a high standard start work without the correct expectations required of all of our of safety personal protective equipment employees, management and contractors only undertake tasks that we are identified by the risk assessment undertaking business on our behalf.
competent and trained and authorised adapt or use tools and equipment to do The following excerpts from the policy for a purpose that was not intended keep the workplace tidy and clean and provide detail on the Championing store work equipment in an tidy up after we have finished a job safety and Investing for safety segments unsafe manner pay particular attention to slip, trip, of the Safety Lens with case studies use equipment that has not been fall and manual handling hazards matched to the application of the policy tested or is out of its test date use the correct tools and protective in everything we do, ensuring that, above carry out any job that exceeds our equipment for the job, and use all, our goal is for everybody to go Home capability to do the job safely them properly safe every day.
carry out tasks for which we are not stop the job if we dont have the right suitably qualified and experienced tools available.
operate tools, plant and equipment that we have not been trained to operate.
Strategic report 55 Performance Total injury rates per 100,000 We have seen an 11% reduction in We will Invest for safety hours worked total injuries per 100,000 hours worked Maintaining high standards of 2014 15 2.23 over the last year, whilst our RIDDOR housekeeping in the workplace and 2013 14 2.51 Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and providing the right tools for the job Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2012 13 2.64 prevents accidents.
Slips, trips and 1995 rate has maintained at 0.18 falls account for a large number of the 2011 12 2.65 per 100,000 hours worked.
accidents in UK workplaces, many of 2010 11 2.86 them when people are moving or Our focus in the coming year is to 2009 10 3.67 carrying loads.
It is therefore essential continue to embed the behaviours to have the right tools and equipment 1 noted in our Safety Lens across the Group, RIDDOR rate per 100,000 available to do the job safely, to use it ensuring our employees make it home hours worked in the correct manner and to keep our safe every day.
Good 2014 15 0.18 housekeeping also helps us meet our 2013 14 0.18 security obligations, especially in offices.
2012 13 0.17 In practice this means: 2011 12 0.21 2010 11 0.22 We will 2009 10 0.28 ensure, when starting work, the hazards are understood, the required 2 3 controls are in place, the work has 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 been authorised and the required Total number permission to start obtained of injuries 2,530 1,962 1,974 2,010 1,979 2,054 if using a generic risk assessment, Fatalities 2 0 0 0 0 0 ensure that it adequately reflects Major Injuries 28 22 30 30 36 41 the hazards associated with the Over-threespecific tasks day injuries 164 131 123 102 98 127 ensure that a pre-job safety brief has been undertaken RIDDOR ensure work is properly supervised totals 194 153 153 132 134 168 and adequately controlled 1.
In 2012 the UK Health and Safety Executive changed RIDDOR reporting from time lost through injury regularly monitor the work from three days to seven days.
We have, however, continued to monitor and report on the lower in progress.
Following an audit of our 2013 14 incident data it was found that eight accidents had been start an operation without having incorrectly classified and a consequent adjustment has been made.
Mission Critical Services is not included in the year end incident data since historical information for risk assessment, authorisations and that business did not match the Groups reporting criteria.
However, with effect from 1 April 2015, required paperwork in place reporting will be in line with the wider Group.
start an operation without undertaking a pre-job safety brief deviate from method statements or instructions without formal review Focus on safety and authorisation Over the last year, there has been a defeat interlocks, safety devices, concerted drive to stabilise health and trip circuits or other protective safety performance across the Group.
equipment without formal The Marine and Technology division assessment and authorisation.
has managed to maintain a broadly level performance overall, alongside a 5% reduction in the All Injury Frequency Rate AIFR.
The Aircraft Carrier Alliance project area based at Rosyth, recorded a substantial reduction in the AIFR and was awarded the British Safety Councils Sword of Honour for the ninth time.
29% AIFR reduction on the ACA project % n o i s i v i d y Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Sustainability continued We aim to achieve this by continually a 96% 2014: 95% senior management improving our talent management retention rate.
Our Group Director of In addition to the training and Organisation and Development 4.
Developing development provided at divisional and coordinates this activity across the Group.
business unit level we have Group-wide and sustaining management development resources talent in 2013 we launched the Babcock 5 MBA which offers a world class 4 MBA programme to 25 high potential employees each year.
1 The second cohort of 25 has just started the Programme As our business expands, the Babcock Academy, run in 3 the development of our conjunction with Strathclyde University since 2005, continues to provide a people is a critical part structured framework for our managers 2 of our business strategy.
to improve their managerial skills and strategic awareness Our business arrangements with our each division has identified talent customers require us to deliver services 1.
Marine Technology 31% pools and reviews their development across an array of projects and assets.
Defence and Security 23% on a quarterly basis.
Support Services 31% Our people need to have a range of Graduates and apprentices 4. International 14% experience, skills and competencies: Our graduate and apprenticeship 5.
Group 1% engineering, management, technical, schemes are intended to support commercial, administrative and Total c 35,200 employees business requirements with the aim of developmental, to name but a few.
securing the skills and expertise we need We recognise that it is the skills and Succession planning is a key focus at now and in the future, and we seek to commitment of our employees that Board level and throughout the provide as many opportunities as those define our uniqueness and our ability businesses.
We have plans in place requirements justify.
to deliver services to our customers.
that identify immediate and or future potential successors to key senior With regard to graduates, we recruited To underpin and sustain our long-term management posts.
We also have 186 graduates for the 2014 15 intake strategic growth, Babcock must ensure individual training and development under our Group graduate programme that it has and attracts the right people, plans for those identified.
In excess of 2013 14: 169. to be able, and trusted, to deliver to 81% of executive positions have identified customers on technically complex, At the date of this report, we expect replacements 2014: 80%.
For the year long-term contracts, both today and to recruit over 200 graduates for the ending 31 March 2015 Babcock had in the future.
In addition to our Group graduate scheme, we recruit many graduates directly to management positions.
Supporting apprentices At 31 March 2015, there were When a Babcock apprentice completes 622 apprentices across the Group the scheme the support doesnt stop there.
2014: 594 of whom 206 were Chris Tooze has been with Babcock for nine years, recruited during the year 2014: 226. in that time he has advanced as a multi award The increase in numbers since last year winning electrical apprentice, to an electrical and demonstrates the commitment we weapons systems engineer, through a Babcock have to apprenticeship training.
Of those supported degree to become the Successor completing their training over 85.8% Infrastructure Project Manager, harnessing the 2014: 86.5% were appointed into potential Babcock sees in every apprentice.
substantive roles within the Group.
We continue to work towards the Babcock has provided me with target of having 5% of our workforce significant opportunity for career on structured training schemes as part of progression, from further education our membership of the 5% Club.
We are closer to our target this year and remain funding to the support framework to on track to exceed this commitment.
help achieve and follow a structured career development plan.
b s e e y o l p m E Strategic report 57 Babcock Graduate Scheme Leading the radiation protection for the refuel of Vanguard class submarines and presenting to hundreds of people in Britain and Europe, Emma OMara has had great experiences during her Babcock Graduate Scheme.
The structure of the scheme enabled Emma, a University of York graduate, to gain a wide experience across the division.
Emma used this experience to impress the Present Around the World competition judges from the Institute of Engineering Technology, winning several rounds to appear in the global finals held in London.
Emma uses her positive experience in the Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics STEM sector, recently hosting a Women in STEM event, to enthuse next generations to join Babcock and the wider industry.
Speaking on her journey so far: The opportunity to speak at and attend conferences across Europe has been a great experience.
The most enjoyable part of the job is variety, no two days are the same!
10% Increase in graduate intake Our diversity initiative, All together of those employed on our graduate Diversity different, is championed by a Diversity scheme were female.
Babcock is committed to equal Steering Group, which coordinates the opportunities and will not discriminate This year we become a member of implementation of our equality and on the basis of age, race, colour, ethnic OUTstanding, a not for profit professional diversity policy.
origin, gender, marital status, religious network for LGBT executives and their or political beliefs, sexual orientation or We have continued to focus on the allies.
Like us, OUTstanding understand disability: but we believe diversity is challenges of being a woman within that it is executives that set the tone about more than this.
It is about our organisation.
A series of actions and culture of an organisation and their embracing the advantages and richness and development programmes are support at this level will support our different experiences, skills and outlooks being implemented across the diversity agenda.
can bring and learning from that diversity organisation following this.
We focus Further information on the work we are to deliver our best for our customers and our graduate recruitment programme, doing around our diversity can be found to safeguard the future of Babcock.
Equal particularly for engineering graduates, on page 78 of this Report.
opportunities and awareness of diversity on those universities that have a richer are integral to our talent management gender mix.
As a business it is imperative that we ensure access to the widest pool of talent available, selecting the best Babcock MBA Scheme candidates based on their ability to do the job.
The Babcock MBA is the latest development from the longstanding partnership with Babcock operates principally in sectors triple accredited Strathclyde Business School.
that have until recently traditionally been The key objectives of this customised regarded as male, such as engineering programme are to enable participants to and working with the armed forces.
broaden and deepen their toolset of business Inevitably, companies with this skills, and enhance their knowledge of background will tend to be starting leading management theory and practice from a level of relatively low female while further improving collaboration across participation, especially in management the Group.
David Barton, a Head of Business positions.
However, we are working Development, felt this has vastly enhanced his hard to change this: as set out on contribution to the business: Personally it has page 78, 17.3% 6,088 of our total allowed me to constantly challenge myself, my workforce is female male 29,101, approach and my practices by concentrating with 18.2% 106 female senior on the latest issues and applying the newest executives male 475, and two 15% management techniques.
female Directors on our Board male 11.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 Sustainability continued As Babcock continues to grow as a Babcock continues to work hard business we recognise that our operations to achieve the highest standards in are increasingly dependent on the use the management of its environmental of energy from many sources and that impacts.
Many of the sites in which 5.
Managing these contribute to global carbon we operate are customer owned or environmental emissions.
However, we remain operated sites and may be subject to committed to reducing our carbon contractual or budgetary constraints: impact emissions year-on-year with the long-term however, this does not deter us from aim of achieving a low carbon business seeking to maintain our own exacting solution.
We collect and report on our standards of environmental management.
carbon emissions data across the business Parts of the Group have sought and the reductions in our carbon Babcock continues to certification to ISO14001.
This is an footprint are certified to the Carbon Trust internationally recognised environmental Standard.
We also continue to strive to work hard to achieve the management system which includes identify and implement measures to a commitment to a programme of highest standards in the reduce our overall carbon footprint in continual improvement in environmental relation to our business turnover.
Our businesses units with Technical solutions continue to provide formal accreditation as a percentage environmental impacts.
opportunities to reduce our energy of revenue equate to 44% of the overall consumption and emissions, but our Group.
How this is split across our own behaviour in the way in which we as divisions is shown in the table opposite.
people conduct our day-to-day business Where we have decided not to seek or and help positively influence others has are unable, due to customer constraints, an equally important role to play.
to seek formal accreditation for a business The environment and the divisions At Rosyth, annual CO emissions continue to fall year-on- 2 year, with current figures suggesting an overall reduction 10% greater than expected.
This success is attributable to a number of new initiatives, coupled with extensive use of variable speed drives in the provision of compressed air.
One of Rosyths main environmental focuses this year is based on the aspiration to go beyond full compliance with the Waste Scotland Regulations 2012 and reduce yard-wide environmental impact substantially, by diverting solid waste materials from landfill to arrive at the point of Zero Waste to Landfill by Autumn 2015.
Further to this, there have been a number of project area schemes implemented, such as the implementation of LED lighting systems throughout the QEC project and other workshops where older systems are being replaced and the introduction of energy efficient hand-driers in selected areas to substitute paper towels.
30% Reduction in CO e per m turnover at Rosyth 2 Strategic report 59 unit we apply industry standards and best Babcock continues to report on the The environment and practices and strive to ensure that greenhouse gas GHG emissions arising carbon management customers and all applicable legal and from all its business activities, including Babcock successfully achieved regulatory requirements are fully met.
overseas operations, under the recertification to the Carbon Trust requirements of the Companies Act ISO14001 Industry Best Standard in 2014 against a background 1 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Division Certified Practice of continued growth and the inclusion of Reports Regulations 2013.
Due to the Marine and more of the Groups Scope 3 emissions highly diverse nature of the business, Technology 20% 80% in the assessment.
In spite of these factors the metric of tonnes of CO e per m 2 the Group still achieved a 2% reduction in Defence and turnover has been used to provide a its carbon footprint in absolute terms and Security 50% 50% more meaningful measure of energy a 9% reduction against the benchmark of Support Services 90% 10% use throughout the business.
The total tonnes CO e per m turnover.
2 International 10% 90% emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3 are The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme calculated using actual or estimated 1.
Industry Best Practice refers to our level ESOS Directive 2012 27 EU which data from invoices, purchasing of compliance with industry best practice came into force in July 2014, introduces requisitions, direct data measurement in our business units rather than a new statutory requirement, which we ISO14001 certification.
and estimations using CarbonTrust will meet during 2015.
This is then consumption from the Groups buildings, divided by the annual turnover to processes and transport is already provide the intensity ratio.
measured, we will now assess this and any energy saving opportunities will be identified, documented and reported to the Environment Agency.
Total Group Emissions UK & Overseas Year Ending March 2014 March 2015 Scope 1: Direct emissions from owned controlled operations tCO e 42,457.55 47,746.50 2 Scope 2: Indirect emissions from the use of purchased electricity, steam, heating and cooling tCO e 104,592.84 127,777.12 2 Scope 3: Emissions Business travel tCO e 8,818.98 10,458.86 2 Absolute Footprint tCO e 155,869.36 185,982.48 2 Turnover m 3,321.00 3,997.00 Intensity Ratio tCO e m 46.93 46.53 2 Babcock International Group Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO e against m turnover using Carbon Trust assessment methodology.
Due to the highly diverse 2 nature of the Companys business the metric of tonnes of CO e per m turnover has been used to provide a more meaningful measure of energy use 2 throughout the business.
The total emissions from Scope 1, 2 and 3 sources have been divided by the annual turnover to provide a final benchmark figure.
