30 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility As one of the UKs largest housebuilding energy saving technology to reduce have increased at a smaller rate of groups, we have a key role to play usage.
We are also planning further 10.5%, resulting in a slightly increased in addressing the growing national campaigns to encourage employees tCO e per employee metric.
2 housing shortage whilst delivering the to be more green in relation to their The methodology used to calculate the benefits expected by our shareholders, energy consumption.
Groups emissions is based on the UK customers and employees.
At Bellway Our focus on the environmental governments Environmental Reporting we believe it is possible to meet these performance of our new homes has Guidelines 2013 and emission factors aims whilst at the same time managing seen us design all new sites to be, on from the 2015 government GHG our business in a way which protects average, 9% more energy efficient Conversion Factors for Company and enhances the environment, the than the relevant building regulations.
The reported emission economy and society as a whole.
All lighting in new homes is now energy sources include those which Bellway is Our long-term approach to Corporate efficient and white goods ovens, responsible for, as required under the Responsibility CR is branded as refrigerators, dishwashers and washing Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Bellway4Good and focuses on three machines are energy A rated or better.
and Directors Reports Regulations principal areas, namely Environment: Not only do these steps help to lower 2013, with the exception of the Construction: Society and Economy.
the carbon emissions of our homes, following sources of emissions which In this report we summarise our they also help to reduce energy bills for were excluded from this report: activities in each area, with more our customers.
Gas and electricity from partdetailed information available on our exchange properties and stock plots Carbon Reporting website: www.
co. uk corporateprior to handover to customers In line with the Companies Act 2006 responsibility.
due to immateriality and difficulty in Strategic Report and Directors Reports accurately reporting and recording Regulations 2013, we are reporting on Environment this data.
our greenhouse gas GHG emissions We understand that housebuilding Gas and electricity from offices as part of our annual strategic report.
can sometimes be intrusive and we where the utilities are provided by the Our GHG reporting year is the same take steps to protect the biodiversity landlord and billed as part of an overall as our financial year, 1 August 2014 and ecology of local areas.
New sites building service charge.
to 31 July 2015, and the previous undergo ecology surveys and, where years figures have been provided as Emissions from site-based necessary, detailed environmental comparators.
The 2014 15 emissions combined heat and power units impact assessments and habitat surveys have been externally verified by Zeco for which the Group does not have are carried out to ensure that we Energy to a reasonable assurance operational control.
construct our homes with due regard to level as part of a review of our the local environment.
Our care for the environment does Increased construction activity has seen not stop once a site receives detailed our overall carbon emissions rise while planning permission.
We continue a 13.2% increase in legal completions to look at improving efficiency in our meant the tCO e per home sold 2 own energy use and new construction remained constant.
Employee numbers compounds are now fitted with 1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes of CO2e 2015 2014 Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities including diesel and petrol used on-site and in Company cars on Group business 10,634 9,335 Scope 2 Electricity purchased for our own use 4,358 3,509 Total emissions 14,992 12,844 Emissions intensity: 2 tCO2e per Bellway home sold 1.9 1.9 3 tCO e per Bellway employee 6.9 6.6 2 Notes: Above: Melissa Watson, Assistant Site 1.
Carbon dioxide equivalent per the meaning given in section 93 2 of the Climate Change Act 2008.
Based on number of legal completions.
Based on the average number of employees during the year.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
indd 30 29 10 2015 17:32 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 31 Above: Staff at our Wessex division fundraising for the British Heart Foundation Waste Quality Construction We are constantly evolving our house We believe that good health and safety, As a housebuilder, the construction types and construction processes, customer care, and construction quality process is the most visible effect we seeking new systems and products are essential in achieving high standards have on local communities, society and to help improve the efficiency of across all aspects of the business and the wider environment.
From the initial the construction process.
We have Bellway site managers have been planning and consultation stages of a again given focus to improving the recognised as among the best in the development, through to the day-to-day proportion of our waste which we industry.
Bellway won 33 NHBC Pride management of the construction site, divert from landfill across our divisions in the Job awards, recognising those we work responsibly and in partnership and we havesuccessfully improved our site managers who achieve the highest with local communities, suppliers and overalldiversion rates to 92.9% this year standards in housebuilding 2014 29 our contractors.
We are very proud to have been recognised with these prestigious Communities Supply Chain awards, which provide independent Our inclusive planning approach We believe that the development of recognition of our high standards ensures that we liaise closely with both long-term relationships with our supply of construction.
local councils and residents, including chain partners helps us to maintain neighbourhood workshops, exhibitions, our reputation for high standards, Society and Economy newsletters and interactive websites, and we aim to service sites via local to arrive at a scheme that is beneficial At Bellway we are committed to being suppliers wherever possible, helping to to the community.
Our contribution to a responsible business.
This means both reduce carbon emissions from local communities, however, extends looking after and developing those transporting materials and to employ beyond the provision of new homes who work for and with us, including people from local communities.
employees, contractors and suppliers, We have also continued to source all During the year we committed to spend whilst delivering a high level of product our solid timber needs from managed 79.0 million 2014 43.5 million and service to our customers.
It means stewardship forests accredited to PEFC on supporting education initiatives adding value to local communities or FSC standards, further adding to and providing transport and highway through job creation, supporting local our sustainability credentials, and we improvements, health facilities and businesses and providing high quality, are members of the Prompt Payment open spaces, helping to create new value for money homes for people to Code, recognising our commitment sustainable developments integrated live in.
It also means supporting local to paying our suppliers within clearly into the wider existing community.
it is about ensuring we operate our business sustainably.
indd 31 29 10 2015 17:32 32 Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility continued Above: Heartlands, Whitburn, West Lothian The Group has a balanced workforce This brings the total number of siteEmployees in terms of experience with an average based managers with NVQ Level 6 to The Board is committed to treating age of 43 2014 44.
141, a 33% increase 2014 106. its employees and contractors fairly and responsibly.
The Groups policies Safety Charitable Engagement and procedures ensure that equal We are committed to ensuring that We believe that as a business we opportunities are provided to all existing everyone works in a safe manner, taking have a responsibility to support the and prospective employees of Bellway, our responsibilities for the safety of our communities where we construct our irrespective of age, colour, disability, employees, customers, suppliers, subnew homes.
As such we make wide ethnic origin, gender, marital status, contractors and members of the public ranging donations to local and national nationality, parental status, race, religion, very seriously.
We are pleased that charities and our main focus this year belief or sexual orientation.
In addition we have again reduced our RIDDOR has been on support for our two all employees, whether part-time, accidents and incidents rate to 430.75 nominated national charity partners: full-time or temporary, are treated accidents per 100,000 site operatives, equally, with selection for employment, British Heart Foundation theUKs an improvement of 3.7% on last year promotion, training or other matters national heart charity and the 2014 447.09. affecting their employment on the basis largest independent funder of of aptitude and ability.
Bellways site managers play a vital cardiovascular research.
role in delivering these high standards In addition, the Group operates Construction Youth Trust and they have been recognised as policies covering bribery and bullying working with disadvantaged amongst the best and safest in the or harassment, along with a whistleyoung people, helping them to industry, winning nine awards in the blowing policy to ensure we operate in access career opportunities in the 2015 NHBC Safety Awards 2014 nine accordance with the highest standards construction industry.
We require all site managers to of honesty and integrity.
In total Bellway and its employees complete and maintain qualifications in This year saw the Group increase the have donated 185,540 to charities, first aid, scaffold appreciation and the minimum employer and employee community groups and local good nationally recognised Site Management pension contribution rates from 2% causes, with donations from the Group Safety Training Scheme, and this year to 3%, helping employees provide for totalling 146,010 2014 97,637. an additional 71 site-based managers their retirement.
This includes amounts raised through gained their NVQ Level 6 qualification.
employee donations, fundraising and As at 31 July 2015 the Groups Company matched funding as part of workforce consisted of the following dedicated fundraising days for our two male and female employees: national partners, as well as funds raised Male Male Female Female Total workforce no.
% by our employees for other charities and local good causes.
indd 32 29 10 2015 17:32 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information 01 03 04 33 34 68 69 99 100 112 33 CR Commitments This year the Group set a range of commitments to measure ongoing performance against key CR issues.
More details canbe found on the website at www.
Notable successes during the year include: Helping customers reduce their energy consumption by ensuring all lighting in new homes is energy efficient, against atarget of 90%.
Designing new homes to achieve an average energy efficiency rate of 9% above that required by the relevant building regulations, against a target of 5%.
Investing 79.0 million 2014 43.5 million in the infrastructure of local communities where the Group develops.
Successfully increasing the proportion of waste diverted from landfill compared to 2014 92.9% this year compared to 89.3%in 2014.
Assisting an additional 71 site managers gain their NVQ Level 6 construction qualification, representing a 33% increase compared with a targeted increase of 10%.
Raising almost 34,000 for the Groups two national charity partners, British Heart Foundation and Construction Youth Trust.
Successfully reducing the RIDDOR Reportable Accidents and Incidents rate by 3.7% compared to 2014.
Improving the Considerate Constructors Scheme average score to 34.8, against a target of 34.0 2014 33.2.
A new set of targets for the 2015 16 financial year is in place and these will shortly be available at www.
Approval of the Strategic Report The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by: Ted Ayres Chief Executive 12 October 2015 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report v42.
