Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Being a trusted partner We have also acquired sites from many The challenge and our response a Our strategy other Government departments, local Housebuilding is a long term business We build meaningful, long term authorities and NHS bodies.
This year, and the development of sustained 3,950, 25% 2014: 3,928, 28% of our relationships that make us the developer business partnerships with landowners, of choice for our partners.
We are housing completions were developed suppliers and subcontractors, is critical on public land.
We have 5,113 plots innovating with our supply chain to drive to our success.
efficiency and meet our customers needs.
2014: 3,913 approved for purchase, We continue to work with private representing a development value of landowners, operators and agents c. 1.3bn 2014: c. 1.0bn.
a KPI to identify and bring forward land for Our suppliers and subcontractors development.
Divisional land teams are critical to the delivery of our Percentage of land plots approved for continue to work hard to try and ensure strategic objectives and we invest in purchase from public sector sources we are regarded as the housebuilder our relationships with them.
We hold of choice by the local landowning and a national supply chain conference agency community.
and regular review meetings with our 30% We also form long term partnerships suppliers and seek to develop long term with the public sector and work to unlock business relationships.
We also work with 2014: 18% challenging sites by finding solutions, our suppliers to help them to introduce sharing best practice and transferring the new technologies that we need to knowledge.
We have worked extensively meet increasingly challenging building a Key highlights with the Homes & Communities Agency standards, and with our subcontractors to HCA and Greater London Authority help them to improve their environmental Continue to work with a variety GLA to deliver new housing.
In the and safety performance.
of partners to bring forward land period 2011-2015, we approved purchases for development of 22 sites from the HCA and GLA, which Proven track record of delivery of will accommodate c. 3,800 homes with a challenging public sector sites development value of c. 1.0bn.
Continue to invest in the relationship with our suppliers and subcontractors Neil Clarke, leader of Rushcliffe Borough Council starts the build process at Hollygate Park on the site of Cotgraves former colliery.
He is pictured with John Reddington, Managing Director of David Wilson Homes East Midlands, Stephen Ward, Land Director, and John Dillon, Managing Director of Barratt Homes North Midlands.
Barratt Developments PLC 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Our principles continued Building strong community relationships Community engagement The challenge and our response a Our strategy activities at our Newbury Housebuilding has a direct impact Racecourse site.
We engage fully with local communities upon local communities.
It is therefore and customers when creating new important that they are engaged in developments.
We seek to ensure that the creation process and that our our work creates a positive legacy that development creates a positive legacy.
helps local communities to thrive.
As a Group we contribute social and economic benefits to the communities a KPI in which we are working, which are far reaching and long lasting.
By building Percentage of active developments more homes we are generating that have held a public consultation substantial amounts of economic activity and we estimate that during the year Our research shows that homeowners we supported around 53,000 jobs either in new build developments are more directly, indirectly or induced.
54% likely to socialise with their neighbours.
We work closely with local planning We therefore support a range of local 2014: 46% authorities to negotiate and deliver initiatives, community websites and or fund social infrastructure such resident days to strengthen these links as highways and public transport a Key highlights on our developments and help members improvements, new schools and of new communities to get to know school places, sports facilities and Estimated that our activities support each other.
around 53,000 jobs directly, indirectly or We continue to support and promote induced in the economy Engagement with local communities a wide range of charitable giving and to seek to address any impact that Work closely with local authorities community volunteering initiatives with our developments may have on each division focusing on the charitable Actively engage with local communities the environment is also important.
activities that best reflect the needs of By holding public consultations, their local community and the issues weinvite stakeholders to talk to our that impact upon their employees.
specialist planners and architects Our graduates actively engage with about their concerns and aspirations communities across the UK through for our developments.
We believe that the Princes Trust and for the second a genuinely collaborative approach will consecutive year they have won the deliver more land and housing.
54% Million Makers award for innovation and 2014: 46% of our active developments entrepreneurship with their initiative to have held a public consultation.
School children from St James C of E Primary School visited the Ribble Meadow development in Clitheroe, where they were given a tour by Barry Barratt.
Bee friendly planting at the award winning Trumpington Meadows development in Cambridge with Gary Nott, Site Manager and children from Fawcett Primary School.
