Barratt Developments PLC 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Priorities in action continued a Our strategy We aim to attract and retain the best people by investing in their development and success.
We seek to create a great place to work, founded on an open and honest culture that embraces Building Excellence by diversity and inclusion.
investing in our people Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Jack Livingstone, one of our apprentices, and James Evinson at work at Bedford Meadows.
a KPI a Key highlights Continue to invest in our Upper quartile employee Future Talent strategy 1,2 engagement Committed to providing an inclusive working environment Award winning apprenticeship 78% training programme 2014: 78% 1 A ssessed against the UK all sectors comparator group by IBM Kenexa.
2 K ey performance indicator used to assess performance for annual incentive scheme.
Barratt Developments PLC 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Priorities in action continued Investing in talent The challenge Developing talent The building and construction industry We are committed to the development of continues to face a shortage of skilled our people and assisting in increasing the workers and attracting and retaining housebuilding skills base in order to drive 792 the best people is a key priority for our success.
We offer both vocational graduates, apprentices and paid interns our business.
and leadership training programmes, recruited from FY14 to the end FY16 as well as in-house schemes promoting Attracting people to our industry employee development, engagement and recognition.
Together with other housebuilders Awarded we are working with the HBF and the The Barratt Academy continues to Construction Industry Training Board to provide structured, bespoke training to improve the image of housebuilding as BT Macro Employer support individual development across a career choice and promote the career three separate disciplines: apprentices, opportunities in the sector through the site managers and technical commercial of the Year 2014 recruitment of experienced workers, roles.
Courses combine professional National Apprenticeship scheme BT Macro targeted online resources, a regional training on site and in the classroom Employer of the Year for employers with over academy pilot and by becoming a patron of with industry recognised qualifications.
5,000 employees the West Midlands Construction Industry We continue to invest in and develop our University Technical College.
In February 2014, we targeted the recruitment of 1,100 Employee retention graduates, apprentices and paid interns During the year staff turnover increased over three years.
Whilst we have not yet to 19% 2014: 16% reflecting the achieved this target, we have made good demand and opportunities for skilled progress having recruited 792 including employees.
We therefore continue to those who will join us during FY16.
focus upon developing talent within our Our apprentice scheme was externally business, including succession planning, recognised through the award of the to ensure that we have the necessary 2014 National Apprenticeship scheme BT skills within our business for continued Macro Employer of the Year for employers operational delivery.
We are committed to the development of our people.
Above: Darren Frost, a third year apprentice electrician at Trumpington Meadows, Cambridge.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Barratt Developments PLC 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our two-year graduate programme Engaging our people Diversity and inclusion continues to be a success.
We were As a business we believe that an engaged We are committed to providing an inclusive delighted to be ranked first in The Job workforce is critical to our success.
working environment where everyone Crowds Top Companies For Graduates We conduct an annual employee feels valued and respected.
We aim to To Work For across all companies engagement survey in order to gain have a diverse workforce that reflects in 2014. valuable insight into how our people feel the communities in which we operate, We offer a number of entry level about working for us.
We are delighted delivering excellence for our customers programmes in addition to our award that in our annual employee engagement and business by drawing on a diverse winning graduate and apprentice survey we achieved our upper quartile range of talents, skills and experience.
Our paid undergraduate target with an index of 78%, which is The table below shows the number internship programme supports above the UK employers norm of 72%.
of men and women employed, as at students studying relevant degrees We develop and implement action plans 30 June 2015, across our business split through a 48-week industrial following each survey to strengthen our between PLC Directors, Senior Managers placement.
During the programme, business and to continue our position of and Employees.
interns complete mini rotations being an employer of choice.
The diversity policy relating to the to learn about our business before We have a Get Recognised programme appointment of PLC Directors is set out on specialising in one area for the which allows our people to be rewarded page 99. remainder of the year.
Those who by colleagues for a job well done perform well are offered a permanent A diversity and inclusion regional pilot with instant awards of 100 cash or a position with us upon completion of increased applications from, and the days holiday.
We also recognise the their degree.
recruitment of, a more diverse workforce outstanding contributions of our people in our East region.
We now plan to apply We also have accelerated programmes through quarterly awards for sales staff, this across our business during the next in sales or construction for graduates apprentices and site managers as well as year to help increase the diversity of who want to fast-track their learning in via individual and team excellence awards.
a job role, with the aim of progressing Around 1,000 awards were made through through to management positions in these schemes in the last year.
We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and have policies and processes in place to ensure that we act in accordance with our principles in relation to areas such as anticorruption, diversity and whistleblowing.
Our 81 2015 Pride in the Job Award winners at a celebratory dinner.
