44 Corporate responsibility Our integrated approach to sustainability.
We stay close to our key stakeholders in order to understand their expectations of us on all aspects of CR and this guides our business decisions.
More than ever, our credentials in these areas are inuencing our ability to attract and retain customers, employees, investors and suppliers.
They also underpin our licence to operate by strengthening our relationships with local communities, industry partners and regulators.
James Drummond Chief Executive Officer Stakeholder engagement People and H&S Operational Our CR environmental efficiency focus areas Innovative and efficient A responsible solutions supply chain How we mak ke it happen CR policies Values CR governance Formal reference Expected behaviours Established processes, point for all employees and a culture which procedures and and external underpin the way responsibilities to stakeholders we work facilitate robust non-financial reporting Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 45 CR governance and policies Our group-wide CR policies include a Ethics Board a Health and safety Sets all group CR policies a Environment CR management Reviews CR KPIs twice a year, a Human resources and employees and key policies notably health and safety and a Community CO emissions 2 Is informed of all incidents a Business continuity planning More information can be found at: www.
com crpolicies The Group Risk Business lines Country managers Manager and shared service a Implement group Finance Directors CR policies a Reports CR KPIs and incidents to a Report on a Report on KPIs from all the board compliance with business units the CR group policies a Manages external a Report to group twice a year CR communication management on any and surveys a Report any known or CR-related issues suspected cases of and incidents a Reports annually on non-compliance progress to the UN Global Compact Group CR actions and progress What we said we would do Our progress Next steps and priorities in 2015 in 2015 for2016 a Review the corporate responsibility a As the business strategy review was a Complete a review of our corporate policies following completion of the prolonged due to the input from the responsibility approach, including strategy review new CEO, and only nalised in Q4 our a review of our policies to ensure review of the corporate responsibility alignment with the revised a Roll-out the new anti-bribery and will be now performed in 2016 business strategy corruption policy and focus training to ensure to embed it in the business a The new anti-bribery and a Review corporate responsibility corruption policy was issued to all related KPIs a Review the current incident reporting our businesses in January 2015. process, making it more effective a Develop and deliver an e-learning Training materials were circulated and efficient programme on anti-bribery across the group, with tailored and corruption, to ensure that training delivered to all procurement training is consistent across all of staff.
In addition, we completed our businesses risk assessments for all businesses and these will now be revised on an a Automate the current incident annual basis reporting system to further improve performance a The incident reporting process has been reviewed and updated, with a Develop our first statement in changes including greater emphasis respect to the Modern Slavery on instant reporting Act 2015 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 46 Corporate responsibility continued Building relationships that stand the test of time.
We listen carefully to the concerns and needs of our key stakeholders, working together to ensure Stakeholder sure that the way we run Berendsen delivers engagement optimum outcomes for all.
Engaging and understanding our stakeholders Customers Employees Investors We regularly invite feedback from We utilise a variety of employee Executive management meets customers about our services and engagement channels, including regularly with investors and potential innovations.
This is supported by group-wide employee surveys which investors, and receives regular input independent satisfaction surveys.
are conducted every two years.
from brokers and advisors which are shared with the board.
In addition, Find out more Find out more the non-executive directors meet Page 49 Page 47 annually with investors without executive being present.
Find out more Page 66 Suppliers Industry partners Local communities Our investments in the central In our key markets, we engage We are conscious that our plants are procurement and supply chain with the wider textile services part of their communities and that function open up greater industry through trade associations, our workforce is drawn from this local opportunities for us to develop sharing issues around legislation, environment.
We actively engage long-term strategic relationships with technical standards and safety.
with these communities, investing suppliers, supporting our ambition to Our commitment to the industry in local initiatives to ensure that our rationalise our supplier base.
and reputation for integrity often impact is positive and to provide provide opportunities to acquire local further employment.
Find out more companies when the owners seek to Page 50 retire or exit.
Stakeholder engagement actions and progress What we said we would do Our progress Next steps and priorities in 2015 in 2015 for 2016 a Continue the development of our a We launched our customer a Roll-out the Customer Loyalty customer satisfaction survey tools loyalty survey programme, with e-learning programme, and also KPIs reported monthly.
We also introduce incentive programmes for a Undertake our second companydeveloped an ambitious Customer customer service staff, rewarding wide employee engagement survey Loyalty e-learning programme for loyal customers employees at all levels a Ensure that our non-executive a Agree and implement actions to directors meet with key investors a We completed our second companyaddress the areas for improvement to discuss any investment issues, wide employee engagement survey identied by the employee without executive management in October 2015 engagement survey being present Read People and H&S a Review our current approach to CR, Page 47 focusing on how we can improve stakeholder engagement a We enabled our non-executive directors to meet investors at the annual shareholders dinner in November 2015 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 47 Looking after our people.
With our new strategy weve set ourselves theinspiring goal of being the best, and oneof People the pillars we will achieve this through is our and H&S people and their development.
Chris Th hr ru ush sh Equipped for strategic growth Group Di Dir re ec ct to or r, Employee survey 2015 The strength and depth of our talent Human R Re es sour ourc ce es s management processes came to the fore this year with the announcement in November 2015 of our new strategy and the restructuring of our business lines to enhance our customer focus.
Senior management retention rate The resulting requirement for additional management team appointments is 98% 97% 97% 96% 97% being, and will be, largely met from our 92% talent pipeline.
13,000 employees 84% participated in our survey up from 76% in 2013.
We maintained Understanding and deepening an overall engagement score of 69%.
our skills Areas of strength Areas of attention Throughout the year, we continued to a Signicantly a Employees think invest in our leadership development higher than leaders could be programmes.
In 2016, we will revise 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 average levels more visible KPI of engagement our leadership framework to include a Employees would capability requirements following the a Employees like more regular understand feedback about Gender statistics strategy review.
We have upheld our how their role their performance focus on gender balance and increased Female Male % Female contributes to a Managers the numbers of women in middle and Board of 29% company success could do more directors 2 5 2014: 29% senior management roles.
We have a Employees feel to show they Senior 11% maintained our investment in a group of comfortable care about their management 12 109 2014: 9% sharing their team members over 20 management trainees across the opinions with Other 29% business.
We also conducted our second their manager management 158 380 2014: 28% bicennial company-wide employee 43% engagement survey see right.
Employees 6,622 8,778 2014: 43% People actions and progress What we said we would do Our progress Next steps and priorities in 2015 in 2015 for 2016 a Conduct and analyse a second a Employee survey was conducted, a Use employee focus groups to help OneBerendsen employee survey analysed and results communicated implement site specic action plans a Invite a minimum of 50 managers to a 97 managers took part in leadership a Develop the capabilities required to take part in leadership programmes development programmes build Berendsen Excellence.
Put in place new business line management a Develop the intranet and a We enhanced our intranet and and business development teams communicate regular CEO organised internal roadshows around statements on strategy and our new strategy and CEO.
We also a Further embed and communicate business progress trained 200 ambassadors in the new the new Vision, Mission and Values, vision, mission and values strategy and business progress a Review and benchmark market pay data and the effectiveness of a We developed a pay database a Work on pay incentives to align with incentive programmes facilitating effective benchmarking.
the new structure and underpin long term incentive plan reviewed reward for performance Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 48 Corporate responsibility continued Making health and safety part of our day-to-day business.
Nothing is more important than our employees health and safety.
Safety is one of our core values.
People We are determined to drive continuous improvement and H&S in safety performance: our objective is zero accidents.
James Drummond ummond Health and safety is now the first Health and safety Chief Execu ut tiiv five e agenda item on all formal management management Officer meetings ensuring that business leaders Although we operate in many countries, at all levels clearly take responsibility with different local standards, both and accountability for health and safety in terms of regulation and accepted performance.
In addition, the appointed best practice we want to achieve a Health and Safety Director is now a consistent standard much higher than key part of the Berendsen Excellence mere compliance.
We are seeking Major injury rate function for which the Director is a to implement best-in-class health member of the Executive Board.
0.79 and safety systems across all of our 23% Management bonuses have now also operations to ensure we improve been aligned to health and safety our performance which is currently 0.57 0.54 performance.
Below, we outlined further disappointing.
Our objective is 0.51 0.44 details on next steps.
Health and safety performance We are very disappointed that the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 KPI incident rate increased by 23% in 2015.
Number of deaths and major injuries As a result of this and as part of the total hours worked x 1,000,000. strategy review that concluded in November 2015, the Executive Board revised the approach to health and safety with the aim of increasing visibility of health and safety risks, increase understanding of root causes and take appropriate action to address these to drive continuous improvement.
Major injuries statistics Health and safety actions Major Number injury of major rate injuries Next steps and priorities for 2016 2015: a New health and safety systems a 25% of management and Executive Facility 2014: and policies in place including: Directors bonuses are related to 2015: 0.86 5 health and safety performance Training to site management in Workwear 2014: 0.79 5 health and safety: a Complete an annual review to assess 2015: 0.50 4 UK Flat Linen 2014: 0.38 3 New reporting requirements performance against objectives and procedures: Flat Linen 2015: 0.86 4 outside UK 2014: 0.54 3 Implementation of new KPIs: 2015: Clinical Implement the new incident 2014: Solutions and investigation process to determine Decontamination and analyse root cause of 2015: 0.54 13 incidents: and Total group 2014: 0.44 11 Record an monitor the Number of deaths and major injuries total hours effectiveness of corrective actions worked x 1,000,000. arising fromvarious reports.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 49 Innovating and securing service continuity for our customers.
As industry experts, we are ideally placed to innovate new solutions this is a key Innovative differentiator for Berendsen and a major and efficient solutions advantage for our customers.
In addition, we are also introducing Innovative solutions Improving hand hygiene cool chemistry in our UK atwork Our customers know that working through nudging laundries.
This enables reduced with Berendsen enables them to wash temperatures with associated benefit from continual improvements reduced energy.
The wash chemicals in efficiency, which translate directly are dynamically manufactured on site, into reduced costs and an enhanced reducing the need for resources as well CR performance.
We continuously work together Business continuity with both suppliers and customers to identify further innovative initiatives Our customers depend on us to meet their needs at all times and expect that will reduce environmental impact and enhance quality and us to deliver, no matter what the circumstances.
Comprehensive studies of hand-washing is secured by a business continuity behaviour among washroom users in For example, across our laundries policy, which includes a requirement for different customer segments provided the we are implementing a new enzyme platform for the development of our new up-to-date Business Continuity Plans process which partially replaces washroom solution, Berendsen LightGuide.
BCP which are tested across all of This uses the principle of nudging with light detergents and chemicals at the same our businesses.
signals to guide washroom users through the time as improving whiteness and quality.
correct hand-washing procedure, thereby From an environmental perspective, this improving hand hygiene.
In addition, the leads to a reduction in resources used system collects data on user behaviour which we share with the customer.
and fewer harmful substances in the waste water.
Innovative and efficient solutions actions and progress What we said we would do Our progress Next steps and priorities in 2015 in 2015 for 2016 a Continue to work alongside our a We implemented a new enzyme a Continue implementing the enzyme customers and suppliers to look process in the washing cycle in a process across sites and introduce for further innovative initiatives further 31 laundries 20 in 2014 the cool chemistry system in that will reduce environmental additional UK laundries a Cool chemistry introduced in impact and enhance quality and 8 of our 25 UK atwork sites, to a Continue to improve washing process efficiency reduce wash temperatures and quality by testing a new washing a Continue to roll-out business energy consumption process from Ecolab, called continuity planning tests across performance industry a We completed business continuity the business planning tests in each country a Continue regular business continuity planning tests Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 50 Corporate responsibility continued Rationalising our long-term supply chain.
We work with a limited number of major suppliers, helping us forge strong relationships and enabling A responsible us to emphasise the importance of compliance supply chain with our CR policies.
Procurement and supply Procurement and supply Responsible sourcing chain management chain performance We continued to identify opportunities In 2015, our central procurement for improvement during the year, and supply chain group continued and these underpinned the strategic to improve customer service.
expansion of the central procurement Corporate responsibility remained a key and supply chain group.
We have priority, with all major projects requiring created centres of specialism, driving risk management plans to comply with value optimisation, product quality and corporate requirements.
continuity of supply, while focusing on Our focus on working with the improving lead times and service.
When we engage with suppliers, we evaluate business to deliver their requirements their ability to meet the highest standards in Across the business, we worked has facilitated the growth of internal relation to environmental protection, health, closely with colleagues to support the supply chain throughput, as well as an safety, human rights and employee welfare.
development of new product ranges and increase in the number of areas where In addition, we evaluate the contribution they make to the local community.
One of to meet specic customer demands.
the procurement team has been able to our large knitwear suppliers, ID, has worked provide assistance.
The recent severe ooding in the UK in Bangladesh for many years and has established close and strong ties with local required us to exercise our disaster We completed a pre-study of the communities, including sponsorship of the recovery plans, and the plans proved end-to-end ow of goods across the GLP Foundation programme which helps sufficiently robust to maintain excellent warehouse network, and this identied pupils aged 6-14 to receive schooling.
service levels in difficult conditions.
A responsible supply chain actions and progress What we said we would do Our progress Next steps and priorities in 2015 in 2015 for 2016 a Develop a set of KPIs on delivery a We closely monitored performance a Analyse warehouse times and the warehouse network on delivery on time in full, as well as network optimisation lead time variance a Ensure that suppliers rapidly address a Further develop and automate any issues raised a We reviewed the supplier code our KPIs of conduct and whistleblowing a Tighten our processes to encourage a Process enhancements, particularly procedures, communicated these to supplier compliance in forecasting reliability suppliers and made them available a Launch the re-engineered on our website a Develop enhanced procurement supplier relationship management monitoring to complement a We enhanced the process for programme to ensure that we drive developments in supplier securing supplier compliance by the relationship and performance of relationship management developing a central review and our strategic suppliers consistently survey.
This also served to enhance across the group the work we have completed on supplier relationship management.
In addition, we have extended our systematic supplier reviews and engagement initiatives.
This remains an area of focus for 2016 and to support our commitment, we launched the Supplier Excellence Programme in December 2015 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 51 Improving our environmental efficiency.
By efficiently managing water, energy, chemicals, oil and gas WECO, we will meet our own needs Operational as well as those of our customers.
environmental efficiency Group CO emissions 2 a Routinely recover water for re-use Our total CO emissions 2 kg tonne shipped kg of CO per tonne of laundry shipped 2 a Minimise heat, energy loss and 434 2015 2014 2013 fuel usage -4% 411 402 379 Workwear 491 500 522 364 a Recycle textiles, paper and packaging Facility 258 261 269 materials wherever possible UK Flat Linen 370 369 387 Flat Linen Environmental performance outside the UK 328 359 391 We monitor performance of WECO Clinical 735 1,163 1,146 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 KPI Solutions and efficiency at site level.
Targets are set Decontamination out in the sites budgets and these are Environmental management regularly reviewed by management.
Group total 235m 239m 248m We are committed to reducing the In 2015, we started monitoring WECO tonnes of CO2 impact of our operations on the gures monthly per site via a new emissions environment.
Across the group, we database QlikView to react quickly and Scope 1 and 2 emissions continually review and investigate ways identify trends across all laundries and 2015 2014 2013 to reduce WECO usage.
All businesses ensure reliable bench-marking.
% % % are expected to adhere to our Scope 1 79.3 80.4 79.5 We are also introducing computerised environmental policy which requires production monitoring systems that Scope 2 20.1 19.2 20.5 them to: allow sites to monitor current production Outside of 0.6 0.4 a Engage with suppliers to research efficiency and generate historic scope ways to minimise the amount and reports.
We adopt the Greenhouse Gas Our Scope 2 CO2 emissions are calculated with the Location Based Method.
We have attempted to also concentration of detergents used Protocol methodology to assess our calculate these with the Market Based Method, however in our laundries and disposed of in our suppliers have not been able to provide us with carbon footprint.
We will engage with effluent, and opportunities for low them during 2016 to ensure they get up to speed with our requirements.
temperature washing Operational environmental efficiency actions and progress What we said we would do Our progress Next steps and priorities in 2015 in 2015 for 2016 a Meet the requirements of UK Climate a We have achieved a 16% reduction a Continue with the current Change Agreement by reducing towards the 2020 target 25% approach to drive further operation energy usage by 25% by 2020, from environmental efficiency by: a We achieved a 1.9% reduction in a 2008 baseline Focusing on energy energy use compared to the required usage reduction: a Meet the UKs requirement of 2.08% per year W orking with our achieving the long-term target of a a We reviewed the CO reporting 2 chemicals suppliers: 25% reduction guidelines Monitoring fuel usage, driver a Review CO reporting guidelines: 2 behaviour and routes to look a We included the requirement to forfurther efficiencies in logistics a Drive further efficiencies through deliver further efficiencies in our and transport: and collaborative working with our chemical contract Reviewing the environmental chemicals suppliers a We continued to monitor compliance related KPIs.
a Continue to monitor fuel usage, to requirements of low emission driver behaviour and routes to zones and the use of the most fuelreduce the environmental impact of efficient engines logistics and transport Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
