Corporate responsibility and sustainability Corporate responsibility and sustainability As a Group, Bodycote is committed to acting responsibly as a good corporate citizen, to reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities and to providing our employees with a safe working environment.
28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 28 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Bodycotes stakeholder model shows how its interactions on various levels contribute towards socioeconomic growth and development.
These exchanges, based on mutually beneficial relationships, provide the basis for the Groups growth and sustainability, which in return Busiprovides benefits to employees, investors, suppliers, customers, the ness public sector and wider society.
review Investors Funders Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price.
Capital Return on Funds Investment Employees Customers 5,400 employees Our services are provided knowledge, expertise and skill are a major part of the aerospace, defence, Groups intangible value.
energy and general 220.3m was paid out as Productivity Sales industrial industries.
Remuneration Services Bodycote: Provides thermal processing services that improve material properties such as strength, durability and corrosion resistance, which in turn...
Improves the lifetime and Products performance of products Supports businesses and protects lives Payment Suppliers Suppliers profit from the location of the Group in Society local communities and from the Groups need for Bodycote generates wealth long-term stable supply for society and contributes partnerships.
to socioeconomic development through its Services Taxes sustainable business practices, investments Public Sector Tax payments fund services available to the public.
In total employer social taxes, net VAT, corporate and other transactional taxes amount to 116.5m for the year.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued 1 Our approach Accident frequency Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns 1.9 through the provision of selected thermal processing services that 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.5 are highly valued by our customers and to achieve this in a safe working environment, while continually seeking to minimise the impact on the environment.
Bodycote is dedicated to improving the management of corporate 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
The future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
2 Our people Carbon footprint 3 The strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one of the tonne CO e m sales normalised 2 key challenges for management is to ensure availability of appropriately 654.6 qualified people to support its continued growth.
Bodycote is fortunate 645.9 642.3 to have a competent and committed international team that is well- 628.2 621.9 respected in technical and business circles.
Bodycote invests in the training and development of its people both at local and Group level.
At a local level the Group is committed 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 to providing the appropriate skills and technical training which will allow its employees to operate effectively and safely in their roles and deliver excellent customer service.
At Group level a number of initiatives are currently being rolled out to drive excellence in Water consumption management.
3 3 thousand m m sales normalised A tool to develop further understanding and skill in the area of 1.86 performance management is in place and is being used globally 1.70 1.61 1.48 through the management population.
Through communication of 1.40 clear messages coupled with skills development, the organisation aims to raise the capability of its management population in driving performance.
This initiative is backed by a performance management system which supports the process.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of age, race, gender, ethnic origin, nationality, religion, Chlorinated solvents health, disability, marital status, sexual preference, political or 3 kg m sales normalised philosophical opinions or trade union membership.
Females represent 111.7 18% 2014: 17% of our total workforce.
We will increase female representation on the Board if appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents x 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total number of employee hours worked.
CO e is carbon dioxide equivalent, which represents the CO release due 2 2 to our energy usage.
Normalised statistics restate prior year figures using current year national carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
30 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Core values Customers and suppliers It is not just important what we do, but how we do it and how Bodycote has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent we behave in our Company.
How we operate as a Group and the upon the Groups business and has no significant suppliers on behaviours that we expect from all our employees are expressed in which the Group is dependent upon for a substantial part of its our Core Values.
Our values represent Bodycote and its people and business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal our commitment to the Company and the business.
Our Core Values are straightforward and are as follows: We endeavour to respond quickly to changing customer demand, to identify emerging needs and to improve service availability and Honesty and T ransparency quality.
We stay close to our current and potential customers, We are honest and act with integrity.
Trust stems from honesty building long-term relationships.
and trust is at the heart of everything we engage in: our customers trust us to deliver what we say we will, our colleagues trust us Community to act in their best interests and our suppliers trust us to conduct Bodycote seeks to play a positive role in the local communities business according to agreed terms.
This is not something we take in which it operates by providing employment opportunities, for granted.
Bodycote lives by a culture of honest and transparent and building goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and behaviour, which is at the core of all our business relationships.
Respect and Responsibility Responsible business ethics We manage our business with respect, applying an ethical approach All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical to our dealings with those with whom we interact.
We respect our standard, consistent with an international UK-listed company.
colleagues, who are all of the employees of Bodycote.
Part of our Directors and employees are expected to ensure that their personal respect for our colleagues is our commitment to safe and responsible interests do not at any time conflict with those of Bodycote.
behaviour and our fundamental belief that no-one should come to Shareholder employees are advised of and comply with share any harm at work.
We show respect for our customers, our suppliers dealing codes.
We respect the communities around us and Bodycote has systems in place that are designed to ensure behave as responsible corporate citizens by being compliant with the compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and conformity laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business and by with all relevant codes of business practice.
Furthermore, Bodycote ensuring that our effect on the environment is minimal.
We believe in does not make political donations.
taking ownership for, and being mindful of the impact of, our actions.
With regard to competition, Bodycote aims to win business in a Creating Value differentiated high-value manner.
The Group does not employ unfair Creating value is the very essence of our business and needs to be trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the the focus of our endeavours.
We create value for our customers, our requirements of the applicable laws.
Employees are prohibited from employees and our shareholders.
If we do not either giving or receiving any inducements.
create value for our customers then we have no reason for existence.
If we do not create value for our employees there will be no-one to create Our Open Door Policy has been translated into all languages used value for our customers.
Our shareholders rightfully require that we throughout the Group.
The policy allows employees to report their ultimately create value for them as they are the owners of the business.
concern verbally or in writing and in confidence to an independent third party provider, ensuring anonymity.
Reports are transcribed Human rights and sent to the Group Head of Risk, who then passes the matter to Bodycotes human rights policy is consistent with the Universal the appropriate individual in the business to be addressed.
Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Global Compacts ten principles.
Online training courses in respect of Anti-Bribery and Competition Law have been designed and translated into the major languages We prohibit forced, compulsory and underage labour and any used throughout the Group.
All relevant employees have completed form of discrimination based on age, race, gender, ethnic origin, the interactive courses.
nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, sexual preference, political or philosophical opinions or trade union membership.
Appropriate mechanisms are in place to minimise the potential for any contravention of these rules.
By publicly posting our human rights policy on www.
com, stakeholders worldwide can alert us to potential breaches of the policy.
Our internal systems also support compliance with our policy and we have a robust Open Door Line for employees to report alleged violations of law and or our policies on a confidential basis and in their own language.
In the jurisdictions in which we employ a majority of our employees, there are laws applicable to many of the areas dealt with in our human rights policy.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued us to address hazards before injury occurs.
As our database Operational SHE performance continues to develop we will be able to analyse and prioritise our Bodycote is committed to continual improvement in our safety, safety action programmes more effectively.
health and environmental performance SHE.
We are committed to complying with all local legislative requirements as a minimum: All reportable incidents and lost time injuries are reviewed during and additionally establishing consistent and robust best practices executive management meetings and Board meetings.
In addition, at all of our sites to deliver consistently high performance across all the executive management team reviews incidents which did not aspects of SHE management.
result in injury but were considered to have been serious or to have had a high potential impact.
All serious incidents and high Safety and health potential incidents are also reviewed by the Group SHE Committee The nature of the Groups operations is such that employees are and are cascaded within the business as appropriate to ensure that inevitably exposed to hazards in the workplace.
Bodycote aims to preventive actions are taken.
This system was further strengthened manage these hazards and thereby minimise risks to employees in 2015 with actions being tracked via the online incident through the deployment of robust safety control systems and management system.
procedures, and seeks to establish these at all sites.
Environment Bodycotes online incident reporting and SHE management tool A proactive approach to improving energy efficiency means that has been operational since 2013.
This has enabled more consistent Bodycote has implemented a variety of systems to reduce water and thorough reporting of workplace injuries, near misses and and gas consumption, and to re-use heat energy.
The ongoing effort unsafe conditions.
Following the implementation, there was an to lessen the impact on the environment has resulted in Bodycote increase in the lost time injury rate frequency LTI rate in 2013 seeking ISO 14001 accreditation at all of its facilities.
In addition, as sites were better able to record and report incidents.
In 2014, many of our sites are in the process of obtaining ISO 50001 Energy the LTI rate fell to 1.7, re-establishing the previous trend of annual Management Systems Standard.
improvements in LTI rates in recent years and in 2015 the LTI rate has shown a further decline to 1.5.
Although regrettable and not At every stage where Bodycote is involved in the manufacturing acceptable, accidents represent learning opportunities and so cycle, our operational aim is to reduce the overall impact on the accurate reporting is an essential part of building a robust safety environment, not just in our own operations, but also those of management system.
Bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment, which is operated around the clock so as to optimise treatment Despite the improvement in the overall performance of safety processing cycles.
Without Bodycote, many companies would be across the Group we regret to state that one of our colleagues using older in-house technology and running their equipment at was seriously injured in an accident at a facility in North America reduced capacity, both of which drain energy resources.
Working on 22 October 2015 and, as a result of these injuries, he died on with Bodycote enables our customers to commit more easily to 17 February 2016.
Our thoughts and condolences are with his carbon reduction initiatives.
We have investigated the incident thoroughly and are cooperating with the relevant authorities in their Bodycote also reduces the carbon footprint of our customers ongoing enquiries.
activities by increasing the lifespan of their products, by improving metallurgical properties and by enhancing corrosion resistance.
Accident frequency lost time injury rate For example, surface treatment technology is widely used in the Accident frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents reclamation of damaged and worn components, offering a costx 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total effective and energy-efficient alternative to the need to manufacture number of employee hours worked.
new replacement parts, and treated parts often last up to twenty In addition to encouraging the reporting of work related injuries, times longer than the original.
Bodycote has sought to encourage the reporting of near misses Whilst thermal processing is an energy-intensive business, it is a and unsafe conditions.
This has worked very well since the vital part of the manufacturing chain and its use saves the energy it introduction of the new global incident reporting system and a consumes many times over.
common near miss unsafe condition reporting system at every operational site.
This much improved reporting of incidents permits Greenhouse gas emissions 2015 2014 2014 normalised CO e Intensity CO e Intensity CO e Intensity 2 2 2 emissions ratio emissions ratio emissions ratio ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m ktCO e tCO e m 2 2 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 147.8 260.9 158.2 259.7 158.2 267.4 Scope 2 204.5 361.0 213.4 350.5 213.5 360.8 Statutory total 352.3 621.9 371.6 610.2 371.7 628.2 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by Companies Act 2006.
Normalised statistics restate prior year emissions using current year national carbon conversion factors and current year average exchange rates.
32 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Stacking up the benets Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed designers and manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as aluminium and titanium, and have signicantly prolonged component lifetimes.
Through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can now be lighter and overall component weight reduced, leading to improved efficiency and reduced fuel consumption of products in service.
TiAl Titanium-Aluminide TiAl alloy, a lightweight replacement for nickel cobalt super alloys Vital enabler Bodycote has developed heat treatment and Hot Isostatic Pressing cycles specically for TiAl.
Without Bodycotes treatments, TiAl alloy would not be suitable for use 140kg reduction in weight of an engine that uses TiAl fan blades 8 people the average equivalent weight saving by manufacturing blades from TiAl Less oil wasted on the tarmac by development of an oil collector using Bodycotes brazing techniques 30% the weight reduction of outer guide vanes enabled by electron beam welding and heat treatment by Bodycote 33 Stock code: BOY www.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions resulting from fuel usage In the UK all Bodycote plants were audited by TUV Sud with support and the operation of facilities.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect from npower.
As expected this identified that over 97.5% of total energy emissions resulting from purchased electricity, heat, steam energy consumption is at operating sites.
Of these, the estimated or cooling for own use.
energy savings would be less than 6% in 59% of the operating plants, demonstrating that a high level of energy efficiency is The financial control consolidation approach has been used to report already well established.
The main opportunities identified for the above data.
This method aligns with the reporting scope in the energy savings in the remaining sites were primarily incorporating financial statements.
The Group collects electricity and natural gas existing good practice throughout the Group, such as energy usage information from each facility on a monthly basis.
The Group efficient lighting, increased fitting of variable speed drives on water then applies the UK Governments Department for Environment, cooling systems, and additional insulation on some furnaces.
Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA published national carbon conversion factors to calculate the total tonnage of CO e produced.
One example was energy efficiency lighting which was installed at 2 Group operational management actively monitors their monthly our Skelmersdale Surface Technology plant, producing a saving of CO e emissions reported and the Groups Executive Committee 69.5Te CO e per year with a payback of 1.3 years.
Similar lighting 2 2 reviews the level of CO e emissions on a monthly basis.
has been installed at other sites with the added benefit of improving 2 lighting levels and safety, such as Chard, Coventry and Haag-Winden All entities and facilities under financial control are included within which have seen projected savings of 35, 80 and 15 Te CO e each 2 the disclosure.
Emissions less than 1% of the Groups total CO e 2 year.
The TUV npower report identified similar savings at other sites relating to fugitive emissions and owned vehicles are not significant and will help Bodycote identify cost-effective energy savings.
As such there are no significant omissions from this disclosure.
Another example of best practice identified was the HybridCarb generator recently installed at our Rotherham facility, which replaces ISO 14001 accredited facilities the endothermic generator with a more efficient system that not Reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is only generates the process gas, but also recycles it for further taken very seriously.
Compliance with the requirements of ISO heat treatment, greatly increasing the carburising efficiency.
This 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects gassing method offers the possibility of saving 90% of the process at Bodycotes locations.
At the end of 2015, 91% of our operating gas during the carburisation cycle, thus reducing the exhausting of facilities had achieved ISO 14001 accreditation 2014: 87%.
carbon dioxide CO caused during the process-gas burn-off.
This 2 Operational plants which have not yet received accreditation to the new unit is currently being assessed for use at other sites, subject standard are working towards it, including several of the facilities to establishing the full benefit.
A further three units have already acquired and constructed during 20122014.
Some older sites, been ordered for use at our Chard facility.
which were accredited, have been closed.
Chlorinated solvent use The fall in percentage in 2012 was due to the facilities acquired in The use of chlorinated solvents in Bodycotes thermal processing that year which had not obtained accreditation.
activities has been reduced in recent years as aqueous degreasing facilities have been introduced.
In 2015, the normalised solvent use Carbon footprint and water consumption showed a slight increase of 5.6% compared with the previous year.
The absolute energy usage decreased by 5.2%, though sales at constant exchange rates decreased by 4.1%.
Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared solely to provide additional The total CO e emissions per m sales in 2015 were 621.9 Te 2014: 2 information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and as previously reported 610.2 Te: normalised 628.2 Te.
the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The Groups total CO e emission data is based on Scope 1 and 2 The Strategic report contains certain forward-looking statements.
Scope 2 emissions, as defined by the UK Governments DEFRA, These statements are made by the directors in good faith based on and data relating to this has been calculated to include countrythe information available to them up to the time of their approval of specific electricity conversion factors.
this report and such statements should be treated with caution due Water usage per m sales increased by 8.8%.
On a normalised to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business basis, water usage per m sales increased by 5.7%.
risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
In 2015 our EU based operational sites have sought to achieve Approval compliance with the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU.
The Group Strategic report of Bodycote plc was approved by the This Directive is transposed into local legislation and requires Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: sites to monitor their energy usage and assess energy reduction opportunities which are in addition to the ongoing energy saving activities on sites.
One mechanism for ensuring compliance is S. C. Harris for sites to become certified to ISO 50001 Energy Management Group Chief Executive Systems Standard.
This enables sites to measure energy usage 25 February 2016 consistently and target the most effective ways of reducing energy usage.
Our sites in France, Germany, Austria, Denmark and Netherlands are largely already certified and working on further energy management programmes.
34 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5
