Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Group recognises that it has social and environmental responsibilities arising from its operations and is committed to responsible business practices.
These improve the welfare of colleagues and the communities in which we operate, and reduce our impact on the environment.
Colleagues It is the Groups policy to involve colleagues in the business and to ensure that matters of concern to them, including the Groups aims and objectives and its financial performance, are communicated regularly in an open manner and, where appropriate, colleagues views are taken into account.
This is achieved through the use of business briefings and other less formal communication.
The Directors encourage colleagues to become shareholders in order to promote active participation in, and commitment to, the Groups success.
This policy has been extended to all colleagues through the provision of a SAYE share scheme.
As at 27 March 2015, the following number of colleagues were contributing monthly to the following schemes: 3,069 colleagues 2014 SAYE scheme: 2,888 colleagues 2013 SAYE scheme: 1,576 colleagues 2012 SAYE scheme.
Booker is an inclusive organisation where no-one receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, nationality, marital status, colour, race, ethnic origin, creed, sexual orientation or disability.
The promotion of equal opportunities for all employees is regarded as an important Group priority.
An analysis of Directors, senior managers and other employees by gender as at 27 March 2015 is as follows: Male Female Number Number Directors 9 2 Senior managers 52 5 Other employees 8,469 3,779 The Group has a balanced workforce in terms of experience, with an average age of 39.8 2014: 40.0.
Community The Group believes that good community relations are important to the long term development and sustainability of the operating businesses.
The Group aims to build sustainable relationships with its customers, who are mainly independent businesses at the heart of their communities, by improving the choice, price and service of products and services supplied.
Each business centre, distribution centre and support centre has a nominated local charity.
For the year ended 27 March 2015, colleagues raised 77,200 for these charities.
The Group also donates surplus food to local homeless charities from Booker business centres and distribution centres.
In the year, the equivalent of 288,000 meals were donated to charities across the UK, with an additional 41 tonnes of food reprocessed for animal feed.
Environment Resource Efficiency Booker recognises its obligation to consider carefully its use of natural resources.
We are taking steps to reduce our impact on the environment, both in our store operations and in our supply chain.
Using energy efficiently, minimising our emissions to air and monitoring our energy consumption are key components of our environmental work.
Examples of energy efficient practices are: The installation of voltage optimisation units.
At 27 March 2015, units had been installed in 123 Booker business centres: The daily use of data from the installation of smart meters installed in 2010 in all 172 Booker business centres and in early 2014 for the 29 Makro stores to monitor and control consumption of both electricity and gas.
Data on energy consumption is captured on a half hourly basis allowing us to profile high or unusual patterns: New and refitted business centres with energy efficient features included in their designs: Maximum transparent roof area, light-sensitivity and occupancy controls and energy-efficient lighting including T5 and LED : High efficiency heaters, timing controls and re-circulation fans: High thermal efficiency cold rooms: and New cladding and roofing to improve insulation: 10 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report The efficient movement of stock through collaboration with suppliers to find ways to reduce food miles in the total supply chain by minimising empty journeys: In our HGV fleet, the replacement of old trailers with new more energy efficient refrigeration trailers: Improved fuel efficiency of our new HGV tractor fleet, which have been fitted with side wind deflectors and automatic engine switch off during vehicle idling: Solar photo voltaic PV panels, which convert sunlight to electricity, were installed as a trial on the roof of our Wimbledon branch in March 2014: and The trial installation of full sales floor LED lighting at Booker Leeds.
During the year, our absolute use of energy was 250 GWh compared with 270 GWh in the prior year, a 7% reduction.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions For the second year, we report on the greenhouse gas GHG emissions for which we are responsible in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The statement below summarises the Groups GHG emissions from fuel consumption and the operation of the Groups facilities for the year ended 27 March 2015 and the prior year.
GHG Emissions Data Tonnes CO2e Tonnes CO2e Variance Variance FY14 FY15 Tonnes % Scope 1 Gas consumption 15,250 12,352 2,898 19 Diesel from leased vehicles 37,315 38,995 1,681 5 Petrol from leased vehicles 1 1 100 Fugitive emissions Refrigerant Gas 23,205 17,021 6,184 27 Total Scope 1 75,770 68,368 7,402 10 Scope 2 Purchased Electricity Generation 83,320 90,584 7,264 9 Total Scope 2 83,320 90,584 7,264 9 Significant Scope 3 Electricity Transmission & Distribution 7,124 7,921 797 11 Waste Disposal 1,662 1,371 291 18 Total Scope 3 8,786 9,292 506 6 Out of Scopes 941 940 Total Gross Emissions 168,818 169,185 367 Intensity Measure 36.20 35.77 0.44 1 Notes: The Group has reported on all material emission sources for which it deems itself to be responsible, and the emissions data is reported using an operational control approach to define our organisational boundary: The methodologies and definitions used to derive the table above are based on the UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 using the GHG Protocol and DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors Jan 2015: Data collected for the Government Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC scheme has been used to report energy consumption data for Ritter & Classic.
The CRC scheme is a mandatory reporting and pricing framework to improve energy efficiency in large public and private organisations: The intensity measure selected is tonnes CO2e per m of sales: In respect of India, we have undertaken a materiality assessment and consider that the related emissions are not material.
Emissions from these operations are, therefore, excluded from our reported emissions: CO e is the CO equivalent.
2 2 Overall our total Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions have shown an increase of 367 tonnes.
11 Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED The Carbon Trust Standard is a voluntary certification and mark of excellence that enables organisations to demonstrate their success in cutting their carbon footprint.
The Standard is awarded for a two year period, with Booker obtaining a third consecutive Carbon Trust Standard in 2013.
This biennial award demonstrates Bookers long term commitment to successfully measuring, managing and reducing its absolute carbon footprint consistently over a six year period.
Work in the area of sustainability has led to Booker being awarded, in 2014, the Green Wholesaler of the Year at the Grocer Gold Awards, sponsored by the industry journal The Grocer for the third consecutive year.
In addition, in 2014, Chef Direct was awarded the Footprint award by Footprint a foodservice sustainability trade publication owned by Footprint Media, for environmentally efficient logistics following work undertaken with a large customer to reduce their delivery emissions and cut food miles.
Preventing Waste Packaging Improvements As a wholesaler of packaged goods, our primary objective is to ensure that our products are safe to eat and reach consumers in optimal condition.
Packaging plays a critical role in achieving this and we review at every opportunity how we can use fewer materials.
This includes improving packaging to protect stock from damage, thereby reducing food waste, and reducing the weight of the packaging.
Company Waste Prevention and Recycling We continue to work to prevent waste, redistribute fit for purpose food, increase recycling and divert waste away from landfill.
We use the Governments waste hierarchy which sets out five steps for dealing with waste ranked by their environmental impact, to ensure all waste is dealt with in the most environmentally positive way.
Each store and distribution centre participates in recycling paper, plastic, cardboard, metal and wood from pallets.
We have invested across the estate in balers, instigated waste league tables and continually focus on improvements.
During the year we increased the volume of waste recycled and sent to recovery processes by 11% and reduced waste to landfill by 29% resulting in a recycling level of approximately 85%.
We have worked with both suppliers and customers to prevent waste across the supply chain.
A total of 362 tonnes of product waste has been prevented in the year through initiatives such as early warning on short dated stock, improved forecasting and fresh promotion management, use of clearance routes by our suppliers and more surplus to animal feed.
We are an active contributor to the Institute of Grocery Distributors Product & Packaging Waste Prevention Group, whose aim is to prevent waste throughout the food industry.
This has focused on delivering savings against a voluntary industry commitment to eliminate 200,000 tonnes of waste by the end of 2014.
This target has been exceeded by 30%.
Business to Business Engagement In addition to our own achievements, we believe that working on sustainability initiatives with independent businesses in local communities can deliver further improvements in sustainability.
Customer Packaging Recycling In April 2012 our packaging recycling service was launched, and now over 11,000 customers are regularly using the service.
Volumes of cardboard recycled in the year ended 27 March 2015 are up approximately 26% on the prior year at over 14,000 tonnes.
Customer Used Cooking Oil Recycling Customers deposit used cooking oil at their local business centre or a collection can be arranged from their premises.
The Group operates a simple rebate scheme per litre recycled.
Approximately 9,000 customers are using the service and over 3.8 million litres of waste oil have been recycled into sustainable bio fuels in the year ended March 2015.
12 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report The Carbon Trust Waste Standard was introduced in 2013 by the Carbon Trust and is awarded to organisations able to demonstrate that they are measuring, managing and reducing waste year on year.
Following the successful completion of a pilot stage, we were one of the first seven companies in the UK and the first wholesaler to receive this certification.
The Standard was awarded for achievements made in improving waste management over the three year period ended March 2013 and lasts for a two year period.
Initiatives included: customer recycling services, donation of surplus food to local charities, prevention of waste measures, diversion of waste food to animal feed and management of waste to landfill.
Booker was also named National Recycler of the Year at the MRW National Recycling Awards in 2014 for our work in the area of waste prevention and recycling.
Ethical Sourcing A number of the ingredients in our own label products are grown in developing countries.
We seek to understand, manage and mitigate any issues associated with a particular commodity or country.
We use the Fairtrade and Red Tractor Farm Assurance schemes and all prospective own brand suppliers are required to complete a sustainability and ethics questionnaire.
Examples of our approach are: Red Tractor Farm Assurance: Red Tractor is a UK food assurance scheme which covers production standards on safety, hygiene, animal welfare and the environment.
The Red Tractor logo on packs means food or drink has met these responsible production standards and is fully traceable back to independently inspected farms in the UK.
Red Tractor certifies that food has been produced to independently inspected standards right across the food chain from farm to pack.
At 27 March 2015, the Group had 89 own label products displaying the Red Tractor logo across its retail and catering ranges and continues to work to widen the products covered by this standard.
Fairtrade: The objective of Fairtrade is to achieve better selling prices, decent working conditions, local sustainability and fair terms of trade for farmers and workers in the developing world.
Fairtrade is an independent mark found on products where ingredients in the product have been produced by small-scale farmers that meet Fairtrades social, economic and environmental standards.
The standards include the protection of workers rights and the environment, payment of a Fairtrade minimum price and an additional premium to invest in the farmers and workers community.
The Group continues to expand its range of catering products that are certified as being Fairtrade, with all Chefs Larder tea and coffee products now being Fairtrade accredited.
The Lichfield Fairtrade range now has 24 products across tea, coffee, sugar and biscuits.
During the year the Group contributed the equivalent of 65,000 through Fairtrade premiums to help coffee growers.
Sustainable Palm Oil: Palm oil production has been well documented as a cause of substantial damage to the natural environment.
Its impact includes deforestation, habitat loss of critically endangered species and a significant increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
Although palm oil is only an extremely small input into the production by suppliers of our own label products, all Chefs Larder, Happy Shopper and Euroshopper ranges of biscuits and snack products contribute to the production of certified sustainable palm oil.
