globally, including in Europe, California and China, additional monitoring Environment and society regulations in the US, and more focus on reducing flaring and methane emissions in many jurisdictions.
Throughout the life cycle of our projects and operations, we We are focusing on ways to reduce GHG emissions, including working to aim to manage the environmental and social impacts of our improve the energy efficiency of our operations and our products.
half of our current upstream portfolio is natural gas, which produces about half as much carbon dioxide CO as coal per unit of power generated, BP is helping to meet the demands of a lower-carbon future and 2 and we operate renewable businesses in biofuels and onshore wind.
collaborating with others on climate change issues.
We currently require larger projects, and those for which emissions costs BP-operated businesses with the potential to spill oil are on track to would be a material part of the project, to apply a standard carbon cost to complete updates to spill planning scenarios and response strategies the projected GHG emissions over the life of the project.
In industrialized by the end of 2016. countries, our standard cost assumption is currently $40 per tonne of CO 2 We are progressing towards alignment with the United Nations equivalent.
We use this cost as part of the economic evaluation of the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
abc We seek to address potential climate change impacts on our new projects Greenhouse gas emissions in the design phase.
We have guidance for existing operations and MteCO equivalent 2 projects on how to assess potential climate risks and impacts to enable 54.0 mitigation steps to be incorporated into project planning, design and operations.
For example, we are an active participant in the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, a voluntary, CEO-led 46.0 industry initiative that aims to catalyse meaningful action on climate change through best practice sharing and collaboration.
We also joined with seven other oil and gas companies calling on the UN and governments to put a price on carbon.
com climatechange for more information about our activities.
Greenhouse gas emissions We report on direct and indirect GHG emissions on a carbon dioxideequivalent CO e basis.
Direct emissions include CO and methane from a 2 2 This is based on BPs equity share basis excluding BPs share of Rosneft.
b the combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities, and indirect The 2015 figure reflects our update of the global warming potential for methane from 21 to 25, in line with IPIECAs guidelines.
emissions include those resulting from the purchase of electricity, heat, c Because of rounding, some totals may not agree exactly with the sum of their counterparts.
Our approach to reporting GHG emissions broadly follows the IPIECA API IOGP Petroleum Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG Emissions.
Managing our impacts We calculate emissions based on the fuel consumption and fuel We review our management of material issues such as climate change, properties for major sources rather than the use of generic emission water, how we work with communities and human rights.
We do not include nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, examining emerging risks and actions taken to mitigate them.
We identify perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride as they are not material and it areas for improvement and work to address these where appropriate.
is not practical to collect this data.
Our operating sites can have a lifespan of several decades and our Greenhouse gas emissions MteCO e 2 operations are expected to work to reduce their impacts and risks.
This 2015 2014 2013 starts in early project planning and continues through operations and a Operational control decommissioning.
c Direct emissions 51.4 54.1 Our operating management system OMS includes practices that d Indirect emissions 7.0 7.5 set out requirements and guidance for how we identify and manage b BP equity share environmental and social impacts.
The practices apply to our major c Direct emissions 48.9 48.6 50.3 projects, projects that involve new access and those that could affect an e f Indirect emissions 6.9 6.8 6.7 international protected area.
a Operational control data comprises 100% of emissions from activities that are operated by BP, In the planning stages of these projects we complete a screening process to going beyond the IPIECA guidelines by including emissions from certain other activities such as identify the most significant potential environmental and social impacts.
Data for emissions on an operational control basis was not available completed this process for five projects in 2015.
Following screening, projects prior to 2014.
In 2014 we changed our GHG reporting boundary from a BP equity-share basis to an operational control basis.
are required to carry out impact assessments, identify mitigation measures b BP equity share comprises our share of BPs consolidated entities and equity accounted entities, and implement these in project design, construction and operations.
other than BPs share of TNK-BP and Rosneft.
c The 2015 figure reflects our update of the global warming potential for methane from 21 to 25, in BPs environmental expenditure in 2015 totalled $8,017 million 2014 line with IPIECAs guidelines.
$4,024 million, 2013 $4,288 million, including charges related to the Gulf d The reported 2014 figure of 7.2Mte has been amended to 7.5Mte.
For a breakdown of environmental expenditure see The reported 2014 figure of 6.6Mte has been amended to 6.8Mte.
f The reported 2013 figure of 6.6Mte has been amended to 6.7Mte.
In 2015 we updated the global warming potential for methane from 21 to Climate change 25.
Without this update, our reported direct emissions would have been Meeting the climate challenge requires efforts by all governments, lower, primarily due to divestments in Alaska.
We believe governments must lead by The ratio of our total GHG emissions reported on an operational control providing a clear, stable and effective climate policy framework, including basis to gross production was 0.24teCO e te production in 2015 2014 putting a price on carbon one that treats all carbon equally.
Gross production comprises upstream production, 2 We expect that greenhouse gas GHG policy will have an increasing refining throughput and petrochemicals produced.
impact on our businesses, operating costs and strategic planning, but may See bp.
com greenhousegas for more information about our GHG also offer opportunities for the development of lower-carbon technologies management and performance.
There is a growing number of emission pricing schemes 46 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 2014 direct GHG Update of global warming potential Acquisitions Divestments Operational changes Real sustainable reductions 2015 direct GHG Strategic report Water Special resolution strategic resilience for BP recognizes the importance of managing fresh water use and water 2035 and beyond discharges in our operations and we review our water risks annually.
We use industry-standard risk assessment tools, such as the IPIECA Global A coalition of shareholders filed a special resolution in 2015 regarding BPs preparation for a lower-carbon future.
The resolution, which was Water Tool and the World Resources Institute Aqueduct Global Water Atlas, to identify potential quantity, quality and regulatory risks across all supported by the BP board, requested that our reporting include information in five areas: our operated assets.
We are assessing different technology approaches for optimizing water consumption and wastewater treatment Resolution element Where reported performance.
For example, we have evaluated different approaches for reducing fresh water use in our purified terephthalic acid operations, such Ongoing operational BP Sustainability Report 2015, pages 17 as wastewater recycling and sea water cooling.
emissions management and 42 How we are working to improve the We monitor the increasing number of regulations pertaining to freshwater energy efficiency of our operations and withdrawals and water discharge quality where we operate.
to investments in our wastewater treatment plants at our refineries in Europe and the US.
Asset portfolio resilience BP Sustainability Report 2015, page 18 See bp.
com water for information about our approach to water.
to post-2035 scenarios BP Energy Outlook BP Technology Outlook, page 8 Unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing How we adapt our investment strategy Natural gas resources, including unconventional gas, have an increasingly to changes in policy, market or important role in supplying lower-carbon fuel to meet the worlds growing technology conditions.
BP is working to responsibly develop and produce natural gas from unconventional resources including shale gas, tight gas and Low-carbon energy R&D BP Sustainability Report 2015, page 16 coalbed methane.
We have unconventional gas operations in Oman and and investment strategies Information on our gas, biofuels and the US and we are evaluating unconventional gas opportunities in other wind businesses, as well as our countries.
Some stakeholders have raised concerns about the potential Strategic KPIs and BP Annual Report 2015, pages 20 and 22 environmental and community impacts of hydraulic fracturing during executive incentives Information on how our executives are unconventional gas development.
BP seeks to apply responsible well currently rewarded.
design and construction, surface operation and fluid handling practices to mitigate these risks.
Public policy activities BP Sustainability Report 2015, page 15 Our activities supporting our advocacy Water and sand constitute on average 99.5% of the injection material for carbon pricing, along with working used in hydraulic fracturing.
Some of the chemicals that are added to this, with governments and peers on when used in certain concentrations, are classified as hazardous by the methane and flaring reduction.
BP works with service providers to minimize their use where possible.
We list the chemicals we use in the Find more online fracturing process in material safety data sheets at each site.
com sustainabilityreport submit data on chemicals used at our hydraulically fractured wells in the bp.
com technologyoutlook US, to the extent allowed by our suppliers who own the chemical bp.
com energyoutlook formulas at fracfocus.
org or other state-designated websites.
We are working to minimize air pollutant and GHG emissions, such as Oil spill preparedness and response methane, at our operating sites.
For example, in the US we use a process called green completions at our gas operations.
This process captures We are working to continuously improve how we control, contain and natural gas that would otherwise be flared or vented during the clean up oil spills should they occur.
Our requirements for oil spill completion and commissioning of wells.
preparedness and response planning, and crisis management incorporate what we have learned over many years of operation.
Our US Lower 48 onshore businesss approach is to operate in line with industry standards developed within the context of the highly regulated We updated our oil spill response plan requirements in 2012 to incorporate US environment.
learnings from the Deepwater Horizon accident.
Revised response plans include elements such as specialized modelling techniques to help predict See bp.
com unconventionalgas for information about our approach to the impact of potential spills, provision of stockpiles of dispersant, and unconventional gas and hydraulic fracturing.
the use of technologies like aerial and underwater robotic vehicles for environmental monitoring.
This is a substantial piece of work and BP-operated businesses with the potential to spill oil are on track to complete updates by the end of 2016.
We continue to investigate and test whether emerging technologies can enhance our oil spill response capability.
For example, in the Middle East, we have trialled the use of satellite imagery as a way to identify oil spills on land and track clean-up response time.
We seek to work collaboratively with government regulators in planning for oil spill response, with the aim of improving any potential future response.
For example, in 2015 we participated in response exercises with government regulators in regions such as Angola, the UK and US.
See page 43 for information on volume of oil spilled by our operations in 2015, including volume of oil unrecovered.
Teams from BP Angola taking part in a shoreline oil spill response exercise the first international oil company event of its type in the country.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 47 Defined on page 256.
