Canadas oil sands Business ethics and transparency BP is involved in three oil sands lease areas in Canada.
Sunrise, operated by Husky Energy, began producing oil in early 2015 and is currently Our code of conduct defines our commitment to high producing approximately 20,000 barrels per day.
Pike, operated by Devon Energy, is at the design stage.
Terre fide Grace, which is BP-operated, is ethical standards.
currently under appraisal for development.
Our decision to invest in Canadian oil sands activities takes into Our values and code of conduct set out the expected qualities and consideration GHG emissions, impacts on the land, water use, local actions of all our people.
Our businesses dismissed 132 employees for non-conformance See bp.
com oilsands for information on BPs investments in Canadas oil with our code of conduct or unethical behaviour in 2015. sands.
We will begin to disclose information on payments made to Human rights governments in 2016 as required by new UK regulations.
We are committed to conducting our business in a manner that respects Our values the rights and dignity of all people.
We respect internationally recognized human rights as set out in the International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles Safety and Rights at Work.
We set out our commitments in our human rights policy.
Our code of conduct references the policy, requiring employees to Respect report any human rights abuse in our operations or in those of our business partners.
We are delivering our human rights policy by implementing the relevant Excellence sections of the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights the Guiding Principles and incorporating them into the processes Courage and policies that govern our business activities.
We are progressing towards alignment with the Guiding Principles using a One Team risk-based approach.
This includes working across functions and businesses in areas such as identifying and addressing human rights risks and impacts, community and workforce grievance mechanisms, and contracted workforce, working and living conditions and recruitment Our values processes.
Our values represent the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP, they guide the way we do business and the decisions we make.
We use these In 2015 our actions included: values as part of our recruitment, promotion and individual performance Development and delivery of guidance, tools and training courses to assessment processes.
increase human rights awareness across the business.
com values for more information.
Inclusion of human rights clauses in an increasing number of our supplier contracts.
The BP code of conduct Our code of conduct is based on our values and clarifies the principles and Evaluation of our community grievance mechanisms against the Guiding expectations for everyone who works at BP.
It applies to all BP Principles began at key sites to identify areas for improvement.
employees, officers and members of the board.
Continued implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Employees, contractors or other third parties who have a question about Human Rights, with periodic internal assessments to identify areas for our code of conduct or see something they feel to be unsafe, unethical or improvement.
potentially harmful can get help through OpenTalk, a confidential helpline See bp.
com humanrights for more information about our approach to operated by an independent company.
A total of 1,158 people contacted OpenTalk with concerns or enquiries in Enterprise and community development 2015 2014 1,114, 2013 1,121.
The most common concerns related to the people section of the code.
This includes treating people fairly, with We run programmes to help build the skills of businesses and to develop the local supply chain in a number of locations.
In Indonesia, for example, dignity and giving everyone equal opportunity: creating a respectful, harassment-free workplace: and protecting privacy and confidentiality.
we have supported the foundation of local businesses, providing community members with technical and hands-on training.
In the UK we support an apprenticeship programme in the North Sea run by one of our contractors.
The programme provides training on the skills required for the safe and reliable operation of our offshore assets.
BPs community investments support development that meets local needs and are relevant to our business activities.
We contributed $67 million in social investment in 2015.
com society for more information about our social contribution.
Staff taking part in BPs code of conduct training in Brazil.
48 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
