Additional disclosures In 2015 additions to the decommissioning provision were less than in Environmental expenditure 2014, and occurred as a result of detailed reviews of expected future costs.
The majority of these additions related to our sites in the North $ million Sea, the Gulf of Mexico and Angola.
The additions in 2013 and 2014 2015 2014 2013 were driven by detailed reviews of expected future costs, increases to Environmental expenditure relating to the the asset base and for 2013, changes in estimation processes.
a Gulf of Mexico oil spill 5,452 190 66 We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews Operating expenditure 521 624 657 take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning Capital expenditure 733 590 1,091 requirements and any technological developments.
Clean-ups 34 33 42 Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are Additions to environmental remediation usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 provision 305 371 472 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
Additions to decommissioning provision 972 2,216 2,092 a The environmental expenditure credit of $66 million in 2013 arises primarily from the write-back Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions appear of a spill response provision.
in the financial statements Note 22.
Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Regulation of the groups business For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the Gulf of BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2. pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals production, trading, biofuels, wind and shipping activities, are conducted Other environmental expenditure in more than 70 countries and are subject to a broad range of EU, US, Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, treatment international, regional and local legislation and regulations, including or elimination of air and water emissions and solid waste is often not legislation that implements international conventions and protocols.
incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include matters larger transaction that includes, for example, normal operations and such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, environmental, maintenance expenditure.
The figures for environmental operating and health and safety protection, fuel specifications and transportation, capital expenditure in the table are therefore estimates, based on the trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign exchange.
definitions and guidelines of the American Petroleum Institute.
The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under Environmental operating expenditure of $521 million in 2015 2014 which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
$624 million decreased primarily due to Downstream reduced level of These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or entered turnaround activity in 2015. into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled company and Environmental capital expenditure in 2015 was higher than in 2014, are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
primarily driven by the installation of a dissolved nitrogen floatation unit at Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form Whiting refinerys wastewater treatment plant that is designed to of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, although improve the quality of cleaned water before it leaves the refinery.
The arrangements with the US government can be by lease.
Arrangements increase also reflects the investment at our Cooper River, US and Geel, with private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
Belgium petrochemicals site to upgrade it to our latest generation PTA technology that is expected to significantly increase manufacturing Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and efficiency resulting in lower greenhouse gas emissions and improved exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the energy efficiency.
risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides Clean-up costs increased to $34 million in 2015 compared with the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is $33 million in 2014, primarily due to higher remediation management entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
licence holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also establish which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against exploit hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather included in environmental operating expenditure reported for such than production.
PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is controlled company generally require BP to provide all the financing and probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action share of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation and production activities, and in some cases production licences are limited abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They often to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration licence.
depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and Both exploration and production licences are generally for a specified timing of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future programmes could be period of time.
In the US, leases from the US government typically significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended beyond that in which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The term of material to the groups overall results of operations or financial position.
BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may be renewed vary from country to country.
In 2015 the additions to the environmental provision were lower as 2014 included more new sites and increased provisions from existing sites BP frequently conducts its exploration and production activities in joint resulting from recent acquisitions.
The charge for environmental arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other international remediation provisions in 2015 included $6 million in respect of oil companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private provisions for new sites 2014 $13 million and 2013 $13 million.
These joint arrangements may be incorporated or In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasunincorporated arrangements, while the co-ownerships are typically producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or unincorporated, relevant decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production agreements set out each partys level of participation or ownership facility, a provision is established that represents the discounted value of the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 233
