Sustainable shareholder value Our corporate social responsibility CSR priorities Our corporate social responsibility CSR priorities are linked with the direction of our business in delivering our growth strategy and objectives.
We are committed to enhancing our sustainability performance through improving resource efficiency and reducing operational risk, whilst minimising our impact on the environment and reducing the emissions from our activities.
We have identified three pillars of our CSR strategy people, environment and community, which align to our strategic priorities and business model as follows: Sustainable business model People Land acquisition Design Build Sales Recruiting, developing and supporting talented staff through long term sustainable employment Investing in land in Designing sustainable and Safely building quality Providing great sought after locations desirable communities homes customer service Promoting Using our fully-specified Creating a safe Providing purchase strategic land Portfolio housing range construction environment assistance schemes to to meet customer needs within the community meet demand across the housing cycle Environment Land acquisition Design Build Sales Undertaking ecological, High energy efficiency in the Ongoing better working Delivering high transport and pollution specication of our homes practices to minimise quality, energy assessments material waste efficient homes to Effective use of land our customers Protecting and Standard waste Optimising water management relocating wildlife: management processes Incorporating open spaces and eradicating invasive on all developments wildlife habitats to protect species Use of sustainable biodiversity materials Reducing potential waste through product evolution Community Land acquisition Design Build Sales Engaging in an Consulting and engaging Creating strong Working with ethical manner with the local community relationships with local registered social sub-contractors and landlords Identifying local Providing on and offsite suppliers housing needs community facilities Building relationships with local businesses Considerate build to limit Developing travel plans and impact on local residents Meeting local demand contributing towards their for homes provision Designing homes in-keeping with the local area 32 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Our policy Our CSR policy is managed by the Executive Leadership Team ELT.
The ELT comprises senior directors with operational and functional responsibilities and is chaired by David Ritchie, Chief Executive.
Ultimate responsibility for corporate social responsibility, including climate change policy, lies with the Board of Bovis Homes Group PLC and the Chief Executive as the nominated director.
Supporting the CSR policy are other policy documents covering health and safety, the environment, ethics and conduct, equal opportunities and whistleblowing, all of which are reviewed annually.
You can find further information on our CSR policy on our website, www.
co. uk Performance during the year People During the year, the Group received two awards for its health and safety performance: Aim the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold To ensure that peoples experiences with us are safe and positive.
Award for the 19th consecutive year: and a further British Safety Council International Safety Award.
KPI 2015 2014 Our annual internal health and safety award scheme has also HBF customer satisfaction rating 3 Star 3 Star continued and is presented to the site management team achieving the best health and safety rating.
Annual injury incidence rate 719 663 We are continuing to do more to increase the safety of our sites.
The number of directors site tours undertaken has increased Voluntary staff turnover % 26 24 significantly, from 327 in 2014 to 628 in 2015.
The site tours enable directors and senior managers to effectively support our site Training days completed no.
2,634 2,415 teams in attaining high health and safety standards.
Our improving safety culture is also reflected in a 65% increase in the number of Customers near-misses reported of 4,265, up from 2,562 in 2014.
Near-miss Our objective reporting enables hazards to be identified and dealt with before an Ensure that each customers experience is a positive one by incident occurs.
These improvements have not yet come through to the annual Performance during the year injury incidence rate, which at 719 represents an increase on the previous year.
Initiatives are in place to further target improvements The Group has maintained its HBF customer satisfaction rating in this incidence rate, for example daily activity briefings which of 3 Star alongside the growth in the business to 3,934 legal highlight health and safety matters affecting site operations during completions 2014: 3,635. the day ahead.
We have updated our Customer Journey and implemented a revised Health and safety training has always been a key focus for home inspection regime prior to completion to ensure that our homes meet the high expectations of the Group and our customers.
the Group and this continued in 2015, with increased attention on the core competencies of staff joining the business.
Priorities for 2016 The Group delivered 1,528 2014: 1,100 health and safety Return our HBF customer satisfaction rating to 4 Star.
training attendances of varying duration on a range of topics, in line with the requirements of the expanding business.
This was Ensure consistent delivery of the Customer Journey.
achieved through the concerted efforts of the Group Health Safety and Environment Director and regional staff, working Health and Safety together with external health and safety training providers.
Our objective Ensure our activities are undertaken in a safe manner.
Priorities for 2016 Improve near miss reporting.
Reduce the annual injury incidence rate.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 33 To help improve communication with staff, and to keep them Employees updated on the Groups performance and matters of concern Our objective or interest to employees, a new intranet service was launched We endeavour to create a safe working environment, one to complement the news magazine and emails that are sent to where our staff feel valued, are treated with respect and are all staff.
Consultations are held at staff meetings and personal provided with opportunities for personal development.
briefings are provided by elected employee representatives.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director provide Performance during the year presentations to staff at all regional offices at key points in The Group created 128 new roles during 2015, increasing the year.
total staff numbers by 14% to 1,062.
The Group continues to apply its employment policies to not discriminate between Training employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of gender, We have continued our investment in training during the sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious year, spending 331,000 on employee training in support of belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration the Groups policy to train and develop employees to ensure to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons that they are equipped to undertake the functions and tasks who become disabled whilst employed by the Group where for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity requirements may be adequately covered by these persons for career development equally and without discrimination.
and to comply with any current legislation with regard to Employees continue to receive regular training covering topics disabled persons.
such as health, safety and environmental matters.
A total of 2,634 training days were delivered during the year In line with our peers, the voluntary employee turnover rate 2014: 2,415. increased slightly to 26% due to the increasing demand for skilled staff within the house building industry.
We work The Build Academy was launched in 2014 as a four day hard to attract and retain the talented people that we need residential training course for all site-based management.
and during 2015 we increased the holiday allowance and The course was well received and we have incorporated the introduced more flexible working where this is appropriate.
Build Academy into the Employee Journey for all new sitebased management.
The increase in total staff numbers highlighted the need to ensure that the Companys culture and values are embedded We continued our trainee assistant site manager programme at all levels of the organisation.
This formed part of a by actively encouraging applications from ex-armed forces discussion at the Groups Senior Leadership Conference on personnel.
This is a ten month training programme that equips how to safely build quality homes.
The senior leadership team staff with the skills necessary to become part of the site has also been strengthened in line with the growth of management team.
During 2015, 12 employees that started the business.
the programme in 2014 were promoted to Assistant Site Manager positions.
Our employee engagement survey is undertaken every two years.
The last survey took place in 2014 and showed We also continued our site based apprenticeship scheme with employee engagement at 78%.
As part of reinforcing our core 36 new apprentices joining the Group during the year to bring values, we are working to improve our employee engagement the total to 43 apprentices.
We will continue to develop this score.
We have introduced an Employee Journey, a structured programme during 2016. induction programme for every employee covering their first three months with Bovis Homes.
We also launched a new appraisal process for all staff.
The Group continues to operate both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
It also has a Share Incentive Plan, Save As You Earn share option scheme, a Share Option Plan and a Long Term Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong involvement with the Group.
34 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Director and employee profile Jake takes the apprentice prize The following table shows the gender split within the Group as at 31 December 2015.
In common with the construction industry, the majority of the workforce is male at 64%.
While a lower proportion of senior management and directors are female, the Group encourages and supports diversity, including gender.
As at 31 December 2015, there were nine senior managers all male who were directors of Group subsidiaries.
Analysis by role and gender Role Male Female Total Non-executive directors 3 1 4 Executive directors 2 0 2 Senior managers 16 1 17 Managers 141 46 187 Site and sales staff 273 114 387 Young Honiton carpenter Jake Pulman showed that Support staff 201 221 422 he really has nailed his new career by being crowned champion apprentice at Bovis Homes in 2015.
Apprentices 40 3 43 Total 676 386 1,062 Jake, in his second year with the Company, landed the blue riband prize and a 500 voucher at the Apprentice of the Analysis by age Year awards held in Bristol.
of % employees The 20-year-old, who is attending Exeter College and has been working on two Bovis Homes developments at nearby 21 years 48 4.5 Cranbrook, was a worthy winner of the coveted Apprentice 21 30 years 191 18.0 of the Year honour according to Group Land Director, 31 40 years 197 18.6 Malcolm Pink.
41 50 years 276 26.0 Our apprentice awards have been going from strength 51 60 years 270 25.4 to strength since they started four years ago, and to be a 60 years 80 7.5 winner you really do have to be the best of the best, said Total 1,062 100 Malcolm.
Jake has only been with us for 18 months, but he has already made an impact and has just those qualities Priorities for 2016 of commitment and dedication, together with a can-do attitude, that we look for and foster here at Bovis Homes.
Reinforce our core values across the enlarged Group.
Embed the Leadership values into the business through a comprehensive senior leadership development programme.
Launch a Managing Effectively programme for middle managers.
Continue to recruit ex-Armed forces personnel for our Trainee Assistant Site Management programme.
Continue to develop our apprenticeship programme.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 35 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Environment Our objective Effectively manage our carbon emissions.
Aim Performance and methodology To effectively manage and reduce the impact of our operations GHG emissions have been reported from all sources required on the environment.
under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within KPI 2015 2014 the Groups operational control.
The Group does not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included Active waste diverted in the consolidated financial statements and are outside the 94% 90% from landfill boundary of operational control.
Active waste generated per During the year, measures were operated to collect emissions 3.2 2.8 home tonnes data from our construction sites for the third year running.
Where this data was incomplete at the year end, we have Total GHG emissions per extrapolated total emissions by using i an averaging approach 1.40 1.57 legally completed unit to extend data to a full year for sites with part-year data, and ii applied an average calculated from all sites to sites returning inadequate data.
Legal completions to level 3 and above Code for 1,787 1,605 The calculations allow for sites which opened and closed Sustainable Homes during the year.
GHG emissions have been calculated using emission factors Active waste is non-hazardous waste that is likely to change in from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company composition e. g. decay in landfill, such as packaging, wood or plastic.
Scope 1 emissions arise from the consumption Waste of gas at our facilities, diesel on construction sites and UK business mileage in fleet cars.
Emissions from air conditioning Our objective in offices have been excluded as not being material.
Scope 2 Ensure the efficient use of materials in the construction of emissions represent purchased electricity.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period Performance during the year 1 Jan 2015 to 31 Dec 2015 with prior year comparatives The Group has continued to re-use or recycle materials and has Emissions from: 2015 2014 Unit increased the amount of active waste diverted from landfill to 94%.
The amount of active waste sent to landfill during 2015 Combustion of fuel at our was 0.19 tonnes per home 2014: 0.28.
This improvement facilities and construction 4,168 4,168 continues to reflect our focus on reducing, re-using and sites as well as fleet vehicle use Scope 1 emissions recycling and we are reminding all staff and sub-contractors of the importance of minimising waste from our activities.
Purchased electricity 1,324 1,527 We continue to work with our suppliers to recycle and re-use Scope 2 emissions other waste such as timber and plasterboard.
Total GHG emissions 5,492 5,695 Our research and development for our Portfolio range of Scope 1 and Scope 2 homes continues to enable more efficient build processes to be Companys chosen intensity undertaken and reduce the amount of waste generated from measurements: our activities.
i Total GHG emissions per 1.40 1.57 Priorities for 2016 legally completed unit Reduce active waste per home.
ii Total GHG emissions Reduce active waste sent to landfill.
per 1,000 sq ft legally 1.36 1.57 completed Reduce inert waste brick and block per home.
Tonnes of CO e 2 Tonnes of CO e per legally completed unit 2 Tonnes of CO e per 1,000 sq ft legally completed 2 36 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility.
A number of our sites also incorporate allotments with priority Our homes given to residents, and during 2015 we have committed to provide 128.9 hectares of open space through new sites acquired by the Group 2014: nil.
Bovis Homes has always been an advocate of the Fabric First approach to energy efficiency, designing our homes All sites are reviewed at acquisition stage to determine the likely to be highly efficient and concentrating first and foremost ground conditions and the type of surface water measures required on reducing the demand for space heating and hot to limit surface water discharge and any potential for localised water heating.
This is being continuously improved flooding.
This involves active consultation with the Environment via research and development of modern methods of Agency and water authorities to ensure that there is, as a construction with traditional materials.
All of our timber minimum, no impact from our development on local is obtained from FSC and PEFC managed sources.
Our Fabric First principle involves: Investing in Devons development Improvements in the fabric of our homes in walls, floors, roofs, windows and doors.
Installing higher levels of insulation materials in our walls and loft spaces.
Enhancing the thermal performance of construction junctions to reduce heat loss and cold bridging.
Improving permeability to control unnecessary heat loss.
Improving the efficiency and performance of ventilation systems.
Bovis Homes is making a major investment in the preservation and enhancement of the Devon Priority for 2016 environment as part of the consortium of Reduce our GHG emissions against our chosen intensity measures.
housebuilders delivering the new Sherford development, just a few miles south of Dartmoor.
Open space, ecology and sustainable water management Before a brick has been laid, more than 1 million worth of planting and environmental improvements are already Our objective taking place.
Limit the impact of our developments on the local environment and promote sustainable development.
The work forms part of the largest habitat creation scheme in the South West, and has seen 200,000 trees Ensure our developments provide adequate areas for recreation 22 hectares already planted on site by local contractors.
This is the first stage in creating a 500-acre community parkland, which will be accompanied by allotments, urban Performance during the year parks, communal gardens, as well as an extensive network All of our sites are subject to extensive pre-construction of cycle and footpaths.
Our ecology assessments include an evaluation of the suitability of habitats for protected species and proposals In many developments the houses come first and the green to mitigate the impact of our developments more generally.
space comes later, but not at Sherford, said Wayne Mitigating measures can include translocating species and Bennett, Sales and Marketing Director - South West region.
An archaeological assessment will also From the outset, the vision for Sherford has been a be undertaken to determine whether a site is likely to contain community integrated into the picturesque Devon archaeological remains and any mitigating actions that may countryside.
We are committed to honouring this and the be required.
woodland and parkland is our foundation, taking shape well ahead of building work.
We work closely with local authorities to retain and protect trees wherever possible and provide mature environments for local wildlife populations.
Where trees are removed, we aim to provide a Priority for 2016 net improvement to the number of habitats, through planting and Continue to support the development of sustainable and the inclusion of bird and bat boxes and other wildlife habitats.
Community and infrastructure improvements Community Objective Develop sustainable and desirable homes, positively Aim contributing to existing communities.
To add value to the communities we operate in.
Performance during the year As part of our land acquisition programme, during the year KPI 2015 2014 we have committed to provide 56.8 million of improvements Affordable housing to infrastructure, facilities and local communities which 848 704 completions both support the forthcoming developments and the wider local area.
These improvements are agreed with local S. 106 CIL commitments 56.8m - stakeholders and depend on the priorities in each local areas.
Typically, improvements relate to: Education commitments 31.6m - open space, including wildlife habitats, sports facilities, communal gardens and allotments: Affordable housing road improvements, including access to developments and Our objective improving junctions in the local area: and To deliver mixed tenure developments that meet local needs community buildings, such as community centres and and facilitate community cohesion.
Performance during the year An important element of any community is the provision of During the year we continued to build on our positive education and, in conjunction with the relevant local authority, relationships with registered social landlords to help provide we ensure that appropriate provision is made for all of our affordable housing that meets the needs of local communities.
During the year we have committed to provide Of our 3,934 units 2014: 3,635 completed in 2015, 848 were 31.6 million towards new primary and secondary school sold to registered social landlords, representing 22% of the places, which will not only support the new developments but homes we sold 2014: 704 and 19%.
also meet demands in the wider local community.
Priority for 2016 Priority for 2016 Work with local stakeholders to identify community priorities Continue to develop our strategic partnerships with registered social landlords.
for improvements on our new sites.
Supply chain Charity Our objective Our objective To be the preferred partner for our sub-contractors and suppliers.
Support good causes and encourage our staff to participate in charitable events.
Performance during the year Performance during the year We work with suppliers at national, regional and local levels and have a number of Group wide supply agreements in place We encourage each of our regional businesses to positively for the provision of materials.
We seek to engage with all contribute to the communities that they are working in.
suppliers in a proactive and responsible manner.
Each of our Initiatives can include making donations, sponsorship or sites is subject to a tender process for sub-contracted works providing assistance to complete projects.
In addition, our in which we encourage local businesses to take part, which in regional offices encourage staff to participate in national turn can create employment opportunities in the local area.
charitable events and make donations to good causes, such as Children in Need and MacMillan Coffee Morning.
We recognise that cash flow is a key part of running a business As an incentive for customers to complete our feedback in our supply chain and have implemented weekly payment questionnaires we also offer to make a donation to Children runs to ensure our suppliers are paid promptly.
Priority for 2016 The Group also supports The Fifty Foundation, a charity that Continue to build on our relationships and support our provides small grants to retired Lendlease and Bovis Homes staff sub-contractors and suppliers.
who need financial assistance for home repairs or adaptations.
38 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility.
Priority for 2016 Community Continue to encourage and support our staff in their fundraising efforts for local good causes.
The Centre of attention Teaming up with the local playgroup in Bude!
Work was completed in 2015 on a new 1 million community centre as part of the Coopers Edge community near Brockworth, Gloucestershire, where Bovis Homes have a number of developments.
Jeremy Cook, Associate Commercial Director - Western region, said: Were proud of what the Consortium is creating at Coopers Edge, and delighted at how quickly a Supporting urban environment work in Great Barr strong community spirit has developed alongside the new homes and infrastructure.
This new community centre is a symbol of that spirit and a real milestone in the life of this development.
It is the latest in a host of fantastic new facilities being provided for local residents, such as play areas and sports pitches, that are making Coopers Edge so popular.
The new single-storey centre built by the consortium of builders at Coopers Edge provides three multi-use rooms, storage, disabled access, changing and kitchen facilities as well as a double height hall for a range of activities.
Externally, the building is reflective of the local area with Cotswold stone in use throughout.
Staging an information event at Stanton Cross Strategic report approval The strategic report outlined on pages 2 to 43, incorporates the financial highlights, the chairmans statement, the strategic review, the chief executives review, the financial review, the risks and uncertainties review and corporate social responsibility review.
By Order of the Board Earl Sibley Group Finance Director 19 February 2016 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 39.
40 | Annual report and accounts | Strategic report | Corporate social responsibility | Strategic report Corporate social responsibility Abbey Vale Evesham Bovis Homes Group PLC | 41
