Strategic report We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-conformance and take Employees disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2015 our businesses dismissed 132 employees for non-conformance with our code of conduct or BPs performance depends on having a highly skilled, unethical behaviour 2014 157, 2013 113.
This excludes dismissals of staff motivated and talented workforce that reflects the diversity of employed at our retail service stations.
the societies in which we operate.
com codeofconduct for more information.
In addition to our code of conduct, we have policies on a variety of related Our goal is to create an environment of inclusion where our people are issues, including anti-bribery and corruption, political donations and treated with respect, dignity and without discrimination.
We aim to develop the capabilities of our workforce with a focus on the skills required to maintain safe and reliable operations.
Anti-bribery and corruption Bribery and corruption are significant risks in the oil and gas industry.
We We are reducing activity in response to the current low-oil price have a responsibility to our employees, our shareholders and the countries environment and some of this has resulted in job losses.
and communities in which we do business to be ethical and lawful in all our dealings.
Our code of conduct explicitly prohibits engaging in bribery and corruption in any form.
Our group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all BPoperated businesses.
The policy governs areas such as the inclusion of appropriate clauses in contracts, risk assessments and training.
We provide training to those employees for whom we believe it is most relevant, for example, depending on the nature or location of their role or in response to specific incidents.
Lobbying and political donations We do not use BP funds or resources to support any political candidate or party.
Employees rights to participate in political activity are governed by the applicable laws in the countries in which we operate.
For example, in the US, BP provides administrative support to the BP employee political action committee PAC to facilitate employee involvement and to assess whether contributions comply with the law and satisfy all necessary reporting requirements.
Tax and financial transparency BP is committed to complying with tax laws in a responsible manner and An employee at our service station in Twyford, UK.
We are increasing the to having open and constructive relationships with tax authorities.
BP footprint of our retail presence in many European countries and actively supports efforts to increase public trust in tax systems.
We engage in recruiting in these markets.
initiatives to simplify and improve tax regimes to encourage investment and economic growth.
BP employees a Number of employees at 31 December 2015 2014 2013 BP will start to disclose information on payments to governments on a Upstream 21,700 24,400 24,700 country-by-country and project basis in 2016.
The disclosure is required under the revenue transparency provisions contained in the EU Downstream 44,800 48,000 48,000 Accounting Directive, which was recently brought into effect in UK law.
Other businesses and corporate 13,300 12,100 11,200 We are awaiting the finalization and adoption of SEC rules under the US Total 79,800 84,500 83,900 Dodd-Frank Act.
Service station staff 15,600 14,400 14,100 As a founding member of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative Agricultural, operational and EITI, BP works with governments, non-governmental organizations and seasonal workers in Brazil 4,800 5,300 4,300 international agencies to improve transparency and disclosure of Total excluding payments to governments.
We support governments efforts towards service station staff EITI certification in countries where we operate and have worked with and workers in Brazil 59,400 64,800 65,500 many countries on implementation of their EITI commitments, including a Reported to the nearest 100.
For more information see Financial statements Note 34.
Australia, Azerbaijan, Indonesia, Iraq, Norway, Trinidad & Tobago, the UK We aim to develop the capabilities of our workforce with a focus on the and US.
skills required to maintain safe and reliable operations.
com tax for BPs approach to tax.
current low oil price environment, we are reducing activity and simplifying the way we work.
Some of this has resulted in job losses.
Our employee headcount at the end of 2015 was 4,700 lower than the previous year.
Our total upstream workforce including employees and contractors is now 20% smaller than it was in 2013, with a reduction of around 4,000 expected in 2016.
We are aiming for an upstream workforce of approximately 20,000 by the end of 2016.
We expect to reduce our downstream workforce roles by more than 5,000 by the end of 2017 compared with 2014, excluding service station staff and the reallocation of around 2,000 global business services staff from Downstream to Other businesses and corporate in 2015.
By the end of 2015, we had already achieved a reduction of more than 2,000.
The group people committee, chaired by the group chief executive, has overall responsibility for key policy decisions relating to employees and governance of BPs people management processes.
In 2015 the committee discussed longer-term people priorities, reward, progress in our diversity and inclusion programme, employee engagement, and improvements to our training and development programmes.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 49 Attracting and retaining the right people Employee engagement The complex projects we work on require a wide range of specialist skills Managers hold regular team and one-to-one meetings with their staff, from the capability to explore for new sources of energy through to those complemented by formal processes through works councils in parts of required for transporting and distributing hydrocarbons safely around the Europe.
We seek to maintain constructive relationships with labour world.
We have a bias towards building capability and promoting from unions.
within the organization and complement this with selective external Each year, we conduct a survey to gather employees views on a wide recruitment.
In 2015 90% of senior leadership roles were recruited from range of business topics and identify areas where we can improve.
We track how engaged employees are with our strategic priorities using We decided to maintain graduate recruitment in 2015, albeit at a reduced our group priorities index, based on questions about their perception of BP level, with a total of 298 graduates joining BP during the year 2014 670, as a business and how it is managed in terms of leadership and standards.
We have worked to maintain our visibility in the graduate job This measure fell to 69% in 2015 2014 72%, 2013 72%.
market to help us attract the best recruits, and provide them with high Our survey results show a strong increase in understanding and use of the quality early development opportunities.
For the second consecutive year code of conduct to guide behaviour and that employees remain clear BP was the highest ranked energy-sector company in the UK in The Times about compliance with safety procedures, standards and requirements.
However, as expected in the current low oil price environment, the In 2015 46% of our graduate intake were women and 41% were from proportion of employees responding that they feel more confident about outside the UK and US.
BPs future than they did the previous year has declined.
We also saw a decline in scores related to development and career opportunities.
Building in-house capability We provide a broad range of development opportunities for our people We understand that employees have concerns about the consequences from on-the-job learning and mentoring through to online and classroomof the lower oil price.
We have established additional communications based courses.
channels to help address these concerns and support employees through our restructuring processes.
For example, our executive team has been Through our internal academies, we provide leading technical, functional, holding additional face-to-face town hall meetings.
In our upstream compliance and leadership learning opportunities.
We have six academies, business we have introduced a dedicated inbox for queries and regular focusing on our operating management system, petrotechnical skills, listening sessions between frontline staff and management, with a downstream, midstream, leadership, and functional skills, including finance commitment to follow up on any issues raised.
Share ownership Diversity We encourage employee share ownership and have a number of As a global business, we aim for a workforce representative of the employee share plans in place.
For example, under our ShareMatch plan, societies in which we operate.
We set out our ambitions for diversity and which operates in more than 50 countries, we match BP shares our group people committee reviews performance on a quarterly basis.
We also operate a group-wide discretionary Our aim is for women to represent at least 25% of group leaders our share plan, which allows employee participation at different levels globally most senior managers by 2020 and we are actively seeking qualified and is linked to the companys performance.
female candidates for our board.
For more information on the composition of our board, see page 56.
Workforce by gender Numbers as at 31 December Male Female Female % Board directors 12 3 20% Group leaders 350 81 19% Subsidiary directors 1,099 179 14% All employees 54,581 25,234 32% A total of 23% of our group leaders came from countries other than the UK and US at the end of 2015 2014 22%, 2013 22%.
We have continued to increase the number of local leaders and employees in our operations so that they reflect the communities in which we operate.
This is monitored at a local, business and national level.
Inclusion Our goal is to create an environment of inclusion and acceptance.
For our employees to be motivated and perform to their full potential, and for the business to excel, our people need to be treated with respect and dignity and without discrimination.
We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and reward for all employees regardless of ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender and gender identity, age, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or any other characteristic protected by applicable laws.
Where existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide continued employment and training wherever possible.
50 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
