interest in the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
Conventionally, all developments, such as stricter environmental laws or enforcement costs, benefits, rights, obligations, liabilities and risks incurred in carrying policies, or future events at our facilities, on the group, and there can be out joint arrangement or co-ownership operations under a lease or no assurance that material liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the licence are shared among the joint arrangement or co-owning parties future.
For a discussion of the groups environmental expenditure see according to these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of joint page 233. arrangement or co-owned property and hydrocarbons to which the joint A significant proportion of our fixed assets are located in the US and the arrangement or co-ownership is entitled is also shared in these EU.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations significantly proportions.
To the extent that any liabilities arise, whether to affect BPs operations.
Significant legislation and regulation in the US governments or third parties, or as between the joint arrangement and the EU affecting our businesses and profitability includes the parties or co-owners themselves, each joint arrangement party or following: co-owner will generally be liable to meet these in proportion to its United States ownership interest.
In many upstream operations, a party known as the operator will be appointed pursuant to a joint operating agreement to The Clean Air Act CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel carry out day-to-day operations on behalf of the joint arrangement or specifications and other aspects of our production, distribution and co-ownership.
The operator is typically one of the joint arrangement marketing activities.
Stricter limits on sulphur in fuels will affect us in future, as will actions on greenhouse gas GHG emissions and other parties or a co-owner and will carry out its duties either through its own air pollutants.
The revised lower ambient air quality standard for ozone, staff, or by contracting out various elements to third-party contractors or finalized by the Environmental Protection Agency EPA in October service providers.
BP acts as operator on behalf of joint arrangements 2015, as well as proposed new restrictions on methane and volatile and co-ownerships in a number of countries where it has exploration organic emissions and on gas flaring, will affect our US operations in and production activities.
States may also have separate, stricter air emission laws in Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be addition to the CAA.
contracted out to third-party service providers who have the relevant The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and expertise and equipment not available within the joint arrangement or Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other the co-owning operators organization.
The relevant contract will specify things, imposing renewable fuel mandates and imposing GHG the work to be done and the remuneration to be paid and will typically emissions thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as set out how major risks will be allocated between the joint arrangement California also impose additional carbon fuel standards as well as Low Emission Vehicle LEV and Zero Emission Vehicle ZEV standards or co-ownership and the service provider.
Generally, the joint imposed on vehicle manufacturers.
These regulations will have an arrangement or co-owner and the contractor would respectively allocate impact on fuel demand and product mix in California and those states responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each other for adopting LEV and ZEV standards.
harm caused to and by their respective staff and property.
Depending on The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other effluent the service to be provided, an oil and gas industry service contract may discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge also contain provisions allocating risks and liabilities associated with permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls pollution and environmental damage, damage to a well or hydrocarbon and preventative measures.
reservoir and for claims from third parties or other losses.
The allocation The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the of those risks vary among contracts and are determined through generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated negotiation between the parties.
with our operations and can require corrective action at locations In general, BP incurs income tax on income generated from production where such wastes have been disposed of or released.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and activities whether under a licence or PSA.
In addition, depending on Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a range of other cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or taxes, levies and assessments, including special petroleum taxes and operated a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or arranged revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas production profits and for disposal of a hazardous substance at a site.
BP has incurred, or is activities may be substantially higher than those imposed on other likely to incur, liability under the CERCLA or similar state laws, activities, for example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, Norway, the UK, the including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
BP is also US, Russia and Trinidad & Tobago.
subject to claims for remediation costs under other federal and state Environmental regulation laws, and to claims for natural resource damages under the CERCLA, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 discussed below and other Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, emission controls federal and state laws.
CERCLA also requires notification of releases of including control of vehicle emissions, climate change programmes hazardous substances to national, state and local government and regulation of unconventional oil and gas extraction under a number agencies, as applicable.
In addition, the Emergency Planning and of environmental laws may have a significant effect on the production, Community Right-to-Know Act requires notification of releases of sale and profitability of many of BPs products.
designated quantities of certain listed hazardous substances to state There are also environmental laws that require BP to remediate and and local government agencies, as applicable.
The Toxic Substances Control Act regulates BPs manufacture, import, restore areas affected by the release of hazardous substances or export, sale and use of chemical substances and products.
hydrocarbons associated with our operations or properties.
These laws The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety and may apply to sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that it health requirements on BP operations along with significant process previously owned or operated, or sites used for the disposal of its and safety management obligations, requiring continuous evaluation and other parties waste.
See Financial Statements Note 22 for information improvement of operational practices to enhance safety and reduce on provisions for environmental restoration and remediation.
workplace emissions at gas processing and refining facilities.
A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings against In May 2012, the US adopted the UN Global Harmonization System certain BP group companies under environmental laws could result in GHS for hazard classification and labelling of chemicals and products, monetary or other sanctions.
Group companies are also subject to with the modification of the Occupational Safety & Health environmental claims for personal injury and property damage alleging Administration OSHA Hazard Communication Standard.
This required the release of, or exposure to, hazardous substances.
The costs BP to reassess the hazards of all of its chemicals and products against new GHS criteria as adopted or modified by OSHA and warning labels associated with future environmental remediation obligations, and safety data sheets were updated accordingly by 1 June 2015. governmental proceedings and claims could be significant and may be The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport of material to the results of operations in the period in which they are BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, petrochemicals recognized.
We cannot accurately predict the effects of future and other hydrocarbon liquids.
234 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
