Corporate governance Overall the 2015 evaluation concluded that the external auditor priorities for change.
The review concluded that the committee had performance had either improved or remained consistent in key areas with performed effectively.
Areas of focus arising from the evaluation included the previous year.
Areas with high scores included independence, continuing broader segment and business reviews in the committees objectivity and the quality of delivery of the audit.
Areas of suggested focus 2016 agenda, examining how areas of overlap between the committee and for the auditors included audit team turnover and more liaison between the SEEAC in terms of financial and operational risk could be managed and BPs own audit function and the external auditors, with the intent that suggestions for further committee training and committee visits.
improved planning could prevent duplication.
There was also feedback that the technical knowledge and experience of the audit team remained strong.
Safety, ethics and environment assurance The committee held private meetings with the external auditors during the committee SEEAC year and the chair met privately with the external auditor before each meeting.
Auditor appointment and independence The committee considers the reappointment of the external auditor each year before making a recommendation to the board and shareholders.
It assesses the independence of the external auditor on an ongoing basis and the external auditor is required to rotate the lead audit partner every five years and other senior audit staff every seven years.
No partners or senior staff associated with the BP audit may transfer to the group.
The current lead partner has been in place since the start of 2013.
Audit tendering During the year the committee reviewed the groups position on its audit services contract and examined a number of options regarding the timing of tendering for BPs external audit, including the mandatory rotation of the groups audit rm, taking into account the UK Corporate Governance Code and the reforms of the audit market by the Competition and Markets Authority CMA and the European Union.
Chairmans introduction The committee concluded that the best interests of the group and its The SEEAC has continued to monitor closely and provide constructive shareholders would be served by utilizing the transition arrangements challenge to management in the drive for safe and reliable operations at outlined by the Financial Reporting Council and retaining BPs existing audit all times.
This included the committee receiving individual reports on the rm until the conclusion of the term of its current lead partner.
The companys management of highest priority group risks in marine, wells, committee intends that the audit contract will be put out to tender in 2016 pipelines, explosion or release at our facilities, and major security incidents.
so that a decision can be taken and communicated to shareholders at BPs The committee also undertook a number of eld visits as well as AGM in 2017.
It is expected that the new audit services contract would be maintaining its schedule of regular meetings with executive management.
We received final reports from the independent experts we engaged in BP has complied throughout 2015 with the provisions of The Statutory Upstream Carl Sandlin and Downstream Duane Wilson.
They provided Audit Services Order 2014, issued by the CMA.
valuable insights and advice on many aspects of process safety and we are Non-audit services grateful to them for their work.
BPs policy on non-audit services states that the auditors may not perform We were pleased to welcome Sir John Sawers to the committee in July.
non-audit services that are prohibited by the SEC, Public Company John brings valuable experience and insight from his time in government Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB and UK Auditing Practices Board service.
Paul Anderson The audit committee approves the terms of all audit services as well as Committee chair permitted audit-related and non-audit services in advance.
The external auditor is only considered for permitted non-audit services when its Role of the committee expertise and experience of the company is important.
A two-tier system The role of the SEEAC is to look at the processes adopted by BPs for approval of audit-related and non-audit work operates.
For services executive management to identify and mitigate significant non-financial relating to accounting, auditing and financial reporting matters, internal risk.
This includes monitoring the management of personal and process accounting and risk management control reviews or non-statutory audit, safety and receiving assurance that processes to identify and mitigate such the committee has agreed to pre-approve these services up to an annual non-financial risk are appropriate in design and effective in implementation.
For all other services which fall under the permitted services categories, approval above a certain financial amount must be Key responsibilities sought on a case-by-case basis.
Any proposed service not included in the The committee receives specic reports from the business segments as permitted services categories must be approved in advance either by the well as cross-business information from the functions.
These include, but audit committee chairman or the audit committee before engagement are not limited to, the safety and operational risk function, group audit, group commences.
The audit committee, chief financial officer and group ethics and compliance, business integrity and group security.
The SEEAC controller monitor overall compliance with BPs policy on audit-related and can access any other independent advice and counsel it requires, on an non-audit services, including whether the necessary pre-approvals have unrestricted basis.
The categories of permitted and pre-approved services are outlined in Principal accountants fees and services on page 245.
At a joint meeting with the audit committee, the SEEAC reviewed the general auditors report on the system of internal control and risk During the year, the committee reviewed the groups policy on auditmanagement for the year in preparation for the boards report to related and non-audit services and it was determined that transfer-pricing shareholders in the annual report see Risk management and internal services should be moved into the category of work requiring approval control on page 93.
In that meeting the committees also reviewed the group from the audit committee chairman or the full committee.
audit programme for the year ahead to ensure both committees endorsed Committee review the coverage.
The committees worked together, through their chairs and secretaries, to ensure that the agendas did not overlap or omit coverage of The audit committee undertakes an annual evaluation of its performance any key risks during the year.
In late 2015 the committee used an online survey and externally facilitated interviews to examine governance issues such as committee processes and support, the work of the committee and BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015 71 Independent expert Upstream Members Mr Carl Sandlin continued in his role as an independent expert to provide Paul Anderson Member since February 2010: committee chair further oversight regarding the implementation of the Bly Report chairman since December 2012 recommendations.
He formally reported directly to the SEEAC twice in 2015 and presented detailed reports on his work, including reporting on a Alan Boeckmann Member since September 2014 number of visits made to company operations around the world: he also Frank Bowman Member since November 2010 met in private with the chair and other members of the committee during the year.
He reported that all 26 recommendations in the Bly Report were Antony Burgmans Member since February 2004 completed by the end of 2015.
He gave his final report to the SEEAC in Cynthia Carroll Member since June 2007 January 2016 and his engagement ceased in February 2016.
We thank him for his work with the committee since 2012.
Ann Dowling Member since February 2012 Process safety expert Downstream John Sawers Member since July 2015 Mr Duane Wilson nalized his engagement with the committee in his role as process safety expert for the Downstream segment.
He completed his Meetings and attendance work with segment management to monitor and advise on the process safety culture and learnings across the segment.
He submitted his final There were six committee meetings in 2015, plus an additional five joint report to the SEEAC in January 2015 and completed his engagement in meetings with the audit committee.
All directors attended every meeting April 2015.
The committee thanks him for his work, including on process for which they were eligible, with the following exceptions: safety culture.
Alan Boeckmann did not attend the committee meeting on Reports from group audit, group ethics and compliance and the 13 May 2015 due to prior commitments.
business integrity functions Cynthia Carroll did not attend the committee meeting on The committee received quarterly reports from each of these functions.
In 2 December 2015 due to a conflicting board meeting.
addition, both the head of group audit and the group ethics and compliance In addition to the committee membership, all SEEAC meetings were officer met in private with the chairman and other members of the attended by the group chief executive, the executive vice president for committee during the year.
safety and operational risk S&OR and the head of group audit or his Field trips delegate.
The external auditor attended some of the meetings and was In June members of the committee visited Trinidad to examine both the briefed on the other meetings by the chair and secretary to the offshore facilities the Cassia platform and the onshore liqueed natural committee, as did the group general counsel and group ethics and gas terminal Atlantic LNG.
In November the chairman and other compliance officer.
The committee scheduled private sessions for the committee members visited operations at the Khazzan gas eld committee members only without the presence of executive development in Oman: in December the chairman and other members of management at the conclusion of each meeting to discuss any issues the committee and the board visited the Rotterdam renery in the arising and the quality of the meeting.
In all cases, the visiting committee members received Activities during the year briengs on operations, the status of local operating management Safety, operations and environment system OMS implementation and risk management and mitigation.
Committee members then reported back in detail about each visit to the The committee received regular reports from the S&OR function, including quarterly reports prepared for executive management on the groups committee and subsequently to the board.
health, safety and environmental performance and operational integrity.
Committee review These included quarter-by-quarter measures of personal and process For its 2015 evaluation, the committee examined its performance and safety, environmental and regulatory compliance and audit findings.
effectiveness through a questionnaire and interviews by external Operational risk and performance forms a large part of the committees facilitators.
Topics covered included the balance of skills and experience agenda.
among its members, the quality and timeliness of information the During the year the committee received specic and separate reports on committee receives, the level of challenge between committee members the companys management of risks in marine, wells, pipelines, explosion and management and how well the committee communicates its activities or release at our facilities and major security incidents.
The committee and findings to the board.
reviewed these risks and their risk management and mitigation in depth with relevant executive management.
SEEAC focus in 2015 GCE operations risk reports.
External auditor assurance of sustainability reporting.
Quarterly reports on HSE performance and operational integrity.
Group audit assurance of system of internal control.
S&OR audit assurance as part of group audit.
Field trips led by the SEEAC including visits to Monitoring of Trinidad, Oman and Rotterdam renery.
External and operations and internal audit reporting System of internal Review of effectiveness of BPs system of Explosion or release at facilities.
control and risk Risk reviews internal control and risk management.
management Quarterly group audit reports.
Quarterly significant allegations and Pipeline incident.
Quarterly ethics and compliance reports.
Ethics and compliance function remit.
Principal risks, viability and significant failings and weaknesses.
Undertaken jointly with the audit committee.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
