Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee Key activities in 2015 CSR governance and compliance considering Group risks in the countries that are of potential concern from a human rights perspective, and reviewing the measures and controls in place to mitigate those risks: reviewing the Groups EHS strategy, measures, targets and performance data: reviewing the progress of the Groups leaf strategy, aimed at enhancing farmers livelihoods and sustainable agriculture: reviewing the potential reputational impact arising from incidents Karen fide Segundo ofnon-compliance with the Standards of Business Conduct: Chairman of the CSR Committee monitoring adherence to the Groups International Marketing Principles IMP : CSR Committee current members Karen fide Segundo Chairman Dr Pedro Malan reviewing the Groups Youth Smoking Prevention YSP activities and analysis of their global reach and impact: and Sue Farr Dr Richard Tubb Savio Kwan reviewing the Groups Corporate Social Investment strategy, plans and activities.
Attendance at meetings in 2015 Sustainability planning and reporting Member Attendance Eligible considering the Sustainability reporting plan for 2015 and 2016: Name since to attend reviewing the Groups Focus report for publication in early 2016: and Sue Farr 2015 2 2 Savio Kwan 2014 2 2 assessing progress against the Groups sustainability goals Dr Pedro Malan 2015 2 2 and commitments.
Karen fide Segundo 2008 2 2 Group Sustainability Agenda Dr Richard Tubb 2013 2 2 Our Sustainability Agenda is an integral part of delivering the Group Notes: strategy.
The Sustainability Agenda aims to build shared value for our 1.
The Committee held two meetings in 2015.
consumers, our shareholders and our stakeholders.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Director, Operations, regularly attend meetings by shared value underpins our whole approach.
invitation but are not members.
Senior managers responsible for Corporate Affairs and, on occasion, the Director, Legal & External Affairs, also attend the meetings butare not members.
The Groups Sustainability Agenda covers the three key areas that have the greatest significance to our business and our stakeholders.
For the Committees terms of reference see These are: www.
com governance harm reduction: we are committed to researching, developing and commercialising a range of innovative tobacco and nicotine products to enable adult consumers to have a choice of less risky alternatives Role toregular cigarettes: The CSR Committee monitors and reviews: sustainable agriculture and farmer livelihoods: we are committed to the Companys management of CSR and the conduct of business working to enable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply in accordance with our Statement of Business Principles, making our tobacco leaf, benefiting rural communities and the environment: appropriate recommendations to the Board on CSR matters: and the effectiveness of the Groups strategy for, and management of, corporate behaviour: we are committed to operating to the highest significant social, environmental and reputational issues: standards of corporate conduct and transparency, benefiting government, consumers, the environment and our people.
the Groups sustainability plans and activities: and the effectiveness of CSR governance including, on an exceptional For information on our greenhouse gas emissions see basis, reports from the regional Audit and CSR Committees.
the sustainability section of our Strategic Report on pages 2021.
64 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Upholding high standards and supporting Sustainability reporting humanrights The Company has produced independently assured reports since 2001 and believes this long history of reporting demonstrates A central part of being a sustainable business is operating with integrity a serious commitment to transparency, corporate responsibility and responsibility.
Effective governance is critical to ensuring that we and sustainability.
live up to our principles and standards and also that we deliver on our Sustainability Agenda.
We have clear policies and standards in place Our sustainability reporting aims to provide focused and integrated that set the standard for the way we do business and how we behave.
sustainability communications for our stakeholders across different formats.
This includes an annual Sustainability Summary, regular Focus The Groups Statement of Business Principles sets out the expectations Reports and a dedicated online performance centre all independently for responsible management of the Groups business.
It was developed assured by Ernst & Young LLP.
in 2002 in consultation with stakeholders, supported by the Institute of Business Ethics.
The Sustainability Summary is published at the same time as the Companys Annual Report and covers our performance for the The Statement comprises three principles Mutual Benefit, Responsible year across the key focus areas of our Sustainability Agenda.
This is Product Stewardship and Good Corporate Conduct and 18 Core complemented by our online Sustainability Performance Centre Beliefs explaining each principle in more detail.
covering progress against our goals, data charts and our reporting against the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 indicators.
To view our Statement of Business Principles visit www.
com governance Our Sustainability Focus Reports each cover specific topics and provide stakeholders with more in-depth information on the areas that interest Our Standards of Business Conduct are an integral part of the Groups them most.
governance and, together with our Business Principles, underpin our commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility.
While the To view our Sustainability Summary and Focus Reports visit Statement of Business Principles sets out our beliefs and values as an www.
com sustainability organisation, the Standards of Business Conduct apply those values and principles to specific situations that may arise in day-to-day External recognition business life.
As a result of the Groups progress in embedding sustainability We have a long-standing commitment to human rights, and it is practices into its day-to-day business, the Group received notable our core belief that fundamental human rights, as recognised by external recognition in 2015.
It maintained its industry leadership the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, should be respected.
position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI and was included We are now strengthening our approach in line with the UN Guiding for the 14th consecutive year.
The Companys overall score was 83%, Principles on Business and Human Rights.
The first step was the consolidating our position as industry leader.
We achieved industry publication, in 2014, of a new Human Rights Policy as part of our leadership in nine of the 20 categories.
revised Standards of Business Conduct, which covers areas such as The Indices track the economic, environmental and social performance child labour, freedom of association and forced or bonded labour.
of leading  companies worldwide and are based We are also committed to promoting human rights in our supply chain on the cooperation between Dow Jones Indices and RobecoSAM, and to support this we are developing an integrated and systematic asustainability investment specialist.
management approach to human rights due diligence.
This includes In RobecoSAMs Sustainability Yearbook we were named industry our recent publication of a new Supplier Code of Conduct, which leader and placed in the highest Gold Class category.
The Yearbook defines the minimum standards we expect, including those covering lists the worlds most sustainable companies in each industry as human rights.
determined by their score in the DJSI Assessment.
Towards the end of 2015, a number of allegations were made We were also listed as a component of the STOXX Global ESG Leaders regarding historic misconduct in Africa.
Although the Group was indices, an innovative series of environmental, social and governance aware of and had looked into some of the allegations in the past, given ESG equity indices owned by Deutsche Brse the German Stock the high standards to which we hold ourselves and the number and Exchange.
This index model allows investors to understand which nature of the allegations of which the Group is now aware, the Board factors determine a companys ESG rating and why these factors approved the appointment of an external law firm to conduct a full are important.
investigation and instructed that it be kept updated on the progress and findings of this investigation.
In addition, the Company was rated the 12th most empathetic company in the world in a global survey and was also shortlisted for three Building Public Trust Awards, a UK-wide recognition award.
For information on our approach to human rights see the sustainability section of our Strategic Report on pages 2021.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 65
