Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Business environment Principal Group risk factors Overview The principal risk factors that may affect the Group are set out on the following pages.
Each risk is considered in the context of the Groups strategy, as set out in this Strategic Report on pages 8 and 9.
Following a description of each risk, its causes and potential impact on the Group are summarised.
We also explain the activities we are undertaking to mitigate each risk.
The Group has identified, actively monitors In addition, the Board has considered Cautionary statement and is taking action to mitigate many different the foreign exchange rate exposure risk.
The Strategic Report and certain other risks.
This section does not include them all, An assessment of the current exposure to sections of this Annual Report contain but focuses on those risks that the Directors transactional foreign exchange rate risk has forward-looking statements that are believe to be the most important after resulted in an increase to the risk rating.
subject to risk factors associated with, assessment of the likelihood and potential A solvency and liquidity risk has also been among other things, the economic and impact on the business.
Not all of these risks disclosed as its assessment underpins our business circumstances occurring from are within the control of the Group and Viability Statement on page 38, although the time to time in the countries and markets other factors besides those listed may affect mitigation plans reduce the likelihood of the in which the Group operates.
It is believed the Groups performance.
Some risks may risk occurring.
that the expectations reflected in these be unknown at present.
Others, currently statements are reasonable but they may regarded as immaterial, could become With regard to the Groups revised operating be affected by a wide range of variables material risks in the future.
model and single IT operating system, that could cause actual results to differ another key risk factor reported in 2014, in The risk factors listed in this section and materially from those currently anticipated.
view of the good progress on deployment, the activities being undertaken to mitigate the Board considers that a combined risk, them should be considered in the context focusing on sustainability and benefits of the Groups internal control framework.
realisation, describes more accurately the This is described in the section on risk context of the current risk.
As such, the risks management and internal control in the have been merged into a new combined risk, corporate governance statement on page 61. which is the failure to achieve sustainability of This section should also be read in the the operating model and its benefits.
This is context of the cautionary statement set out not considered to be a principal risk and as on the right.
aresult it is not reported again this year.
Assessment of Group risk The risk of failure to lead the development of During the year, the Directors have carried the Next Generation Products category has out a robust assessment of the principal risks also been removed from the principal risk and uncertainties facing the Group, including factors as progress has been made in several those that would threaten its business model, areas which mitigates the risk.
future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Details of the principal risks are set out in the The principal risks facing the Group have following tables.
remained broadly unchanged over the past year, particularly with regard to the principal risks included in Marketplace, Excise and tax, Operations, Regulation and Litigation risk factors.
The Board has considered the risks associated with the inability to recruit required talent and the loss of existing talent.
The impact of the risk has increased to reflect the challenge posed by negative perceptions of the sustainability and corporate reputation of a tobacco business and is now listed as aprincipal risk facing the business.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 37
