BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility 30 Strategic Report We aim to deliver sustainable growth and value for allofour stakeholders, be they patients, employees, investors, or the communities where we live and work.
Byfostering a culture of trust, integrity, and responsibility, our business will continue to play a role in improving the health and well-being of people around the world.
People Approach BTG values the contribution of every employee, and the part In this section of our Annual Report we summarise our each employee plays in bringing products to market that approach and key data for the areas of social responsibility, deliver benefits to patients.
environment, and governance that are most relevant to our The results of this years employee engagement survey, business.
Additional information is available on the conducted by the Great Place to Work institute, showed that Responsibility section of our website www.
com 79% of employees feel BTG is a great place to work, up from responsibility, which has recently been expanded to include 70% in 2012.
The survey results showed improvement across information on a broader range of Social, Environmental and all 17 categories measured as compared with our 2012 results, Governance topics.
including a 6% improvement in employee engagement and a 6% improvement in our overall Trust Index score.
Social responsibility This year we have made particular investments in Values ContinuousLearning, including dedicated oversight of Our values and the behaviours that support them are an ourLearning & Development programmes, the addition of two important differentiator for BTG.
These are a core part of our Learning & Development Specialists, and specific training hiring, development, and performance review processes.
As offerings tailored to the needs of our business.
Our induction the Company grows, we invest time and effort in activities to programme, Bridging The Gap, is now offered globally to deliberately preserve our culture and ensure that our values introduce new employees to the business and reinforce our are reflected in the way we do business.
We have also expanded enrolment in our Management Development Programme for new managers.
Integrity Our online HR system, MyHR, now helps facilitate the We will build trust in all interactions by displaying performance appraisal process for all employees, which consistently high standards of ethical and professional business practice.
includes both self-assessment and evaluation by an employees manager.
Accountability Despite the growing number of employees and facilities, and We will accept that we have an obligation to take responsibility and account for our actions.
our expanding geographic footprint, we continue to provide opportunities for all employees to interact with the Leadership Delivery Team, including monthly companywide meetings hosted by We will always strive to deliver what we have committed the CEO that connect employees around the world by video to do, on time and to the highest standard.
Teamwork BTG is an equal opportunities employer with a diverse We will collaborate to achieve common goals through employee population, and we are committed to fostering an mutual respect, openness and flexibility.
inclusive environment and an atmosphere of mutual respect.
Openness We will be open in giving, accepting and sharing ideas, knowledge, help, advice and constructive challenge.
Continuous learning We will encourage individuals and teams to generate new ideas, share knowledge, and adapt business practices to be the best in our industry.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Strategic Report 1 Mainfranken a childrens hospice association.
A complete list Data on gender of the charities which we supported during the financial year Number of females who are: 2014 15 2013 14 can be found on our website.
Employees 522 47% 424 50% Senior Managers 78 41% 39 30% Environment Leadership Team Members 3 23% 2 18% Board Directors 2 25% 2 25% We continue to monitor all of our sites worldwide using 1 This data excludes PneumRx, which will be included in next years report.
theEnvironmental Health and Safety EHS Management Standards we introduced in 2012.
These include carbon emissions, waste production, water and electricity usage and Charitable giving lost time accidents.
This years data does not reflect facilities We see charitable giving as an important way to support and and production related to the PneumRx acquisition completed build relationships with the communities in which we live and in January of 2015, which will be included in next years report.
Each year Corporate Charities are chosen locally by Our carbon dioxide emissions and electricity usage have employees at each of our major sites.
Wherever possible we increased driven by increases in production, the full utilisation aim to support initiatives that build stronger community of the laboratory and expansion of office space in Camberley, relationships in the locations where we operate.
During this increased headcount in our Philadelphia office, an expanding fiscal year we donated 41,000 2013 14: 23,363 to sales force, and the first year of reporting for the recently charitablecauses.
acquired facilities in Ottawa and Seattle.
Efficiency projects In June of 2014 BTG supported 45 employees from across all atour production sites have helped mitigate the increase in four UK sites who took part in Trekfest, a 31 mile bike ride and consumption in other non-producing parts of the business.
54 mile trek across the Brecon Beacons in Wales.
Participants The increase in waste is largely driven by a full year of raised over 11,000 for Cancer Research UK.
Partly counteracting this In January of 2015, fires in South Australia personally increase, our Farnham and Camberley facilities now use impacted many in our Turretfield and Martindale facilities, awaste contractor that does not deliver to landfill, but prompting employees to hold regular fundraising events for insteadburns any waste that cannot be recycled in a local Country Fire Service CFS units.
BTG also authorised a processthat produces electricity.
The rise in water donation of surplus feed to local farmers who lost their crops consumption is in line with our increased production and hay stocks due to the fires and who were struggling to andgrowing number of employees.
feed their animals Our rate of lost time accidents remains steady and in Other employee activities in the year raised funds for charities aneffortto be open and honest in our reporting we have including Cancer Research UK, American Cancer Society, enhanced this metric by additionally reporting the number StJudes Childrens Research Hospital, Leukaemia & ofwork-related illnesses.
Lymphoma Society, and Kinderhospiz Sternenzelt Data 2014 15 2013 14 % Change 15 Total CO equivalent emissions generated tonnes 6,145 5,229 18 2 CO equivalent emissions scope 1 1,367 1,576 -13 2 CO equivalent emissions scope 2 4,778 3,653 31 2 Total production units 234,939 201,228 17 Total kg CO generated per production unit 26 26 0 2 Total employees 1,121 895 25 Total kg CO generated per employee 5,481 5,842 -6 2 Total electricity consumed MWh 8,251 6,973 18 Total electricity consumed MWh per production unit 0.0351 0.0347 1 6 Total waste from our production and research sites metric tonnes 573 471 22 Waste recycled 258 128 101 Hazardous waste incinerated or other treatment 114 112 2 Waste to landfill 200 136 47 7 Total water consumption at production sites cubic metres 34,123 28,900 18 8, 9 9 Total lost time accidents and illnesses days per 100,000 hours worked 0.69 0.50 38 Notes This data excludes facilities and production related to PneumRx, which will be included in next years report.
1 GHG protocol used for data.
Scope 3 emissions have not been calculated.
2 Covers 100% of BTG controlled operations, third-party manufacturing has not been included in either the carbon dioxide generated or the intensity figures.
3 Data from operational sites with more than 20 employees based on energy bills.
4 Emissions from field based and smaller offices estimated based on average US consumption as this is where majority are based, 3% of data is estimated.
5 Conversion factors used: Defra DECC 2014.
6 Waste from our manufacturing and research sites in Australia, USA and UK.
7 Water consumption measured at our production sites in Australia, USA and UK.
8 Includes all accidents and illnesses where one or more days are lost.
UK companies usually only report when three or more days are lost.
This figure also includes accidents where people have returned to work and were given alternative duties as they were not able to fulfil their normal roles.
9 Work-related illnesses included for the first time in 2015.
A like for like comparison of lost time attributed only to accidents show rate increase of 10% 0.55 vs 0.50.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility continued 32 Strategic Report The Sunshine Act and Open Governance PaymentsProgramme To achieve our goals and maintain the trust and confidence BTG is committed to upholding and maintaining standards ofall of our stakeholders, we must ensure the management that promote transparency of our relationship with healthcare ofour business is underpinned by our values and providers.
BTG collects, tracks, and reports payments to ethicalstandards.
healthcare professionals HCPs and organisations in Code of Conduct accordance with the US Physician Payment Sunshine Act Our Code of Conduct encourages each employee to take of2009.
This year the Center for Medicare and Medicaid individual responsibility for behaving ethically and compliantly, Services began displaying data regarding the financial abiding by the letter and spirit of our Code in everything we do.
relationships between manufacturers and physicians All BTG employees worldwide, within all regions and functions andhospitals via their Open Payments website.
are trained annually in the principles, policies and procedures Human rights and anti-slavery described in the code and the ethical behaviours that are BTG has publicly committed to respecting numerous expected of them.
Our MyHR system tracks adherence to international standards including the United Nations Universal code-related training requirements.
The latest version of our Declaration of Human Rights.
We obtain certifications and full Code of Conduct is available on the Responsibility section thirdparty verification for key suppliers, conduct audits, of our website.
andprovide training on standards and procedures for Anti-bribery and corruption employees and contractors to identify and eradicate slavery Our anti-bribery and corruption policy prohibits BTG orhuman trafficking, were it to exist in our direct supply chain.
employees, and those acting on their behalf, from offering These efforts address the requirements of the California anything of value as a bribe or inducement to make decisions Transparency in Supply Chain Act.
The policy applies to individuals and organisations worldwide including those working within governments and those serving public interests, healthcare professionals, patients, suppliers, charities and advocacy groups.
These policies are designed to promote compliance with the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, and other local law equivalents.
BTG employees are expected to report potentially corrupt behaviour and BTG maintains an Open Door policy to encourage open lines of communication.
In no event will an employee suffer any retaliation for making a good faith report of a suspected violation.
We also maintain a third party hotline for confidential reporting of illegal and unethical activity.
Incremental Improvements Taking steps to increase efficiency and reduce environmental impact We continue to invest in projects across the business designed toimprove our efficiency.
For example, our Wales production facility has retrofitted the Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning HVAC system with high efficiency variable speed motors that use less electricity.
In Frankfurt our engineers worked closely with the FDA to find an acceptable way to lower the airflow inour clean rooms at night when they are not in use, saving electricity while maintaining the carefully controlled environment required bythe regulator.
These projects demonstrate our commitment torunning our business in a responsible, sustainable way, andeachsmall step helps reduce our impact on the environment.
