Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility We continue to conduct our operations in a sustainable manner while also seeking to encourage our suppliers to maintain high levels of corporate responsibility within their own businesses.
Business context We are a focused and successful Highlights international distribution and outsourcing group with operations across the Americas, All directors, managers, sales representatives and purchasing staff Europe and Australasia.
By outsourcing once again undertook corporate responsibility training.
the purchasing, consolidation and delivery of a broad range of everyday items, our Our supplier audit team, based in China, continued to grow and refine customers are able to focus on their core its CR audit programme.
businesses, achieve purchasing efficiencies We have for the first time provided information on our Scope 3 and savings, free up working capital, emissions comprising emissions from third party carriers, business improve distribution capabilities, reduce flights, waste and electricity transmission losses.
carbon emissions and simplify their internal administration.
We do not manufacture any products but as part of our business strategy we source 382 16% and procure branded, own brand and unbranded products globally.
These Asian supplier Reduction in accident products are then consolidated into our CR audits severity rate extensive global warehouse infrastructure, giving our customers a one-stop-shop solution to help reduce or eliminate the hidden costs of self-distribution and reduce their environmental impact.
We also offer several delivery options to ensure our customers get their products when and where they are needed.
Sourcing We source everyday essential non-food items for a number of market sectors including foodservice, grocery, cleaning & hygiene, retail, safety and healthcare.
We liaise closely with our suppliers so that we are able to offer a full range of items which satisfy our customers demands, including offering alternative products which reduce their environmental impact and, as a result, their effect on climate change.
Our quality assurance quality control department based in Shanghai monitors and works with our key suppliers in Asia to ensure that appropriate corporate responsibility CR standards are in place.
Consolidation We have an extensive footprint of warehouse facilities across four continents.
Our broad range of products are therefore never far from where they need to be, allowing us to facilitate our customers needs quickly and easily, as well as reducing the number of deliveries to our customers, thereby cutting fuel usage, carbon emissions and administration.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 39 Distribution With our fleets of delivery vehicles and third party carriers, we are able to get products to our customers in a timely manner.
Our flexible delivery service allows our customers to increase the efficiency and competitiveness of their operations.
As well as day-to-day operations, our business relies on developing strong and stable relationships with all of our stakeholders.
We believe in managing our business with integrity, making sustainable, long term decisions.
Strategy, framework and materiality Where it has been shown to be We believe that positive actions with respect cost-effective, we have installed to CR are not only desirable in their own energy efficient lighting, making right but are also of potential economic and commercial benefit to the Group.
A strong use of technical advancements reputation for CR can provide business available which reduces our advantage and contribute to shareholder energy consumption.
Conversely, perceived weakness in CR may damage our reputation and cause We continue to increase waste risks.
Bunzls good practice in sustainability segregation facilities and staff has been recognised by its FTSE4Good are encouraged to work towards listing and CDP score.
Details of our strategy zero waste to landfill both in and framework in relation to CR can be found warehouses and offices.
on the Bunzl plc website in the Responsibility section at www.
40 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Materiality Business conduct code of ethics Understanding our material issues is The Groups business conduct code of ethics important to enable us to manage our Sustainable business policy is disseminated to every employee as a CR related impacts and stakeholder guide to how employees are expected to practice is important to relationships effectively.
It also helps to conduct themselves both from a corporate focus our resources, engagement and Bunzl and we continue to and individual perspective.
The policy clearly reporting activities by addressing those states that employees should avoid conflicts refine our processes and issues most material to our business.
of interest, provides guidance on the giving Our current areas of focus are: operations to ensure and receiving of gifts and entertainment, prohibits illegal payments as well as political ongoing improvements in this business conduct code of ethics: donations and reinforces the need to comply training to ensure everyone understands with laws, rules and regulations, protect area.
Our ability to measure our standards: confidential information and company assets the improvement in our and maintain high standards in relationships employees: engaging through clear with our customers and suppliers.
performance relies on the communication using a variety of channels, as well as provision of training and availability of high quality No material breaches of our business development opportunities: conduct code of ethics policy were recorded data for our key indicators.
health & safety: improving safety in our in 2015.
However, some minor incidents warehouses and on our vehicles and Philip Rogerson relating to employee conduct, such as theft ensuring that everyone takes personal Chairman or misuse of the Groups property, did occur responsibility for this: and were dealt with during the normal course of business using Group human environment climate change: reducing resources HR policies and procedures.
our and our customers impacts on the 17 2014: nine calls letters were received environment by reducing carbon emissions through our confidential whistle blowing and promoting the reduction of waste and process, Speak Up, none of which raised providing innovative products to meet our any issues of material concern.
customers needs, for example environmentally friendly packaging: During 2015, all directors, managers, sales community: providing support by representatives and purchasing staff once encouraging employee fundraising, again undertook all of the CR e-learning donating to charitable projects that modules which had been developed and benefit our employees and the enhanced since their original launch.
There communities we work in and by donating are now a total of 11 modules which provide stock and cash to charitable organisations an overview of the business conduct code of and good causes: and ethics policy and anti-bribery issues such as facilitation payments and gifts and suppliers: responsible sourcing, entertainment, and include two new modules working as partners with our suppliers on competition law and cybersecurity.
In to encourage high levels of CR and ethical addition we refreshed the posters which are trading initiatives.
displayed in all our locations to advertise our whistle blowing process Speak Up.
These issues are governed by a policy framework, which is approved and monitored by the Board, with implementation at a business area level.
We continually review the performance of the fleet as part of our operational efficiency strategy, including the use of routing software.
We have also recently fitted cameras to our vehicles in the UK to improve safety, especially when they are manoeuvring.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 41 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Key performance Performance What we said we What we did What we plan to do in 2016 indicators would do in 2015 2013 2014 2015 Employees Engaging with our employees with clear communications and the provision of training and development opportunities Employee turnover: 7.5% 10.5% 10.8% Monitor turnover and Turnover levels have remained relatively flat in UK & Ireland, Australasia Monitor turnover and take action where Voluntary take action where and Continental Europe, increased somewhat in Latin America but reduced necessary.
In our view the movement in voluntary turnover tends to reflect changing economic conditions in the countries in which we operate rather than any intrinsic reasons related to the Group.
Gender diversity: Women at 9% 10% 11% Consider development The number of women at senior management level has once again Extend the training network further and senior management level and training opportunities increased slightly to 11% 2014: 10%.
In February 2015 another female encourage wider participation.
non-executive director was appointed to the Board.
We continued to promote a womens development and training network across the Group which is proving to be popular.
Employee engagement 74% Implement actions as The results of the employee survey have been absorbed and, as appropriate, Prepare to undertake the employee engagement index score appropriate to address working parties have been set up to address issues raised.
survey either at the end of 2016 or during the first issues raised in the half of 2017.
The employee engagement survey is run every two to three years and 2014 survey.
therefore data was only available in 2014.
Health & safety Improving safety in our warehouses and on our vehicles Reduction in accident -4% -19% -7% Reduce the Group The accident incidence rate reduced by 7% and the accident severity rate Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by incidence rate % change accident incidence rate reduced by 16%.
The accident incidence rate improved substantially in 5% from 2015. by 3% from 2014. excess of target in North America and Continental Europe.
In UK & Ireland, year-on-year Australasia and Latin America there was an increase in both incidence and severity rates.
In UK & Ireland three significant incidents due to unsafe conditions on customer premises accounted for 42% of days lost in that business area.
The inclusion for the first time of recently acquired companies in Latin America has increased the incidence and severity rates.
The increase in Australasias incidence and severity rates show no specific causal trends.
Reduction in accident -1% -3% -16% Reduce the Group Reduce the Group accident severity rate by severity rate % change accident severity rate 5% from 2015. by 5% from 2014. year-on-year Establish programmes in each business area to identify behaviours that promote safety as a value.
Environment climate change Reducing our impact on the environment by reducing carbon emissions and waste and improving packaging, etc.
Carbon emissions: Scope 1 15.5 15.7 14.7 Reduce emissions by The 2015 figure represents a 27% reduction in emissions versus our 2010 Reduce emissions by 29% against 2010 Tonnes of CO e per m 25% from 2010 base line baseline data 6% from 2014.
Fuel for transportation remains our highest baseline data 3% from 2015.
2 revenue data 3% from 2014. source of C0 e emissions contributing c. 84% of Scope 1 and 61% of 2 combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Of those emissions relating to transportation, more than 75% are generated by our fleet of commercial vehicles.
We continually review the performance of the fleet as part of our operational efficiency strategy.
Carbon emissions: Scope 2 5.3 5.2 5.4 Reduce emissions by The 2015 figure represents an 11% reduction in emissions versus our 2010 Reduce emissions by 13% against 2010 Tonnes of CO e m 17% from 2010 base line baseline data but an increase of 4% from 2014.
As a result of our ongoing baseline data 2% from 2015.
2 revenue data 2% from 2014. acquisition programme and extensions to existing sites and operating hours to service growth within the business, units of electricity consumed across the Group have increased.
Lighting is our highest area of electricity consumption and we continue to review the return on investment on low energy lighting at all our sites worldwide as the technology progresses.
Total Scope 1 & 2 20.8 20.9 20.1 Reduce emissions by 23% The 2015 figure represents a 24% reduction in emissions versus our 2010 Reduce emissions by 25% against 2010 emissions Tonnes from 2010 base line data.
of CO e m revenue 2 Suppliers Responsible sourcing, working as partners with our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical trading initiatives Asian supplier CR audits 275 323 382 Continue to work with The audit team has continued to grow and has further refined its CR audit Undertake a supplier risk assessment in and assessments covering key suppliers to programme to categorise suppliers appropriately in relation to their relation to enforced labour slavery.
environmental and social encourage them to meet standards and practices.
of audits Bunzls CR standards.
assessments carried out Community Providing support to our local communities through employee fundraising, matched funding and donations of stock and cash to charitable organisations Charity donations 000s 580 572 631 Continue to support Bunzl supported a variety of projects for charities supporting healthcare and Continue to support relevant charities.
For example, we have funded a mobile first aid vehicle for St John Ambulance and a seed collection trip for Kews Millennium Seed Bank.
42 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Key performance Performance What we said we What we did What we plan to do in 2016 Total workforce indicators would do in 2015 2013 2014 2015 Gender split at 31 December 2015 Employees Engaging with our employees with clear communications and the provision of training and development opportunities Male 8,809 Female 4,941 Employee turnover: 7.5% 10.5% 10.8% Monitor turnover and Turnover levels have remained relatively flat in UK & Ireland, Australasia Monitor turnover and take action where Voluntary take action where and Continental Europe, increased somewhat in Latin America but reduced necessary.
In our view the movement in voluntary turnover tends to reflect changing economic conditions in the countries in which we Bunzl currently operates in 29 countries operate rather than any intrinsic reasons related to the Group.
We are a service provider, not Gender diversity: Women at 9% 10% 11% Consider development The number of women at senior management level has once again Extend the training network further and a manufacturer and, as such, our business senior management level and training opportunities increased slightly to 11% 2014: 10%.
36% relies heavily on the skills and experience exclusively for women.
We continued to of our employees.
We pride ourselves on promote a womens development and training network across the Group the fact that we run our businesses locally which is proving to be popular.
We do not unfairly Employee engagement 74% Implement actions as The results of the employee survey have been absorbed and, as appropriate, Prepare to undertake the employee engagement discriminate and we respect human rights.
index score appropriate to address working parties have been set up to address issues raised.
survey either at the end of 2016 or during the first We seek to recruit the right people who are issues raised in the half of 2017.
The employee engagement survey is run every two to three years and passionate about our business and to provide 2014 survey.
therefore data was only available in 2014. opportunities for people to progress within Health & safety the organisation on the basis of their skills, Improving safety in our warehouses and on our vehicles Senior management experience and aptitude.
We believe that to get the best from people we need to Gender split at 31 December 2015 Reduction in accident -4% -19% -7% Reduce the Group The accident incidence rate reduced by 7% and the accident severity rate Reduce the Group accident incidence rate by respect each other and encourage honest, incidence rate % change accident incidence rate reduced by 16%.
The accident incidence rate improved substantially in 5% from 2015. straightforward communication.
Our by 3% from 2014. excess of target in North America and Continental Europe.
In UK & Ireland, Male 352 year-on-year Australasia and Latin America there was an increase in both incidence and acquisition pipeline continues to be a Female 43 severity rates.
In UK & Ireland three significant incidents due to unsafe valuable source of management talent for conditions on customer premises accounted for 42% of days lost in that the Group and the completion of a number business area.
The inclusion for the first time of recently acquired companies of acquisitions during the year has brought in Latin America has increased the incidence and severity rates.
The 11% further highly skilled people into Bunzl.
increase in Australasias incidence and severity rates show no specific Details of the Groups workforce diversity causal trends.
at 31 December 2015 are set out in the Reduction in accident -1% -3% -16% Reduce the Group Reduce the Group accident severity rate by charts opposite.
severity rate % change accident severity rate 5% from 2015. by 5% from 2014. year-on-year Establish programmes in each business area to Human rights identify behaviours that promote safety as a value.
89% Bunzl adheres to the Universal Declaration Environment climate change of Human Rights UDHR and upholds the Reducing our impact on the environment by reducing carbon emissions and waste and improving packaging, etc.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work policies, defined by the International Labour Carbon emissions: Scope 1 15.5 15.7 14.7 Reduce emissions by The 2015 figure represents a 27% reduction in emissions versus our 2010 Reduce emissions by 29% against 2010 Board composition Organization, as well as local laws.
The Tonnes of CO e per m 25% from 2010 base line baseline data 6% from 2014.
2 7 male, 2 female revenue data 3% from 2014. source of C0 e emissions contributing c. 84% of Scope 1 and 61% of majority of countries in which Bunzl operates 2 combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Of those emissions relating to have their own laws banning child and forced transportation, more than 75% are generated by our fleet of commercial labour and promoting human rights.
We continually review the performance of the fleet as part of our Average number of employees monitor the age of our workforce across the operational efficiency strategy.
world to ensure compliance and identify any By business area Carbon emissions: Scope 2 5.3 5.2 5.4 Reduce emissions by The 2015 figure represents an 11% reduction in emissions versus our 2010 Reduce emissions by 13% against 2010 potential succession issues.
In the US some Tonnes of CO e m 17% from 2010 base line baseline data but an increase of 4% from 2014.
2 of our operations, particularly in the north North America 5,097 revenue data 2% from 2014. acquisition programme and extensions to existing sites and operating east, are represented by trade unions with hours to service growth within the business, units of electricity consumed Continental Europe 3,762 which we have negotiated pay contracts.
across the Group have increased.
Lighting is our highest area of electricity UK & Ireland 3,636 consumption and we continue to review the return on investment on low Bunzl does not restrict any of its employees Rest of the World 2,549 energy lighting at all our sites worldwide as the technology progresses.
in any of the countries in which it operates Total Scope 1 & 2 20.8 20.9 20.1 Reduce emissions by 23% The 2015 figure represents a 24% reduction in emissions versus our 2010 Reduce emissions by 25% against 2010 from joining a trade union if they wish to emissions Tonnes from 2010 base line data.
We also work closely with our 17% of CO e m revenue 2 suppliers to ensure that they at least 34% meet internationally recognised minimum Suppliers requirements for workers welfare and Responsible sourcing, working as partners with our suppliers to encourage high levels of CR and ethical trading initiatives 24% conditions of employment, as defined by Asian supplier CR audits 275 323 382 Continue to work with The audit team has continued to grow and has further refined its CR audit Undertake a supplier risk assessment in the International Labour Organization or and assessments covering key suppliers to programme to categorise suppliers appropriately in relation to their relation to enforced labour slavery.
the Ethical Trading Initiative, and do not 25% environmental and social encourage them to meet standards and practices.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 43 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued depends on leadership that promotes safe working practices and we have introduced a number of activities to demonstrate this.
Bunzl has developed a Safety Guide for Managers based on Bunzls accident history, an app which can be accessed via tablets or mobile phones to assist senior managers in raising safety issues while visiting sites.
Environment Health & safety Further, substantial investment was Health and safety remains a priority for approved for our web-based accident climate change Bunzl and it is our aim that no employee or reporting system in order to provide We seek to minimise the contribution of other person should be injured as a result of improved analysis and management reports.
Bunzl operations to climate change and to our operations.
Incidents relating to manual The Safety Observations Programme, prevent other harmful effects of Bunzls handling, slipping and tripping and impact mentioned in last years report, has been operations on the environment.
Our facilities with equipment objects remain the highest implemented in North America and UK & operate worldwide to Group standards and causes of accidents and days lost.
Together Ireland and is also being adopted in we promote environmental awareness these three hazards represent 90% of Continental Europe.
Investment in additional throughout the business.
Our branch incidents and 82% of days lost.
Regretfully Environment, Health & Safety management network serves to minimise the effects in the 2015 reporting period there were two resource has occurred in Continental Europe of extreme local climate conditions.
Bunzl fatalities 2014: two both resulting from which has resulted in safety improvement had no significant environmental incidents impact with Bunzl vehicles.
One incident programmes being implemented in each in 2015. involved the death of a delivery driver who company based on self-assessment.
North was struck by a reversing vehicle on Bunzl America has launched Safety Call to Action, Direct water usage is not a significant premises and the other was the death of a a communication programme led by Division environmental impact for our business as third party whose vehicle was in collision Presidents to enhance safety behaviours it is principally confined to staff hygiene and with an overturned Bunzl trailer.
In addition, UK & Ireland has workplace cleaning purposes.
We continue to invest in premises and equipment to developed a series of bespoke safety to measure water across a sample of our improve the safety of our employees and posters with supporting Tool-box Talks.
sites worldwide and our usage per employee others.
The majority of the vehicles in our In Australasia the Safety Walk programme is is largely unchanged.
As we do not commercial fleet already have on-board aimed at promoting a safe working culture by manufacture any of the goods we sell, water telematics that enable us to improve demonstrating the engagement of business discharges, apart from internal sanitation, safety.
We are currently piloting the use of leaders.
The programme involves senior are limited to rainwater run-off from the telematics in France Hygienes commercial managers visiting sites and talking with yards of Group locations where the water fleet which is the largest fleet in Continental individual employees about safety related is treated by interceptors in accordance Europe.
Following a successful pilot study, matters that affect their particular site.
UK & Ireland is fitting its commercial fleet with cameras and audible turn left and The Bunzl Risk Management Committee, Our reported environmental data includes reversing warnings with audible visual side which reviews Group safety performance all businesses that are subsidiaries of the sensors.
It is expected that the fitting of such on a quarterly basis, will focus on this issue Group for financial reporting purposes, devices will significantly improve safety and going forward.
Details of our performance with the exception of those recent reduce vehicle damage.
from 2012 to 2015 are provided in the bar acquisitions where there has been charts below.
The accident data provided is insufficient opportunity for the businesses Many of the incidents we experience for the whole Group including acquisitions to adopt our reporting guidelines, in which result from human error and or failure to made during the relevant reporting period.
case the revenue from the businesses is implement identified safe working practices.
not included when calculating the indexed We recognise that world-class safety emissions.
We integrate our environmental reporting with our financial reporting through the annual budget review.
Incidence rate Severity rate Businesses provide commentary on their Average number Average number environmental performance and set targets of incidents of d ays lost 143 3,686 142 3,640 3,596 for the following year.
Environmental data per month per per month per 100,000 employees 100,000 employees is reviewed and agreed by the relevant 3,021 115 Finance Directors.
107 The EU Energy Efficiency Directive came into effect during 2015.
UK & Ireland appointed Lead Assessors in May 2015 and the Companys submission was completed ahead of the deadline.
Recommendations for energy reductions are currently under 12 13 14 15 12 13 14 15 review and the findings will be shared across the Group through the Bunzl Risk Management Committee.
We have completed Incidence and severity rates for previous years have been restated to address inconsistencies in the definition of a review of the businesses in Continental employee numbers.
The number of time lost accidents and days lost are unchanged from those previously reported.
Europe within the scope of the Directive Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 47.
2014 data was also assured as and plans are in place to comply with the detailed in the 2014 Annual Report.
44 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility requirements of the relevant legislation Scope 2: As a result of our ongoing Waste in each country.
A number of locations in acquisition programme and extensions UK & Ireland, Australasia and Continental to existing sites and operating hours to Tonnes per m revenue Europe renewed their ISO 14001 service growth within the business, units of Incinerated waste accreditation.
Currently, measured by electricity consumed across the Group have General waste revenue, approximately 27% of the Groups increased.
North America has seen a 9% Recovered recycled 0.2 operations are ISO 14001 accredited.
increase in electricity consumption resulting 0.2 waste from a combination of extensions to a 0.8 All acquisitions made prior to the 2015 number of sites, longer operating hours and 0.8 0.1 0.1 reporting year are now providing the purchase of new materials handling environmental data.
Revenue relating equipment to reduce manual handling risks.
0.9 0.7 1.8 to more recent acquisitions which are not In Australasia, Bunzl Industrial Services 1.7 yet reporting emissions is excluded.
The BIS has reported for the first time.
BIS is 1.3 reported data covers around 98% of the made up of a number of smaller sites which 1.1 Group by revenue.
is less energy efficient, and accounted for 34% of electricity consumed in Australasia Scope 1: Fuel for transportation remains during the year.
Despite some lighting 12 13 14 15 our highest source of CO e emissions renewal projects in Continental Europe, both 2 contributing c. 84% of Scope 1 and 61% of Continental Europe and Latin America have combined Scope 1 and 2 emissions.
Of those increased consumption due to the effect of with an active global acquisition programme emissions relating to transportation, more acquisitions, together with some increases and business flights are essential for the than 75% are generated by our fleet of in the number or size of sites to provide effective management and growth of our commercial vehicles.
We continually review extra capacity.
In UK & Ireland there was business.
We increasingly use alternative the performance of the fleet as part of our a reduction in consumption as a result means of communication such as video operational efficiency strategy.
This includes of site consolidations and some lighting and telephone conferencing and flights regular replacement and maintenance improvement programmes in office areas.
are justified by business needs and subject of vehicles, mapping of customers against Lighting is our highest area of electricity to authorisation by senior management.
the branch network and optimising routing, consumption and we continue to review the Reduction and segregation of waste the use of vehicle telematics and driver return on investment on low energy lighting continues to be an area of focus and the training programmes.
At Group level at all our sites worldwide as the technology data provided covers approximately 96% diesel consumed by our commercial fleet progresses and continues to improve the of the Group by revenue.
Although we have decreased by c. 1%.
Reductions in UK & efficiency of such lighting.
included this in our Scope 3 calculation, we Ireland and Australasia were partially offset have for transparency continued to provide by slight increases in North America and Scope 3: We have for the first time provided waste data separately as well.
UK & Ireland Continental Europe where fleet sizes have information on our Scope 3 emissions has successfully launched initiatives in the increased due to a combination of acquisition comprising emissions from third party hospitality and catering sector to improve and organic growth.
We have considered the carriers, business flights, waste and recovery and recycling of waste generated use of bio fuels in UK & Ireland but it is not electricity transmission losses.
We are by our customers, including disposable currently viable due to the requirement to aware that there is still work to be done products that we have supplied, by install on-site fuel tanks and concerns about to refine the data which is provided for partnering with our customers and waste compatibility with Euro 6 engines.
France transparency of our emissions, particularly management contractors who specialise Hygiene, which operates the largest in relation to the distribution of products.
commercial fleet in Continental Europe, is The majority of the businesses which have piloting the use of vehicle telematics which been acquired since 2010 do not have their can encourage more fuel efficient driving.
In addition all our businesses, Fuel consumption in Latin America has irrespective of whether they have their own increased by 18% as a result of acquisitions.
fleet, will distribute a proportion of goods by Consumption of gas during the year fell third party carriers where it is more efficient by 5% as slight increases in UK & Ireland and cost-effective to do so.
The bar graph and Continental Europe, due primarily below shows that third party carriers to acquisitions, were more than offset produce the largest part of our Scope 3 by reductions in North America because emissions.
Bunzl is an international company Scope 3 carbon emissions of the less harsh winter weather compared Tonnes of CO per m revenue with 2014.
2 0.1 0.4 Waste 0.1 1.6 Electricity 0.4 Greenhouse gas emissions data for the period 1 October to 30 September 13.0 1.3 transmission Tonnes of CO e 2 11.5 Business travel Base year 2010 2014 2015 Third party carriers Scope 1 95,249 93,641 92,645 Scope 2 28,757 31,204 33,843 Total gross emissions 124,006 124,845 126,488 Total carbon emissions per m revenue 26.3 20.9 20.1 14 15 Included in the external auditors limited assurance scope referred to on page 47.
The data for 2014 was also assured as detailed in the 2014 Annual Report.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 45 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued To assist the business areas, we have our discrepancies have been identified.
The process of improvement via this method is own quality assurance quality control department based in Shanghai whose main principally reliant on the commitment of the suppliers management team owner agent aim is to perform regular audits of our suppliers in Asia to ensure that they meet to ensure that all areas are addressed.
If we have reason to believe that the supplier is international standards, as well as testing the factories production capabilities and not making sufficient or committed progress, this could lead to a suspension in the their quality assurance and quality control Suppliers systems.
Employees terms and conditions of relationship until such time that we are Price is only one factor in our purchasing confident that all areas are being work, customer service capabilities, hygiene decisions and matters such as quality, management systems and their policies and satisfactorily addressed.
Bunzl companies availability, our customers preferences and reserve the right to cease a relationship with practices on environmental issues are also our policies are also taken into account.
Our policy is that all our suppliers a supplier if it is found that unacceptable vast majority of our products are sourced practices are being employed at any sites meet internationally recognised minimum locally by our businesses but many products requirements for workers welfare and used for producing or sourcing Bunzl are sourced elsewhere if it is appropriate to products.
Such practices include use of child conditions of employment, as defined by the do so.
In 2015 less than 20% of our products International Labour Organization or the labour, forced or bonded labour as well as were sourced from lower cost countries.
physical abuse or discipline and intimidation, Ethical Trading Initiative.
During 2015 the Each business area is responsible for team has continued to grow and has further illegal discrimination, wages not meeting implementing appropriate processes to local minimum requirements and not refined its CR audit programme to categorise assess key suppliers compliance with the suppliers appropriately in relation to their providing adequate days of rest.
Since 2015, relevant CR standards and to monitor in order to enhance the processes further, standards and practices.
performance and improvements against any suppliers that are being monitored and such standards.
Bunzl focuses on its key assessed due to identification of a serious Suppliers who are unable to meet all the suppliers to ensure that they meet the same requirements after an initial assessment breach are now reported to and reviewed CR standards we have set for ourselves.
audit are given the opportunity to comply periodically write to those suppliers that fully within a period which is deemed provide us with 50% of our products by value We continue to liaise with suppliers and appropriate for the circumstances.
If a to update them on our CR aspirations and to serious breach is identified following have refined and introduced a process encourage them to adopt a similar approach.
to ensure that any paper or wood based assessment, an action plan is documented and the supplier is expected to commit to products are manufactured from sustainable sources in compliance with the relevant addressing all the areas where timber regulations.
We continue to support our employees in their charitable fundraising, for example a cycle challenge raising money for Northern Ireland Hospice, as well as supporting projects for healthcare and environmental charities, such as sponsoring Kew Gardens Millennium Seed Bank field trips to the Atacama Desert in Chile to collect seeds from rare plants flowering due to unusual weather conditions.
46 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility processes and controls for managing, External assurance recording and reporting the selected We engaged  LLP information.
This included analysing and PwC to undertake a limited assurance testing over three sites selected on the basis engagement, reporting to Bunzl plc only, of their inherent risk and materiality to the using International Standard on Assurance Group, to understand the key processes Engagements ISAE 3000 Revised : and controls for reporting site performance Assurance Engagements Other Than data and to obtain supporting information.
Community Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Finally PwC performed limited substantive Information and ISAE 3410: Assurance Although Bunzls operations are testing on a selective basis of the selected Engagements on Greenhouse Gas international, our strength is in the local information in relation to one site in Bunzl UK Statements over the three KPIs on page 15 nature of our businesses.
In keeping with & Ireland and multiple sites across Bunzl and the data on pages 44 and 45, in each this ethos, we particularly support the North America to check that data had been case that has been highlighted with the fundraising activities championed by our appropriately measured, included, collated symbol.
They have provided an unqualified employees locally.
This is supplemented and reported.
opinion in relation to the relevant KPIs and by donations made at Group level to charities data and their full assurance opinion is also predominantly in the fields of healthcare Non-financial performance information, available in the Responsibility section of our and the environment to support projects including greenhouse gas quantification in website, www.
often in the communities where our particular, is subject to more inherent operations are based.
Where possible and limitations than financial information.
It is A limited assurance engagement is appropriate, Bunzl also looks to donate stock important to read the selected corporate substantially less in scope than a reasonable free of charge in-kind.
Group wide, Bunzl responsibility information contained in this assurance engagement in relation to both donated a total of 631,000 to charitable Annual Report in the context of PwCs full the risk assessment procedures, including causes during 2015 2014: 572,000.
This limited assurance opinion and the Companys an understanding of internal control, and does not include in-kind donations or Corporate Responsibility Performance the procedures performed in response employee fundraising.
Reporting Guidelines which are also to the assessed risks.
In order to reach available in the Responsibility section their opinion, PwC performed a range of For more information on all of Bunzls of our website.
procedures including making enquiries of CR policies and activities please visit relevant Bunzl management, and evaluating the Responsibility section of our the design of the key structures, systems, website, www.
Risks The Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 36 to 38 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis a number of CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified and these are set out below together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks.
Risk Mitigating factors CR compliance failures Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a variety The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures including those of issues including those relating to inappropriate business practices, relating to anti-bribery and corruption in place throughout the business as accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of waste or well as an established reporting framework.
Regular training in all areas carbon emissions.
of CR takes place using our suite of e-training modules.
Loss of key employees The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on strong The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive packages, customer and supplier relationships which are built up locally.
Stability development opportunities and career progression.
Voluntary staff of key relationship roles amongst the Groups employees is therefore turnover and sickness absence is measured on a monthly basis and important.
employee age profiles are reviewed annually, which enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities unavailability of staff Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than one conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups facilities being affected location, as a result of which the Group usually has the ability to distribute or employees being unable to attend for work.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers non-compliance with good CR practices The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international suppliers The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned multinational across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups key suppliers to adhere organisations with high standards of operations.
Suppliers are monitored to recognised CR standards could affect the Groups reputation.
by the Groups purchasing departments and the quality assurance quality control department based in China audits key suppliers throughout Asia.
The top 50% of suppliers by value of Bunzl spend are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment as previously outlined in this report.
