Corporate responsibility and sustainability 36 Cable & Wireless Communications We set standards of good governance operating in ethical and responsible ways.
Through our corporate social responsibility programmes we positively impact the lives of the people we serve, with particular emphasis on making a difference through education, community development, sports, culture, health, among other areas of focus.
Annual Report 2014 15 37 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Recognised for solid governance and social responsibility... For our efforts in meeting globally recognised standards of good corporate responsibility in all its facets, we were named a continuing member of the FTSE4GOOD Index for the 14th consecutive year, since its inception in 2001.
We have consistently satisfied their stringent criteria which objectively evaluates the corporate social responsibility of globally competitive businesses.
We are proud of our efforts to: Our team members coordinated and served Connecting Communities... meals at a special treat for 100 elderly and reduce our carbon footprint Transforming Lives in Action disadvantaged persons in St. Patrick, Grenada.
From community fish fries, carnivals in maintain good supply chain labour In Jamaica, over 600 homeless persons were city centres, free broadband in schools, standards fed and provided with medical care, as the telemedics in hospitals, CCTV in capitals, LIME Foundation teamed up with the Council observe world class standards to providing school supplies for tomorrows for Voluntary Social Services.
leaders, our corporate social responsibility of human and labour rights LIME St. Kitts & Nevis partnered once again footprint spans every market we serve promote ethical behaviour with Feed the Poor Ministries to provide over Connecting Communities...
Transforming 100 persons with a three-course lunch Lives.
Our brands are interwoven into the counter bribery prepared by an acclaimed local chef.
fabric of the regions we operate and our contribute to the social and economic team members are local ambassadors who Our team members in St Lucia hosted two sustainability of the markets we serve volunteer their time on and off the job, making Christmas luncheons where they fed and us part of the tapestry of our markets.
Our year-long initiatives culminated at For the 15th consecutive year, team Christmas, which is big in the Caribbean, members in St. Vincent and the Grenadines and it provided us with an ideal opportunity hand delivered care packages to needy to touch many lives.
In Anguilla, we partnered recipients across the island, touching with the Tourist Board to supply Christmas several communities.
baskets chock-full of ingredients for Turks and Caicos held a senior citizens gala, wholesome Christmas breakfast and dinner an event that is always highly anticipated on for over 50 families.
The children were the island.
While all these activities reflected delighted to receive special gifts from the our charitable acts during the special season LIME team members.
of giving, we were active throughout the year Antigua shared a Christmas Gift with making an impact on our communities.
unsuspecting unsung heroes representing In the British Virgin Islands, our LIME SMART a wide cross section of the community programme, which focuses on education, including teachers, nurses, and religious culture and performing arts, adopted the leaders.
Enis Scatliffe Primary School and joined the In Barbados, some 57 kids from several 1000 Book Club to promote reading.
We Childrens Homes experienced the most also support health care as our LIME 4 LIFE wonderful time of the year shopping with health and wellness initiative includes major team members to purchase basic personal partnerships with the BVI Cancer Society and items such as shoes, clothing and not the BVI AIDS Foundation.
LIMEs generosity extends to state homes Kids from one to 92 enjoyed the season, for the homeless and persons with disabilities courtesy of the Cayman Islands Motorcycle in Dominica.
We also adopted the Roseau Association, in partnership with LIME Cayman.
Primary School and supported Operation We hosted a Toy Drive for the kids and feted Youth Quake, a programme targeting over 100 senior citizens.
38 Cable & Wireless Communications Left: Cable and Wireless Panama CWP tree planting environmental project.
Below: Once again, CWP emerged among Panamas top three Most Admired Companies and a Great Place to Work.
In Jamaica the work of the LIME Foundation Wellness Forum among other community This year, the Cable & Wireless Panama is well recognised.
From their popular annual development projects.
Foundation continued to expand the reach 6K Run which raises funds for a variety of of technology to different areas of Panama.
We are also supporting Bahamians through charities, LINKs community internet access The Arnulfo Arias School, where more than the BTC Foundation which is a charitable points across several parishes, scholarships, 900 students have access to a high speed trust, established in 2014.
Its 2% shareholding bursaries for needy children, Web Design broadband Internet equipped facility, is one was transferred from Cable and Wireless Summer Camps, environmental projects, of the most recent beneficiaries.
As a non-voting and Internet in schools, to the funding of over a satellite technology pay phone service in the shareholder, the Foundation will receive 18 schools to participate in the Penn Relays Indian reservation of Coront providing fixed, 2% of BTCs dividend payments.
The BTC in Washington DC, we impact lives and make portable, and mobile Internet access.
It is Foundation, which is administered by a dreams come true.
For the past five years we the only means of delivering access to trustee nominated by The Bahamian have staged the regions biggest  across the population Government, will use the dividend payments School initiative in Jamaica dubbed, LIME in this remote area.
to further charitable purposes in The Bahamas Skool Aid.
This US$2 million event touches for the benefit of Bahamians.
Our social telecoms services helped local the lives of over 30,000 persons annually.
government to improve delivery of public Cable and Wireless Panama CWP is listed The Human Entrepreneurship and Assistive services.
We implemented a new electronic among Panamas top three Most Admired Resource Technologies HEART project document management platform at the Companies and a Great Place to Work.
a multi-faceted, revolutionary ICT project National Registry of Panama.
This project We are recognised as proud supporters of designed to positively impact the lives of included the development and configuration community development contributing thousands of Antiguans and Barbudans-is of new software and telecommunication significantly to society through corporate making a significant difference.
Still in Antigua, solutions that will positively impact legal giving, sponsorships, and employee volunteer we have for more than 29 years, maintained security and transparency as well as improve initiatives.
We contribute to programmes that our long standing sponsorship of the LIME the World Bank Groups Doing Business index are consistent with our values and help to Caribbean Secondary Examination Council that indicates how Panama is progressing improve education, narrow the digital divide, CSEC CXC Awards.
towards achieving more economic efficiency provide equal access to telecommunications: and greater ease of doing business.
LIME partnered with the Federal Government as well as promote sports, health, local culture of St. Kitts & Nevis and the Eastern Caribbean and environment.
We are committed to further strengthening Telecommunications Authority ECTEL to our community involvement as we join forces Each year we stage the National Oratory establish GoSKN EDUNET, an e-learning with Columbus to make an even bigger, more Contest, a popular public speaking facility across eight public high schools, all impactful contribution to nation-building in competition, endorsed by the Ministry of powered by LIMEs technology.
Education, which attracts over seven hundred In all these markets we help to close the thousand students from all across the nation.
digital divide and support education through This event has become an integral part of the our free Internet in schools programme.
cultural and educational fabric of the Panama.
In The Bahamas, BTC continue to support Work in bridging the digital divide across Bahamian communities, youth, sports and Panama has been ongoing for the Cable & culture.
We are the US$1 million title sponsor Wireless Panama Foundation since 2003, of Bahamas Junkanoo Carnival and also when we embarked on the free Internet sponsor of the IAAF BTC World Relays classrooms across the country.
Bahamas and the Future Leaders Conference.
We also support the annual Health and Annual Report 2014 15 39 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Above: We are part of the vibrant Caribbean & Latin America culture and our sponsorships power the passion of our customers at several marquee events, including carnivals and other cultural festivals across the region.
Right: Our anticipated annual back-to-school programme, LIME Skool Aid, in Jamaica has become a national event impacting more than 150,000 beneficiaries over the past five years, since its inception.
Here, happy recipients show off their gifts.
Ethics in Business Focus on our People As a continuing member of the FTSE4Good With the acquisition of Columbus International 1 50,000 Index Series and Transparency Internationals Inc. and the subsequent merger of our two Business Integrity Forum, we are committed businesses, we are in the process of Lives impacted by LIME Skool Aid to maintaining high standards of ethical transforming into one combined Group with in Jamaica since its inception five behaviour in all our markets.
We operate fairly a new leadership team and culture.
and with integrity and ensure our team matter of priority, we have placed renewed members are aware of, and act in accordance emphasis on our customers, as well as our with our Code of Conduct as well as our most important asset our people.
As at 31 March, 2015 including the We updated our Anti-Bribery Policy in 2013 Columbus Group 3,597 of the Groups to ensure full compliance with the US Foreign employee base of 8,073 were female.
At the Corrupt Practices Act, as we made the senior management level there were 88 transition to establish our operational hub females or 32% from a total of 276.
were two female directors serving on our Board out of a total of 11 Directors.
We The Board and Executive Team are responsible remain committed to ensuring that regardless for communicating, implementing and of their gender, our employees have equal monitoring adherence to our Code of access to opportunities for career Conduct.
It is a mandatory requirement that enhancement on the basis of merit.
each team member in all our business units reads and signs the Code of Conduct, which includes specific policies covering gifts and hospitality.
As a priority, we also conduct refresher training for team members to ensure full compliance with our Anti-Bribery Policy and Code of Conduct.
Third party suppliers, joint venture and other business partners are also required to operate within the parameters of our Code of Conduct and Anti-Bribery Policy.
Our internal audit team reviews the implementation and monitoring of the Anti-Bribery Policy within the business units as part of the annual internal audit plan.
We maintain timely reviews of our business integrity risks and ensure appropriate mitigation procedures are in place.
40 Cable & Wireless Communications We are proud of our employment practices Emissions and electricity consumption for a best practice approach in line with the and our track record of adhering to the 2014 15 reporting period are relatively EC Directive 95 46 EC on protection of tenets of globally accepted standards of consistent with 2013 14, with a small individuals with regard to the processing diversity, equal opportunity in recruitment, increase in both items driven by the of personal data and on the free movement development, remuneration and acquisition of Sonitel, resulting in a change of such data.
At the same time we monitor advancement.
Our employment policies also in the profile of sites measured.
Additionally, existing and incoming legislation within the comply with local requirements within our LIME carried out significant office clean out jurisdictions where our businesses operate markets and are aligned with relevant activities as part of its site rationalisation and work with the local teams to adapt our standards on the employment, training and project, generating a material increase in practices as appropriate.
We have updated career development of disabled people.
landfilled waste, and a consequent increase all of our Information Security Policies based in carbon emissions for the Caribbean region.
on international standards to apply across all Employee communication and engagement Our Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG emissions constitute regions in which we operate and will update remain high on our agenda.
Over the past year 68.44 tonnes CO e per million US dollars of these annually.
Our Global Data Privacy Policy 2 Phil Bentley led 23 Team Talk Live!
sessions revenue: as compared with 63.83 tonnes also helps to drive the appropriate behaviour in 12 countries with more than 2,100 team CO e per million US dollars of revenue in with regards to secure handling of customer 2 members.
These face-to-face, interactive 2013 14. and employee data.
team engagement sessions created opportunities for open and honest discussions We continue to work on reducing travel We continue to work hard on increasing the through the use of videoconferencing and about business performance, the acquisition scope of our pre-contract assessments of of Columbus, employee Net Promoter Score other technologies and ways of working, all external partners who process our team though business travel remains necessary to eNPS, voting for our values and general members and customer information.
These feedback about our business.
some extent due to our geographical spread assessments include checking our partners and the importance of interpersonal relations practices and certifications with regards to We support the Universal Declaration of in our business.
Our travel emissions this year data security and privacy protection.
Human Rights and the International Labour were 2,857 tonnes CO e as compared with 2 Organisation Core Conventions, and we seek Additionally, we seek to impose contractual 4,370 tonnes CO e last year.
The principal 2 at all times to operate our businesses in obligations on our partners to ensure they reason for this reduction was the compliance with them.
implement and maintain appropriate data establishment of our operational hub in security measures at each stage of a project Miami, which has located our hub team Health and safety remain of paramount life cycle.
We continue to place members closer to our operating businesses and reduced the travel distance required to particular emphasis on improving the health We now have a dedicated team in place and safety practices of our team members visit our markets.
These travel emissions equipped and ready to respond to cyber constitute 1.63 tonnes CO e per million who carry out network infrastructure and security threats who are able to identify 2 fieldwork activities, which present a greater US dollars of revenue as compared with and address system vulnerabilities across 2.3 tonnes CO e per million US dollars of health and safety risk than other areas of the business.
Strategic report The emissions we have reported on, cover all Environment emission sources required under the The Strategic report which is comprised Work continues on improving our Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and of the Overview and Strategic review set environmental performance across the Group.
The out on pages 2 to 41 together with The operation and temperature regulation of method we have used to calculate GHG information incorporated by reference our communications network equipment emissions is the GHG Protocol Corporate into each review, has been approved by continues to be the principal source of our Accounting and Reporting Standard revised the Board and signed on its behalf by power consumption, and consequently, our edition, together with the latest emission order of the Board.
Over the past year we factors from recognised public sources have continued to develop and implement including, but not limited to, the Department Clare Underwood green initiatives.
This included, for example, for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs Defra, Company Secretary the replacement of legacy air conditioning the International Energy Agency IEA, the US 19 May 2015 units in The Bahamas business with new solar Energy Information Administration EIA, the assisted units which are expected to reduce US Environmental Protection Agency EPA air conditioning electricity usage in those sites and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate by as much as 50%.
We have assessed our carbon footprint to be Privacy and Security 119,974 tonnes of CO e based on our Scope 2 1, 2 & 3 greenhouse gas GHG emissions, as Protecting our customers and team compared with 119,549 tonnes of CO e for members data is of primary importance to us.
Our electricity We continue to work hard to build security consumption was 181 million kilowatt hours measures and protection into all of our kWh this year as compared with 175 million business processes and practices which kWh in 2013 14, and our fuel usage was involve the processing of personal data and 33,654 megawatt hours MWh as compared confidential information to ensure compliance with 39,366 MWh in 2013 14. with local legislative or regulatory requirements.
This means raising awareness through training our team members on data privacy and data protection and working with our external partners to ensure robust measures are in place.
In countries where we operate which do not yet have any legislative or regulatory regime to specifically address data protection and data privacy, we take Annual Report 2014 15 41 Our quad play offering: Always on connectivity to satisfy growing customer needs.
42 Cable & Wireless Communications Governance In this section we introduce the Board and explain how our business is governed properly and responsibly.
44-47 Board of Directors 48-58 Directors and corporate governance report 59 Independent Directors report 60-65 Audit Committee report 66-67 Nomination Committee report 68-88 Directors remuneration report 89 S tatement of Directors responsibilities Annual Report 2014 15 43
