Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 56 Our wider corporate responsibility CR Running a resource-efficient We believe that operating responsibly is fundamental business to creating long-term value for all our stakeholders Good environmental management is important to us and we are committed our shareholders, employees, clients, their customers, to playing our part in tackling climate suppliers and the communities in which we work.
We know its important to our clients and it can help Our CR strategy CR leadership and governance us achieve long-term cost savings.
We We consult with both our internal and Accountability for our CR programme take a proactive approach to managing external stakeholders regularly to ensure sits with the Group Board with the and minimising our impacts on the we are addressing their needs and use their Group Finance Director, having overall environment, both direct and indirect.
feedback to inform our decision-making responsibility for our strategy.
Each By doing this we are also managing risk to and to enhance our reporting.
Executive Director is responsible for one our operations, including having business or more priority impact areas.
continuity plans in place, for example, to As our corporate responsibility CR mitigate if there are issues which prevent strategy is directly linked to our business The CR steering group, which includes our employees getting to work.
strategy, information relating to our functional heads from key areas, is social and environmental impact areas responsible for implementing the Groups Managing our impact is integrated throughout this report strategy, providing guidance to the Were largely an office-based business.
including how we manage our people and business units and reporting progress Our main impacts come from carbon our suppliers.
emissions generated from energy use at our sites and through business travel, so We want to continually drive improvement It meets throughout the year to review and this is where we concentrate our efforts.
and have set a number of non-financial challenge the Groups approach, impact We also look to manage our resource use KPIs around each priority impact area, areas and risks and opportunities.
In 2015, and waste management where possible.
measuring and reporting our progress the topics covered were our approach to annually.
the Modern Slavery Act, our supply chain We have an environmental policy outlining management, our new energy reduction our approach and our environmental By managing our business responsibly we programme and various employee management system is based on IS0 reduce risks across our operations.
A number of our businesses information about potential risks and how in the UK and internationally, most we mitigate against them can be found on The Group is supported by a central notably our property & infrastructure page 48.
CR team and a number of employee and customer management operations, networks who ensure that our approach have gained external accreditation where is communicated and embedded across it is appropriate.
The monthly reporting process approximately 22% of our employees also provides a forum through which were based at ISO 14001 accredited sites.
any opportunities and challenges can be escalated and addressed.
We also engage our people to raise awareness of our impacts and in 2015 we held a Green Week campaign highlighting areas where they can take action, focusing specifically on reducing business travel.
We also work with our suppliers to help reduce carbon footprint across our supply chain.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 57 Our wider corporate responsibility continued Business travel Managing our carbon emissions We have green travel plans at a number Weve reported our carbon footprint since of our sites and actively encourage the use 2004 and in 2015, our carbon emissions of video and teleconferencing.
In 2015, we were 124,329 tonnes CO2eq scopes 1, launched our smarter working initiative, 2 and 3 representing a year-on-year encouraging our employees to reduce decrease of 11% 2014: 139,672.
This business travel by promoting video and decrease was down to a dramatic 28% teleconferencing as alternative solutions.
reduction in business travel emissions Over the initial two-month period we 82% reduction in air, 45% reduction in rail reduced our business travel by 45%, and 12% reduction in car emissions, partly reducing our carbon emissions and making as a result of our smarter working initiative.
We have continued to see a reduction in travel during the rest In 2010, we set ourselves a target to reduce of the year.
our carbon intensity scopes 1 and 2 by Employees 4.5% a year.
In 2015, although our carbon emissions for scopes 1 and 2 increased to 88,280 2014: 84,103 due to the Engaging and increase in the growth of our international supporting our people.
operations, our carbon intensity actually decreased to 15.1 from 19.2.
CR strategy Communities and priorities Driving positive change and addressing We focus on four priority areas local need through which have the greatest economic collaboration with impact on our business, are of the clients and partners.
most concern to our stakeholders and which have the potential to support our future business growth.
Suppliers Building successful supplier relationships and a responsible supply chain.
Environment Running a resource efficient business and minimising our impacts.
Timothy, Contact Centre Team Leader Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 58 Our wider corporate responsibility continued Energy usage Client services We set ourselves a target to recycle Reducing energy use in our offices is In addition to minimising our own impacts 80% of our waste at our 20 largest waste a key priority.
With the introduction our property and infrastructure team has producing sites by 2015 and at the end of the Energy Savings Opportunity been working with clients to help manage of 2015 we had recycled an average of Scheme ESOS at the end of 2015, our their environmental impacts, including 81% at these sites.
environment team have reviewed our developing and delivering practical reporting processes and data capture energy solutions resulting in better and We actively encourage recycling and to ensure that we meet our obligations more energy-efficient buildings and have a number of Group-wide schemes ahead of our first energy audit this year.
providing consultancy on flood risk and for paper, consumables such as printer We have set ourselves a new target for water management.
cartridges, mobile phones and redundant 2016 to reduce carbon usage by 10% at IT equipment.
all of the sites that are within the scope Waste management resource use of the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
We do not have a formal Group-wide Although our water usage across our Our environment team have created waste management system in place due sites is not significant, we endeavour to toolkits and will be delivering training to the diverse nature of the sites where conserve this resource.
Where we have to our facilities managers in order to our employees are based.
However, we do direct control over a site, we have made help them implement measures to strive to use our resources efficiently and efforts to reduce our water usage, for achieve these savings.
The ESOS audit avoid generating waste.
example, installing low flush toilets, will also help to identify further energy low flow taps and urinal controls.
We exceeded our target to recycle 80% of our waste at our 20 largest sites by the end of 2015.
Rose, Marketing Manager and Katrina, Marketing Director Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 59 Our wider corporate responsibility continued Summary of performance measures 2015 2014 People Employee retention: KPI Manager retention rate Executive Directors 98% 97% and senior management teams KPI Overall employee retention rate 81% 78% Health and safety accident frequency rate 1.48 1.49 per 1,000 employees RIDDOR Employee diversity: Male female split 41,046 male 55% 34,744 male 51% 33,766 female 45% 33,162 female 49% Male female split for senior management 81 male 80% 73 male 80% executive directors and senior management teams 20 female 20% 18 female 20% Male female split for Board of Directors 7 male 70% 5 male 56% 3 female 30% 4 female 44% 1 Employees from ethnic minority groups 22% 23% Employees working part-time out of total workforce 15% 16% Employees by location: Onshore 78% 86% Offshore 11% 10% Nearshore 11% 4% Suppliers Annually audit all strategic suppliers KPI 100% 100% Environment KPI Total carbon footprint scopes 1, 2 and 3 124,329 tonnes CO2eq 139,672 tonnes CO2eq 2 Carbon intensity for whole Group 15.1 19.2 Conference calls made 534,504 456,707 Undertake environmental compliance site audits twice a year 100% audits completed 100% audits completed Community Total community investment using London KPI 2.3m 2.2m Benchmarking Group methodology Total corporate donations including support for our charity 388k 351k partner and matched funding scheme, other community initiatives and disaster appeals 1 Based on those employees who disclosed their ethnic origin in our annual survey.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 60 Our wider corporate responsibility continued We encourage our employees to support Community and charity initiatives Measuring our impact our programmes and volunteer in their As a responsible business we are We track and measure the value and local communities, using their skills committed to making a positive impact impact of our community investment and experience to make a meaningful in the communities where we work and activities using London Benchmarking difference.
We recognise volunteering deliver services for our clients.
This allows us to understand also brings business benefits, developing in a number of ways as a major employer and evaluate both the business benefits skills, improving morale and retention we contribute to the wider economy, and the social impacts of our activities rates.
In 2016, we will be refreshing creating new jobs and using local suppliers.
and ensure we are achieving our aims.
our volunteering scheme, mapping our We also create tangible benefits for the We estimate that in 2015, our total activities more closely to the core skills local community through our client community investment was 2.3m we want our employees to develop to help work, supporting clients to transform and an increase on last year, based on data them achieve their full potential.
improve their services and delivering cost collection from approximately 45% of savings for the public sector which can be the business.
We continue to work hard We will review our focus for 2016 to ensure spent on improving frontline services.
to increase our visibility of activity across our initiatives are aligned with our business the Group to improve our data capture.
In addition, we will look at our Community initiatives community programmes across our new We aim to go beyond our contractual More information on our programmes businesses outside of the UK, introducing obligations to help improve the social can be found on page 59. new programmes to address local need and economic development of our if appropriate.
We have a number On behalf of the Board: of programmes at both a Group and All our community-related activity business level and align our support to Andy Parker can be found online, visit our website: focus on tackling the key issues in the Chief Executive www.
com responsibility markets that we operate in.
We build Nick Greatorex long-term relationships with charities, Group Finance Director Charity support partnership SMEs and voluntary organisations that We have a corporate charity partnership, work in these areas, supporting them 24 February 2016 chosen by our employees.
Since July 2014, through our community programmes we have been supporting The Princes Trust as well as providing pro bono advice and which works to support disadvantaged mentoring to help build capacity and longyoung people, including those in care.
We leverage our skills, share our expertise and use our workforce to help the Trust We also work collaboratively with our give young people the opportunity to clients, suppliers and local businesses develop life-long skills so that they are on our programmes to help maximise equipped for the future.
In 2015, we our impact on the community.
Through provided pro bono consultancy support building these relationships this can also as well as working with one of our clients help inform our client work.
to provide support on one of the Trusts development programmes and provide career awareness support.
Our employees also fundraise for the charity and have raised over 500k since the partnership began through a number of employee engagement events, matched funding and sponsorship.
