Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 18 Generating profitable, sustainable growth United Kingdom Targeting growth sectors and markets The outsourcing market is well established in the UK and there is considerable headroom Exploring the drivers across the customer and for growth.
In 2015 we commissioned business process management market and the Ovum to review the total addressable UK market for customer management and growth sectors within it.
Ovums research estimates that Capitas total UK addressable market is Capita is the UKs leading provider of 131.7bn per year, of which only 13.7bn technology-enabled customer and was outsourced in 2015 2014: 13bn.
Of business process transformation and this 13.7bn, 72% was in the private sector integrated professional support services, 1 and 28% in the public sector.
with an increasing footprint in Western & Northern Europe.
Our innovative, Our transformational capabilities are technology-led approach puts us at the in strong demand which has led Ovum forefront of the digital revolution currently to again rank Capita as the number one sweeping through the business process BPM vendor by revenue, with 28.4% services sector, enabling our clients to market share in 2015 2014: 26.9%, benefit from our investment in digital a greater share than the rest of the top technologies, big data and analytics, ten vendors combined.
innovative software and skilled people.
Total UK customer management and BPM market pa Public sector 28% Total UK potential market 131.7bn Current outsourced today 13.7bn Private sector 72% 1 Source: Nelson Hall.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 19 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Western & Northern Europe talk with existing and potential clients, In 2015 Capita took a major new step into listening to their needs and developing the German and Swiss market through the potential solutions.
These market experts acquisition of avocis, a leading provider of are supported by our specialist practices German customer customer contact management services who provide expertise in areas including management and BPO in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
digital, behavioural science, analytics, user market forecast The German outsourced Customer experience and service design, which all Management and BPM market alone in help to keep us and our customers at the 2015 was estimated to be worth 22.2bn forefront of their markets.
and is expected to grow by 5.5% annually 1 to 2019.
As we move through 2016 we expect that overall there will be more opportunities Avocis, along with our existing nearshore in the private sector than the public Estimated market operation in Poland, tricontes and sector, reflecting the relative sizes of 1 size 2015 Scholand & Beiling now form Capita those two markets and the factors that Europe, a new division, with one are currently driving change in each of management team and a shared support them.
Importantly, were well equipped 22.2bn infrastructure, targeting growth in to respond to the needs of clients the region.
Estimated annual 1 growth by 2019 Other territories Given the pressure on government Our global delivery network has long spending, there will continue to be been supporting our UK and global clients, opportunities to help public sector 5.5% particularly across customer management organisations do things differently.
Increasingly we will This will include the ability to help local support existing clients who want to work authorities commercialise their operations in new territories outside our traditional and enable them to generate income, UK base, as well as look at new geographies as we are already doing in Barnet.
where outsourcing is well established and has synergies with the UK market and Through our recent success in building where we can replicate the success of effective partnerships where we work services we run in the UK.
with our clients to commercialise and grow their businesses, we are now experts Growing in the digital age in transforming businesses into success We have a diverse reach across 11 key stories, generating new sources of income vertical markets and deliver a vast range and creating jobs.
of services, but our plan for growth is underpinned by a clear vision of our Across the private sector there is core capabilities: continued pressure to drive down costs and both improve and digitise their to use technology to enable services.
Again across all these areas organisations to deliver their services we are ideally placed to help.
better and at lower cost to leverage our expertise to Our revenue split continues to be spread commercialise government intellectual between public and private sectors at 47% property IP and generate revenues from and 53% respectively.
As we continue under-performing assets to secure further growth in the private to deliver a step-change in customer sector, we expect that Capitas revenues experience through digital transformation.
will move to reflect the current market opportunity over time.
Our business model means we can bring together the right resources and Capita operates in a large addressable capabilities to meet the demands of our market with scope to increase penetration clients across a wide range of sectors.
due to our own competitive advantages This approach has allowed us to grow and a number of structural factors such from a Company with 320 employees and as fiscal pressure, digitisation, regulation a revenue of 25m in 1991 to a FTSE 100 and changing demographics.
With Company with over 75,000 employees good growth in our existing markets, and underlying revenue of 4,674m in an increasing footprint in health and new 2015.
We have experts in our business platforms in science, financial services and development teams who understand the Western & Northern Europe, we are well unique challenges facing the particular placed to deliver sustainable growth in sectors we work in and we regularly the digital era.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 20 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Consumer expectations continue to Local government Market trends & opportunities rise.
We are seeing the digitisation and Demographic change and, in particular UK & Ireland automation of manual processes, the the need for more adult social care, is Capita operates across a range of markets use of new, and increasingly self-service, challenging the public sector.
and sectors all of which are impacted by platforms and new data-led insights from rapidly evolving technology, changing analytics.
This impacts on how services Pressure on budgets continues to be a customer expectations and, despite the are delivered and raises the prospect that major factor in local government with a economic recovery, ongoing financial traditional commercial models will be resulting focus on cost reduction in service pressures on investment.
This combined disrupted by innovative approaches that delivery.
Local authorities have been forced with a political desire to reshape public utilise new technology.
to reduce spending dramatically over the finances is driving change across all of last five years, with a July 2015 study by the our markets.
All this is opening new opportunities for Financial Times estimating that budgets Capita in both the private and public sector.
have been cut by 18bn since 2010, with further reductions of at least 9.5bn 1 expected by the end of the decade.
There is a move away from generic grants 2015 revenue for local authorities towards payment based on achieving results.
The local by vertical market government finance settlement for 2016 to 2017 mandates that local government will be 100% funded by council tax, business rates and other local revenues by 2020 and allows local authorities to spend 100% of capital receipts from asset sales to fund cost-saving reforms.
As councils look to reconcile shrinking budgets and growing demand for services Public sector Private sector there is increased recognition of the value of commercialisation of council assets 47% 53% and services to develop revenue streams.
This will lead to more joint activity and of total of total new delivery models with commercial revenue revenue organisations who can bring investment, specialist expertise, product, pricing, sales and marketing knowledge to bear.
Central government Financial services 10% 9% Similarly, councils are expected to continue 2014: 9% 2014: 7% to form partnerships in order to procure services.
Instances of collaboration include Defence Insurance the West London Alliance made up of six West London councils Barnet, Brent, 4% 2% Ealing, Harrow, Hillingdon, and Hounslow 2014: 3% 2014: 2% and the five councils South Oxfordshire, Vale of White Horse, Hart, Havant and Education Life and pensions Mendip District Council to which Capita 6% 9% will be supplying a shared service platform.
2014: 10% 2014: 10% Other private sector Health 18% 5% 2014: 21% 2014: 4% Justice and emergency services Retail, utilities and telecoms 4% 15% 2014: 5% 2014: 12% Local government 18% 2014: 17% 1 Assessing the State of the UK BPO Industry in 2015, Ovum, October 2015.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 21 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Central government not just at the technology level, but at the The process of area-based reviews, and the The Government is committed to reducing organisational, cultural, process, function savings that will be realised as part of that, 1 the role of the state and cutting public and data level.
will result in major consolidation among sector spending.
Ring-fencing of some colleges and other further education budgets health, overseas aid, defence The Governments announcement in the establishments.
Governments plans to equipment and schools means that most recent budget that it would invest introduce an apprenticeship levy will mean spending cuts will fall disproportionately 1.3bn to transform HMRC into one of the that further education colleges will need on the other departments.
most digitally-advanced tax administrations to be more commercial in their approach in the world is an indication of the direction to apprenticeship provision, particularly The cuts in the 2015 spending review of travel and further initiatives are likely, when dealing with large employers.
suggest that a fundamental re-engineering creating opportunities where Capita can of public services through technologyprovide innovative solutions with a track The combination of significant consolidation enabled transformation and innovation record of delivery.
and the need for transformational in delivery models will be required if improvements across customer contact, the state is to continue to meet citizens Education business support, and educational support demands.
A key challenge will be to We anticipate significant changes in this and asset commercialisation capabilities streamline the multiple interactions market starting this year, driven by policy are an ideal fit for our transformational between and within departments, their and funding changes, and the planned capabilities and expertise making this agencies and the wider public sector.
a potential growth market for Capita process will require digital transformation in 2016.
There are certain common drivers across the markets in which we operate.
Transformation and modernisation of services Service digitisation Increased regulation and competition Maximising the value of existing assets 1 UK Public Sector SITS Market Trends & Forecasts, TechMarketView September 2015.
Victoria, Assessment and Development Coordinator Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 22 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Health As a result of these pressures NHS Justice and emergency services Looking forward the nature of the providers are having to transform the way Anticipated cuts in police forces were not challenges facing the health service they deliver services, including working included in the comprehensive spending are becoming clear.
The NHS Five Year across organisational boundaries to review CSR, but policing budgets remain Forward View has set a clear direction, provide the new models of clinical care.
This means there is a defining new models of care and setting Clinical Commissioning Groups CCGs will continued impetus for collaboration in and out a savings challenge of 22bn.
While also need to radically change the way they between services as they seek cost savings the spending review provided welcome work and commission the new models of and operational efficiencies, with Capita additional funding for the NHS, it also care in new ways.
well placed to support the collaborative established additional challenges, and transformation agenda.
especially for those central bodies As these future requirements for the outside the NHS ring-fence.
NHS have become clearer the pace The Government has already invested of change has increased, and this has 70m in projects aimed at encouraging Vitally, too, the Governments priority to afforded Capita the opportunity to bring greater collaboration between police, deliver seven-day working requires staff our transformational experience and fire and rescue, and ambulance services.
and resources to be deployed differently, technologies to bear.
Further measures were announced in and much greater use to be made of new September 2015, including imposing a technology to support resource planning, We grew our business with the sector statutory duty on all three emergency appointment booking and the like.
during 2015 with significant wins with the services to look at opportunities to 7 to 10-year primary care support services work together.
contract with NHS England and the 80m, 10-year strategic partnership with the The Ministry of Justice has been tasked Central London Community Healthcare with cutting 50% of its administrative NHS Trust.
budget by 2019-20, which should open up further opportunities for us to provide transformational services.
As future requirements for the NHS have become clearer, Capita has the opportunity to bring its transformational experience and technologies to bear.
Ollie, Digital Solutions Architect Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 23 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Defence However the pensions freedom reforms Our ability to create value for our The CSR and 2015 strategic defence have resulted in a significant drop in sales customers in the UK by lowering support spending review SDSR saw positive of annuities, previously the industrys most costs, improving customer experience and developments for the Ministry of Defence popular products, pushing companies increasing revenue puts us in an excellent MoD, which saw its budget increase by to look for ways to offset the decline of position to take advantage of the changing 3.1% in real terms to 2019-20, with the this market.
Both of these trends have media and telecoms environment in 2016. focus firmly on improved equipment, given rise to online portal projects for We are taking this transformation model cyber and intelligence capabilities.
These projects are to existing and new clients in Germany enablers for a different kind of relationship and Switzerland who are very interested However, this increase is somewhat offset with customers as well as being a way in the value this can create for them in a by the ongoing need for the department to to drive process efficiency and reduce highly competitive market.
make 9.2bn in efficiency savings as part operational costs.
of the overall reduction in Government Given the competitive environment, spending.
1bn of this will come from The investment platform industry is also retailers both high street and online selling estate assets, 2bn from equipment showing signs of strain.
Platforms have are more focused than ever on customer plan savings, and 2bn in pay restraints.
become the fide facto standard for retail, retention, with many turning to third Significant savings will be achieved through advised and workplace investments.
parties to deliver improvements in cuts to civilian staffing levels, with a target However, the market is saturated and customer services.
The era of e-commerce of 30% reduction by 2025. many providers are now either seeking has commoditised many retail brands and greater efficiency or considering divesting the way customers interact with retailers Industry analysts Kable suggest that the their platform capability.
Capita sees has also changed: showrooming, click and civilian staff level cuts will be difficult to significant opportunity to support collect and rapid delivery has changed effect.
This will also significantly pressure organisations as this market consolidates.
customer expectations about how and contingent labour and consultancy within when they can interact with retailers the Ministry, already marked for cuts since Retail, telecoms and utilities mobile, social and web-based channels 1 January 2015.
In the telecoms industry the main area are all must haves.
of demand for BPO services in recent Capita is positioned as a strong partner years has come from operators looking for The utilities market continues to change in the defence industry and our customer-facing support services, driven while it is still struggling to cope with expertise in resourcing means that we by the highly competitive nature of the existing complexities.
Industry initiatives are well positioned to support further market and the relative ease with which such as Smart Meter roll-out, increasing transformation within the MoD and customers are able to switch providers.
competition for customers and new armed forces.
Technology products are becoming more competitive markets and gas market pervasive and more complex, driving changes Nexus are happening in parallel Life and pensions growth in support requirements across with an industry area that already is The life and pensions industry is going a range of devices.
Telecommunication struggling to deliver in complex and through structural change as a result operators are also increasingly facing a demanding operating environments.
The pensions challenge from handset manufacturers This gives us opportunities to provide BPO reforms introduced in April 2015 included who are competing with mobile offerings and optimised solutions to help substantive regulatory changes which network operators MNO for the deal with areas of greatest pressure and cost.
cannot be fully supported by existing customer relationship.
We are responding to these Customer behaviour has shifted changes by providing our clients with As a result of these pressures, operators dramatically over the last few years, new flexible platforms and are moving in the UK and across our key markets driven by the rapid adoption of mobile them from legacy systems.
in Europe are looking for BPO firms to technology and social media.
Utilities are manage customer engagement across under pressure to be more accountable, Automatic enrolment into workplace a number of channels, which creates demonstrate value for money, respond pension schemes has had a significant an opportunity for us to leverage to outages more quickly, improve the impact on the pensions industry.
our technology leadership, customer quality of customer-facing services, According to The Pensions Regulator experience transformation and revenue and develop more sophisticated the total number of UK employees generation capabilities.
automatically enrolled in a UK workplace pension scheme reached 5.2 million in 2 2015, an increase of 73% over 2014.
1 Defence: SDSR and the Spending Review, Kable, 27 November 2015.
2 Automatic enrolment Commentary and analysis: April 2014 March 2015, The Pensions Regulator.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 24 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Financial services Improving cross-channel integration and These challenges are taking place Customer expectations in financial enhancing functionality are key aims for against a backdrop where larger financial services are changing rapidly, partly many financial services organisations, service companies have had to devote driven by the seamless and frictionless with moves towards digital services a significant proportion of their IT experience on offer in other sectors.
This that fit more seamlessly into their investment budgets estimates vary shift is generally recognised by incumbent customers lifestyles critical if they widely, from 33% to 70% to adapting 1 financial services providers, but legacy are to avoid disintermediation.
to new regulatory requirements and IT systems and the hangover from the retail banks, in particular, are struggling financial crisis mean major institutions As a result of the digitisation of the with the prioritisation of their technology are often constrained in their ability to banking service, contact centres will expenditure.
This creates an opportunity transform their in-house operations increasingly need to provide greater and, for service providers to take a more to leverage new technology and meet in many cases, more human support for partnering role: committing to the delivery customer expectations.
online and mobile channels, particularly of business outcomes and relieving some around instant messaging, web chat, or of the pressure on internal functions as Retail banking is being buffeted by multiple video calls with agents.
In addition to the emergence of the challenger banks the growing Capita is seeing a number of different customer preference for mobile banking types of demand in relation to this.
Some will be a major theme in 2016.
Banks are organisations are seeking to establish a also being faced with non-traditional more nimble and more digital customer competitors in both payments and lending.
service model without replacing their core legacy IT.
Others are seeking end-to-end transformation of IT and operations for one or more product lines.
Meanwhile new entrants to the market are seeking an operations and IT partner to mitigate the need to establish an expensive and inflexible in-house capability.
Like other financial services the mortgage market has undergone significant regulatory change in recent years.
Lenders face a number of compliance challenges, including the mortgage market review MMR, Conduct Agenda, the EU Mortgage Credit Directive, and Basel III capital requirements.
The costs of compliance can be significant, so lenders will be looking to reduce overheads in other areas.
Improving cross-channel Established lenders are also facing a integration and enhancing challenge from new providers entering functionality are key aims the market, forcing them to invest in order for many financial services to protect market share.
customer experience high on the agenda, BPO analysts Ovum expect to see major investment in customer analytics.
This will allow lenders to create a personalised experience to retain customers and enable contextual digital marketing in order to attract new business.
At Capita we have long-standing expertise in regulatory compliance, risk management, horizon scanning and process automation, all of which make us ideally suited to support lenders, and we have continued to build a specific capability in mortgage administration this year.
1 Financial Services Market Trends and Forecasts 2015, TechMarketView 2015.
Debbie, Employee Benefits Consultant Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 25 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Capita Europe: Creating a platform to launch an existing service in a new geography Capita Group business development Capita Europe marketing & sales Germany operations Switzerland Austria Poland nearshore avocis, tricontes, operations operations operations Scholand & avocis avocis Capita Poland Beiling Integrated support services IT Finance HR Legal Insurance this trend: the insurer focuses on product The adoption of digital channels to engage Insurance organisations continue to design, pricing and marketing whilst customers in both the sales and servicing operate in a highly competitive and priceCapita takes responsibility for establishing of products, as well as the prevalence of sensitive market.
Consequently, many and running the operations and IT that social media as a platform for sharing insurers are seeking to improve customer underpin the new products.
Following a views, presents opportunities to build experience to aid retention.
Effective strategic review of our insurance portfolio customer loyalty in different ways.
A claims resolution is seen by many as the during the year, we have decided to move multi-channel, digitally focused approach most important interaction with regards away from niche specialist insurance to service delivery can only be achieved to delivering a good customer experience.
These no longer fit into in partnership with an organisation that Therefore, a significant number of insurers our future strategy of focusing on purely has the scale, experience and capability are looking to improve their claims delivering BPO services to our general to fundamentally transform the business, processing systems and capabilities.
insurance clients including our Capita designing new ways of working that Managing Agency business.
secure efficiency without compromising Alongside this, insurers are investing in on quality or customer experience.
analytics to improve pricing and the ability Trends and opportunities to target offers at both new and existing Western & Northern Europe As a result we are seeing a lot of appetite customers.
However, a number of barriers Private sector for a more transformational model and are preventing widespread adoption of In our core markets of Germany and a number of customers are looking to this, including: the difficulty of accessing Switzerland, businesses have long since shrink their supplier numbers.
There is data from multiple, often incompatible, utilised outsourcing as a means of a burgeoning realisation that digitisation data sources: poor quality and error-prone reducing costs and streamlining processes.
is required and that we can be a source data: and lack of in-house skills.
Businesses are facing many of the same valuable partner.
This represents a clear opportunity for challenges as their UK counterparts, and third-party vendors with experience of the changing environment is leading Capita is perfectly placed to extend its tackling these types of issues.
these organisations to reassess their transformational capability beyond the requirements.
Today, customers across UK and support businesses in Germany, A number of insurers are also seeking Europe are more informed, have higher Austria, Switzerland and Poland in to develop new product lines in order expectations and are hence more difficult partnerships that focus on maximising to access different parts of the market.
to retain, forcing organisations to find new outcomes rather than minimising inputs.
Given its managing general agent MGA ways of outperforming competition, with capability, Capita is well-positioned for low cost being just one influencing factor.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 26 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Fuelling organic growth through contracts and acquisitions Capitas growth is fuelled organically from both major contracts and individual businesses.
We also re-invest cash generated across the Group into value creating acquisitions capable of generating future organic growth.
Securing major contracts and divisional business growth Capitas long-term growth is primarily Major driven by medium-to-long-term contracts, contract attributes which provide a high degree of visibility of future revenues.
Our businesses also generate revenue through single service and annual rollover contracts and through project work.
The delivery and management of these contracts and growth of our trading business is managed within our customer facing divisions see Clients with whom we can page 39. build a strong relationship and deliver real benefits.
Diversification across a number of markets, using processes developed and refined in others, has enabled us to develop a broad-based services business, generating revenue from a range of clients.
This gives Defined bid processes with us the flexibility to shift our focus, based clear decision criteria.
Opportunities in line with our core competencies in service transformation.
Potential to build economies of scale.
Fair risk reward balance and acceptable contractual obligations.
Limited requirement for capital investment, unless there is a real value proposition for Capita.
Tanya, Business Development Director Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 27 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued 2015 major contract wins Sheffield City Council Department for Central London Environment, Food and Community Health Value: 170m Rural Affairs Defra CLCH Awarded in: January In 2015 weve won Value: 700m Value: 80m Contract: Transformation partnership Awarded in: February Awarded in: May 13 Contract: FERA public sector Contract: Strategic partnership Duration: 5 years contracts worth partnership Type: Extension Duration: 7 years Duration: 10 years Type: New Details: The partnership 1.8bn Type: New is expected to generate Details: Capita manages in aggregate significant additional Details: Capitas partnership and delivers a range of savings for the Council, whilst with Defra to operate the corporate services on behalf continuing to deliver the core Food and Environment of the Trust, including ICT, range of services, including Research Agency FERA HR payroll and recruitment, ICT, revenues, benefits, will allow the agency to reach estates and facilities HR, payroll and financial its full commercial potential, management, followed business transactions.
growing the scientific capability by the planned delivery it can offer to existing and of finance services.
NHS England Rabobank ACCLM Other major contracts worth 25m and above Value: 400m Value: 38m Combined value: 388m Awarded in: June Awarded in: November Details: During 2015, we have Contract: Primary Care Contract: ACCLM secured a further 8 contract Support England Duration: 5 years extensions and new contract Duration: 10 years Type: New wins across a range of markets, Type: New Details: Management of including telco, utilities, retail, Details: As part of a UK-wide ACCLM loan book activities police and justice, worth an framework, Capita was and legacy banking services, aggregate value of 388m.
awarded the contract comprising 17,500 loans with to manage and deliver a value of approximately 4bn.
administrative support functions for primary care services across England.
The savings achieved for NHS England will help protect investment in frontline care.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 28 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Securing long-term, Generating and securing a pipeline of Securing appropriate pricing and transformational contracts quality major opportunities contract terms Our major sales team are focused on Capitas pipeline represents our major bid Major contracts are long-term identifying and securing long-term, multiopportunities that have reached shortlist commitments.
So its essential that our service contracts usually valued in excess stage as well as middle-sized opportunities pricing and contract terms are correct of 50m.
These contracts require complex managed through our divisional sales from the start.
We undertake extensive solutions, often requiring transformation teams.
It provides a fair indication of the due diligence to build detailed service, of an existing service.
The sales team health of the outsourcing market and risk and pricing models.
We often share develop propositions that bring together can be a useful indicator of likely future these openly with our prospective clients expertise, assets and services from across organic growth.
However as our portfolio to ensure that all our assumptions for the Group, to directly address the needs continues to evolve it does not represent delivering successfully on the project are of our clients.
major growth opportunities we have robust and that the benefits generated identified through account management to both parties are fully understood.
We only bid for contracts where we can or higher value, replicable solutions or genuinely add value, meeting or exceeding platform sales.
Our track record in accurately pricing clients expectations while generating contracts enables us to offer clients reasonable returns for Capita.
This rigorous Behind our bid pipeline is an active sensible and realistic proposals while qualification process, along with our prospect list of opportunities where robustly managing and mitigating risk.
solutions, underpins our long-term win the bidding process is underway but Once agreed, the terms of our contracts rate across major sales of between one where we have yet to reach a shortlist are fixed which means we have a good in two and one in three by value.
In 2015 or final bidding stage.
This prospect list is view of stable, long-term revenues.
our win rate was two in three.
supported by a suspect list, relationships we are nurturing to generate future Retaining and expanding contracts Sales opportunities below 50m are bid opportunities.
As well as securing new business from generally managed by divisional teams new clients, we work to renew or expand Our bid pipeline is subject to clear criteria: with support from the central major sales existing client relationships.
By achieving contains contracts of 25m or above team and a monthly operating Board operational excellence, we often secure shortlisted to the last four or ensures a flow of information, expertise additional business from clients and we fewer bidders and resources to both the major and achieve high retention rates as contracts divisional sales teams.
capped at 1bn to prevent very large come up for renewal.
Over the last 30 individual contracts distorting the total.
years, we have only failed to renew four of our material contracts defined as having forecast annual revenue in excess of 1% of the previous years revenue.
This includes the London Congestion Charging Scheme, which we re-won in January 2014.
Multiple channels for We have no material contracts up for rebid profitable growth for the next four years.
See page 27 for our 2015 major sales update.
Traditional outsourcing partnerships Group Business Development led Asset commercialisation growth businesses High value, replicable solutions Group Business Development led with Divisional support Growing key client relationships Divisional sales Division led Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 29 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Disciplined process Investing in value creating Acquisition Our central mergers & acquisitions acquisitions to fuel organic growth team, working closely with our operating Enhancing our capabilities, supporting criteria divisions, evaluates in excess of 100 target our sales and fuelling future organic businesses in any one year and maintains growth have always been the key drivers an active pipeline of deals in progress behind our acquisition strategy, which, at any one time.
Potential acquisitions since 2006, has added more than 130 are identified and brought to the Group businesses to the Group.
Across the by a variety of means: employees and majority of acquisitions we aim to Overall fit with our strategy managers through their market knowledge, generate a 15% post tax return after and core competencies.
external consultants or through a direct 12 months of integration into the Group, approach.
All deals are put through a ensuring we are disciplined in our approach defined assessment process, with pricing and selective in our targets.
set, and agreement to offer signed off by the Board.
Typically we complete between Add complementary new capabilities.
10-20 acquisitions annually from this flow of potential deals.
We apply a stringent due diligence process, before and after acquisition, to all deals, enabling us to achieve clear targets for growth, synergies, Access to a new customer base.
Opportunity to create a growth platform in a new market.
Ability to strengthen our existing market positions.
Capita re-invests cash generated across the Group into value creating acquisitions, capable Ability to generate of generating future sustainable, quality revenues.
Operations that are principally based in the UK, Ireland and Northern Europe.
Opportunities to take existing services into new territories.
Can be secured for an attractive price.
Yvonne, Senior Investment Analyst Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 30 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued 2015 acquisitions Disposals Our focus on adding small-to mediumIn 2015 we undertook a Group-wide Acquisition of avocis: sized businesses to the Group continued review of our businesses and services and Platform for new during 2015, enabling us to enter new identified a number of areas which lacked Capita Europe division geographical markets, build new or extend strategic fit with the Group or lacked high capabilities in areas such as customer growth potential.
Following this review we management, mortgage administration, disposed of six small business, the largest commercial property consultancy and of which was National Dental Plan NDP secure IT networking.
During the year, we which was sold for a cash consideration acquired 17 businesses and invested in Fera of 31.7m on a cash-free, debt-free basis Bringing together new Science, our public sector partnership, for in September.
and existing operations 1 a cash investment of 402m.
in Germany, Austria, Disposals completed in 2015: Switzerland and Poland.
Last year we made our largest ever Global Assistance acquisition with the purchase of the High quality provider BSI Paris customer management business, avocis, with long-term Employee Assistance Programme, EAP for a cash consideration of 157m 210m customer relationships.
This entry into the Ill Health, IHR German-speaking markets of Europe New unique offering of National Dental Plan, NDP enables us to replicate the success of our transformational customer Energy Medical Services.
UK customer management business in management, combining a new region.
The acquisition completed Capita Europe plus in February and has been fully integrated Group resources.
into the Group under the newly created division Capita Europe.
We have already Excellent growth completed a number of new sales opportunities in region.
Our current pipeline of acquisitions remains healthy.
We anticipate maintaining a total acquisition spend of 1 between 250m to 300m per annum on smallto medium-sized businesses and may consider larger opportunities should they arise.
Revenue in the first 12 months of ownership following acquisition is reported as acquired growth.
After this period, revenue is reported within organic growth.
In 2015 we spent 402m on 17 acquisitions and our investment in Fera Science 20m Caoimhe, Investment Analyst 1 Excluding deferred and contingent consideration.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 31 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Scholand & Beiling Constructionline 2015 acquisitions GmbH & Co Value: 35m Value in brackets represents maximum Value: 0.9m contingent consideration Date: January Date: January Capabilities: Construction procurement portal Capabilities: Customer management consultancy Reason: Extend service outside core construction market Reason: Local sales capability in DACH region BCS Design Ltd avocis Group Sigma Seven Limited ThirtyThree Limited Value: 4.8m 4.5m Value: 157m Value: 3.7m Value: 8m 6m Date: February Date: February Date: March Date: March Capabilities: Civil, structural, Capabilities: Outsourced Capabilities: Geospatial Capabilities: Employer geotechnical engineering and managed services Germany, solutions in utilities & branding, research, employee surveying services Switzerland & Austria construction engagement and digital media services Reason: Adding capability to Reason: Expansion of existing Reason: Adding further property offering customer management capability to our utilities Reason: Adding new capability capability in DACH region offering to our resourcing offering Voice Marketing Pervasive Ltd Isys Group Ltd Aspire Business Limited Solutions Limited Value: 13.1m 2.5m Value: 15m Value: 5.9m Value: 0.46m 0.2m Date: May Date: May Date: March Date: June Capabilities: Enterprise wireless Capabilities: Workforce networks, mobility managed management solutions & ID Capabilities: Outbound Capabilities: Youth services services and BYOD solutions verification software solution customer contact software system Reason: Adding capability to IT Reason: Adding capability to Reason: Adding capability Reason: Extends our case networking services and mobile our HR & recruitment offering to existing customer management software offering management services solutions Vertex Mortgage GL Hearn Limited Barrachd Ltd and BIS Ltd Western Mortgage Services Limited Services Limited Value: 25m 5m Value: 7m 5m Value: 35m Value: 25m 5m Date: July Date: July Date: June Date: July Capabilities: Commercial Capabilities: Business property consultancy intelligence software and Capabilities: Mortgage Capabilities: Mortgage solutions administration BPO and administration BPO provider Reason: Expanding our existing software offering across the entire Reason: Expanding our Reason: Expand our mortgage property development process analytical capabilities to Reason: Enhances mortgage processing capability solve critical business issues processing offering Electranet UK Ltd Work Group plc Brightwave Holdings Limited Value: 37m Value: 2m Value: 7.5m 3m Date: September Date: December Date: December Capabilities: Secure IT network Capabilities: Employee & communications recruitment, branding & Capabilities: E-learning infrastructure provider engagement solutions, products & services Reason: Enables us to deliver Reason: Adding capability to Reason: Expanding our learning highly secure services to our HR & recruitment offering services capability and reach existing and new clients Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 32 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued The Executive Board meets monthly Designing and delivering innovative to share knowledge, experience and to services and solutions discuss opportunities and challenges which can be addressed by crossTransforming business processes to drive down divisional support.
administration costs while also improving the end Company-wide support services, such customer experience is the goal of the majority of as HR, IT, finance, legal and commercial, business assurance, risk and compliance, what we do for our clients.
health and safety, environment, corporate marketing and communications, We support public and private sector and points of failure customers experience procurement and property and facilities clients to improve customer and citizen from a service, reducing the need for management continue to report directly to services and deliver them at a lower cost additional contact and improving Group Board Executive Directors to ensure by using the insight provided by data and customer loyalty.
robust control, consistent standards and analytics to develop appropriate ways Digitisation and technology: We apply shared benefits across the business.
to engage, digitally and otherwise.
For our own proprietary technology and our private sector clients, our focus is business solutions, alongside bespoke and Divisional structure in improving customer attraction and off the shelf solutions, to improve our As Capita consistently grows its skills and retention and keeping our clients at the clients services with immediate effect capabilities in support of changing client forefront of their industries.
and build in future proofing to ensure we needs, and the business continues to can take advantage of new innovations.
expand its service offering, markets and Evolving nature of service delivery Shared platforms and the introduction of geographical reach, further adjustments The market continues to evolve beyond proprietary software solutions enable us to to the divisional structure will ensure that the conventional outsourcing of services re-engineer and streamline administrative operations continue to be managed in an based on cost reduction alone.
Analysing big data along with optimum manner.
are increasingly taking a longer-term other sources enables us to create highly view, moving towards a partnership personalised and productive customer In 2015, we introduced a new based model to deliver shared aims.
interactions and the latest digital organisational structure which aligned Their procurement objectives often technologies allow us to smoothly follow similar capabilities and clients together, support their own business ambitions, and analyse customer touch points across gave us an increased market sector focus and can include elements, such as: multiple channels.
and ensured we are aligned to how clients Service transformation: These are are making buying decisions.
solutions, like the one we are developing for Delivering innovative services NHS England, that completely reengineer and solutions through our The range of sectors in which Capita how services are delivered.
This often operating divisions now has a presence is expanding and involves reviewing existing activities to We maintain a straightforward and will continue to do so in the months and find efficiencies, resulting in streamlined efficient divisional structure that years ahead.
Our services are increasingly processes, upgraded IT, modernised work supports Capitas major sales, its harnessing new techniques such as environments and improvements to the large scale customer management and leading-edge data analytics, behavioural overall customer experience.
business process management contracts, science, digital and social interactions and divisional mid-sized contracts and Revenue opportunities and innovative products and services, enabling specialist businesses and service lines.
commercialisation: These are typically us to deliver even greater value to our This structure also supports our business delivery models where there is a shared clients and their customers.
model of controlled, profitable growth growth objective.
In the public sector, we and provides ready access to the Groups have enabled clients, like Staffordshire Divisional priorities and focus in 2016 wider specialist skills, talent and expertise, Council, to commercialise their existing In line with the Groups business model, economies of scale and centralised assets.
These solutions can deliver a our divisional priorities are to enhance procurement.
It enables the business to revenue stream, return funds to taxpayers their focus on creating new and additional balance investment in internal innovation, and create new jobs as well as protect organic growth opportunities within the establish and grow strong leadership and existing employment.
In the private sector, businesses, continuous service and product management from within, encourage as with Fera Science Ltd, our solutions are innovation and development to ensure we collaborative working and harness the best increasingly designed around financial are being proactive in addressing the needs of technology, innovation and processes.
models which incentivise revenue growth of our clients and responding to evolving to the mutual benefit of both the client market conditions.
To support future Each of Capitas nine divisions in and Capita.
organic growth the divisions constantly 2015 was led by a divisional Executive look for opportunities to apply new User-centred service design: Clients Director, all of whom are members of the and emerging technologies, and to add increasingly recognise that services that Executive Board along with the Groups capability and scale or enter a new market are easy to use deliver downstream heads of corporate development and segment through selective acquisitions.
By understanding customers communications, strategic business experiences, expectations and behaviours, development and acquisitions.
See page 39 for further information on we can proactively tackle the frustration our divisions and their 2015 performance.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 33 Generating profitable, sustainable growth continued Operating businesses divisional structure as at end 2015 Group Board: 1 Non-Executive Chairman, 4 Non-Executive Directors and 5 Executive Directors Executive Board: Divisional, Corporate and Business Development and Acquisition Executive Directors Local Insurance Digital & Capita Customer Asset Integrated Government, IT Enterprise Workplace & Benefits Software Europe Management Services Services Health & Services Services Services Solutions Property Germany Telefonica O2 Shareholder Life, Pensions Central Local Technology Capita G2G3 & & Treasury & Specialist Government Government Solutions Resourcing G2G3 Digital Switzerland Customer Solutions Services Services management Procurement Updata HR Solutions Education Austria key accounts Corporate & Corporate Electronic Services Software Applications, Security Private Client Insurance Monitoring Poland Multi-client Enforcement Cloud & Watchdog Secure Software Solutions portfolio Employee Tascor Enterprise & Technology Capita Health Specialist Fund Benefits Services BBC Akinika DWP PIP Partners Recruitment Document Solutions SouthWestern End User Services South Africa DCC Smart Real Estate AXELOS Banking & Services Travel & Events Metering inc. GL Hearn Financial Local Debt Solutions Learning Managed Govt Software Insurance TfL Congestion Design, Services Retail Banking, Services Services Charging & Engineering & IT Professional Mortgages & Fire Service Parking Services Management Managed IT Services Remediation Managed College Solutions Solutions Contracts Recruiting Translation & Partnering Electranet Interpreting India & Project RPP Middle East AMT-Sybex Fera Science Evolvi Defence Barrachd Infrastructure Organisation DIO Primary Care Support England See page 41 See page 40 See page 39 See page 42 See page 43 See page 44 See page 45 See page 46 See page 47 Group Support Services
