Corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our continued programme of CR activity reects our desire to have a positive social and environmental From the Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee impact in the Capital.
Respecting the environment and communities in which we operate underpins our strong commitment to creating public value and delivering our strategy with integrity.
Our continued programme of CR activity reects our desire tohave a positivesocial and environmental impact in the Capital.
Capco retains a reputation forsympathetic stewardship of Covent Garden and innovative urban creation at Earls Court.
We have developed arobust internal management of community, environmental and people matters and hence the Boardhas decided that CR should now be reported directly to the Board instead of through the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The CR Executive Committee will continue to manage the Groups day to day CR activities.
We will continue to focus our charitable activity on social improvements in London, including youth employment, education and homelessness as we have identied these as important to the Citys future success.
Our CR strategy continues to develop as our business plan is delivered and we regularly review progress against our targets.
This year we have taken the opportunity to refresh our CR reporting.
We have included our performance against our key targets for 2015, and you can view performance against all our 2015 CR targets on our website.
Ian Henderson Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 24February 2016 46 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements It is our intention to benefit the communities in which our assets MATERIALITY are located, provide fullling development opportunities of our We monitor and assess the effectiveness of our CR strategy and talented people and respect the environment.
measure impact in three fundamental areas: people, community and environment.
A summary of progress againstall our 2015 targetscan be found in the CR section of the Capco corporate website.
See pages48 & 49 See pages50 & 51 See pages52 & 53 PEOPLE COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT TALENT SUPPORTING LOCAL ENERGY & CARBON We aim to hire and retain the best people in ECONOMIES MANAGEMENT our industry and develop them into leaders We work closely with community groups In order to reduce our carbon footprint we of the future.
and local stakeholders and aim to make a procured at least80 per cent of electricity positive social and environmental impact from low carbon or renewable energy tariffs in the areas where our assets are located.
and in 2015 offset our office based carbon emissions via a tree planting initiative in REWARD the London region.
We recognise that good people must be incentivised to sustain consistently high EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES levels of performance, and consequently we We deliver an education programme to benchmark our remuneration and aim to be primary and secondary schools in Covent WASTE MANAGEMENT at upper quartile in our sector.
Garden and Earls Court, designed to Weare introducingfurther initiatives to introduce children of school age to specic improve recycling rates and continue to issues affecting theirareas of London.
divert all non-hazardous operational waste from landll at Olympia, Covent Garden CULTURE and Head Office.
The fast-moving and entrepreneurial culture at Capco is exciting and offers CHARITY PROGRAMMES opportunity for innovation and creativity.
We work closely with selected charities which focus on making a difference in one RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT of the areas of special interest to We continue to implement Construction Capco, including young people, youth Environmental Management Plans and GIVING BACK employment, homelessness and ex-military robust on-site procedures to prevent We value the opportunity to give back to personnel.
We aim to build long-standing environmental incidents at our major society and work closely with our chosen relationships with our chosen charities in on-site projects Earls Court, Kings Court volunteer organisations and charities.
order to help enhance their success.
The feedback we receive from our external partners and Capco staff indicates that we contribute positively to theareas of London in which we invest.
HEALTH & SAFETY We continue to strive for health and safety excellence across all of our property activities in order to offer the highest levels of protection for our employees, supply chain partners and the members of the public who interact with our business operations.
THE COVENT GARDEN ESTATE WE AIM TO BENEFIT YOUNG PEOPLE CAPCO APPRENTICESHIP HOSTED POPPY DAY IN AREAS WHERE OUR ASSETS ARE PROGRAMME IN PARTNERSHIP WITH COMMEMORATIONS LOCATED SIR ROBERT MCALPINE LTD Uniformed personnel from the Royal The sports and activity clubs funded by During the early planning stages of Navy, Army and Airforce participated in Capco have been well attended and have Lillie Square, Capco committed to offering the acts of remembrance and a Spitre provided valuable additional out of opportunities for apprenticeships for plane was exhibited beside the Piazza.
local residents at various stages throughout the development.
com 47 Corporate responsibility continued PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT PEOPLE Company strategy and over-arching corporate objectives are communicated bi-annually by the Executive Directors, and Heads People are the key to our success and we are proud of Business Units ensure that their team objectives align with of our team ethos and results oriented approach.
We aim to recruit the best people and develop Annual performance objectives for individuals are agreed at careers by promoting talented individuals to performance review meetings which take place at the beginning of the calendar year.
Performance is measured against objectives set positions of leadership.
for the previous year and individual performance ratings underpin bonus awards which are paid in April of each year.
We regard the giving of regular and direct feedback as a core competency of effective leadership and encourage line managers to appraise performance regularly during the year.
TALENT Our aim is to manage talenteffectively and ensure that we have sufficient capability to realise our ambitious strategy.
We regularly 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS undertake succession planning exercises to review the talent pipeline and progress individuals according to capability.
Leadership development We recruit top graduates each year who pursue an internal We continued to develop leadership capability in 2015 and programme of training and mentoring which will ensure they are 11.6 per cent of people were promoted internally thereby well prepared for the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors assuming greater leadership responsibility.
RICS Assessment of Professional Competence APC.
Each graduate is assigned an experienced Capco counsellor and Extended benets supervisor who guides them through the APC process.
A programme of lifestyle benets was introduced which reectour desire to promote healthy work-life balance.
New opportunitiesthat arisein the business are advertised internally and we prefer to promote internal candidates in order Maturing culture toenhance career development and encourage mobility across In 2015, Capco signed up to the RICS Equality Mark as asign the Group.
of our commitment to diversity in the workplace.
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Capco training and development programmes are designed to augment the bench strength of our teams and challenge aspiring leaders.
OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2016 Individual training and development needs are identied and discussed at performance review meetings with line managers.
Knowledge transfer During 2015, our employees spent 452 hours on training activity, In 2016 we intend to extend the mentoring of managers across against a target of 400 hours.
the Group in order to accelerate the internal development of our rising stars.
Through our sponsorship of individuals undertaking further professional qualications, we encourage continuous learning Graduate intake reecting our intention to create a learning environment.
We will make further investment in the recruitment of new graduates and the ongoing extension of the graduate In order to promote knowledge transfer across the Group, we development programme.
run a series of lunch and learn sessions, where business leaders showcase their strategy to other employees, in order to enhance Induction understanding of wider business objectives.
Corporate induction programmes will be extended to those in new roles in order to improve the role transition period.
During 2015 we ran a bespoke training programme for Personal Assistants covering aspects of professionalism and organisational skills.
OurEssential Management Skills programme concluded in the first quarter of 2015 and was supplemented by a 360 degree feedback exercise for rising stars within the business.
We recognise that coaching and mentoring can have significant impact on behaviours and key staff continued to benefit from bespoke coaching programmes.
48 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements CULTURE The high performance culture at Capco is reective of the ambitious and innovative business strategy.
Typically, Capco people are results-driven and brave in their approach to new ideas.
Many of our people are in new roles and have assumed increased levels of responsibility since joining Capco.
The three tenets of our corporate behaviour are: Collaboration, Creativity and Courage.
These three aspects formed the basis of behavioural discussions across the business last year.
We believe that every person in the Company has a part to play in generating value and we understand fully the benets of a diverse workforce.
We have a good track record of developing the careers of senior women and 50 per centof the senior management team are female.
We support parents returning after childbirth and encourage our people to adopt a healthy attitude to work-life balance.
AT CAPCO WE ENCOURAGE COLLABORATIVE WORKING BENEFITS WITHIN AND ACROSS TEAMS In addition to core elements, we reward people with an attractive package of additional benets.
During the summer, the Finance Team spent a day working with a team of actors exploring communication techniques.
Our competitive package of benets includes private medical Using simulation sessions, they put into practice new and insurance and also covers dental treatment.
The Company different methods of putting across views in the context of an contributes up to 10 per centof salary into the MyCapco effective team.
With renewed understanding that genuine pension scheme.
innovation depends on the ideas of others being heard, the We have enhancedparental arrangements and encourage session has enhanced the teams ability to have a positive newparents to take their full entitlement toparental leave.
Our policy is to enable employees to take their full annual leave entitlement of 28 days per annum, rising to 30 days after four years service.
LIFESTYLE PROGRAMME In September, we launched a new programme of lifestyle benets Gender Diversity % designed to assist Capco people with some of the issues that are important in their lives.
1 11 129 100 The programme included assistance with financial planning, 9 mortgage advice and the support of aspecialist will writer.
75 We have partnered with a leading childcare adviser who will assist our working parents to nd a suitable childcare solution.
174 11 50 REWARD The aim of our reward strategy is to compensate people for high performance and to incentivise them to strive to improve.
25 Core compensation packages at Capco comprise three elements ofbase salary, discretionary performance bonus and discretionary 0 Board Senior All share awards.
management employees We regularly benchmark our approach to reward to ensure that we Male Female remain competitive in the market and we aim to remain within the upper quartile rangeof our sector.
Awards are made in April of each year and take account of HUMAN RIGHTS performance ratings discussed at performance review meetings This report does not contain specic information on human rights in January.
issues as this is not considered necessary for an understanding of All Capco employees are eligibleto receive share awardsso that the development, performance or position of the Companys everyone can participate in the success of the Company.
However, Capco has adopted a CR policy and a supply awards have a three-year performance period and are subject to chain policy which reect a responsible approach to human rights.
com 49 Corporate responsibility continued COMMUNITY 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS During 2015, Capco continued to work to benefit Local initiatives the communities in which we operate and to We have delivered a range of local community and education projects on our estates that have benefited people of all ages.
Capco staff committed a total of607 hours to CR related Charitable donations This year we have developed close ties with selected charities activity against a target of 400 hours and which align with our overarching CR strategy and have volunteered to help with CR projects.
donated over 388,000 to charitable causes.
A highlight was our sponsorship of the Maggies Culture Crawl.
benefiting the communities in which our assets Staff CR engagement are located is the cornerstone of the stewardship Capco staff remain committed to participating in CR related activities.
Each employee was given a CR objective as part of their performance review and several teams undertook group volunteering activities.
SUPPORTING LOCAL ECONOMIES Community initiatives A programme of local community clubs and activities in the Earls Court area is now well established, delivering several community OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2016 benets through Fulham Boys School FBS.
Children from the West Kensington & Gibbs Green estates were Apprenticeships given the opportunity to take part in free educational and sporting We will continue to identify opportunities for apprenticeships activities using state of the art equipment, educational and sporting for local young people across our assets and encourage our facilities funded by Capco at FBS.
contractors to support this initiative.
There has been a high level of take up of all clubs providing the Education Programme potential to expand on the current programme, offering new clubs We will extend the number of schools that participate in the and additional opportunities to access activities.
Capco Education Programme, building further on our success with school children of all ages.
Covent Garden Management Plan Capco has signed an agreement with Westminster City Council Charitable work WCC which sets out the basis of collaborationfor the We will launch a volunteer programme with The Connection management of the public realm of the Covent Garden area.
The at St Martin-in-the-Fields, the charity for homeless people at documentis in keeping withCapcos commitment to ensuring both St. Martins.
the smooth running of servicing operations and enhancing public We will encourage employees to engage in CR initiatives safety.
Achievements include Capco lowering street access across the and contribute 450 employee hours to supporting CR Covent Garden estate to enable access for vehicles.
Capco and WCC have agreed to split responsibility for cleaning and gum removal in the district, with Capco focusing on King Street, Floral Street and Rose Street and litter picking on James Street.
Recruit London Public realm enhancement This is the second year that Capco has supported the Recruit Capco has signed an agreement with WCC to fund the replacement London scheme.
In 201540 people were recruited via the scheme of tarmac pavements with high quality York Stone paving on into jobs with companies in Covent Garden.
This year we Henrietta Street, Southampton Street and sections of the Piazza contributed to the provision ofa more dedicated Workplace including St. Pauls Church portico.
Workon the first phase, Co-ordinator, focused solely on recruiting residents of Westminster which includedthe area under the portico, was completed before into jobs in companies on the Covent Garden estate.
This has given, Christmas and the remainder of the streetswill benished by and will continue to give us the opportunity to support our retailers May 2016.
As part of this, Capco has supported the contractor in their recruitment.
The Workplace Co-ordinatorwas involved in FM Conway in launching its apprenticeship scheme.
helping to ll a number of temporary Christmas vacancies.
Staff cleaning the Covent Garden district All of the Covent Garden management team donned hi-vis clothing and completed a two hour shift cleaning streets in the district, as part of an initiative aimed at developing the teams understanding of howsuch services can be improved.
50 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements CHARITABLE SUPPORT In October 2015, we hosted a quiz night in aid ofthe Sir Simon Milton Foundation which raised29,000 towards the establishment of atechnical college in his nameto benefit young apprentices in London.
We began working with Spear, a charity concerned with youth employment, and sponsored students to participate in Spears programme which helps young people to enter work and progress in their career.
As part of the programme, participants visited our offices for a training session on CV writing with Capco employees and participated in a tour of the Covent Garden estate.
We also participated in interview skills workshops at Spear which were beneficial to the students.
The Covent Garden team has worked closely with Lifelites throughout the year and in the summer raised over 7,000 by organising a golf day for consultants and contractors.
The CAPCO SPONSORED THE MAGGIES CULTURE CRAWL equipment that Lifelites provides using these funds helps sick AND A TEAM OF EMPLOYEES PARTICIPATED IN THE EVENT children to learn, play and interact with their families and other children when they would otherwise be isolated due to their illness.
Capco was a headline sponsor of the 2015 Maggies Culture Crawl, a 15 mile night-walk to raise money for Maggies Cancer Military personnel Centres.
The walk offered participants, including a Capco team Covent Garden once again hosted the London Poppy Day Appeal of10 walkers, access to landmark buildings in the Capital as across the Piazza, with performances from a variety of military well as performances from musicians, dancers and artists.
bands, a replica life-size Spitre and an RAF ight simulator.
A Covent Garden hosted the nish line overnight, treating poppy shop sold merchandise from the Piazza, while a British walkers to much needed refreshments, massages and an art Legion pop-up space allowed the public to learn about where the installation by Rebecca Louise Law.
The Capco team raised a proceeds are spent both for veterans and those in active service.
total of 6,700 including matched funding and Maggies The event raised42,502 towards the appeal.
raised over 350,000 via the event.
Homelessness We supportedThe Connection at St Martins with donations on behalf of employees as part of our Christmas charitable activity.
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES The Capco Education Programme, which runs in conjunction with the Urban Studies Centre, continued in 2015.
In the spring of 2015, we ran a project with Year Seven at FBS.
The project included learning about the history of Earls Court and the local area, meeting experts from Capco to discuss the Earls Court development and visiting the Lillie Square construction site viewing platform and marketing suite.
Throughout the duration of the project, the studentsstudied areal life case study of changing urban landscapes, providing opportunities for discussion and critical thinking on development, housing and construction.
In the summer of 2015, we worked with YearThree at Fulham Primary School.
The project centred on exploring North End Road WE INTRODUCED SCHOOL CHILDREN TO DESIGN Market, conducting environmental surveys and interviews to ASPECTS OF THE BUILT ENVIRONMENT AND CAPCO discover how the retail businesses of North End Road Market are EMPLOYEES ACTED AS MENTORS TO THE TEAMS performing.
The children created North End Road t-shirts and exhibited project work on the Fulham Primary Market stall at Capco sponsored a highly innovative project called Little North End Road summer market.
Architect which introduced primary school childrenliving near Earls Court and Covent Garden to the built environment.
In the autumn of 2015, we joined Year Two at Servite Primary We partnered with The Architectural Association School of School.
They explored the history of the Earls Court area as Street Architecture and ran highly interactive design sessions with Detectives, visiting Brompton Cemetery to hear stories of the the children mentored by volunteer Capco employees.
The locally famous and discussed the future of Earls Court.
In one of results were spectacular and were displayed at a showcase their sessions, they also visited the Lillie Square marketing suite event hosted by New London Architecture.
and the viewing platform overlooking the construction site.
com 51 Corporate responsibility continued ENVIRONMENT 2015 ACHIEVEMENTS Capco aims to minimise the impact of our Absolute carbon emissions reduced by 38 per cent compared operations on the environment.
We apply a with 2014. responsible and forward-looking approach to Real time energy monitoring deployed on-site at Lillie Square to analyse carbon data and to implement measures to reduce environmental issues and the principles of energy consumption.
Purchased at least 80 per cent of electricity from low carbon or renewable energy tariff.
More than 85per centof non-hazardous waste diverted HEALTH & SAFETY from landll across Earls Court, Lillie Square and 2015 saw considerably  and demolition Kings Court projects.
activities across the Group with work at Earls Court and Lillie 100 per centof  waste diverted Square both progressing well and development activities taking from landll at Olympia, Covent Garden and Head Office.
During the yeartwoReporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR Earls Court, Lillie Square and Kings Court projects incidents were recorded involving contractor employees: both were participated in the Considerate Constructors Scheme and minor in nature and resulted from tripping incidents.
achieved scores higher than the industry average.
There wereseven RIDDOR incidents at Covent Garden during 2015, Improved Carbon Disclosure Project score for thefourth all involving members of the public.
At Olympia, there werethree year running to 94B and continued as a participant in RIDDOR incidents involving members of the public andone FTSE4Good index.
RIDDOR incident involving an employee.
With the revised Construction Design and Management Regulations CDM 2015 that came into force in April 2015, CDM OUR COMMITMENTS IN 2016 procedures and strategies have been reviewed and updated, taking into account the transitional and permanent changes to Client appointed Duty Holders.
Health & Safety Continue to embed the updated governance and reporting Capco appointed a Head of Health and Safety in August 2015 with framework at operational levels and promote the highest a remit to further develop and lead health and safety strategy across standards of Health & Safety management.
the Group, as well asmonitoring compliance with relevant health and safety legislation.
Energy & Carbon Management Continue to measure, verify and report on the carbon footprint With the added support from the Head of Health and Safety, the and achieve a reduction in energy consumption ofthree per Groups Health & Safety Committee, chaired by the Managing 1 centin assets where Capco has operational control.
Director and Chief Investment Officer, continued to meet on a monthly basis.
The Health & Safety Committee reviewed health and Waste & Water Management safety performance, lessons learned and shared best practice across Aim to minimise waste to landll from properties where the Group.
The outputs from the Health & Safety Committee, along Capco has operational control and develop a waste with business-led health and safety reports, were discussed during consolidation strategy for the Covent Garden estate to Board meetings.
ENERGY AND CARBON Monitor water consumption across the portfolio and We continue to monitor and manage energy consumption and implement measures to improve water efficiency.
carbon emissions across the Group.
In 2015 our absolute carbon Responsible Development emissions reduced by 38 per cent compared with 2014.
This was Continue to work towards achieving a minimum rating principally due to the closure of the Earls Court Exhibition Centre.
of BREEAM Very Good on major construction projects Across the Group we introduced a series of energy efficiency and, where existing planning conditions apply, Code for measures such as LED lighting, improved heating and cooling Sustainable Homes Level 4 certication.
Target a minimum controls and energy management initiatives.
We have continued of 85 per centof non-hazardous waste to be diverted from our compliance activities in connection with the Carbon Reduction landll and identify opportunities to reduce on-site energy Commitment CRC scheme, the Energy Savings Opportunity use, carbon emissions and water consumption at major project Scheme ESOS and continued our work to identify those of our sites including Earls Court, Lillie Square and Kings Court.
properties with an Energy Performance Certicate rating of below E, which will be prioritised for improvements where appropriate.
Further develop our approach to the responsible sourcing of construction materials, including the use of responsibly In 2015, we participated in World Green Building Week and sourced timber, and determine opportunities to reduce promotedto our employees, opportunities to reduce energy use in embodied carbon impacts.
In 2016 we plan to take further steps to raise awareness of energy efficiency and to extend this by engaging with our tenants.
1 Operational control: Assets where Capco has the ability to introduce and At Olympia we continued to promote the vehicle share and manage operational aspects such as energy and water consumption and waste pre-event booking service, which hasbeen successful in reducing management strategies.
traffic queues at peak times and provided useful data to assist organisers with carbon and sustainability reporting.
52 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, Capco has collated data throughout the year to report on the greenhouse gas emissions associated with its operations.
Capco adopts the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, has applied the operational control approach, and adopted a materiality threshold of five per cent for greenhouse gas reporting purposes.
In 2015 new guidance was introduced to the GHG Protocol which requires Capco to report on emissions resulting from purchased electricity using two different methodologies.
The two methodologies are the location-based approach and the market-based approach.
For locationbased reporting, average national grid emission factors for the UK are used, and these have been sourced from the DEFRA 2015 Government Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Market-based reporting uses an emission factor specic to the energy purchased, and here tariff or supplier-specic emission factors have been applied.
Where a supplier-specic emissions factor was unavailable the residual mix emission factor was used.
Reporting Capcos emissions in this way demonstrates the positive impact of procuring electricity generated from renewable sources and from electricity suppliers with cleaner fuel mixes.
Capco has engaged with Carbon Credentials Energy Services Ltd to provide verication of the 2015 greenhouse gas emissions assertion in accordance with industry recognised standard ISO14064-3.
GREENHOUSE GASEMISSIONS DATA FORYEAR 1 JANUARY TO 31 DECEMBER Market-based method Location-based method 1 2 tCO tCO e 2 2 Emission Source 2015 2015 2014 Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions including fuel combustion in owned or controlled boilers and vehicles 1,356 1,998 Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions released into the atmosphere including purchased electricity 801 5,553 9,107 Total annual scope 1 and 2 emissions: 6,909 11,105 Intensity Ratio: Capco Tonnes of CO e per m of Net Assets 2.03 4.43 2 1 Tonnes of carbon dioxide tCO 2 2 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 analyse carbon data and identify measures to reduce consumption.
WASTE AND WATER MANAGEMENT Across our major projects we continue to procure responsibly Across the Group, improving operationalrecycling rates and the sourced timber and have met our target of diverting 85 per cent diversion of waste from landll has remained a priority and we of non-hazardous waste from landll.
achieved 100 per centdiversion of operational non-hazardous waste from landll at Olympia, Covent Garden and Head Office in 2015.
TheEarls Court demolition site achieved a high score in the industry Considerate Constructors Scheme, demonstrating the Throughout the year we monitored water consumption, high standard of environmental management.
Managing establishing a water consumption baseline across the properties demolition waste has been a major priority and in 2015 98 per cent that we operate.
We have identied opportunities to reduce usage of waste was diverted from landll, 95 per cent was recycled off-site by installing water efficient ttings whilst undertaking and three per cent was directly re-used.
A carbon footprinting tool refurbishment works.
We will continue to identify water efficiency has been adopted and measures to reduce carbon impacts, such as initiatives in 2016. innovative eco-fuel additives, are being trialled on-site.
RESPONSIBLE DEVELOPMENT To further our commitment to sustainability in the built environment, Capco is committed to integrating responsible and sustainable we have produced a Sustainability Framework for Projects & practices into the delivery of our projects and development.
This will be adopted in 2016 and sets out sustainability Square and Kings Court, we continue to work towards achieving a performancemeasures for Capcos projects.
Capco is a member of minimum of BREEAM Very Good and Code for Sustainable Homes the UK Green Building Council and we plan to becomea more Level 4 certication.
We have established monthly reporting activemember of the organisation by participating in key sustainability procedures to actively monitor environmental aspects on-site and initiatives and collaborating with our peers in the sector.
at Lillie Square real time energy monitoring has been deployed to GARDEN AT THE LILLIE SQUARE MOCK-UP APARTMENT The planned Lost River Park at Earls Court will create a new five-acre public park designed for walking, resting, play and art, with ecological and productive landscaping to support a wide range of habitats.
The garden at the Lillie Square mock-up apartment pictured gives an insight into the rich landscaping planned for the park.
