Corporate Social Responsibility Report OUR AIMS we have continued to build on our extensive At Card Factory we are committed to delivering communication programme with our stores and on excellent value and quality products to all of our the training we provide to employees which is customers who are the lifeblood of our business.
We supported by the policies and procedures the Group understand the importance of showing our customers has put in place.
that we take our corporate and social responsibility It is our customers who have put us in the privileged CSR seriously.
position of being the UKs leading specialist greeting card retailer and we are committed to ensuring that our Our aim is for CSR to be embedded within the culture at value for money product offering and customer service Card Factory, for it to guide management and employee keeps us in this position.
behaviour and for there to be clear responsibility and accountability within the business for our CSR strategy.
MANUFACTURING AND SOURCING We are proud that the majority of cards sold in our stores We do not have a separate CSR function as it is an are designed and manufactured within the Group from intrinsically important part of the way we do business.
The balance of our procurement is The Board has overall responsibility for our CSR policies from a broad supplier base throughout the UK, Europe and how we manage and monitor performance.
and the Far East, principally China.
Our CSR activity focuses on the following key areas: Our supplier factory auditing programme delivers Customers assurances that we are operating with suppliers that operate in a manner that conforms to applicable Manufacturing and Sourcing legislation and laws and that the necessary systems and Environment controls are in place to mitigate risk.
These audits are Health and Safety undertaken using third-party specialists with a Employees consistent audit programme in place to allow us to ensure suppliers are correctly assessed.
Community The audit programme continues to be developed but all CUSTOMERS suppliers outside of the EU where purchases exceed Our business is built on providing great products, 50,000 per annum have appropriate ethical and service and value to our customers.
technical audits in place commissioned by the Group and undertaken by recognised third-parties with either Key achievements during the year: an assessed rating in excess of 85% or where below this we have continued to roll out EPOS terminals across a detailed corrective action plan is in place for our stores improving customer in store experience: non-material issues to allow ongoing trade to occur.
we have achieved a significant number of redesigns When such issues are either material or not resolved across our existing card ranges and launched new within 3 months we will cease to trade with that supplier.
ranges, both everyday and seasonal, ensuring our customers have a great choice of new products: In 2013, the business became a member of Sedex, a large and recognised membership organisation which exciting new non-card product ranges were shares ethical trade data with members.
We actively introduced across our store network increasing encourage our current or prospective suppliers to join customer choice and diversifying our range: this organisation, if not already members.
we invested significantly in new fixtures and fittings The ethical audits we commission and the information across our store network which enable us to better attained through our Sedex membership assist the showcase some of our new products to customers: business in effectively managing human rights through our Getting Personal business re-launched its website our supply chain and management of this area is also with a more responsive platform enhancing customer supported with factory visits by our sourcing team.
experience across tablets and smartphones: We work with our suppliers to ensure that our products we have recruited a dedicated Customer Service and are produced to all applicable standards and Store Relationship Manager to ensure that all of our appropriate tests are undertaken to ensure product stores are providing consistently excellent service safety is not compromised and associated labelling is and that we respond to any concerns and queries undertaken to a high standard.
We ask all our suppliers from customers as quickly as possible: to sign our supplier compliance manual before trading we have launched a Tell Card factory campaign that commences.
gives customers the opportunity to feedback any comments they have on our products and stores: and 26 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S We continue to strengthen our quality assurance and Installation of automatic meter reading smart meters inspection team utilising third-party partners in the Far This year we have installed more than 100 smart meters East to complement our own teams.
into our existing and new stores to allow us to measure electricity usage on a half hourly basis.
This will enable Within the Groups manufacturing operations, us to reduce electricity usage by: appropriate due diligence is undertaken to ensure, so tackling behaviour in stores, for example, monitoring far as practicable, that we comply with the EU Timber unnecessary use of air conditioning and heating and Regulations.
We have also continued to develop the level also when lights are left on in stores after they have of controls of paper based materials within our products closed: sourced from the Far East to replicate the level of due diligence we undertake withinour own manufacturing identifying all areas which use electricity within stores facilities with those of third-party suppliers.
and producing plans to target areas of excess usage.
For example, there may be legacy equipment we ENVIRONMENT inherit when we open a store that is not fit for our We recognise our business impacts the environment purposes or which is located in parts of a store that and the policies we adopt are important to the business no longer need it and we look to remove, change or and our customers.
Our objective is to reduce the disable the equipment to minimise wastage and impact our business has on the Environment and the reduce cost: and key areas we focus on are: allowing us to perform electrical audits to assess heavy using stores and to consider where savings can Waste recycling be made with close attention being paid to lighting We recognise the impact waste generated from and heating installations in the back-of-house areas.
our activities has on the communities we operate in and proactively look to reduce the level of waste Installation of LED lighting generated and maximise the proportion of waste that To date, and predominantly during this year, we have is recycled.
installed energy-efficient LED lighting in 70 of our stores.
This has enabled us to reduce electricity usage by: We continue to educate our staff to maximise the level of waste that can be recycled and minimise the number reducing the amount of non-LED lighting units of collections required to reduce the associated carbon installed in those stores which were high energy footprint of collection and movement and minimise consuming: and store waste sent to landfill.
reducing the additional electricity used in those stores with cooling systems that had to work From our distribution centres in Wakefield we operate a harder to counteract the heat created by the recycling programme to ensure all plastic and cardboard inefficient lighting.
materials are bailed on site and removed for recycling.
Packaging In addition to the cost efficiency of LED lighting, We use a third-party consultancy to ensure we correctly there is the additional benefit of enhancing the and properly meet the requirements of the UK customer experience in store given the nature of Packaging Waste Regulations and purchase the the lighting and the reduction in heat emitted.
appropriate level of packaging recovery notes PRNs.
Fuel efficiency The majority of our products offered for sale are We seek to invest in fuel efficiency and reduce the designed in house which has allowed the business to number of miles travelled as part of our commitment to effectively reduce packaging waste associated with the reducing energy consumption.
products and the transit packaging attached to the items.
There is further work required to optimise this We operate a fleet of company cars and vans and the area and we see this as an opportunity to reduce waste vehicles available have been reviewed and changed to and cost within the business which will include both the take into account more fuel-efficient vehicles.
packaging costs and positive impact on container and road transport costs.
With our third-party distribution partners, we have actively taken steps to reduce miles travelled for store Energy deliveries from our national distribution centre in The Group has been analysing electricity usage across Wakefield.
By working in partnership with our carriers its store portfolio to better understand how we can and making changes to our business processes, we are reduce the consumption of electricity by the Group.
now sorting a large proportion of our deliveries destined The two key areas of focus during the year have been: for the northern parts of the United Kingdom and Scotland so that they are processed through northern distribution hubs avoiding the travelling distance to national hubs in the midlands with these parties.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 27 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions The Board receives regular reports and updates on Greenhouse Gas Statement for the Group health and safety matters throughout the Group Summary of GHG emissions for the year ended including details of any incidents and remedial actions.
31 January 2015: EMPLOYEES Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e : Card Factorys employees are critical to its success.
2 The Group employs more than 6,500 permanent Scope 1 1,097 staff across our stores, head office, online business, Scope 2 22,873 warehouses and manufacturing locations.
This number Out of Scopes 23 rose to more than 12,000 when taking into account the temporary seasonal workers the Group employs during Intensity Metric: the important Christmas trading period.
Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per m revenue generated CO e m : 67.8 2 The commitment and dedication of our employees has enabled us to grow quickly and to consistently deliver The GHG emission disclosures have been prepared in great value and service to all of our customers.
accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised We want all of our employees to feel valued and to see Edition.
Any company specific applications of the themselves as part of the Card Factory family.
Highly standard have been disclosed on Card Factorys engaged and well trained employees are fundamental investor website www.
to our success to date and critical to us being able to deliver on our four growth pillars.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The Health and Safety of all our employees, customers, We fully support the development and progression of contractors, visitors and members of the public is of our employees throughout the business.
There are many paramount importance to the Group.
examples of employees who have joined us as retail assistants in our stores and who have now progressed It is the responsibility of all employees to ensure that into important roles in our head office supporting stores and our working environments are safe and different functions in the business which have without significant risks which is why we incorporate benefitted from their shop floor and customer facing Health and Safety into our day to day practices and know-how.
support this through training within the business.
We are an equal opportunities employer: our policy is to Although the Board has ultimate responsibility for recruit, develop, promote, support and retain skilled and Health and Safety this is managed on a daily basis motivated people regardless of disability, race, religion by our Compliance and Safety team who liaise with or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, line managers in all areas of the business to ensure marital status or age.
that appropriate checks take place at regular intervals and that all staff receive the appropriate training At the end of the financial period the percentage that is tailored to support their specific roles within breakdown of male and female employees across the the business.
Group was as follows: % Male % Female The Compliance and Safety team also has responsibility Board 83 17 for analysing trends and taking a pro-active approach to Senior management team 89 11 managing the health and safety practices and systems we have in place across the Group.
All employees 18 82 Compliance and Safety meetings are held regularly We regularly communicate with all of our employees in throughout the year and are attended by members of a variety of different ways including: the senior management team as well as by weekly retail news bulletins which provide operational representatives from all the key operational teams in the guidance to all of our stores on matters including business.
The overriding objective of the decisions products, layouts and displays: taken at these meetings is to make our stores and workplaces safe places for customers, employees and online message boards communicate key operational visitors alike.
messages to all of the stores via the Groups intranet: Occupational Health assessments have also been a regional and area managers regular planning and focus for this year and, through the commitment of our review meetings for all of the Groups key trading insurer, we have provided health surveillance for a periods.
Regional and area managers are then specific group of workers.
responsible for cascading the key messages delivered in these meetings to store employees: 2 28 8 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S store manager visits to head office to discuss and COMMUNITY review Card Factorys retail proposition: The Group and its employees recognise the importance of being responsible members of our community.
The Card FACTually is a quarterly magazine which Group looks to support charitable causes that can contains a message from the CEO and takes a more benefit from the growth in our business.
light-hearted look at the business.
It included details of the community and charity events we are involved Card Factory is proud to have been supporting in and aims to celebrate and share achievements and Macmillan Cancer Support since 2006.
Employees and successes by employees across the Group: customers at Card Factory have taken part in multiple Board and senior management team members fundraising events, ranging from loose change regularly visit stores to assess the retail proposition donations to the annual National Bear Raffle in our and get feedback from employees, particularly during stores as well as the sale of Macmillan Christmas cards.
key trading periods: and For a number of years, a group of employees from across our business have also competed in the Great our Mock Shop is a representative Card Factory North Run attracting sponsorship from colleagues, store at our Head Office which is prepared to reflect friends and relatives.
the layout of a typical Card Factory store as it progresses through the various trading periods.
To date we have raised more than 3 million and we This not only provides a visual representation of intend to continue this successful partnership with what we are trying to achieve in our stores but Macmillan whose valuable work helps to ensure that also gives employees the opportunity to provide no one faces cancer alone.
feedback on our retail proposition.
In a retail environment that has, in recent times, been very challenging, Card Factory looks to be a responsible member of the communities in which we trade and to provide employment opportunities not only in large towns and cities but also smaller high street shopping locations.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 29 29
