Sustainability making us abetter business At Carillion we continue to lead Delivering our 2020 Sustainability Strategy Building asustainable business that creates value for all our the way in sustainability.
It is stakeholders is at the heart of the Groups strategy and business model.
Our 2020 Sustainability Strategy is structured around business, society anintegral part of our business and the environment, with specific, measurable targets to achieve six positive outcomes, all of which are independently verified.
model pages 16 and 17, it is Better business embedded in all our decisionBuilding Leading the way asuccessful withour customers making and it is fundamental business and suppliers tohow we create value for all Better society stakeholders.
Our sustainable Providing better Supporting approach gives us acompetitive prospects for sustainable ourpeople communities advantage through innovation, Better environment efficiency, responsiveness and Enabling low carbon Protecting the building strong partnerships.
economies environment Since embarking on our 2020 Sustainability Strategy in 2010, we have made good progress towards achieving these outcomes.
Our approach is overseen on behalf of the Board by our Sustainability Committee, which is chaired by Dr Ceri Powell, one of our Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee regularly reviews the issues that our stakeholders consider to be the most material to our strategy, including: developing and attracting excellent people creating adiverse and flexible workforce the safety, health and wellbeing of our people and all who are involved with, or affected by our operations financial performance managing strong supplier relationships and upskilling suppliers local community engagement, including offering training and apprenticeship opportunities human rights strong corporate governance and management of sustainability carbon emissions and energy efficiency efficient use of materials and waste minimisation and minimising the use of water.
A report on the work of our Sustainability Committee can be found on page 52 2015 Highlights Won the PwC Building Public Trust Award for the third consecutive year Shortlisted for BITCs Responsible Business of theYear Achieved 4-star rating 97% in BITCs Corporate Responsibility Index Re-accredited as aFTSE4Good company Achieved our 1,000th Ready for Work placement, and our 400th person supported into employment Awarded highest score possible WWF 3-tree grading for timber sourcing BITC Opportunity Now Diversity Champion 2015 and Times Top 50 Employer for Women Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 18 Strategic report Leading the way with our customers and suppliers We have been accredited to BS11000, the British Standard for 22% 58% collaborative business relationships since 2013 and we are now working reduction in Lost Time Incident of external UK supplier spend with our customers to help them attain this standard.
In 2015, our Frequency Rate LTIFR withlocal businesses external expenditure with suppliers was 3.4 billion, through which we help our suppliers become more sustainable.
Nearly 7,200 suppliers have been accredited to sustainability standards, with 8 per cent performing at the highest A-grade level, and we are aBoard-level 33.8m 98% Funding Partner of the Supply Chain Sustainability School.
net operating profit contribution of sourced timber meets through sustainability strategy FSCorequivalent standards We remain focused on supporting small and medium enterprises SMEs and in 2015, 31 per cent of our suppliers were SMEs, exceeding the UK Governments target for its strategic suppliers, which includes Carillion, of 25 per cent.
Over 4,000 accredited SME suppliers are 36 31% supported by our Small Business Charter.
Our Early Payment Facility Net Promoter Score measuring reduction in our carbon footprint was extended in 2015 to cover 60 per cent of our UK external spend customer satisfaction since 2011 normalised with suppliers, with over 400 suppliers now using this service.
Finalist in Responsible Business of the Year Award 98A 94% near-perfect score for climate of waste diverted change action Carbon from landfill DisclosureProject We were selected as one of five finalists in the Business in the Community 1% 68% BITC Responsible Business of the Year Award 2015.
The award recognises UK businesses that integrate sustainability issues most effectively across their of pre-tax profit donated employee engagement score strategy and operations, are influencing others to collaborate and create the tocommunity activities conditions for long-term sustainable change.
Chartered Institute of Procurement & Supply CIPS Corporate Certification Standard Sustainability makes afundamental difference to the success of our business.
It is not all about the bottom line, as the health, safety and welfare of our people and those touched by our operations always come first.
Creating shared value and aprofitable business is key to delivering Carillion is constructively and consistently abalanced sustainability strategy and long-term responsive to the Thameslink programmes positive legacies where we work and live.
They are active Richard Howson, participants in our forums, our activities and Chief Executive, Carillion our initiatives.
Overall, they give us this can do Read more about our strategy and performance in our Sustainability approach that really instils confidence in their Report 2015: www.
com sustainability2015 which ability to achieve our sustainability agenda.
will be published in April 2016 Annamarie Compton, Environment Manager, Network Rail Better business We are supporting sustainable economic growth across the geographies Better society in which we operate, through providing jobs, training and maximising We aim to make anet positive contribution to society, by providing local procurement, as well as directly through the infrastructure we inclusive, inspiring employment and training opportunities and we seek buildand maintain.
Our expertise in cost-efficient, reliable and creative to build aloyal, motivated workforce that adds value to our business.
In operational delivery has come to distinguish us from others, backed up our ambition toshare value and create alegacy of vibrant communities, by our commitment to responsible business.
Our vision is to continue we seek tostimulate dynamic local economies, which is an increasingly helping to lead our customers and suppliers on that journey too.
important differentiator for our business.
"2015 Highlights 2015 Highlights 33.8m contribution to underlying operating profit 22% reduction in Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 36 Net Promoter Score measuring customer satisfaction 17% of our leadership population are women 58% of UK supplier spend with local businesses Achieved ""Silver Banding"" in the BITC Gender Benchmark Level 5 of the Governments Flexible Framework for Procurement 400th person supported into employment via the Ready for Workprogramme Building asuccessful business In 2015, we estimate that our sustainability initiatives made anet Providing better prospects for our people contribution to operating profit of 33.8 million 2014: 27.2 million, Investing in developing the skills of our people and their wellbeing makes which is very strong progress towards our 2020 target of 40 million."
us an attractive employer in acompetitive employment market.
It also helps How did we do this?
We continued to reduce waste, improve efficiency, us create positive legacies for the communities in which we work and live.
develop our talented, flexible and diverse workforce, build strong relationships with customers and suppliers and work with them to create innovative, cost-effective services.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 19 Sustainability making us abetter business continued A safe workplace Supporting sustainable communities In 2015, we made further progress towards our goal of zero accidents Adding value to society starts on our doorstep.
Our pledge is to leave on our work sites and we stepped up our focus on road safety with along-lasting, positive legacy in the communities where we work.
This anew campaign, ONE Road to Safety.
When we asked our people how means focusing on local jobs for local people, training and community they rated the statement in our Group-wide survey, Your Say, I am engagement.
encouraged to get involved in creating asafe working environment, 85% responded positively.
But we know one accident is one too many, In schools, 283 Carillion employees volunteered more than 1,800 hours so we remain totally focused on our target of zero accidents.
between 2013 and 2015 to support Business Class, BITCs programme for school children at risk of becoming marginalised.
A diverse workforce The benefits of adiverse workforce are rooted in our belief that it With over 1,500 places for apprentices in 2015, we continue to be the inspires our people, improves our performance and increases largest trainer and employer of construction apprentices in the UK, profitability.
Improving the gender diversity of those in leadership helping to tackle the countrys skills shortage and build atalented positions in particular is helping us to attract and inspire the next resource for our own business.
18 per cent of our leadership population are female and we continue to target 30 per cent by 2020.
Furthermore we have In partnership with BITC, we supported our 400th Ready for Work seen asubstantial increase in women returning to work after maternity participant into employment in 2015 and offered our 1,000th work leave toover 95 per cent.
placement since we began supporting this programme eight years ago.
Through these placements, we are enabling some of societys most We also continue to support diversity networks, such as Women in vulnerable people to get back into employment, and we introduced Leadership, and promote our own Working Mums Network.
This specific support in 2015 for women seeking work placements.
200-strong network has so far given 990 hours of voluntary support, equivalent to an investment of approximately 23,400 by Carillion.
Two We also work with policy makers, local and national authorities to female employees, Kat Fidler Sky Blue and Nicole Bouchier Bouchier improve the ways in which such programmes can create social value.
both received awards for championing diversity, and we were listed for For example, we are helping customers respond to the UK Governments the first time in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women, linked to the Public Services Social Value Act, which requires them to take into national Diversity and Inclusion Opportunity Now Awards.
We are also account wider social, environmental and economic benefits when anational sponsor of the UKs YourLife programme, which promotes and procuring public services.
supports Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths STEM studies among 14 to 16 year olds.
18% 29% of our leadership population are of Board membership female compared with our target is female of 30% by 2020 Through our volunteering programmes, Carillion people work with disadvantaged groups who may face barriers to employment or simply need alittle extra help to demonstrate the contribution they can make.
My mum used to sign this to me when I was young If there is asingle lesson in life that Carillion holds career fairs in schools and also provides opportunities for students to have mock interviews to help them move on to further education or into employment.
ayoung deaf person must learn, its that wishing for something does not work, but education and Signing the EngTechNow Charter demonstrated hard work does.
Skyblue saw something in me, our commitment to engineers of the future.
took achance and now I am aproductive Italso sets out our promise to strengthen the member of staff.
professional status of engineering technicians Jordan a Carillion employee and apprentices entering the profession through proven and practical measures.
Our business in Canada won the Progressive Aboriginal Relations Bronze award.
Euan Burns, Chief Engineer, Carillion Services, commenting on the Charter at the Parliamentary launch of areport on solutions to fill the A fair workplace engineering skills gap We pay close attention to human rights across all our businesses and we continue to focus on our operations in Qatar, where we have audited over 120 suppliers to assess the living standards of their employees who work on our sites.
Where living conditions do not come up to the 18% over 400 standards we expect, we offer to work with suppliers to help them of employees use Carillions schools engaged with in 2015 improve the living conditions of their people.
If suppliers continue to special leave policy for fail to achieve the standards we expect, we cease to work with them.
voluntarywork As regards health and safety, we apply the same standards across all our work sites, regardless of location or geography.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 20 Strategic report In 2015, we completed the construction of section three of the project to In the table below, we report our Greenhouse Gas emissions GHG in upgrade the A465 to dual carriageway, in South Wales.
In line with our tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2e from the sources required objective of using local businesses in our supply chain, 84 per cent of the under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report cost of delivering this project was spent with Welsh companies.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas GHG reporting equates to anestimated economic benefit of 180 million.
The project team protocol to calculate our GHG emissions for 2015, based on data liaised extensively with the local community throughout the project.
An gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency on-site Job Shop was created in partnership with Blaenau Gwent Council scheme and on emission factors from the UK Governments GHG and 99 per cent of those employed through this scheme came from Wales.
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015.
We have quoted It was the first project in Wales to receive National Skills Academy for figures for all sources whose costs are included in our consolidated Construction status.
We do not record fugitive emissions as these are not part of our core operations.
Supporting charities Our Non-Executive Chairman, Philip Green is Chairman of the Board of The figures reported in the table below have been reviewed by Trustees for Sentebale.
This charity helps vulnerable children, the forgotten independent external assurance provider, Bureau Veritas.
For details victims of poverty and Lesothos HIV AIDS epidemic.
In 2015, ten Carillion of the scope of work and opinion on the accuracy of our stated volunteers helped to complete building work on the Mamohato Children's performance, please see the full assurance statement in our 2015 Centre, which is aflagship centre for Sentebales work.
Annual Sustainability Report, which will be published on our corporate website in April 2016.
In 2015, we completed the second year of our strategic charity 2015 2014 partnership with Barnardos.
People across the business were involved Emissions from CO e tonnes CO e tonnes 2 2 in raising over 155,000 during this partnership, delivering over 1,800 Combustion of fuel and operation hours of volunteering time and making contributions to five major of facilities Scope 1 130,417 134,656 national projects to support 727 children leaving care.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 19,875 25,116 Our strategic charity partner for the next two years is Hospice UK, which was Transport, paper and others including selected by our employees who were invited to vote for our new partner.
electricity, gas WTT and electricity Hospice UK champions and supports the work of more than 200 hospices WTT Scope 3 15,936 15,936 across the country and aims to deliver the highest quality of care to people Chosen intensity metric: with terminal or life-limiting conditions and to support their families.
They Emissions tonnes per million are the national voice of hospice care, and our new partnership will focus of revenue 36.2 43.2 on fundraising and volunteering opportunities in 2016 and 2017.
Protecting the environment Moving towards acircular economy in our sector means drastically Better environment reducing, or even eliminating, waste, which our stakeholders reiterate We believe in the potential for astable climate and the need to preserve is amaterial issue.
We continue to work towards our target of sending resources for future generations.
Working with our customers and zero non-hazardous waste to landfill.
suppliers to cut carbon emissions, rethink waste and be smart about resources makes us amore sustainable business.
We remain focused on minimising the use of natural resources and recycling waste from diverting drywall material from landfill in Canada, 2015 Highlights toconverting excavated rock into roof gravel in Oman.
Water consumption One of only two UK industrial sector companies with Climate A-grade across our estate reduced by 24 per cent compared with our 2012 in Carbon Disclosure Project index baseline consumption.
Sponsored Day 11 of the ECO Action Games for the Paris Climate Summit social media campaign We conduct biodiversity risk assessments for all of our contracts, Highest score 3-Tree grading from WWF for purchasing timber and working in partnership with conservation specialists like the UK Wildlife related products Trusts and the UK Freshwater Habitats Trust.
Working with schools and 60 contracts targeted BREEAM or equivalent Excellent standard local communities through wildlife volunteering projects continues to 47% per cent absolute reduction in waste against 2014 baseline be an important feature of our strategy, helping to build relationships between our people and the communities in which we work and live.
Enabling low-carbon economies Low-carbon cities of the future will be built using intelligent engineering.
We are already at an advanced stage in trialling new approaches, using Building Information Modelling and embodied carbon measurement, alongside other thought leaders, such as the UK Green Building Council GBC.
We were akey sponsor of the GBCs first ever Cities strategic planning event and we also sponsored its Embodied Carbon Conference, which focused on customer requirements and supplier collaboration across the built environment.
In 2015, 60 of our contracts targeted BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology Excellent standard for environmental design, or asimilar rating using an equivalent methodology, such as DREAM Defence Related Environmental Assessment Methodology.
Our Middle East and North Africa business achieved anumber of awards for design and integration, particularly for pioneering new approaches to minimising water use and maximising energy efficiency.
Our partnership with the UK Freshwater Habitats Trust helps to protect We reduced our carbon emissions by afurther 31 per cent in 2015 and biodiversity.
In 2015, Carillion volunteers worked with the Trust to test were highly rated in the CDPs Climate A List for the second year running, water quality.
achieving ascore of 98A one of only two UK companies to be awarded an A grade in the industrials sector.
Initiatives like the introduction of electric vehicles, smart PC technology and our continuing focus on reducing fuel consumption and travel have all contributed to this success.
99% of our contracts have Carbon Gold Leaf Member of the UK Reduction Plans CRP in place Green Building Council 2014: 96% Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
