Report of the Sustainability Committee Positive Outcome review Dear Shareholder, The Sustainability Committee reviewed each of the Groups six Positive Outcomes, focusing on the strategic aims, key targets and I am pleased to present the Sustainability Committees report for the metrics associated with each one, as well as making adjustments year ended 31 December 2015. or recommending actions to improve their associated delivery and benefits.
Specific areas of review included the sources and categories Sustainability is a core commitment embedded within Carillions of sustainabilitys profitability contributions under the building a operational delivery, values and reputational management backed up successful business outcome, together with Carillions extensive efforts by our published 2020 Sustainability Strategy and  to promote and enable employee volunteering.
The Committee noted Key Performance Indicators.
the compelling community engagement position that Carillion had established, targeting headline performance indicators which included Our Strategy consists of six Positive Outcomes which target a balanced local spending, employment outcomes for disadvantaged people, set of strategic objectives across economic, environmental and social apprenticeships, community needs plans and direct support for schools.
responsibility and include building a successful business, leading the wayin our sector, enabling low-carbon economies, protecting the See also pages 18 to 21 of Sustainability making us a better business.
environment, supporting sustainable communities and providing betterprospects for our people.
External validation and benchmarking The Committee noted the importance of continuing to lead the way by The Board Sustainability Committee was established as a principle in 2014 learning from external benchmarking, exemplified by Carillion retaining and commenced its work in 2015, aiming to oversee the development and PwCs Building Public Trust Award for Sustainability Reporting for an implementation of the Groups sustainability strategy, values and policies, unprecedented third consecutive year.
This was further demonstrated by engaging with key internal and external stakeholders on prime by being recognised as one of only two UK Industrial sector firms sustainability themes.
The Board receives monthly reports on progress, awarded a Climate A-grade within the CDP formerly the Carbon priorities, targets and challenges on topical sustainability issues, so the Disclosure Project index for cutting carbon achieving a score of Sustainability Committee focuses on the Groups wider strategy, its 98A for disclosure and performance in tackling climate change.
The relevance to sector contexts, and legislation or regulations that might Committee further noted Carillions investment in external partnerships affect the Group or its stakeholders.
The Committee also approves such as Business in the Community BITC, particularly with the Chief external sustainability advisor appointments and reviews Carillions Executive Officer chairing its Community Leadership team, and the Annual Sustainability Report prior to its publication, including the opportunities to assess best practice through initiatives such as BITCs annual management report of the Groups sustainability auditors.
Corporate Responsibility and Diversity Indices.
Membership and attendance at meetings held during the year Sustainability Moments ended 31 December 2015 The Committee reviewed Sustainability Moments during 2015, Meeting attendance Meeting attendance which offered an opportunity to focus on examples of Carillions 2015 2014 most inspiring sustainability behaviour and values.
Specific initiatives Appointed Eligible Eligible included the independent reclamation of building materials to reduce Member retired Attended to attend Attended to attend waste and improve profitability, the support given to a homeless person Ceri Powell 02.04.14 4 4 N A N A under Carillions support for BITCs Ready for Work programme and Keith Cochrane 02.07.15 3 3 N A N A the employment of a disabled person through a focused volunteering Andrew Dougal 03.10.11 4 4 N A N A commitment from a Carillion employee.
The Committee also reviewed Philip Green 01.06.11 4 4 N A N A the positive and diverse impacts achieved through Carillions Employee Alison Horner 01.12.13 3 4 N A N A Nomination Fund, supporting 160 charities through two annual funding rounds across its international business regions.
Richard Howson 10.12.09 4 4 N A N A Steve Mogford 31.12.15 4 4 N A N A Committee annual evaluation The Committee reviewed its performance for 2015, as part of the The Chief Sustainability Officer also attends the Committees meetings.
overall Board evaluation process, confirming that it had established The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
com an excellent forum that stimulated good debate and focus around the or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee felt that its agenda would develop over time, as it refined its role to add value and exercise appropriate Committee activities in 2015 governance.
Future priorities highlighted by the evaluation include Key areas of debate and review at the Board Committees four meetings continuing to develop its understanding of wider sustainability themes in 2015 included a review of sustainability risks, each of the Strategys six and their relevance to Carillion, and engaging more directly with Positive Outcomes, external validation and Sustainability Moments across external advisors on current trends to benchmark Carillions the Groups international business operations.
In addition during 2016, the Committee plans to undertake a broader review of the strategic themes and the Risk review six Positive Outcomes, in the context of environmental and regulatory The review of risks within Carillions Sustainability 2020 Strategy drivers, particularly to ensure that sustainability continues to serve included an assessment of specific risks associated with each Positive as a competitive differentiator.
It will continue to focus on responsible Outcome, as well as wider considerations of work with new and existing reporting and development of the Sustainability 2020 Strategy, to clients, the development of an ambitious future Sustainability Strategy further integrate it with our wider corporate strategy.
I will be available and the management of supply chain relationships.
It was recognised to answer any questions about the work of the Committee at the that these and other risks were well managed under the Groups robust AGM on 4 May 2016. existing risk management processes, including its Group Risk Forum.
In addition, Carillion has established sustainability reporting to Global Reporting Initiative G4 standards, which includes a declaration of risk issues and their associated mitigation within the Annual Sustainability Report.
Ceri Powell Chairman 3 March 2016 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52
