38 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy The HSES committee is focused on maintaining a safe environment to work, with opportunities for our employees to train and develop their skills.
trevor Schultz Chairman of the HSES committee Dear shareholders One of our main priorities is for each employee to return home safely at the end of each day having worked in a I am presenting this report in my capacity as chairman of the zeroharm environment.
Our safety and lTIFR has improved health, safety, environmental and sustainability committee further this year: however, it is regrettable that Sukari HSES, a committee of the board of Centamin plc.
experienced its first fatality during 2015.
An unfortunate incident occurred within the open pit operation, when a The committee is responsible for making recommendations contractors employee was involved in a rock collapse whilst to the board on all matters in connection with issues of relocating a grade control drill rig.
The operator, and sole the environment, workplace health and safety, and the occupant of the drill rig, was fatally injured in the incident.
development of sustainable engagement with communities and stakeholders.
The committee was consulted and informed by management as the incident, the response and the During the year the HSES committee worked closely with followup investigation unfolded.
The committee praised management on the following matters: the work of the response team and also the leadership review monthly and quarterly reporting on corporate onsite in the aftermath of the incident, ensuring personnel sustainable development issues and initiatives: received regular and reliable information.
The committee develop and implement HSES policies in Burkina Faso is working with management regarding implementation of and Cte dIvoire: additional safety measures for any area of the operation where there is scope for improvement.
complete existing community initiatives at Sukari and the neighbouring town, Marsa Alam: The committee has also been involved in the security steer community initiatives in Burkina Faso and assessment and follow up community work following the Cte dIvoire: unfortunate incident in early 2015 in Burkina Faso.
The incident, which occurred on a public road near the Konkera review of environmental, health, safety and contingency village, resulted in one of our local employees being fatally planning issues: and wounded and another sustaining injuries.
review of incident reports relating to the two fatalities occurring in 2015 one incident in Burkina Faso and one The wellbeing of our employees is a priority for Centamin incident occurring at Sukari.
and the committee will continue to ensure that health and workplace safety remain at the top of the agenda.
Key issues were raised by the committee during the year and in particular the committee assisted in progressing the The report below covers the key HSES issues for Sukari segregation of material in the scrap yard at Sukari.
and concludes with information relating to the exploration activity in Burkina Faso.
The committee was also encouraged by the level of training undertaken at Sukari, with many employees achieving certification following tailored training programmes in the trevor Schultz following areas: Chairman of HSES committee fire safety training: 21 March 2016 emergency response training: and hygiene standards.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 39 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report HSeS caSe StUDy tooL BoX taLk The HSES committee members at the date of this report The tool box talks are an effective and easy method of are Trevor Schultz chairman, Mark Bankes and Kevin safety communication.
Fulltime trainers are available in Tomlinson, all of whom are independent directors of the almost all operational departments to provide infield Company.
The previous chairman of the committee, Bob training and coaching for the work force.
Tool box talks Bowker, retired in January 2015. before shifts are used to address safety issues, to share Health and safety tips and lessons learnt.
Centamin is committed to minimising health and safety The talk provides an environment for interactive risks to a reasonably practical level, while striving for a discussion and promotes a safetyconscious culture.
zeroharm and productive work place.
We have designed This timely safety communication addresses numerous and implemented systems, procedures and measures to safety aspects and supplements formal training.
Our manage occupational health and safety risks.
Such systems safety professionals are continuously developing are implemented in full conformity with local legislation, material for the talks in a simple form using brief text, licence and permit conditions, as well as international best photos and drawings.
The tool has proved to be a very practice standards.
successful method of continuous safety learning.
In 2015, we were able to reduce the lTIFR further and we The Company is committed to continuously training continue to strive for an injuryfree environment.
the employees through a comprehensive safety training and coaching programme: Safety-conscious culture We realise that safety is the responsibility of all employees a tailored safety induction for new employees, and pursue the development of a safety culture at our contractors and visitors: sites.
We do this by empowering employees, giving them incident investigation: responsibility for their wellbeing as well as the safety of the training modules addressing job hazard analysis, colleagues they work alongside.
Through training, coaching risk assessments, incident investigations, work and leading by example, our employees are fully aware of permits, first aid, fire extinguishing, and hazard the safety requirements and standards expected.
identification: and Safety is a main element of discussion in preshift, daily technical competence tuition, such as isolation planning and weekly safety meetings.
Safety alerts are also training, lifting procedures, confined space entry, periodically issued and sent to all employees.
hot work and working at height.
proactive approach and emergency response planning Training is repeated regularly through refresher courses The HSES team onsite prepare and train to respond quickly and employees are all tested to ensure a high level to emergencies.
We have developed a detailed emergency of understanding and application.
The training is plan with full response and rescue procedures for different undertaken by the onsite HSE department.
The plan is coupled with emergency training is rolled out for all departments, encompassing arrangements for different areas of the operation.
areaspecific training, field training and coaching.
Risk assessment is integral to all operational activities onsite and we continuously evaluate potential and actual hazards, their probability and likely outcomes, to determine the level of risk and appropriate risk mitigation and safeguards.
A variety of different procedures and systems have been LoSt tiMe iNjUry FreqUeNcy rate developed and implemented including job hazard analysis per 200,000 working hours for new and nonrecurrent activities.
1.25 We undertake emergency drills to test our performance and our equipment.
In 2015, we undertook 53 emergency drills covering different risk scenarios to test our emergency response, rescue and evacuation capabilities.
0.69 An inspection and maintenance programme is implemented to ensure all emergency response equipment is fit for use at 0.39 0.36 all times.
0.12 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 40 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy continued Monitoring methodology includes measurements, medical caSe StUDy eStaBLiSHiNg a capaBLe eMergeNcy teaM surveillance, auditing and visual inspection, as well as systematic observation of the work and behaviour of staff.
Creating and maintaining a qualified emergency team Measurements are performed through inhouse capabilities is an essential element of emergency preparedness.
as well as thirdparty entities.
Reactive or responsive At Sukari, we have structured a very competent evaluation is also undertaken to investigate and analyse response and rescue team to be immediately incidents and to identify root causes to help implement mobilised in case of emergency situations.
The information collated from these has received ample training and was coached for a processes is reported to the committee on a monthly and year by a resident emergency response expert.
capacity building programme includes theoretical and All employees and contractors are required to report all practical training as well as drills to simulate different hazards, nearmisses and incidents for investigation and emergency situations.
The team is equipped with the analysis.
This embodies the principles adopted by the required response equipment, supplies and rescue HSES policies and procedures that everyone shares and facilities.
A training plan is implemented to ensure full contributes in a responsible manner to creating a safe competence of the team.
As noted earlier, in the HSE working environment.
chairmans summary, the committee praised the work of the response team at Sukari in the aftermath of the Our safety performance in 2015 saw a considerable unfortunate incident that occurred within the open pit improvement in our lost time injury lTI frequency rate operation in the fourth quarter.
and a slight increase in our medical treated injury MTI frequency rate.
We have had one fatal incident at Sukari contractor management which occurred in 2015.
All contractors operating onsite are required to adhere to This incident was investigated and duly reported to the implemented safety management system, whether authorities and occurred within the open pit operation, they work for long periods of time or for short assignments.
when a contractors employee was involved in a rock Currently there are around 485 permanent contractors collapse whilst relocating a grade control drill rig.
operator, and sole occupant of the drill rig, was fatally We provide and share information with our contracting injured in the incident.
teams, in support of our compliance and safety procedures.
2015 2014 2013 2012 Contractors are provided with a standard health and safety frequency frequency frequency frequency induction upon their arrival at site and given full access to 1 1 1 1 rate rate rate rate health services available onsite.
Fatality injury FIFR 0.04 tracking safety performance and safety performance indicators lost time injury lTIFR 0.12 0.39 0.36 0.69 A core element of our management system is to assess our safety performance and identify areas for improvement.
The Medical treatment injury evaluation of our safety performance is essential to indicate MTIFR 0.6 0.39 1.28 1.37 the effectiveness of our systems and controls and to identify 1 Per 200,000 working hours.
In that regard, we have monitoring systems in place for: workplace and occupational health parameters: occupational health parameters to detect health impacts due to workrelated matters: fitness to work to detect personnel under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs: implementation of safety procedures and standards to ensure they are assimilated and adhered to: and stability of structures to detect any potential movement, cracks or other instabilities.
Fire drill training at Sukari Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 41 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report Health and wellbeing We provide quality health service for our employees onsite and offsite through a comprehensive health We pay the utmost attention to the wellbeing of our insurance system.
employees and their protection from exposure to occupational health risks.
We provide protective measures our employees and contractors and equipment for different operations ensuring the Our people are core to the success of our business.
equipment is appropriate for the working conditions.
We are committed to attracting, energising, developing Medical tests, including blood analysis, are conducted and retaining a highly skilled and experienced workforce.
regularly, particularly for laboratory personnel and those The Companys activities provide direct and indirect working with chemicals and metals.
In 2015, the following employment, training and work experience for many tests and measurements were also carried out and the Egyptian employees.
Our workforce has witnessed outcomes were as follows: considerable growth since we started production in 2010, internal health and hygiene audits confirmed the results both in terms of the number of employees and the range were within acceptable limits: of skills and expertise of our workforce.
water quality sampling and analyses carried out by an In Egypt, we employ 1,316 people of whom 95% are external laboratory confirmed no major anomalies: and Egyptian.
The remaining 5% are experienced expatriate work environment monitoring and personal exposure mining professionals, which is well below the 10% maximum levels recorded no anomalies and confirmed that Sukari expatriate limit mandated by Egyptian law.
Approximately was compliant with required standards.
50% of our Egyptian nationals are from Upper Egypt, the area where Sukari is situated, which typically has less caSe StUDy HeaLtH SerViceS at SUkari economic activity than the more prosperous areas around the Nile Delta.
Sukari has a wellequipped clinic providing health and emergency related services on a 24 hours a day, Only 1% of our Egyptian workforce are women and they seven days a week basis.
A doctor and qualified nurse work in the groups office in Alexandria this is mainly manage the clinic and provide professional services in because social conditions in Egypt and in the Middle East normal conditions.
It is also equipped to respond to in general do not encourage the work of female employees emergency situations.
A medical evacuation scheme in remote sites away from their families.
MEDIVAC is in place supported by first aid facilities, The table below sets out the number of people employed as well as an ambulance for transportation to the by the group excluding contractors by country, during the nearest hospital.
Our health programme has a special focus on food safety and hygiene, given we have a large mess that provides meals to about 1,500 employees and contractors per day.
We employ inhouse health and hygiene officers who supervise food safety and undertake inspection and auditing on all components of the system.
Periodic external audits are also undertaken for verification.
In 2015, the programme yielded very satisfactory results and a higher level of hygiene was achieved and maintained.
The number of contractors onsite at Sukari, Egypt during the year averaged 485 individuals.
42 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy continued Human resources principles Contractors are required by their agreements to abide by these requirements, and followup checks are carried out to Our recruitment procedures and standards are innovative establish that our conditions are met.
and target those who will have not only the relevant competence, skills and qualifications, but who have We expect all employees to uphold our core values of potential for growth and development and could integrate honesty and integrity.
All employees are encouraged within a large work team working in a remote area.
to treat their fellow colleagues with respect, dignity Our human resources policy provides the framework within and common courtesy.
All employees are required to which we operate.
It delineates the rights, obligations and understand and act in accordance with the Companys benefits for employees.
Our policies ensure: requirements and to fully integrate within the work team.
all employees have the same rights and obligations and Annual performance appraisals are undertaken for all there is no discrimination based on religious grounds, employees.
The appraisal covers several areas including nationality or political views: the employees job knowledge, skills attained during employment decisions, such as hiring and promotion are the year, quality of work, initiative and innovation.
The based on the ability of a person to perform the job in appraisal is undertaken by the immediate supervisor and question, without regard to personal characteristics that the performance is agreed with the section head.
The are unrelated to the inherent job requirements: process also identifies the need for training or coaching, harassment of employees by anyone and in any way is modification of responsibilities or opportunities to not tolerated: undertake more challenging roles and responsibilities.
any practices of forced and compulsory labour are not capacity building and development allowed in any work related to our activities: We actively invest in securing the full spectrum of skills and all employees are entitled to a safe healthy work competencies needed for effective operations.
We adopt environment, and each employee is accountable a comprehensive development plan for each position for HSE performance in the Company: to enhance skills and qualifications for the Egyptian staff child or forced labour is prohibited, whether in our to become a workforce of international repute in the permanent employment or in contractors workforces: mining industry.
and We work with all our employees closely and encourage we are committed to the highest ethical standards and those who show keenness and desire to develop new behaviours as firmly rooted in our Code of Conduct.
External training is arranged The code secures the adherence to set principles and either onsite or abroad.
Special training programmes for promotes confidence in the integrity of the Company.
databases, software and surveys are designed to include distant followup and support.
We value regular communication and feedback with employees which helps enhance the efficiency, effectiveness and safety of everyday activities and overall operational performance.
recreational facilities onsite In addition to creating a positive work environment, the Company believes it is important that employees enjoy their time before and after work.
The majority of our staff live in the Sukari camp, and thus we have invested in a variety of leisure facilities such as playing fields, a gymnasium, a library, internet access and satellite television.
Special barbecue dinners are also held at the beach or around Sukari and sports tournaments are regularly organised.
Sukari has also arranged accommodation complexes outside the site in Marsa Alam city centre.
Underground core samples assessed by operator Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 43 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report the environment recreational area and Our HSE policy outlines our commitment to environmental facilities at Sukari responsibility.
One of Centamins core values is to minimise the environmental impact and risk of an environment incident from its operations, to a reasonably practical level.
We remain committed to maintaining, and whenever possible exceeding, the high level of environmental performance that we have achieved in 2015.
An environmental and social impact assessment ESIA was prepared as part of the project feasibility study at Sukari.
We strive to maintain high standards of environmental performance.
We meet, and where possible, exceed relevant legal requirements.
The system is supported by a robust documentation system that ensures the maintenance of required registers, documents and renewal of required permits.
water management and groundwater protection The environmental management scheme for the Sukari Water is a crucial input for our processes, thus it is essential project includes a monitoring programme designed to to secure and maintain a sustainable source of water for our evaluate compliance with environmental laws, regulations, operations.
In an area with limited fresh water resources, Company policies and international best practice.
The we rely on a sea water intake and pipeline from the Red system covers waste management: material, water and Sea to provide a sustainable water supply to the mine.
energy management: management of hazardous substances As a secondary source of water, we have beach wells where and chemicals and biodiversity management.
sea water infiltrates through the soil.
We have desalination Maintaining an environmentally responsible culture plants for generating fresh water for the process plant and for domestic use.
Employees are made aware of their environmental responsibilities and relevant procedures through a number The sea water pumped to site is used, and then recycled of means.
We maintain an established programme of throughout the process plant ensuring optimum usage environmental training and awareness.
The programme of this resource.
This is undertaken through an internal addresses different environmental fields including chemical recycling system where different water streams are deployed management: waste management: emissions and water in closedloop systems to reduce consumption as much as conservation, as well as general environmental management possible.
We strictly monitor our water use and strive to practices.
Other forms of awareness are undertaken through adopt measures for efficient use of water.
meetings and tool box talks.
3 In 2015, we used a total of 9,743,584m per year with an resource management 3 increase of 18% on 2014 8,298,474m.
About 99% of the Systems and procedures are in place to ensure efficient water consumed at Sukari is sea water, which has no impact and safe handling of material used at the mine including on fresh water resources.
Desalinated water used in camps and offices is tested to Risk assessments are carried out for handling and usage ensure its quality in terms of chemical and bacteriologic of all chemicals and hazardous materials.
Bottled water used for drinking is also containment, automatic alarms and shutoff systems.
periodically tested to ensure supplier standards and storage Preventative maintenance programmes for tanks and procedures are maintained.
All samples are compliant with equipment are also in place.
Our emergency response Egyptian legal requirements.
system include spill prevention and response measures.
Groundwater protection measures have been incorporated We fully acknowledge the importance of managing in the design of the tailing storage facility and other chemicals in a sound manner so as to minimise harm to components where a layer of gypsum and a HPDE the environment and the health of employees.
Hazard liner are used to prevent seepage.
Workshops have communication and chemical management handling concrete working areas to prevent seepage.
We monitor is a core component of our training programme and groundwater quality through monitoring bores downstream our continuous education system.
The systems in place from the tailing storage facility to detect any potential ensure safe transportation, storage, labelling and handling contamination.
In 2015, the monitoring of these bores of chemicals.
44 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy continued energy Our monitoring activities in 2015 confirmed that we remained within legal requirements and international best Marsa Alam, the region in which the Sukari mine is located, practice standards in respect of the following areas: is a remote area with no direct connection to any power grid.
The city has its own power plant whose capacity is ambient air quality in the camp area in terms of dust only sufficient for residential use not industrial needs.
and emissions : Consequently, the project at Sukari powers the dust concentration in different work areas: entire processing plant through its own onsite diesel noise and illumination: power station.
work environment emissions, including carbon In 2015, Sukari consumed a total of 130,687,478 litres of monoxide, sulphur dioxide and ammonia: diesel, an increase of 20% from 109,422,636 litres in 2014. stack emissions due to fuel combustion: About 68% of this quantity is used in power generation quality of treated wastewater: and and the rest is used in operating mobile equipment and quality of groundwater.
The waste management system in place at Sukari, Egypt Calculation of the direct greenhouse gases GHG includes procedures for the handling, storage and disposal emissions is based on the Intergovernmental Panel on of waste.
The system is focused on: Climate Change Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas 1 Inventories.
In 2015, the Sukari mine generated 367,588 waste minimisation through different measures to reduce tonnes of CO equivalent against production of 439,072 2 generation of waste: ounces per annum.
The emissions intensity for 2015 was maximising onsite recycling and reuse of different types 0.84 tonnes of CO equivalent per ounce of gold produced.
2 of wastes: 1 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions occurring from sources that are recovery of valuable material from the waste: controlled directly through the operating company, Sukari Gold Mines.
There are no material external purchases of power.
Exploration beyond reuse of treated wastewater streams: and Sukari and overheads occurring at the corporate offices in other locations are not considered material for the purposes of these calculations.
disposal of discarded material in an environmentally CO acceptable manner.
2 Fuel CO equivalent 2 consumption equivalent per ounce We maintain a salvage area where valuable wastes are litres tonnes of gold temporarily stored until transferred offsite or recycled 2014 109,422,636 308,146 0.82 in different areas onsite.
A key focus for the committee has been improving the rate at which waste material is 2015 130,687,478 367,588 0.84 transferred offsite or recycled and this is an ongoing task.
A review of alternative fuel sources to supply the processing plant is ongoing, but to date there have caSe StUDy creatiNg VaLUe FroM waSte been no viable alternatives.
At Sukari, we believe that waste has a value that must emissions, effluents and wastes be recovered to the most practically feasible extent.
Systems and procedures are in place for sound In that respect: management of different environmental aspects including waste oil is recovered from oily filters before emissions, effluents, nonprocess waste, waste rock and disposal, waste oil is recycled offsite within a tailings.
The system is based on setting annual plans: national system: development of documented procedures and standards: food waste is transported off site to our awareness and training of employees and monitoring of neighbouring Bedouins to use as animal fodder: performance to achieve further improvement.
spent chemical solutions are recycled in the process All our industrial wastewater streams are recycled within plant after appropriate treatment: the process.
Sewage is treated in a tertiary wastewater empty plastic containers are cleaned and used as treatment plant and the treated water is used in waste baskets all over the site: and landscaping.
Periodic inspections are conducted on the treated wastewater and monitoring is undertaken for discarded timber is used to make benches at the site its effluent.
and in Marsa Alam streets.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 45 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report Biodiversity Our restoration and rehabilitation plan is updated each year to account for all components and activities within the mine.
Centamin is committed to protecting the wildlife unique A provision for restoration and rehabilitation is included in to the eastern desert by minimising the impact of our the annual budget.
The provision for future restoration costs operations on the environment.
We are conscious that the is the best estimate of the present value of the expenditure sea near Sukari is renowned for its crystal clear water, and required to settle the restoration obligations at the includes a variety of coral reefs and marine biota.
environment is characterised by its scarce terrestrial biodiversity resources, and the area of Marsa Alam also In addition to the longterm rehabilitation plan, we includes the Wadi ElGemal protectorate, one of Egypts undertake shortterm rehabilitation activities especially largest environmental protectorates, with about 100km of for construction sites and for cleanup of spills.
pure beach and desert landscapes.
community and society Biodiversity conservation principles were integrated into the Centamin recognises that it has a responsibility to support project design for Sukari from the outset and are applied to and enhance the community in which it operates, and all of our activities.
to minimise its impact on the environment and local There were no incidents reported of negative impact on people at every stage of its activities.
We consider good wildlife as a result of operations at Sukari during 2015. community relations as a key component of continued operational success as well as a corporate requirement.
Land management and rehabilitation We are committed to acting in a socially responsible manner We are committed to transferring Sukari to a stable and at all times.
Due consideration Stakeholder engagement will be given to environmental and social impacts to avoid longterm challenges for neighbouring parties.
We nurture dialogue and build relations with the local community in areas in which we operate.
We maintain The planning for the closure of the mine aims to ensure open channels of communication with all our stakeholders.
that a physically and chemically stable landform is A public consultation system has been in place at maintained, with minimal erosion and minimal potential Sukari since the project design phase, and during the for dust generation and that the hazards are reduced to construction phase.
With mining in operation we have levels equal to or below those naturally existing within the maintained open channels of communication with all our surrounding environment.
stakeholders for the purpose of information disclosure and for them to raise grievances or concerns.
In providing these opportunities we have been pleased to find that, throughout 2015, as in previous years, the Sukari mine continues to enjoy full support from the local community and government authorities.
Forest and farmland in Burkina Faso 46 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIbILITy continued community development initiatives social welfare contributions: In 2015, we have continued our support and contribution financing surgery for Bedouins in the Marsa Alam to community development in Marsa Alam and Red Sea hospital: area at large.
Initiatives were designed and implemented financing daily iftars during Ramadan for unprivileged to address community needs and were implemented where individuals in Marsa Alam: and possible through full collaboration and coordination with distributing food at feasts.
local authorities, community groups and associations.
Our interventions addressed projects with a variety of focuses: advanced exploration Burkina Faso infrastructure needs: Integration of Company policies income generative initiatives: The Companys health, safety and environmental policies social activities: and standards are being integrated into the Batie enhancing education: operations where relevant.
provision of health services at camp: infrastructure initiatives: training and induction requirements: provision of additional generators and related incident investigation and reporting requirements: transformers to add 3.2MW to Marsa Alam internal communication mechanisms: power station: vehicle safety requirements: and continuing to supply electricity to a neighbouring contractor management.
Bedouin settlement of 200 people: supporting the youth centre at Marsa Alam: safety performance The safety performance of Batie project is monitored and financing the maintenance activities undertaken in evaluated and is, in general, satisfactory.
Marsa Alam institutes and schools: maintenance and changing tiles for one of the 2015 Marsa Alam squares: and frequency 1 rate installing tiles in a Marsa Alam mosque.
Fatality injury FIFR 0.2 income generation activities: lost time injury lTIFR 0.62 provision of food waste to neighbouring Bedouins for Medical treatment injury MTIFR 0.21 grazing purposes.
social involvement activities: organising a marathon along Marsa Alam and In February 2015, an incident occurred on a public road Edfu roads: near the Konkera village which resulted in one of our local employees being fatally wounded and another sustaining sponsoring local events and celebrations including the injuries.
Further additional security measures have been orphans day, police day and the environment day: implemented following the incident.
donation of equipment and furniture to local authorities in Marsa Alam: Health services maintenance activities for the civil defence centre in The Batie camp site has a wellequipped clinic operated by Marsa Alam: and ISOS and the clinic has a fulltime paramedic.
The camp is also equipped with an ambulance to transfer cases to the providing furniture for an infants nursery in Marsa Alam.
nearest medical centre in Batie or to hospital in Gauoa.
enhancing education: The clinic is accessible to employees at all times and training of 66 geology and engineering students at provides quality health services with a particular focus Sukari in the summer vacation: on malaria.
Through applying protective measures and organising field visits to Sukari for 660 students through employee awareness programmes, the malaria and officials: and frequency rate was maintained at 43 per 1,000 people provision of furniture to Marsa Alam nursing school.
in 2015 compared to the 225 country frequency rate in Burkina Faso as a whole.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Centamin plc Annual report 2015 strategic report environment community development initiatives An environmental impact assessment study EIA has been Community development in 2015 had tackled several carried out in accordance with Burkina Faso legislation.
objectives including enhancing: Of particular note in connection with the EIA were the education: specific issues relating to the social environment and these health services: were identified, as follows: social involvement: and relocation of communities directly impacted: livelihood.
relocation of cashew tree plantations: enhancing education identification of sacred and religious sites: internship for two technical students at the mechanical social acceptability and job creation: department at Batie camp: and economic impact assessment: and internship for two geology students in the community projects.
The process of developing the EIA included a stakeholder enhancing health services consultation for the project and the associated relocation supporting Batie medical centre through providing requirements.
The proposed Batie project extends to antivenins, running water, power access, analysis villages and occupied areas and thus some farms, houses equipment, and financing hygiene services: and and public areas will need to be relocated.
A relocation plan repair of water bore for the Wadaradoo maternity clinic.
has been prepared taking account of the views expressed in the consultation including those of farmers, land owners, caSe StUDy: SUpportiNg Batie MeDicaL ceNter local chiefs.
local committees have been formed to follow up the process.
With the further optimisation and design of Our community development team has undertaken the project, the relocation plan will be refined accordingly.
visits and discussions with the Batie medical centre to identify needs for enhancement of health services An important component of exploration activities is the and responding to emerging needs.
As a result the rehabilitation of sites.
There are procedures to ensure the following have been carried out: safe, stable and environmentally sound closure of pits and wells immediately after completion of works.
Drilling provision of antivenins for snake attacks: contractors are required to implement such procedures at construction of a water tank and related connections all their drilling sites.
to provide running water in the centre: community and society implementing solar energy installations to provide Stakeholder engagement remains a key element throughout lighting to critical areas in the centre: the exploration and advanced exploration phase.
This will provision of advanced haematology equipment become increasingly important as the Company proves and kits: and the resource and is able to develop an operating mine in provision of cleaning kits and contracting the region.
Centamin, through its local subsidiaries, will professional cleaning services to ensure high levels continue to engage with the local community in relation to of hygiene.
social involvement: Stakeholder engagement is undertaken through individual sponsorship of, and participation in, community and group meetings to discuss concerns.
These include: events and celebrations: and access to exploration lands support for vulnerable students in education.
identification of sacred sites that must not be disturbed enhancing livelihood: compensation for removing trees or disturbing land establishing two water bores in Danhal conflict management tenement: and supplying 50 bicycles for students with excellence achievements.
