Corporate social responsibility The Board has responsibility for all matters relating to Drive corporate social responsibility.
Directors recognise the We set ambitious goals and go for them, believing this importance of corporate social responsibility, and seek to drives extraordinary behaviour take account of the interests of all the Groups stakeholders, We persist, despite setbacks, to achieve goals including its investors, customers, suppliers, partners, and We always convey a strong sense of urgency recognising saving employees when operating the business.
The Board believes time creates value that fostering an environment in which employees act in an We seek to achieve success even in complex and changing ethical and socially responsible fashion is critical to its longcircumstances term success.
The Group strives to be a good corporate citizen We always aim to meet or exceed our commitments and respects the laws of the countries in which it operates.
Effectiveness We understand key business drivers and manage People our costs effectively Attracting, motivating and retaining a highly skilled workforce is key We continuously seek to improve our performance and develop to the Groups long-term success.
The policies put in place by the more effective ways of working Group accord with best practice, and stipulate that there should be We always strive to get the best value for money for our equal opportunities and an absence of discrimination for all employees.
requirements and maximise the return on our investment We make informed decisions about the levels of expense needed Values for the business Our values, and the behaviours that underpin them, describe the We are clear about roles and responsibilities culture of our business.
Passion Diversity We are passionate and committed about what we do The importance of diversity within the Group is also reflected in its We are excited about our products and technology policies and procedures.
The Group does not have formal diversity and the impact they will have on patients lives quotas but recognises that a diverse employee profile is of significant We take our responsibilities seriously and ensure everything benefit.
The table below shows the gender profile at different levels of we do is delivered to the appropriate quality the Group as at 31 December 2015.
We thrive on demanding and challenging timelines and seek to exceed expectations and attain our goals Member Male Female Total %Male %Female We are energized to take action, despite obstacles Plc Board including and setbacks Non-Executive Recognition Directors 10 2 12 83 17 We identify and acknowledge the contribution that individuals make Senior Managers We recognise and reward success internally and excluding Directors 2 2 4 50 50 with our partners All other employees 131 105 236 56 44 We understand mistakes are made: our ability to identify them, correct them, and learn from them makes the difference Total 143 109 252 57 43 We promote the value of the team above that of the individual to achieve positive outcomes Employee welfare and involvement Integrity Employees are regularly provided with information about the Group, We trust, respect and listen to each other for example through regular open house sessions at which the We act with honesty, integrity and fairness at all times, Chief Executive Officer and other members of the management team we always strive to do the right thing present on various topics such as strategic and operational progress, We believe in constructively challenging each other and employee-related policies.
Feedback is frequently sought by line and expect to be challenged managers and the senior management team through team meetings.
We are not afraid to say I dont know and go and find out We promote open communication and collaboration, Health and safety encouraging, honest, direct, and respectful feedback The Group is committed to protecting the health and safety of its We take ownership for our actions employees and endeavours to maintain an effective health and safety culture.
The Group provides ongoing training to individuals who are responsible for health and safety and all staff are notified of health and safety practices.
The Group continuously monitors its health and safety policy and practices to ensure they are robust, appropriate, and reflect changes in best practice.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 32 Ethical and social policies The increases shown over 2014 in GHG emissions reflect the The Group is a pharmaceutical group and accordingly operates in acquisitions of Aerocrine and Prosonix which occurred in the a highly regulated ethical framework.
It complies fully with these laws course of the year.
Prosonix occupies offices and laboratories and regulations.
The Company has a clear anti-bribery policy which in Oxford.
Aerocrine has offices in Solna, Sweden, Bad-Homburg, is monitored by the Compliance department.
Germany, and in Morrisville, North Carolina, and warehouse facilities in Uppsala, Sweden and Morrisville.
Sunshine Act The Group is committed to promoting transparency of its relationships 2015 2014 with healthcare providers.
It collects, tracks and reports payments to CO equivalent emissions 2 healthcare professionals and organisations in compliance with the US scope 1 tonnes Physician Payment Sunshine Act.
CO equivalent emissions 2 scope 2 tonnes 97 17 Human rights We support the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and GHG emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide recognise the obligation to promote universal respect for and equivalents and calculated using the Defra conversion factors.
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, The increase between 2015 and 2014 is largely due to acquisition without distinction.
We comply with all applicable human rights laws.
of Aerocrine and Prosonix following the addition of their premises to the Group.
Product development The Groups ToleroMune technology undertakes early development Gas and electricity usage information has been obtained from efficacy testing in blood samples taken from human volunteers with purchase invoices and verified by reference to meter readings.
It commissions third-party laboratories to conduct the In order to express annual emissions in relation to a quantifiable factor minimum necessary pre-clinical product safety testing in animal associated with the Groups business, an intensity ratio has been models as required by regulatory authorities before commencing calculated which shows emissions reported per square metre of the clinical studies.
Regulators have required the Group to commission office space occupied by the Group.
This shows that the Group uses this safety testing for its allergy products.
We work according to the approximately 21 2014: 47 kilogrammes of carbon dioxide per m. 3Rs policy relating to preclinical testing Refine, Reduce, Replace.
Political and charitable donations Environment The Group does not make political or charitable donations, although The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its activities on charitable fundraising by employees is encouraged.
The majority of the Groups employees operate out of modern office suites, although it also occupies laboratory space in Oxford and has a warehouse in Solna, Sweden.
Accordingly, the Group believes that efficient use of energy and materials in those premises, and responsible disposal of hazardous waste, are the most important means of climate protection currently available to it.
Office-based initiatives to reduce waste have also been adopted, which include recycling of paper waste, cans, plastics, batteries and printer toners cartridges.
The Group does not possess or make use of corporate jets or private planes.
Greenhouse gas emission This section of the Annual report constitutes the Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas GHG emissions in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The Group considers that its current activities have a low environmental impact.
Nonetheless, it still actively seeks to make energy savings in a fashion which is environmentally responsible and cost effective.
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2015 33
