STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility The Board acknowledges its duty to ensure that theGroup conducts its activities responsibly and withproper regard for all its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, business partners, suppliersand local communities.
The Group seeks to integrate corporate social responsibility Our work with charities, local government, and community CSR considerations, relating particularly to social, ethical, groups across all the territories includes activities such as health and safety, and environmental issues, in its day-to-day working with distributors on charity screenings and providing business operations.
free shows for organisations working with disadvantaged children.
In some territories our cinemas hold regular Ethics workshops for schools, designed in line with relevant Cineworlds policy on ethics seeks to guide the behaviour nationalcurriculums.
of our people by specifying 12 principles which establish common values on which we do business.
We strive to ensure At Picturehouse, work is undertaken with local groups, that we act in appropriate ways to maintain and enhance charities and educational bodies to deliver a year-round our reputation.
The principles provide a framework for how programme of film related activity that contributes to film we manage corporate responsibility issues.
The Company knowledge and film culture at a local level.
Examples of work seeks to act with honesty and integrity in its dealings with with schools include screenings and talks for Anti Bullying customers, employees, shareholders, regulators and suppliers.
Week and Black History Month and extensive activity around How we behave in such dealings reflect on our reputation, events such as Holocaust Memorial Day, World Book Day, which is a key asset underpinning the successful delivery Science and Engineering Week and Refugee Week.
Cineworld also works as a venue partner for numerous Our Ethical Principles filmfestivals.
While many are well known and high profile, 1.
incertain territories Cineworld sponsors festivals showcasing 2.
We will act with integrity.
local film producers work and runs short film competitions 3.
We will respect our customers.
forstudents encouraging the development of future talent.
We will treat individuals properly.
This involvement once again helps to promote Cineworlds 5.
brands through the wider film industry.
We will treat our suppliers properly.
We will manage relations with shareholders effectively.
W e will maintain high standards of financial record keeping The Group actively promotes a philosophy of access for all and reporting.
by offering accessible cinemas that show a wide range of 9.
W e will comply with the rules on inside information and films and event cinema.
Cinema management teams play an share dealing.
important role within the community and engage with local 10.
We will maintain high standards of health and safety.
groups in order to identify opportunities that will enhance 11.
We will respect the environment.
Employees receive disability awareness training 12.
We will seek to contribute to the community.
and specific advice on welcoming disabled customers.
Many of our cinemas offer audio descriptive, autism-friendly and Community subtitled performances and in some territories, Cineworld It is the aim of the Group to show a wide range of film allows customers with disabilities to be accompanied by productand other screen content, subject to film classification acarer free of charge.
Film programmes are tailored to each community and screenings are frequently driven by local preferences.
At Picturehouse, considerable attention is paid to ensuring Operating large sites with high numbers of screens enables that new and existing cinemas are disabled-friendly, and us to offer a wide choice and bring more people into the that staff are trained to attend to the needs of our disabled cinema, frequently a different type of customer.
Throughout customers and their carers.
Regular closed caption screenings the Group, all national regulators film classification guidelines are scheduled for the deaf and hard of hearing.
Picturehouse are followed, unless the local regulators require otherwise.
also continues to work with the National Autistic Society In some of our territories, there are no such classification to provide regular autism friendly screenings for the public guidelines, and in such cases we provide information to and for schools.
During 2015 the team developed the first customers about films so they can make informed choices Picturehouse Dementia Friendly Screenings with test about the types of film being shown.
We also ensure that screenings in Liverpool and Hackney, and it is intended alltrailers are complementary in terms of suitability to the thatthe programme will be rolled out over 2016. main feature.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 33 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility continued All new cinemas are designed with an intention to exceed Our cinema websites enable e-tickets to be purchased current statutory requirements and to provide buildings and used avoiding the need to print tickets and, in many which are technically advanced, accessible and safe.
instances, poster cases are now digital reducing the need to Whencinemas undergo major refurbishment as part of deliver, install, and ultimately throw away large paper posters.
anongoing programme of improvements and renovations, Allthese efforts help to reduce our use of resources and theopportunity is also taken to enhance access within carbon footprint.
cinemas where practicable to do so.
The move away from 35mm celluloid prints and the use of Cineworld actively encourages our future film going audience digital projection technology has further reduced Cineworlds by specifically tailoring film schedules to attract families and environmental impact, reducing the use of raw materials for young people.
Where necessary, these performances are the production of bulky prints using chemical processes, dubbed into the native language to ensure that all customers which ultimately are shredded as they are unable to be can enjoy the full cinema experience.
Concessionary rates recycled at the end of their relatively short life.
areoffered for senior citizens and students at certain times ofthe day.
3D technology has its own environmental challenges with the use of special disposable 3D glasses.
Throughout the Group, Film Piracy customers are encouraged to reuse their 3D glasses by pricing Cineworld is committed to protecting the intellectual property structures.
This approach has had significant results.
rights of films and Event Cinema exhibited within its cinemas.
Across the Group, policies and procedures are constantly Retail reviewed and developed to ensure cinema teams are able We offer a range of products to our customers in a way that to effectively monitor and prevent film piracy.
Night-vision is responsible, takes account of alternative healthier options, technology is utilised and there is an increased vigilance and reduces the impact on the environment.
We continue to around high-profile titles which are particularly vulnerable.
ensure that we provide good nutrition and allergen advice toenable our customers to make informed choices.
Cineworld will continue to work closely with relevant industry and law enforcement organisations in order to help reduce In line with our philosophy of offering wider snacking options and prevent film piracy.
we have now opened 17 Starbucks Licensed Stores across the UK estate, which have been well received.
As many of Environment ourcustomers still associate going to the cinema as a treating Cineworld seeks to comply with all relevant environmental or special occasion, they choose to eat traditional cinema legislation and to operate in an environmentally sensitive snacks as part of their experience.
The Directors acknowledge the impact that the work with our partners to consider healthier alternatives business has on the environment and seek to mitigate it.
Oftenchanges which help to mitigate our environmental impact also reduce our operating costs.
In our Picturehouse circuit, the food and drink proposition is more akin to that found in restaurants and closely tailored to Being a multi-site business, the Group is conscious of its the audience profile to which it caters.
A wide range of snacks total energy consumption and amount of waste materials and meals are available, many of which include ingredients generated and is actively working on reducing both energy sourced from local producers and suppliers.
In addition, the usage and quantity of waste materials produced that cannot range of its retail products is extensive and offers low sugar be recycled.
In 2015 the Company participated with the and sugar free options.
Energy Savings and Opportunities Scheme ESOS which surveyed 10 cinemas and the UK head office to assess and Information on our policies on Diversity, Human Rights and identify energy savings opportunities.
London based cinemas Our People may be found in the Resources and Relationships were entered into the Mayor of London Business Energy section of the Report on pages 20 to 21.
Challenge, which looks to acknowledge and share expertise inreducing the carbon foot-print of London businesses.
Wireless energy management systems have been operated The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 34. in a number of cinemas in five of the territories in which we trade to reduce energy usage since 2014, with considerable By order of the Board reductions being achieved.
Where such a system is not operational, building management systems are utilised to Mooky Greidinger Israel Greidinger reduce total energy by ensuring staff are fully trained in their 10 March 2016 use.
The Groups mandatory greenhouse gas report can be found in the Directors Report on page 78.
| CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 34 STRATEGIC REPORT G OVERNANCE F INANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Governance | CINEWORLD GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 35
