Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility As the worlds leading provider of integrated shipping We are a global business with an international workforce services, Clarksons has an enviable, hard-earned reputation and the combination of languages, cultures and ideas brings for integrity, excellence, fairness and transparency built over a high level of diversity and cultural richness.
Clarksons 164 years of servicing the international maritime markets.
employees represent 63 nationalities globally and in a reflection of this cultural diversity, our management team These four key principles form our corporate values, represents 23 of those nationalities.
Our international detailed in the groups Code of Business Conduct and presence also means that we can offer our employees the Ethics, which are delivered by our employees in their opportunity for mobility and development throughout the dealings with our clients, investors, colleagues and Clarksons group globally.
This approach is mirrored by our commitment to corporate responsibility aligning responsible business Management team by nationality practices with a sustainable business model to deliver best value to all our stakeholders.
Australia Norway China Singapore Our people Denmark United Kingdom Our people are our business.
Without enthusiastic and Germany USA Greece Others engaged employees we simply could not do our job India delivering the highest quality service to our clients.
Employees are expected to use good judgement and act in the best interests of Clarksons and our clients at all times so that we conduct our business in an ethical, honest and professional manner wherever we operate.
We aim to create a working culture that is inclusive for all and to maintain high standards and good employee Clarksons has undergone significant growth over the last relations.
We believe that it is vital to look after our decade, including the Platou acquisition in 2015, which employees by making sure that they have a safe and means that many staff have been employed for less than suitable workplace.
High standards of health and safety ten years.
Nevertheless, we are proud that 20% of our are maintained and designed to minimise the risk of workforce have been with the organisation for more than injury and ill health of all employees and any other parties ten years and we now have up to five generations working involved in the conduct of our business operations.
This demonstrates that there is continuity of approach throughout the organisation and an understanding Clarksons is an employer that depends on the maintenance of people.
of its reputation and market lead by entrusting it to more than 1,370 highly motivated employees around the world.
Participation in the companys ShareSave scheme For decades we have evolved a system in which allows UK employees to become more engaged in the advancement is based on individual ability or achievement.
companys performance, and offers the opportunity We have a wide range of different people with different life on maturity of the scheme, for employees to become experiences and perspectives working throughout our shareholders in the company and to participate in its global organisation.
Our employees have a right to fair continued growth and success.
practices and behaviour in the workplace.
They are Communicating with employees is an important priority.
protected from discriminatory issues and have a fair and Our management structure means that any employee equal chance to develop within the group.
We seek to has direct access to the senior management team, with appoint the best candidate for each and every vacancy.
divisional managing directors working side-by-side with All appointments within the group are based on merit, and the trainees they recruit.
All employees have access to our candidates are considered against fair and objective criteria.
intranet, which contains current news, details of company We give full and fair consideration to all applications for policies and other relevant information.
Employees are employment and ensure that any reasonable adjustments encouraged to attend briefings about the companys are made to our interviewing processes, job content or business and Clarkson News, the companys in-house workplace to accommodate an individuals relevant merits magazine, provides current and former employees with and capabilities.
information about the companys operations and colleagues As at 4 March 2016, there were eight directors of around the world.
Employees also have access to the Clarkson PLC.
Of the 1,379 employees within the group companys financial and regulatory publications, which are at 31 December 2015, 361 or 26% were female 299 or available on the companys corporate website.
There were 271 managers within the group, of which 29 or 11% were female which is an increase of nine or 2% year-on-year on 2014.
From new hires made in 2015, 30% were female.
Nationalities represented across the group 63 34 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Our investment in our people continued development of female role models within the We want to be recognised as the place where people are business and identification of talented women in junior roles for empowered to do their best work.
We hire the brightest future leadership.
Of the nine high potential graduates recruited talents and give them the tools to shine including leading between 2014 - 2015 for the purpose of development into edge IT systems, high quality training and development as future leaders, four are female.
Clarksons is committed to investing Our local community in talent retention and staff development, ensuring that as we grow both organically and through acquisition the right and charity support people are identified and developed.
Clarksons has a well-established history of supporting the communities in which its global offices are based as well as Employees are encouraged to maximise their career potential projects further afield.
We fulfil our commitment to corporate at Clarksons.
We hold training events and seminars throughout responsibility in a number of ways including sponsorship our global offices.
These seminars and events are led by and patronage of museums and sporting events, supporting in-house experts and or external speakers, covering a wide employees endeavours through sponsorship, supporting range of topics on either an area of Clarksons business or those employees who wish to volunteer their time and with an area of personal development.
All employees, regardless direct donations to individual charities.
of department, are encouraged to attend these seminars as they provide a forum for interested individuals to further their Clarksons support has continued in 2015, where special knowledge of a subject.
attention has focused particularly on: Our training blends the collective skilled counsel Maritime causes: and guidance of our staff with the tutelage of external Childrens charities: and experts from all areas of the shipping, trading and Charities representing health issues.
During the year, donations were made to: Our Trainee Broker Scheme is open to graduates and non-graduates.
Trainees can expect excellent support and tuition so that they can acquire the necessary skills to perform at the highest level.
In addition to our Trainee Broker Scheme, we offer a number of internships to students each year.
Through long-standing relationships with schools and academies we are able to offer regular work experience opportunities in our broking and research divisions.
Successful development of future leaders requires a talent pool from which to select the best individuals.
Clarksons operates a prominent recruitment process which attracts in excess of 2,500 applications annually from graduates and non-graduates who wish to be considered for fast-track development roles.
Our own analysis has determined that the ratio of male to female applicants is circa 70:30.
Marie Curie UK New hires by gender in 2015 Founded more than 65 years ago, Marie Curie provides care and support for people living with any terminal illness Male 70% and their families.
Each year they care for more than 40,000 Female 30% people across the UK.
Marie Curie offers hospice care, in-home nursing and support, both via its Support Line and online community.
Clarksons chose to support Marie Curie in a number of ways during the year, following the loss of a colleague in early 2015.
As well as a direct donation from the company, individual employees have completed their own challenges.
Three Female executives with an interest in senior executive roles in Gibbs Tools employees participated in the Ben Nevis shipping related businesses are in short supply, which is why Challenge and raised the Clarksons flag at the summit.
Clarksons has taken steps to improve gender balance.
We know that organisations globally are challenged with a lack of women in leadership positions.
This is particularly true of the shipping industry which has historically been male dominated.
However, shipping is the quintessential global industry and its multiculturalism has always been a benefit to career-minded individuals.
Steps taken to tackle gender balance include the 35 www.
com Strategic report Corporate and social responsibility continued Peace Matunda School & Orphanage Tanzania Cardiac Risk in the Young UK Tanzania is listed by the UN as one of the 50 poorest and One of the largest charitable projects undertaken by most underdeveloped countries in the world.
Founded in Clarksons during 2015 was to raise funds for Cardiac Risk 2005, the Peace Matunda School is a primary day school in the Young following the death of an employee in late 2014 for over 200 children.
The Peace Matunda Orphanage from a heart attack as a result of peripheral arterial disease.
provides a home and positive family environment for 24 A variety of fundraising events took place during 2015, permanent residential children who are without the support the largest of which was Row for Roger.
Clarksons donation assisted with the provision international effort 10 teams from London, Singapore, of teaching and support staff.
Dubai and Houston went head-to-head to beat a container ship transiting the Panama Canal.
Teams rowed against Maritime London Officer the clock, and each other, to cover the 77,000m distance Cadet Scheme MLOCS UK in fewer than eight hours.
The winning team completed the Founded in 1992, MLOCS objectives are to support the challenge in four hours, 35 minutes and 30 seconds.
training of UK-based mariners, to recognise and promote improvements and standards of expertise on merchant Sailors Society International vessels and to provide a pool of UK seafarers who might Founded in 1818, the Sailors Society is one of the largest look to the City of London for careers when coming ashore.
and most comprehensive international seafarers support Clarksons sponsorship of a trainee cadet has continued charities.
In April 2015, colleagues from Clarksons Platou for the second year running.
Debt and Leasing Solutions completed the Virgin London Marathon, to raise funds for the Sailors Society.
Kids Cancer Charity UK For more than 25 years, Kids Cancer Charity has been Norwegian Maritime Museum Norway caring for and supporting families with teenagers affected Clarksons Platou is a patron of Norways Maritime Museum by cancer.
Today, the charity has a small service team who in Oslo which focuses on important traits of Norwegian and cover the UK assisted by many part-timers and volunteers.
Platou was also The charity is probably best known for the Holiday involved in developing an interactive shipbroking exhibit at Programme which gives families a chance to get away the museum.
from the pressures of hospital appointments and treatments.
As ever, both corporately and individually, Clarksons The aim of the charity is to provide memories that will last employees have contributed to a long list of charities by a lifetime for the families.
Clarksons was pleased to support running, swimming, cycling, boxing, climbing and paddling the Kids Cancer Charity through direct donation this year.
Salaam Baalak Trust India Some of the organisations benefiting from this incredible Inspired by Mira Nairs film Salaam Bombay in 1988, effort include: the Salaam Baalak Trust SBT grew out of Nukkad Parkinsons UK Seafarers a street based intervention programme that began working Childhood First British Lung Foundation with street children in and around New Delhi Railway Station.
SBT is dedicated to the care and protection Scope Leukaemia and Lymphoma of neglected street children.
SBT has supported children Research Cancer Research from all over India.
Core to SBTs work is detoxification Macmillan Help for Heroes of children addicted to drugs and provision of educational Action Medical facilities to children who are out of school.
Clarksons Make a Wish Foundation donation helped to finance the SBTs detoxification and Genetic Disorders UK Honeypot education programme.
Art for Cure 36 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Global greenhouse gas emissions data Environment Tonnes of CO e 2 At Clarksons we recognise the importance of environmental % of issues and the impact they have on our business and 2015 Total 2014 our stakeholders.
Scope 1 We are seeking to reduce our own environmental impact Clarksons control directly and improve our energy efficiency and, by moving our London head office into a new location at Commodity Combustion of fuel & operation Quay in July 2015, we hope to have achieved that.
The of facilities Gas, vehicle fleet 922 27% 1,067 new office at Commodity Quay has been designed to Scope 2 a high specification including: Clarksons control indirectly video conferencing facilities being installed in all Electricity, heat, steam and meeting rooms: cooling purchased for own use 2,349 68% 3,294 food waste being kept to a minimum by installation Scope 3 of a food digester: Clarkson influences multiple waste recycling points on all floors: T&D losses from electricity 195 5% 278 water supplies to kitchens and toilets are controlled Intensity metric by PIR devices to minimise wastage: tonnes CO e FTE 2.51 4.74 2 photocell operation integrated into the lighting control systems: and Intensity ratio secure bike storage and showers to encourage We have significantly reduced our scope 1 & 2 emissions employees to lead a healthy lifestyle.
This 2 2 change is mainly due to a substantial reduction in reported Whilst the new head office building provides excellent emissions for the London head office.
We are confident facilities for the business, the company has not been able that the new London head office will deliver lower carbon to obtain actual consumption data for the building to date emissions as a result of a lower occupied floor area, and as a result the period from July to December 2015 had improved efficiency in heating and cooling systems and to be estimated.
We continue to pursue improved data and refurbishment designed to minimise the buildings expect we might have to restate the emissions associated environmental impact.
However, at the time of this report, with our London head office in the future.
primary consumption data is not available and therefore the The February 2015 Platou acquisition meant that the emissions associated with the building have been estimated.
following offices have reported emissions in 2015 for the Reduced emissions from the London head office have been first time: Cairo, Rotterdam, New York, Johannesburg, Cape partially offset by two factors: Town, Casablanca, Rio fide Janeiro, Moscow and Uppsala Integration following the Platou acquisition to form Sweden.
Our reporting has also included some very small Clarksons Platou which has resulted in a small number sites within the Clarkson Port Services division in the UK of new offices and a rise in staffing numbers.
Improved reporting which includes a number of smaller This section includes the companys mandatory reporting Clarkson Port Services sites in the UK and smaller of greenhouse gas emissions GHG pursuant to the international offices which have not previously Companies Act 2006 strategic report and the directors been reported.
report regulations 2013 for which our reporting year is In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a from 1 January to 31 December 2015. quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we have The method we have used to calculate GHG emissions used full-time equivalent employees as our intensity ratio is the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting which gives an indication of our growth and provides for the Standard revised edition, using the location-based scope best comparative measure over time.
2 calculation method, together with the latest emission The companys most critical environmental and sustainability factors from recognised public sources including, but not impact areas include carbon emissions linked to energy use limited to, Defra, the International Energy Agency, the US and travel.
Energy Information Administration, the US Environmental Protection Agency and the Intergovernmental panel on Climate Change.
Carbon emissions by continent tCO e 2 The company reports all material emission sources which we deem ourselves to be responsible for using an Australasia operational control approach to define our organisational Asia Africa boundary.
These sources align with our operational control.
Europe We do not have responsibility for any emission sources North America that are beyond the boundary of our operational control South America Middle East we have not included business travel as it falls under Russia Scope 3 emissions.
