Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Corporate responsibility and sustainability is a keydriver of shareholder value, presenting opportunities for growth and efficiencies, as well as risks for mitigation.
We welcome feedback on our approach andperformance.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY IS A KEY DRIVER OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE Introduction Maintaining high ethical standards intermediaries to undergo a comprehensive due There is an increasing trend towards responsible Approach diligence and approval process before engagement.
investment among large investors, with many Much of Cobhams business is within highly See Audit Committee Report on page 53 for further signatories to the United Nations supported regulatedmarkets.
Compliance with applicable laws information on compliance, whistleblowing and Principles for Responsible Investment.
The approach and regulations is a key Group principal risk refer to fraud reporting.
typically involves screening out companies that do risk 3 on page 35, and Cobhams policy is to comply not act responsibly or by integrating environmental, with all applicable laws and regulations.
The Group Performance in 2015 social and corporate governance ESG issues is also committed to sustaining an ethical culture, In 2015, 100% of Cobhams employees completed intotheir investment analysis.
Cobham recognises as acting responsibly and sustainably with full legal COBC training.
this and strives to proactively address investors compliance is a critical operational requirement ESGexpectations.
anda source of potential competitive advantage.
Cobham has voluntarily engaged with Transparency International TI, a non-governmental organisation Approach to corporate responsibility To help drive the right culture, Cobham has an that works with government and business to put and sustainability ethicsand compliance programme, including in place measures to tackle corruption.
Based on Cobhams approach to CR&S is developed and policies, processes and activities.
This is overseen publicly available data on its policies and practices, implemented through the central CR&S team and bythe Business Ethics & Compliance Committee and Cobham was benchmarked within band B in TIs overseen by the CR&S Committee chaired by the ultimately the Board.
The programme is underpinned 2015 Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Index.
The role of the CR&S team is to engage key by the Code of Business Conduct COBC, which When incorporating both public and internal stakeholders to identify material ESG risks to the contains Cobhams core values and expectations of Cobham data, the Group was benchmarked as Groups business objectives and work with the behaviour on a range of issues, including anti-bribery.
Further information on the results businesses to mitigate these risks through policy, All employees receive training and this is tracked.
and methodology used is at http: companies.
standards, tools, training and information disclosure.
Cobham also maintains an independent hotline defenceindex.
and website where suspected COBC violations can Identified material ESG risks are included in the be reported.
Further details on Cobhams approach Cobham is in the process of adopting best practice CEOspapers to the Board as well as through various to ethics and compliance can be found at www.
in managing its supply chain responsibly.
The Groups Board and Executive committees which consider cobhamsustainability.
com at-a-glance Responsible Supply Chain Management RSCM policy theirshort and long term value impacts.
is to prefer suppliers that demonstrate responsible receives training on key topics such as ethics and and sustainable business practices.
A related risk area is the use of third party considers how suppliers positively address potentially intermediaries as a route to market.
Failure to comply material ESG risks that could impact their ability to All material ESG disclosures are verified internally and with laws and regulations or to act responsibly can supply Cobham or impact Cobhams reputation on external statements reviewed by Cobhams auditors, impact the Groups reputation as well as lead to a risk prioritised basis.
These risks include bribery and which in this regard is KPMG, see page 70 for more significant fines or debarments from government corruption: human rights issues such as slavery and information.
The Group obtains external limited contracts or new business with customers.
Cobhams human trafficking: and conflict minerals, hazardous assurance on its greenhouse gas emissions.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy requires materials legislation and resource efficiency.
com Cobham plc 38 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Females Total % 2015 2014 2013 Cobhams RSCM policy is available at Cobhams SPIRIT values Board of 2 10 2 9 1 9 www.
Safety Provide a safe workplace for our people, ensure the safety 4 20 135 24 154 17 147 Senior Looking forward ofthe products and services 1 15% 16% 12% Management Cobham will continue to build its ethics programmes we provide, and take care of by focusing on training employees, conducting due the world we live in.
Senior 21 144 18 129 10 117 diligence and actively engaging its business partners 2 Performance Consistently deliver and seek Management 15% 15% 9% to act responsibly and sustainably.
to exceed expectations while improving what we do and Total 3,649 3,001 2,785 Attraction and retention of talented 3 4 4 workforce 12,658 10,941 10,091 how we do it everyday.
and engaged employees 29% 27% 28% Innovation Create an environment Approach 1 Statutory definition Directors of a subsidiary company.
to encourage new ideas, Attracting and retaining talented and engaged 2 Cobham definition Vice President grade or higher.
regardless of where they come employees is critical to the ability to execute strategic 3 Total workforce data is an average over 2015, all other data is from, and have the courage to growth plans, deliver on key programmes and meet as at 31 December 2015.
4 try, fail, learn and then succeed.
Failure to do so could result Correction from previously stated value.
in a reduced ability to meet customer requirements Relationships Develop trusted interpersonal and grow the business refer to risk 4 on page 36.
Cobhams gender diversity profile in 2015 included and customer relationships by 29% 2014: 27% female representation within the listening, appreciating diversity, Cobhams approach is to identify, attract and retain workforce.
Based on the statutory definition of Senior striving to understand, being employees with the right skills and capabilities through Managers, comprising Directors of subsidiary legal inclusive and delivering on our strategic workforce planning, leadership and functional entities, female representation was 15% 2014: 16%.
competency development, employee engagement, Under Cobhams definition, comprising Vice President Integrity Act ethically in all that we do, diversity and inclusion, and competitive reward grade and above, female Senior Managers were 15% not only in compliance with practices.
The talent and engagement programmes 2014: 15% of the total.
There continued to be two the laws and regulations that are overseen by the Board.
female Non-executive Directors but the proportion govern us but also in the spirit decreased from 22% to 20%, with the appointment of of ethical behaviour and doing Performance in 2015 an additional male Non-executive Director in the year.
Cobham has continued the development of functionalcompetency frameworks and expanded Looking forward Trust Be open, transparent: we say itsleadership, graduate and apprenticeship Cobham continues to focus on embedding a strategic what well do and do what .
At the end of 2015, workforce planning methodology to ensure it has we say.
Cobham employed 3.7% of its UK workforce as the right skills and capabilities in the business.
It also apprentices, graduates and undergraduate placements continues to drive functional excellence through summer placements andyear-in-industry placements competency frameworks, established career path and is on track to meet its 5% commitment by 2019 development and strong partnerships with academia www.
Cobham will also continue to invest in its development programmes including its Code of Business In addition, Cobham continues to roll out its accredited, in-house certificate in management for Conduct training three-year Institute of Leadership and Management line managers.
In relation to employee engagement, accredited line management training programme.
further management training, deployment of its SPIRIT values and a follow-up Great Place to Work 100% Cobham uses voluntary staff turnover to measure the survey are scheduled for 2016.
Diversity and inclusion Target: 100% effectiveness of its talent management and employee training will be provided to senior management 2014: 100% engagement approach.
In 2015, Cobhams voluntary focusing on the business case, recognition of bias employee turnover was 11.2%, above the 10% target.
This is attributed to the OD project which was largely implemented in the prior year.
This significant project Providing safe working environments, Voluntary staff involved changes in role or reporting lines for some products and services turnover employees.
The higher turnover is considered to be a Approach short term impact arising from these changes.
Providing Cobham strives to provide a safe working environment a rewarding work environment and engaging employees for all employees, contractors and visitors and 11.2% continues to be a focus of the Groups Great Place recognises that strong health and safety processes Target: 10% to Work initiative.
Following an employee opinion drive benefits in many areas of its operations.
Further, 2014: 6.3% survey, each business facilitated listening sessions the provision of reliable, safe products and services to identify key issues, root causes and solutions.
Site is critical to customers.
Failure to deliver consistently management is tasked with implementing local actions high standards of safety and health could lead to with common issues addressed on a Group-wide accidents or incidents resulting in prosecutions, fines, basis.
One action arising from this initiative is the loss of assets, business interruption and widespread adoption of a set of corporate values and a strategic reputational damage refer to risk 3 on page 35. framework to help employees understand how they can contribute to theGroups objectives.
Cobhams most significant safety risk is in the operation and maintenance of aircraft in the Aviation In 2015, Cobham became a core member of the Services Sector.
This is addressed through robust, Employers Network for Equality and Inclusion enei, regulator-approved safety management systems.
one of the UKs leading employer networks addressing workplace equality and inclusion issues.
Working with In terms of workplace risks, manual handling, repetitive enei, Cobham launched its revised Diversity and Inclusion strain, and slip and trip injuries are the most common strategy and policy establishing North American, causes of injury or illness.
Cobhams approach to European and Asia-Pacific regional line led councils, workplace health and safety, called Zero Harm, with quarterly reporting.
In addition, its outsourced promotes a continuous improvement health and recruitment partner now provides a diversity specialist.
safety culture that strives to minimise injuries and Cobham plc www.
com Cobham plc 38 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability continued Major accident illnesses occurring in the workplace and promote Performance in 2015 incident rate employee wellbeing.
This is implemented through In 2015, management set a target for all principal the consistent application of 10 safety, health and manufacturing and aviation locations to achieve environment SHE standards covering management Level 2 of Cobhams SHE maturity matrix with the 269 behaviour, processes, training and documentation.
remaining smaller sites at Level 1.
Out of 42 sites, 26 They are implemented through a three tiered sites achieved the target and a further nine exceeded Target: 400 performance matrix Level 1 Foundation, Level 2 it.
Theremaining seven sites 17% are required to Aspiration: 0 Target and Level 3 World Class.
Level 1 is compliance meet the target in 2016.
All the leading indicators 2014: 423 and risk management driven to ensure compliance on training, risk assessment, workplace inspections with the law, addressing SHE risk on a priority basis.
and near miss reporting met the targets.
The Group Work-related injury illness cases with three or more lost work days Level 2 focuses on continuous improvement and improved its major accident incident rate to 269 per100,000 employees.
maps directly to the internationally recognised 2014: 423 and there were no fatalities in the year.
The Groups minor accident and recordable injury Level 3 focuses on opportunities to develop competitive illness incident rate increased slightly although the advantage with customers and suppliers.
Of the 192 recordable injuries reported in the year, 32% were caused by Cobham also provides its businesses with 12 SHE repetitive motion and manual handling, 16% from Technical Standards against which they are required slips and trips, and 12% from collision with fixed or to self-assess and report quarterly.
The remaining 40% were from a Standards address common SHE management range of causes including cuts, falls, stress, exposure to processes and risks including employee consultation, harmful substances and contact with moving objects.
managing contractors, emergency response, manual handling, occupational health, risk assessment, Looking forward safety training and housekeeping.
Accountability for Management has set a target for all manufacturing, implementing the Groups SHE approach rests with R&D and aviation locations to achieve Cobhams Level line management and this is monitored by a steering 2 target the equivalent of OHSAS18001 by the end committee with Board oversight.
of 2016 with all former Aeroflex sites targeted to be at Level 1.
Key performance indicator targets have also Leading and lagging workplace safety indicators been increased in a challenge to improve further.
A Manual spray painting of antenna parts are used to measure Cobhams SHE performance.
dedicated Group Head of SHE joined Cobham early in at Marlow, UK Management drives correct behaviours through 2016 to further mature its systems and performance.
Cobham Antenna Systems in Marlow, UK is the monitoring safety training, risk assessments, workplace first site in the Group to achieve verified World inspections and the reporting of near misses, while Managing environmental impacts Class status against Cobhams SHE Management the incidence and severity of workplace injuries and Approach Standards.
The site was also awarded an illness measure the effectiveness of the Groups Cobham recognises that its operations, activities, International Safety Award 2015 with Merit approach.
Further details on Cobhams SHE policy, products and services have an impact on the from the British Safety Council.
Effective site management standards and performance are at environment and that the environment also impacts leadership, competent personnel, a high level www.
Part of Cobhams value proposition is to of staff engagement and a commitment to continuous improvement were the drivers of downloads.
optimise material use and energy efficiency to reduce this result.
The focus will intensify as resource access and pricing becomes more volatile.
The Groups most significant environmental impact Safety, Health and Environment is its greenhouse gas emissions from burning Management Standards aviationfuel needed to deliver customer contracts.
Other significant impacts include greenhouse gas emissions from logistics, business travel and facility energy consumption as well as the consumption of Leadership & water andraw materials in facilities, manufacturing Management Commitment processes and the supply chain.
The two most significant environmental impacts on Monitoring & Cobham are the potential for adverse weather events Assurance e. g. flooding, wildfire to cause significant business interruption at its facilities and in its supply chain, together with increasing environmental legislation, carbon taxes and customer requirements which are Communication Risk anticipated following the global climate deal agreed & Engagement Management inParis in 2015.
Incident Emergency Cobham promotes an environmentally responsible Management Management culture to manage its impacts, comply with increasing environmental legislation, meet customer requirements, reduce operating costs and minimise Regulatory business interruption.
Many of Cobhams products Planning & & Corporate and services aim to derive competitive advantage Resources Competency Compliance from the efficient use of materials, fuel and low powerconsumption, which can provide operational Continuous Improvement benefits to users.
com Cobham plc 40 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Failure to effectively manage environmental impacts Itsperformance banding decreased from A to B Facility energy could result in prosecutions, fines, loss of business, primarily due to its absolute emissions performance.
intensity reduction business interruption and reputational damage across Further detail on CDPs scoring methodology can be its stakeholders.
net Documents Guidance 2015  11% Cobham seeks to manage its environmental impact methodology.
Target: 10% byusing a series of measures including: 2014: 8% Reducing legacy aircraft fuel consumption and For the first time Cobham has been requested to transitioning to more fuel efficient aircraft as provide carbon emissions data for commercial MWh per 1m revenue, appropriate.
For example, the Aviation Services customers through the CDP supply chain programme.
Sector has introduced the Embraer 190 in Australia.
These customers are seeking to identify the significant This is a next generation jet-engine aircraft, and sources of carbon in their product lines.
An increasing the first of its type to be engaged in the closed number of such requests is anticipated in the future.
charter fly-in fly-out market there: Including a Design for Environment approach to All the Groups principal manufacturing locations have the Groups engineering strategy.
This ensures legal maintained the highly protected risk status through compliance and reduced environmental impacts, compliance with insurers standards.
This enables lower costs and competitive advantage by Cobham to mitigate risks associated with extreme designing small and light products with reduced weather events such as flooding.
power requirements: Reducing facility level greenhouse gas emissions Looking forward across a number of operating sites through Cobham will continue to set ambitious annual energy practical efficiency measures, including: lighting, carbon reduction targets for its facilities and develop heating, ventilation and air conditioning upgrades, fuel burn targets for aircraft under its operational sensor lighting and destratification fans: control.
In addition, it is looking at developing best Reinforcing business continuity measures and practice science based targets for emission reductions.
effective emergency response planning, in This will help the Group contribute towards the UNs preparation for adverse weather events and goal of keeping global warming within two degrees of naturaldisasters.
Cobham measures a range of related metrics Cobham Aviation Services fuel efficiency including greenhouse gas emissions, environmental awareness poster management, water consumption and resource efficiency.
For further information, see the Groups IF A website at http: www.
WAS CARRIED OUT ON ALL Performance in 2015 ARRIVALS INTO PERTH FOR A YEAR Cobhams overall carbon footprint increased by 15% in THE FUEL SAVED the year driven by the full year impact from the former would be enough to OPERATE Aeroflex businesses with these being more energy A RETURN FLIGHT ON A BOEING 747 intensive than existing Cobham businesses.
FROM SYDNEY SYDNEY TO AUCKLAND However, excluding Aeroflex, and despite some additional flying activity in the Aviation Services Sector AUCKLAND from additional customer awards, energy intensity decreased by 11%.
This is dueto the implementation of efficiency measures see above and the divestment, closure and integration of operating sites.
DESCENT Further details on greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Directors Report on pages 68 and 69.
Cobham has complied with the UKs Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme Regulations 2014 by undertaking independently reviewed energy audits at all its major UK locations.
The audit identified potential annual savings of 360,000 across the UK portfolio based ona 1m capital investment with 100kg payback under threeyears.
Cobham is evaluating the recommendations, which include installation of light-emitting diodes, and voltage and building management system optimisation, to decide whether to implement them ahead of the next review in 2019.
Cobhams score in the 2015 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP climate change investor survey increasedfrom 92% to 97% due to improved disclosure of its climate change strategy and risks.
com Cobham plc 40 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
