CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY Mike Norris Chief Executive Officer the Group continues to grow, we are resolute in our determination that progress made in recent years to reduce the level of emissions per employee will continue.
I am pleased to report that our level of carbon DOING emissions in 2015 was down 6.3 per cent per employee on the same measure for 2014.
There remains more that the Group can do in this area, and we will continue to review how this can be achieved.
BUSINESS The Groups third area of focus is the contribution that it makes to the wider community in which it operates.
Our approach in this area has always been that the societies and communities which provide our employees, contractors, suppliers and business partners themselves make an indirect, but important contribution towards the Groups RESPONSIBLY success, and it is important that Computacenter continues to give something back to these communities where it can.
Additionally, it is Computacenter is committed to carrying out business responsibly.
increasingly the case that our existing and prospective customers In accordance with the 10 core principles of the United Nations view activity in this area as one of the determinant factors in where Global Compact UNGC, upon which the Group bases its approach they wish to place their business.
Therefore, not only is making an to responsible corporate behaviour, we are focused on three main appropriate contribution in this area the right thing to do for the wider areas our people, the environment and the wider community.
community, it is the right thing to do for our business.
In 2009, the Group published its first Communication on Progress CoP on the UNGC website.
We will again do so in respect of the The Group also take steps to ensure that the approach of those in progress we have made in 2015.
This will shortly be available at its Supply Chain is compatible with that taken by the Group, and www.
that they operate in a socially responsible manner.
As a result of the progress we have made in this area, the Group has been reawarded Our first area of focus is to ensure that, in the workplace environment, its membership of the FTSE for Good Index for 2016. the Group appropriately supports, develops and protects its people.
This includes ensuring that the Groups practices are compliant with human rights and employment legislation wherever it does business, and that it has policies and training in place to protect our people from breaching the law and the standards that we expect from them, in the course of their duties.
In 2015, a new Group-wide Code of Ethics was designed to reflect the growth of our business across Mike Norris additional geographies, and this is in the process of being rolled out Chief Executive Officer to all Group employees.
The organisation continues to make clear its zero-tolerance approach to Bribery and Corruption, and continues 11 March 2016 to review, and where necessary update, our policies and processes in this area.
We are focused on reducing the environmental impact of our activities, particularly in respect of the Groups carbon emissions.
In 2015, we have been reminded of the importance of this area as a number of our employees, suppliers and customers have been affected by increasingly volatile weather conditions seen across the UK.
Whilst it is likely that emissions will increase at an absolute level as 48 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 One of our highest priorities is to make sure that, in the workplace environment, our people are supported, protected, developed and suitably recognised for the contribution they make.
UNGC 10 CORE PRINCIPLES Category Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights: and Principle 2 ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.
Labour Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining: Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour: Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour: and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.
Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support aprecautionary approach to environmental challenges: and Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility: and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.
Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
As the Group-wide survey will take place every two years Computacenter has always recognised that people matter.
Alongside the business has conducted a smaller pulse survey in 2015 to review our customers, they are fundamental to the long-term success how things have progressed in the interim 12-month period.
One of our highest priorities is to make sure that, engagement also takes place through the existence of employee within the workplace environment and in fulfilling their role, they are forums and councils across our main operating geographies.
supported, protected, developed and also suitably recognised for the contribution that they make to the organisation.
We provide our employees with a safe and healthy work environment.
Within our main operating geographies, we employ dedicated SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE Occupational Health Specialist teams that work with staff on health The process to support our employees in understanding the Groups issues, and provide education on well-being activities.
Our Talk to culture starts from the moment they join us.
They are required to the Expert webinar provided for employees covers most elements complete a comprehensive induction course which outlines our of health and well-being, including education on how to balance values and, amongst other things, our approach to Health & Safety, work and home life, and managing stress.
Computacenter in the Anti-Bribery and Corruption and our ethical standards.
Employees UK has a strong partnership with the charity MIND UK, and there is a also receive an in-depth local induction relating to their specific programme of education in place for the Groups Management team, place of work.
Our ability to support our employees, once in their in order to support them in recognising and managing stress and day-to-day role, is facilitated through our engagement process.
mental health issues within their teams.
During the year, the Group In 2014, alongside the implementation of its Group Operating Model funded a significant number of its employees to take part in the Global into its main operating subsidiaries, Computacenter carried out its Corporate Challenge through which they were able to join a team of first Group-wide survey to find out what things are important to our colleagues to compete internally and externally, with their levels of employees.
In 2015, the Groups Executive Committee reviewed the physical activity over a 100-day period measured and recorded.
results of this, and plans were put in place to deal with significant 49 CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In 2015, Computacenter in Germany was deemed a top employer implementation of an independent Whistleblowing line helps to give for the fourth time by the German Top Employers institute.
this both to our employees and to those who we engage with as part Talent strategy, HR planning, employee on-boarding, training and of an external business relationship.
The Group-wide ethics policy development, performance management, executive development, includes provisions concerning personal standards of behaviour and career and succession planning, compensation and benefits and also the way that the Group conducts business such as in respect corporate culture were all considered during the process.
of avoiding conflicts of interest, prevention of money laundering and ensuring compliance with insider trading and competition law, PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETY amongst other things.
It is the Groups policy that, as far as is reasonably practicable, a working environment is created and maintained which does not pose Anti-Bribery and Corruption an undue risk to the health and safety of our employees, customers, The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to Bribery and Corruption, suppliers, sub-contractors, visitors and members of the public.
whether committed by employees or anybody else working on our Our approach to health and safety is based on the identification behalf.
The high level of integrity with which we want to carry out and control of hazards.
The prevention of all incidents, particularly our business does not vary depending on where we work or who we those involving personal injury and damage to equipment or property are dealing with.
We continue to develop and refine our policies and remains a priority, and additionally near miss investigations are processes around Bribery and Corruption as we continue to expand carried out to avoid similar occurrences and to maintain the efficient our business into new geographies.
All of our employees are made aware of the importance of health and safety and contribute to the maintenance DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE of a safe working environment.
We promote consultation between Whilst the Group wants to support its employees, it also wants to employees and managers concerning matters of health and safety do all it can to develop them professionally, so that they can fulfil and provide the necessary finance, equipment, personnel and time their potential in the role that they perform for the Group.
A Learning to ensure its implementation and maintenance.
and Development team exists to maximise the talent of each individual employee, and support the Groups high-performance 2015 has resulted in a solid health and safety performance driven culture.
It provides a significant range of learning and development by an established Health & Safety Management System.
We have support solutions for a full range of business skills and specific continued to maintain the Accident Incident Rate AIR i. e. the number business areas, including where individuals are working towards of accidents per 1,000 employees, across our main operating technical accreditations.
The learning and development process geographies to below 2.5 and in the UK and France, the Accident at Computacenter is supported by line management, through Frequency Rate AFR i. e. number of accidents per 100,000 working the use of appropriate performance management processes.
Development solutions include mentoring and coaching programmes, secondments, workshops, webinars, other on-line learning and the completion of academic or technical courses.
Average Results for 2015 AIR AFR UK 0.63 0.35 REWARDING OUR PEOPLE Germany 2.49 1.38 At Computacenter, we offer reward packages to deliver a highFrance 1.17 0.65 performing culture.
We benchmark our salaries annually against our industry to ensure that we remain competitive.
For a portion of the workforce, remuneration is weighted towards variable pay, to align PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE CONTROLS, POLICIES AND TRAINING individual performance to the value they deliver for the business Business Ethics Policy and the overall Group strategy.
There are processes in place to We abide by a clear Group-wide business ethics code, and are ensure that we remain legally compliant on remuneration related committed to observing the highest ethical standards in the conduct legislation across all of our operating countries.
Recognition is also of our business activities.
The policy explains what is expected from part of the overall package for employees at Computacenter.
Our our employees in this regards and importantly, how they can report people are recognised when they continually display our Winning any concerns that they have to the business.
This whistleblowing Together values, or perform above and beyond what is required of process is soon, for the first time, to be run and managed by an them.
Recognition can come from peers, managers or customers, independent, external third-party provider.
We are committed and is provided in various financial and non-financial forms.
We to building trust and transparency within our business and the 50 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 offer a competitive range of benefits designed to meet the needs OUR ENVIRONMENT of our employees and their families.
This includes a contributory Computacenter is committed to improving the environmental impact pension scheme, life assurance, permanent health insurance, the of its business activities.
Our customers, employees and others with option to purchase shares in selected geographies and an employee whom we do business with in the UK have faced increasingly volatile assistance programme.
and extreme weather during 2015, creating significant risks to their safety and property.
It has brought into focus our ambition to increase ENCOURAGING DIVERSITY IN OUR PEOPLE energy efficiency across Computacenter.
We continue to take many We recognise that having a breadth of views within our organisation, small steps, such as the continuing roll out of low energy LED lighting from people who think, act and approach things differently, can only across our UK business.
We continue to monitor our CO emissions in 2 improve the performance of our business.
Our approach to diversity the UK and nine other countries where Computacenter has business aims to recognise, respect and value peoples differences, and activities, and invest in more energy efficient technologies.
There is a promote an inclusive culture where an individual, no matter what cap set in place in the UK with regards to the Carbon Emissions levels their background, can work at and progress through our organisation for vehicles that are included within our Green Fleet programme.
based purely on their ability to perform the role which they have.
As a result, the average CO emitted per UK vehicle has continued 2 The Group is committed to promoting a working environment where to reduce from 168g km in 2009 to 114g km in 2015, representing everyone is treated with respect and dignity, and in which any form a 32 per cent reduction.
of intimidation, bullying or harassment is not tolerated in any way.
We believe that we need people who have different skills and aptitudes We train and communicate with our employees to improve their in order to function effectively as an organisation.
All of the Groups awareness of environmental matters as part of our established policies and processes are designed to be inclusive of diversity, and Environmental Management System, registered to ISO 14001:2004. also disability.
The Group has an Occupational Health department which works with any employee with a disability to make sure that they have the physical and work-related support that they need.
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN We have taken a thorough approach to embedding corporate responsibility throughout our supply chain.
With the Modern Slavery Act now in force in the UK, further review work on our supply chain is underway in this area and is planned throughout 2016.
We aim to support our business by working with a diverse set of suppliers.
When selecting who we want to work with, we ensure that our terms of engagement are clear and transparent, and such terms support both our Group values and our wider Corporate Social Responsibility objectives.
We are committed to the promotion of equality of opportunity and diversity, and we build relationships with organisations which support and adopt similar principles.
Our initial supplier selection process is carried out by way of a comprehensive supplier take-on questionnaire, which includes areas such as financial stability, adherence to the UNGC 10 core principles, Human Rights, Working Standards, Working Security, the Environment, Anti-Bribery and Corruption and Supply Chain responsibility.
In summary, we look for diverse, ethical, financially stable counter-parties with whom we can do business.
51 CORPORATE SUSTAINABLE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Methodology Recent UKbased emission reduction projects include: Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions data We have used the main requirements of the Installation of four Voltage Optimisation Units for period 1 January to 31 December 2015 GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and saving 7-10% of electricity usage per year.
Emissions Metric Tonnes of CO e Continued investments in new technology 2 Emission factors used are from the UK helping reduce emissions in datacenters.
The Governments Conversion Factors supplied electricity used in the datacenters is circa Year 2014 2015 byDefra.
These datacenters Scope 1 5,191 3,565 host customers Information Technology in Scope 2 22,856 21,230 Based on external consultants Excel the form of servers thus reducing their carbon Total 28,047 24,795 spreadsheets were further developed footprint however, this increases the internally to include the full requirements emissions for Computacenter as we become to collate the additional emissions such as the landlord.
Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and refrigerants.
refrigerants usage Investment was also made in the replacement This activity has been conducted as part of of nine more efficient gas boiler systems Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam our UK Environment Management System located in the UK at the Hatfield and the and cooling purchased for own use registered to ISO 14001:2004 EMS 71255.
Groups chosen Group properties included in this report are all During 2015 the UK warehouse lighting was intensity measurements: current locations in the UK, Germany, France, replaced with more energy efficient LED Emissions as reported above, 8.11 metric Belgium, Spain, South Africa, Luxembourg, devices.
tonnes per m value of Group revenue: Switzerland, Malaysia and Hungary.
Limitations to data collection We have reported on all of the emission Less than 5% of emissions were estimated or Emissions as reported above 1.92 per Group sources required under the Companies Act based on an average energy usage per square employee: -6.3% 2.05 in 2014.
2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports foot of space occupied.
We are pleased to report a 12% reduction of the total emissions compared to the results Limitations to data collection of 2014.
Part of this reduction was due to the Less than 5% of emissions were estimated or sale of our wholly owned subsidiary RDC.
based on an average energy usage per square This is a positive achievement during the foot of space occupied.
continued expansion of our Global activities.
Scope 1 2 3 This data is available for the UK and is reported annually in the Carbon Discloser Project reports forboth the Investors and supply chain requirements.
Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme, registered as a participant.
CRC8804716 Packaging Waste Regulation Via the compliance company Paperpak, the UK is registered as a distributor of product ensuring fullcompliance since 2000.
ISO 14001:2004 The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
EMS 71255 Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2003.
52 STRATEGIC REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Simon Pereira Company Secretary The chart below shows how the emissions are split by country OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE COMMUNITY showing the percentage: Computacenter wants to make a positive contribution in the communities in which it operates.
Outlined below is a summary of a number of initiatives undertaken by Computacenter.
The Emissions 24,795 Metric Tonnes of CO e 2 Groups contribution in this area is primarily focused on providing opportunities to all for employment and education.
Belgium 1.29% France 2.65% In respect of employment opportunities our UK business is now Germany 32.6% involved in supporting the Career Transition Partnership, the aim of Hungary 0.39% which is to provide support for people leaving the Royal Navy, Royal Luxembourg 0.06% Air Force or the Royal Marines, with resettlement support, career Malaysia 0.33% transition advice and training opportunities.
The partnership is the South Africa 5.35% official provider of Armed Forces Resettlement, and Computacenter is Spain 1.39% in the first phase of the programme it offers, actively posting its jobs Switzerland 0.39% to ex-military personnel.
In Montpellier, where the Group has relatively UK 55.55% recently established a Group Service Desk, we have established a partnership with the local employment agency to provide employment opportunities to those not currently working.
The chart below shows how the UK Energy Usage is divided by percentage: Our French business has continued its partnership with Aide et Action, to provide support for schooling of children who are forced into child Datacenter 55% labour due to their circumstances.
A number of our UK employees Facilities 45% have officially trained as ambassadors for the Herts Chamber of Commerce, under its People Like Me campaign.
They will now run official activities with schools local to our Head Office in Hatfield, to encourage girls to get into technology and science based activities.
We have put together in the UK a School Outreach Programme with seven local academic partners, and this will include employability workshops, interview skills, guest speakers on apprenticeships and local careers fairs.
We have launched our University CampusLink initiative connecting us with students and careers teams at over 45 universities in the UK, which includes provision of career advice, interview and assessment centre practice, and guest lectures on IT and our Future Talent programmes.
Our German business has run blood donation campaigns during the year in conjunction with the Red Cross.
Computacenters Management and the Works Council of the German business have jointly decided to donate 50,000 to support refugee integration projects.
The projects will be selected in 2016 from suggestions made by our German employees.
Simon Pereira Company Secretary 11 March 2016 53
