Strategic report Corporate sustainability We believe that great people plus a great environment will deliver a world-class experience forour people and our customers.
Our people We now plan to roll out an adapted versionto the wider leadership team To achieve our vision, our customers need toenable a consistent approach to tobe at the heart of everything we do.
this to happen all of our people need to be Ive grown as a person connected to our purpose, inspired to be the Development and training best they can be, feel valued, engaged and and leader through this New apprenticeship and graduate recruitment committed to providing a brilliant customer training and its completely schemes continue to deliver across several experience.
To expect this of our people we divisions of the Group, alongside City & Guilds need to make sure that they have a great changed the way I now accredited training for employees within our experience from the moment they consider approach meetings and retail operations.
This includes the opportunity joining Countrywide and throughout their of sponsorship to achieve recognised career with us.
To do this we will engage lead my teams.
Ive already professional qualifications that are relevant ourpeople at every single touchpoint of toour sector.
We provide full visibility of thisjourney, building our employee value seen improvements in how whowe are and expertise we have through proposition, communicating clearly, bringing the team engages and our online Register of Property Agents our values to life and creating an environment www.
The Register provides where people can excel.
assurance that our people meet the requisite standards of professionalism that our customers Developing a high performance culture will expect when we advise them and represent To support our leaders to effectively lead The second event conducting powerful their interests during one of the most significant through organisational change, embed our conversations was a practical event which transactions that they are likely to undertake values and drive business performance, we provided leaders with the tools, techniques in their lifetime.
held a series of senior leadership events in and mindsets to conduct powerful November and December 2015.
Making sure we attract the best talent is conversations with their teams, focusing fundamental to the continued growth of The first event on leading change through ondriving performance.
It is only by investing in our culture and values helped leaders understand 13 workshops were held over a seven-week people and ensuring they have the right more about their own leadership brand, period, reaching over 100 leaders across tools to do their job in a safe and positive examining culture and behaviours to thebusiness.
environment that we can be recognised positively reflect our values in the actions asone of the best places to work in the UK.
and conversations we have with our people and customers.
LISTENING TO OUR PEOPLE MYCOUNTRYWIDE SURVEY In 2015 we completely overhauled our and understood our strategy both showing employee engagement survey, aligning strong increases on 2014 results.
9,000 ittoour Building our Future strategy, to Only through taking action on the feedback provide more insightful data across our employees shared received and working together to make strategic focus areas and support clear their feedback theright improvements can we deliver action planning.
We are Over 9,000 employees shared their feedback.
determined to improve again in 2016 with That is an increase of 9% compared to a mid-year pulse survey to track the impact 2014 and over 1,000 more responses of our action plans.
Across Countrywide giving us a better understanding of how we will continue to listen to our people and people truly feel working for Countrywide.
make the changes that bring us ever closer to being recognised as one of the best Overall our engagement score increased places to work in the UK.
Over 75% of those surveyed felt inspired by our purpose 36 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Being the Countrywide Great Tour Ambassador is an experience Ill never forget.
I met loads ofCountrywide colleagues, all tackling massive personal goals and with smiles on theirfaces most of the time!
in aid ofsome fantastic causes.
Ive made friends for life over the 64 days and I truly appreciate the support Ireceived from my family and Countrywide throughout it was awesome.
James Dowling Our Countrywide Great Tour Ambassador Communication Employee engagement The Great Tour Through impactful, clear, and honest 70,000 communication we connect our people to In the Summer of 2015 we were thrilled to has been raised by our employees our purpose and inform, engage and inspire support The Great Tour, in tandem with CTC, them.
To do this we work collaboratively with the national cycling charity.
Britains ultimate for local charities and communities our leadership teams across Countrywide cycling challenge is a 64-day circumnavigation in 2015 providing insight, guidance, expertise and of coastline starting inHolyhead and tools to support performance and drive finishing in Anglesey, a route which covers during 2015.
Countrywide also supports two business growth.
As lead sponsor we were national charities Shelter helping the able to provide a fantastic opportunity for Our Communication Business Partners provide homeless and Cancer Research UK.
people to take part no matter what level their a deep understanding of how employees fitness, connecting with colleagues from all The subsidiary businesses are also think, feel and act across our four business over our business to complete thechallenge.
encouraged to support causes within their units BU of Retail, London, B2B and local communities, and employees from Financial Services.
Over 300 riders from Countrywide took part across the country participated in a number in The Great Tour, participating in every single From newsletters to events, people roadshows of local initiatives.
We operate in local markets, stage of the event, with many more supporting to video interviews, we use the most relevant our people are local and our brands are along the way.
Six charities partnered with channels to reach all our employees and will local, making our contribution to the local the cycling event: Alzheimers Society: continue to expand our reach in 2016 with community an important part of our Leukaemia and Lymphoma Research: the launch of a new Group-wide intranet.
Macmillan Cancer Support: Action for A-T: Our people are also encouraged to become Anthony Nolan: and CTC.
We raised over Equal opportunities shareholders in the Company.
The Group 35,000 for these fantastic causes.
We are committed to a policy of equal Share Incentive Plan SIP has been running opportunity and diversity in employment and successfully since its inception in October Charitable giving recognise that this is essential to ensuring 2013.
It is open to all employees with more Countrywide supports a workplace charitable the success and growth of the organisation.
than 18 months continuous service and the giving scheme so that employees can donate Company gives one matching share for every to their favourite charities tax efficiently through To this end, we make every effort to select, two shares purchased by the employee payroll deduction, donating over 18,000 recruit, train and promote the best candidates within the maximum investment terms for the job.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 37 Strategic report Corporate sustainability continued GENDER DIVERSITY Directors Employees 3 7,023 6 5,777 Female Male Senior management Senior management comprises employees with responsibility for planning, directing or controlling 26 the activities of the Group or a strategically significant part of it.
Directors of subsidiary companies are included only to the extent that 76 the subsidiary is significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
education and a lot of other facilities and Equal opportunities continued During 2015 we recycled over benefits to the children in the society.
This To treat all employees and applicants fairly, foundation exists in all the countries WNS regardless of race, gender, marital status, age, operates from and is actively involved in 876 tonnes nationality, ethnic origin, religious belief, sexual child education.
More information on the orientation or disability, and to ensure that no of rubbish foundation can be found by visiting employee suffers harassment or intimidation.
Employment opportunities are available to Environmental matters disabled persons in accordance with their Health and safety Environmental savings make good business abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with The health and safety, welfare and wellbeing sense.
Our primary objective is to minimise other employees.
If an employee becomes of employees is of paramount importance our carbon footprint and any negative impact disabled during employment, we make every tous.
It is our policy to create and improve we have on the environment.
We recycled effort to enable them to continue employment standards of health and safety, which will over 876 tonnes of rubbish during 2015. by making reasonable adjustments in the lead to the avoidance and reduction of risks workplace and retraining for alternative work We are committed to the following: and ensure that the Company complies with where necessary.
A detailed to meet or exceed the requirements health and safety policy statement is held ofrelevant legislative, regulatory and Human rights atallbranch premises and displayed on environmental codes of practice: While the Group is accountable to investors, thenotice boards.
we take into account the interest of all our to identify, reduce and dispose of waste stakeholders, including our employees, our arising from our operations in a manner Information security customers and our suppliers, as well as the that minimises harm to the environment and We are committed to ensuring the integrity local community and the environment in prevents pollution of land, air and water: and security of business information, with which we operate.
particular attention given to personal and to reduce the consumption of energy and sensitive data where inappropriate use or Countrywides reputation is one of its key assets water and use renewable and or recyclable inadequate maintenance and safeguarding and, as a major player in the UK property resources wherever practicable: could have serious repercussions.
services sector, adhering to the highest to encourage our suppliers and standards of integrity, personal conduct, Our policies and procedures are based subcontractors to implement good ethics and fairness is deemed to be of onrequirements for a secure operating environmental practices and procedures vitalimportance.
environment, an assessment of the risks that which support our own objectives the Group faces and relevant legal and best Due to the regulatory requirements in the UK andtargets: and practice requirements.
We have achieved, we have judged that human rights are not a to take responsibility for the maintenance and maintain, the ISO 27001 accreditation material risk for the business.
We do, however, and revision of our environmental policy, inour major business to business operating work closely with our third-party external which is reviewed on a regular basis, in order divisions and aspire to operate in line with suppliers to ensure their human rights and to set environmental objectives and targets the International Standard for Information ethics policies are aligned with those of for continuous improvement, as we recognise Security Management, ISO 27001, in all of Countrywide.
Our support function in India, the need for sustainable development.
WNS, has a foundation called WNS Cares Foundation.
It takes care of providing 38 Countrywide plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements THE FOLLOWING INITIATIVES ARE IN PLACE: We use printing paper which is chlorine With effect from July 2011, we opted to Employees are encouraged free and carries the FSC Kitemark and ensure that all newly ordered Company to dispose of all paper which is compliant with ISO 9001:2008, vehicles had a CO emission of no 2 waste in secure bins, ISO 14001:2004 and is OHSAS greater than 160gsm.
This was further of which 80001:2007 certified.
We currently reduced to a cap of 130gsm on the recycle 80% of paper across the Group.
introduction of a new fleet policy in January 2013.
100% We launched local initiatives to ensure branches recycle office waste and our In 2011 we launched a Cycle to Work is recycled head office recycles all waste and uses scheme, in order that employees can tax fairtrade produce.
We are working in efficiently purchase bicycles for cycling partnership with a waste management towork.
provider with the aim to increase our During 2013 we introduced a half hourly recycling volumes to zero waste to meter pilot to monitor and reduce landfill by the end of 2017. electricity usage and also commenced Employees are encouraged to dispose avoltage optimisation pilot to reduce of all paper waste in secure bins, 100% energy consumption.
Greenhouse gas emissions We recycle used printer cartridges For our greenhouse gas emissions andmobile phones.
95% of our toner disclosures, please see the directors cartridges are recycled in partnership report on page 69. with our printersuppliers.
Epayslips were introduced for all Group employees in 2010, which reduced ourcarbon footprint and print and postalcosts.
Annual Report 2015 C ountrywide plc 39 Corporate governance 41 Chairmans introduction  42 Board of directors 44 Corporate governance statement 46 Report of the Nomination Committee 48 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 54 Directors remuneration report 67 Directors report 70 Directors responsibilities statement
