OUR PEOPLE Dairy Crest is committed Investing in our Retaining a staff talentedworkforce to providing an inclusive working environment Our dedicated learning and development To make sure we retain and develop our team works across the business to ensure talent, we use our annual appraisal system where everyone feels that the right development opportunities are to identify employees with high career valued and respected available to the whole workforce from line development potential and invite them operators and factory team leaders through to join our talent programme.
In 2014 39 and has the opportunity to finance managers and senior directors.
took up the offer of participating in the In the dairy sector, as in the UK food programme which includes mentoring by to progress.
industry as a whole, there is a shortage senior staff, psychometric assessment and of food scientists and engineers.
tackle this problem and to ensure that Dairy By way of emphasising our We recognise that Crest is operationally fit for the future, we commitment to retaining talent and staff, have continued to invest in our technology this year we introduced several new people treated and and engineering apprenticeship schemes corporate responsibility pledges with rewarded fairly are more which were launched in 2011 and 2012 the aim of increasing focus on this key respectively.
New pledges include increasing loyal and are more At our new Innovation Centre at Harper the percentage of staff who have over likely to champion fresh Adams University in Shropshire we support five years experience, and increasing the undergraduate students studying a food percentage of roles filled internally.
ideas which help to science related subject.
The food science Taken as a whole we believe the placement gives them the opportunity of investment we have made in recruiting, improve our working getting hands on experience working on retaining and rewarding our staff has practices which in turn product and packaging innovation and is in helped us maintain a turnover rate of addition to our sponsorship of places at the around 13%, an absence rate of less than deliver commercial Reading and Nottingham Universities sixth 3% and ensured that over a quarter of our form summer schools.
employees have chosen to participate in benefit and ultimately Joining any big business can be our sharesave scheme.
daunting: to ensure new recruits get off to the best possible start and receive a comprehensive overview of the Company, In 2014 15 all new starters are invited to participate in our group induction programme.
Over the course of this financial year 792 new starters availed themselves of the programme.
618 This course ensures they understand our business strategy, our vision and the values employees received a to which we operate that have been the foundation of our success.
recognition award Once on-board all staff, where appropriate, can attend face-to-face development courses and via our e-learning portal can participate in online courses ranging from health and safety through to IT Striving for a more training.
Since it was launched in 2010 over engaged workforce 3,000 people have logged onto the system, with over 8,000 courses having been completed.
A successful and happy workforce is It has, however, also been a challenging one that is involved and engaged in the year for many Dairy Crest staff.
As well as striving to continually course of the last 12 months we have improve our score in staff surveys we also restructured our business to ensure we Since it was launched make sure that employees not only know are better placed to drive growth and what is going on but that they are the first in 2010 approximately create a more integrated, efficient supply to know what is going on.
Where these changes have resulted this we provide staff with a weekly news in the reduction of roles, for example the round-up, monthly business performance necessary but regrettable decision to close reports, a staff website and we run company our creamery at Crudgington and several road shows that all employees are invited 3,000 milk depots, we have supported staff with to attend.
Finally, to safeguard employees a range of tools and services which have against bullying and harassment at work and people have logged onto helped them find alternative roles inside to also ensure that bribery and corruption and outside the Company.
Indeed, this are never tolerated, we have formal policies our e-learning portal supportive approach is now included in our in place and a confidential staff helpline to corporate responsibility pledges.
provide direct support and guidance.
8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 st 1 reward and Diversity and Working together recognition inclusion with Trade Unions Being valued and recognised at work is We believe that for people to be the As a progressive employer we recognise important.
Our aim is to not only reward most productive, they need to achieve an and respect the positive role that trade staff fairly for the work they do through appropriate balance in their commitment unions can play in the development of our a competitive remuneration package but to the workplace and their home life.
Any employees and our business.
Indeed both to also ensure that they too share in our employee regardless of their position, Dairy Crest and the Unions, Usdaw and commercial successes.
To help achieve location or role should feel that they are Unite, agree the importance of working this almost all staff are part of a bonus treated flexibly in their ways of working together towards long term employment or incentive scheme which is linked to according to business needs.
We wish security and wherever possible avoid either personal, site and or Company to have a fully diverse workforce as we redundancy though redeployment.
recognise that people from different true working partnerships, we strive to To encourage a team atmosphere backgrounds, experiences and abilities achieve a genuine sharing of information and to be better at rewarding success bring fresh ideas and innovations that and openness.
in the workplace we have a reward and improve our business.
Employees will be recognition scheme in place whereby any encouraged to reach their full potential member of staff can nominate another for regardless of their age, gender, marital Gender prole a job well done and the best performing status including civil partnerships, All employees team in the Company is formally disability, nationality, colour, ethnic Male recognised.
Despite a smaller workforce origin, sexual orientation or religious 83% we are pleased to report that there affiliation.
Dairy Crest does not tolerate was an increase in the number of staff discrimination or harassment on any of successfully nominated up from 551 in these grounds.
The 2014 team aims our polices include the right to apply of the year award was presented to staff for flexible working hours, a sabbatical, from our Frome site for the work they did support with taking time off to study, to achieve top marks for a Food Standards and we provide maternity pay above the Female audit from a leading retailer.
statutory minimum and full pay during 17% To help colleagues save their money paternity leave.
outside of work in July 2014 we launched Following the creation of a new Senior management a new, bespoke Dairy Crest benefits diversity working group in 2014, which is Male website which provides colleagues with made up of volunteers from all parts of 76% access to a valuable range of discounts the business and chaired by our Group on products and services.
By March 2015 Supply Chain Director, the key areas the over 1,500 members of staff had signed business will be focusing on over the next up to the website.
12 months will include driving diversity through recruitment and promotion, increasing the number of female managers and providing language support to Female workers where their first language is not 24% English.
In addition to coming top of the 1, 500 Business in the Community Index 2015, of which diversity is a key part, we were also have signed up to the pleased to be named by Waitrose as the overall winner of their prestigious treating bespoke Dairy Crest people fairly supplier award.
benefits website Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 9 S St tr rat ate eg giic c r re epor port t
