Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy has three pillars: Our People, Our Community and Our Environment.
Tony Griffin Glossary Managing Director, Dechra Veterinary Products EU Terms used within this section: SET Senior Executive Team PDR Performance Development Review HR Human Resources MAT Moving Annual Total LTAFR Lost Time Accident Frequency Rates RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Katy Clough Dangerous Occurrences Regulations Group HR Director A responsible approach to our stakeholders Our People Strong Senior Executive Team SET and the wider community is considered by There has been significant progress made The SET has responsibility for the overall the Board to be important to the business.
during the year on the People Plan.
leadership of the Group, driving the Our Corporate Social Responsibility successful implementation and execution One Dechra A Great Place to Work strategy has three pillars: Our People, Our of the strategy and enabling cohesion and A number of key projects have Community and Our Environment.
The co-operation between the various business progressed which will enable us to conduct of the business towards social, units, as well as setting the Dechra Values integrate the Group and optimise our environmental, ethical and health and so that these are embraced at every level resources and capabilities.
These safety issues is recognised to have an of the business.
include development of a Group-wide impact on our reputation and therefore the Learning Management Resource which Reporting to Ian Page, Chief Executive implementation and improvement of policies will be available to all employees from Officer, the team comprises Anneand systems are ongoing.
September 2015, the introduction of Francoise Nesmes, Chief Financial Tony Griffin is the nominated Director a Group-wide newsletter informing Officer, Tony Griffin, Managing Director responsible for health, safety and environmental all employees of progress against DVP EU, Dr Susan Longhofer, Regulatory matters.
However, the Board takes ultimate the strategy and other important Affairs and Business Development responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility developments across the Group, and Group Director, Mike Eldred, President and continues to be committed to developing the development of a Group-wide North America, Mike Annice, Managing and implementing appropriate policies that careers website, showcasing the global Director, Manufacturing, Allen Mellor, create and maintain long term value for all opportunities available and supporting Group IT Director and Katy Clough, stakeholders.
Sound business ethics help to the attraction of talent to the Group.
minimise risk, ensure legal compliance and enhance Company efficiency.
50 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report Case Study: Our People US Team Building Event As reported in last years Annual Report, we introduced the objective of One Dechra A great place to work to support our overall business strategy.
During a PDRA team building event in May as one of several One Dechra initiatives, the PDRA team and the Kansas sales office joined forces at a cooking workshop to make manicotti an Italian American pasta similar to cannelloni and decorate dog biscuits.
This was a fun-filled evening with a purpose, which resulted in the local Ronald McDonald House receiving a freezer full of the manicotti and the dogs at the Humane Society of Greater Kansas City enjoying the treats.
US Team Building Event Our People Plan is designed to enable the Group to drive innovation, customer and shareholder value, accountability, and success through: 01 Develop the SET to provide world class 01 leadership to the Group Strong SET 02 Align employee efforts and improve execution through effective goal setting 06 02 linked to reward Scalable Performance HR Operations 03 Culture Attract, retain and develop the right talent in the right place at the right time One Dechra 04 A Great Place To Work Develop equitable reward systems that drive accountability and reward high performance 05 05 03 Dechra Identify succession plans and create Talent Leaders Management development plans to secure the future Development talent pipeline 06 04 Aligned Create simplified access to data and reduce Compensation manual effort and Benets Stock Code: DPH 51 slugline Corporate Social Responsibility continued During the year, the number of SET A formal approach to succession planning and assist in tracking succession members has increased with the and talent management across the planning.
It is proposed to develop KPIs addition of Dr Joseph Rosentel, Product Group has commenced.
At least once and a dashboard of HR metrics to assist Development Director, and Giles Coley, a year we will continue to undertake a with evaluating decision making relating Marketing Director DVP EU.
The SET comprehensive assessment of talent to resourcing and ensuring compliance has met eight times during the year and and potential at all levels in the Group.
with increasing external reporting the Board approved the SET terms of The aim is to identify both successors requirements.
reference which will assist with the focus for key positions and put in place the It is the Companys policy to provide equal of its core duties.
development, support or key experiences recruitment and other opportunities for all that are required for individuals to Performance Culture employees, regardless of age, sex, sexual progress within the organisation.
This The updated Performance Development orientation, religion, race or disability.
supports our strategic aim to build a Review PDR process was rolled out The Group gives full consideration to sustainable business.
across the Group during summer 2014, applications from disabled people, where with all employees being set objectives During this process we have identified they adequately fulfil the requirements that link back to the overall Company the need to attract a wider range of the role.
Training for managers has been of young talent and, to address become disabled, it is the Groups policy provided to support this roll out and this, we have continued to support whenever practicable to provide continuing the annual salary review calendar has apprenticeship programmes, offered employment under the Companys terms been revised in line with the PDR cycle a number of placements to university and conditions and to provide training and to underpin the link between individual students and have set up a pilot career development whenever appropriate.
Graduate scheme in the UK.
In summary we recognise that the success Talent Management Aligned Compensation and Benefits of the Group is dependent on our ability to As Dechra continues to grow, attracting Planned tactical work has been attract, develop, motivate and retain skilled and selecting top talent is an important undertaken to understand external employees.
For a number of years the Group priority.
With this in mind, a new careers benchmarks for senior managers and has reported labour turnover as a non-financial website was launched in July 2015. flight risk groups, together with an audit KPI using a standard formula as follows: This new site showcases the breadth of existing benefits and compensation Total number of leavers over a of what Dechra does and our global practices across the Group.
This period reach, it represents our Values and more has led to an alignment of the bonus 100 Average total number employed importantly our people, to enable future schemes for key groups in 2015 with over period potential employees to learn more about further development of an overall Group us and want to join.
compensation strategy planned for the The Group has established a target of no current financial year.
more than 15% Moving Annual Total MAT : We recognise the need to identify our high during the 2015 financial year we reported potential employees and successors for Dechra Leaders Development 12.2% 2014: 16.8%.
This represents a key roles and to develop them in order We want to ensure that we retain our decrease, and is due to the fact that the to retain and prepare for future roles.
The talented people and develop their skills in previous years figure was high following commitment to the development of our both functional and people management, the closure of the manufacturing facility at most talented individuals is partly rooted which is key to supporting our continued Uldum, Denmark.
in our need to deploy our resources growth.
Over the course of the last effectively across the Group and build financial year, Leadership Development Business Ethics breadth of experience.
Programmes have been delivered in both The Board expects all of the Groups business the Manufacturing and European teams.
activities to be conducted in accordance We are also looking at designing a tailored with the highest ethical standards and in full SET Development Programme.
Employee Turnover MAT compliance with all applicable national and international legislation: in doing so we aim to Scalable HR 16.1 16.8 12.2 maintain a reputation for acting responsibly 20.00% During the year a project was undertaken and with integrity.
The Board has formalised to identify a suitable Human Capital these expectations into a policy known as Management system that will support 15.00% the Code of Business Conduct the Code simplified, transparent access to data and which applies throughout the Group.
Following a tender Code was translated and circulated around process, a vendor has been identified 10.00% the business along with the Anti-Bribery and and the implementation of the first phase Anti-Corruption Policy.
of the system has recently commenced.
The aim is to create a virtual HR shared A separate Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 5.00% services function that operates across Policy was launched in the 2014 financial year geographic boundaries, which will reduce previously included in the Code of Business time spent on administration and allow Conduct.
The policy, training documents and 0.00% further focus on HR business partnering.
guidance have been translated and rolled out 2013 2014 2015 The system will provide self-service across all of the Dechra territories, and work is access to both managers and employees, now commencing on an e-learning solution to will automate much of the PDR process 52 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report assist with the training of new employees and Health and Safety Policy Skipton is operating to OHSAS 18001:2007, for refresher purposes.
The Group attaches great importance to the which is the British Standard for health and safety of its employees and the occupational health and safety management A Whistleblowing Policy is also in place public.
Management is responsible for and best practice.
As it continues to develop its whereby employees report, in confidence, committed to the maintenance, monitoring and safety management system, the site hopes any suspected wrongdoings within the promotion of a policy of health and safety at to seek accreditation within two years.
business which they feel unable to discuss work to ensure the care and well-being of its directly with local management.
For a number of years the Group has employees and on-site visitors.
reported Lost Time Accident Frequency The Code of Business Conduct, Anti-Bribery Any material health and safety issues Rates LTAFR as a non-financial key and Anti-Corruption Policy and Whistleblowing or incidents that occur are discussed in performance indicator see page 47.
Policy were reviewed in December 2014. detail at both the business unit board The LTAFR is a calculation of all injuries meetings and the PLC Board meetings.
The that would be statutorily reportable under The Dechra Values were launched in discussions include details of the incident the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and June 2011 across the business, and are that took place and also details of any Dangerous Occurrences Regulations being incorporated into the way we operate.
remedial action which has been taken in RIDDOR, normalised per 100,000 hours order to mitigate or prevent a recurrence of worked.
This measure provides information View further content on our website: www.
Twice a year a comprehensive to help monitor and control accidents and health and safety report is presented at each injuries to the workforce and is widely used of the business unit board meetings and as a key performance indicator throughout The Board fully endorses these Values and subsequently reported to the PLC Board industry.
The Company reports LTAFR on believes that they encapsulate Dechras meeting the following month for discussion the same basis as in previous years, that is business ethics and set standards that all and review by the Directors.
At the February over-three day incidents.
As in the previous employees should strive to achieve and PLC Board meeting, the Health and Safety year, the number of accidents occurring ultimately exceed.
During the year the Values Manager for DPM Skipton provided a in the year was one.
This incident did not were translated into German and launched presentation which included the progress result in a work-related fatality or disability.
with the aid of on-site briefings to all from 2011 to 2015, an environmental and employees at our German site in Aulendorf.
The Transport Risk Committee assesses energy update and synergies achieved with risks relating to the Group fleet and Human Rights the Bladel facility.
establishes control procedures, including Dechra is committed to upholding and The main sites within the Group have an active regular licence checks of all individuals respecting human rights both within our Health and Safety Committee comprising who are able to drive Company vehicles, business and from our suppliers.
However, representatives from both management investigations into all accidents and Dechra does not currently have a separate and employees.
The workforce nominates a disciplinary procedure for speeding human rights policy.
The committee has met twice meet on a regular basis to carry out a review during the financial year: and as well as of risk assessments and standard operating driver safety it has discussed the fleet procedures as well as investigating any provision and areas of improvement from concerns raised by individual employees.
Each an economic, environmental and employee site has the requisite number of employees perspective.
trained in health and safety legislation.
53 slugline Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Community The Board encourages the business units to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the local communities in which they operate.
It recognises that by taking voluntary action in this area it is helping to protect and develop its own business.
This is the fourth year in which the Group has operated a Donations Policy.
All employees within the Group are entitled to nominate a charity or a non-commercial organisation.
This year the number of nominations received exceeded our expectations and it was therefore decided to increase the overall donation spend from 10,000 to 20,000 which was split equally between ten charities, as detailed below: Type of Charity Charity Jurisdiction Description Animal Coalition to Unchain Dogs US The Coalition to Unchain Dogs improves the welfare of dogs living in underserved communities as well as dogs continuously chained outdoors by offering information and free health services.
Inges Kattehjem Denmark This is the biggest cat charity in Denmark.
They provide advice and offer a home for abandoned and rescued cats.
Environmental Cuan Wildlife Animal Rescue UK Cuan Wildlife Animal Rescue are dedicated to the rescue, care and rehabilitation of sick, injured and orphaned wild animals and birds.
Other Cystic Fibrosis Trust UK The Cystic Fibrosis Trust is the UKs only national charity dealing with all aspects of cystic fibrosis.
It funds research to improve cystic fibrosis care and treatment, and aims to ensure appropriate clinical care and support for people with cystic fibrosis.
The Good Will Cause UK The Good Will cause is a fundraising foundation that is part of the North of England Childrens Cancer Research Fund.
The primarily aim of the Good Will cause is raise funds to research Burkitts lymphoma in more depth.
The Childrens Hunger US This charity recognises that free school lunches are the only meals Project some children receive.
This charity fills students back-packs with food on Fridays so they have basic nutrition and meals over the weekend.
Skipton Extended Learning UK SELFA is a local childrens charity that provides support for vulnerable, for All SELFA disadvantaged and disabled children who live in the Skipton and Craven District of North Yorkshire.
Stichting Netherlands Wish Ambulance Brabant fulfils the wishes of terminally ill people by WensAmbulanceBrabant taking them to their favourite place.
Heifer International International Heifer Internationals mission is to end hunger and poverty and to care for the Earth using gifts of livestock, seeds, trees and training in sustainable agriculture community development projects to help people become self-reliant.
Families receive training in animal care and conversation for environmentally sound agricultural development.
The Joshua Tree Charity UK The Joshua Tree is a registered charity based locally in Northwich which supports families living with the life changing experience of childhood cancer.
Presentation cheque to Inges Kattehjem Paula Lenton, a DVP UK employee, presenting a cheque to Cuan Wildlife Rescue 54 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report Lene Stoksted Bentien Logistics and Project Services Manager and Eva Remmer Sndergaard HR Manager receiving the certification in Corporate Social Responsibility Since obtaining the certification, the local Council and a Council Case Study: in the Copenhagen area have visited Uldum, as they were Certificate in Corporate Social Responsibility interested in our approach on social responsibilities, including our endeavours in helping the unemployed into traineeships and In December 2014, two of DVP EUs employees in Denmark helping them back into the job market.
completed a two month intensive training programme and passed an examination administered by an external panel of The Uldum site has an agreement with the local Council to take examiners.
The certification called E4 is a certified management on these traineeships on a regular basis, the most recent being system developed by the business network, Green Network.
at the beginning of 2015 when a trainee, who had been out of The management system comprises four areas based on the job market for a long time, was engaged in the canteen.
The international CSR standards: economy, environment, ethics and traineeship was very successful and she was provided with the employment.
Lene and Eva are certified in using recognised skills to apply for other job opportunities.
Our HR manager has tools and methods to organise and manage the Danish business now been invited to join a task force of approximately 12 local units social responsibility, develop strategies, prepare action companies, which has been established to find ways of helping plans and assess its own practice.
It is hoped that their new people on social security benefits back into the job market.
This skills can be shared throughout the Group.
project will run for two years.
In addition to the annual Group donation, each business unit has discretion to allocate funds to local community groups, employee nominated charities and or animal welfare charities.
Below is a selection of what has taken place during the 2015 financial year.
Donations in Kind Type of Charity Charity Jurisdiction Description Animal Manchester & Cheshire UK Dechra Veterinary Products UK DVP UK donated products following a Dogs Home large fire at the Manchester site.
Animal Help Street Animals of Morocco DVP UK continued to provide assistance to a charity called Help the Morocco Street Cats of Morocco by providing supplies in 2015 of Alvegesic, Atipam and Sedator.
Animal Love Underdogs Romania DVP UK donated wound care products to this charity, which helps and supports some of the most unwanted, abused and neglected dogs in Romania.
Financial Donations Business Unit Jurisdiction Amount Description DPM Bladel The Netherlands 1,217 Donation to a community project.
DPM Skipton UK 350 Donations to various local and national charities.
DVP EU Denmark 607 Donations to community projects and the Danish Cancer Foundation.
DVP EU International 815 Continued sponsorship of three children through SOS Childrens Villages.
DVP EU Germany 708 Donations to various animal charities and a local community project.
DVP NA US 2,404 Team building event resulting in donations to local community projects further details can be found in People Plan on page 51.
Stock Code: DPH 55 slugline Corporate Social Responsibility continued Case Study: Sustainability Dechra has started putting sustainability at the heart of its business while maintaining product performance and customer experience.
To start this journey, we are reviewing the ingredients that go into our veterinary dedicated diets, Specific, starting with a special emphasis on the fish by-products we use.
We believe that if we can source high quality ingredients that have been grown or caught in a sustainable and well managed THATS MORE THAN process, we will be able to produce high quality diets for our A DROP IN THE OCEAN.
Specific is known for its high levels of Omega 3 that helps support joints, skin and shiny coats and leads to healthy and happy pets.
And if the pet owners are satisfied they will keep on buying their pet food from their veterinarian enabling us to donate 5% of Specifics profits to good causes that will help support the environment to continue delivering quality ingredients.
We call this the Circle of Good and are asking pet owners to join by buying Specific from their veterinarian.
Our Environment DVP EU, Uldum is also committed to a rates and direct waste into its correct The Group recognises the importance programme of continuous improvement waste streams to ensure compliance with of good environmental controls.
It is the and is investigating alternative forms of regulatory requirement and to protect Groups policy to comply with environmental transporting Dechra products.
The site set a target legislation currently in place, to adopt transfer of our diets product to a new to increase its recycling rate by 10%, responsible environmental practices and to supplier, Uldum has reviewed the method reducing waste to landfill by end of the give consideration to minimising the impact of transportation of this product switching 2015 financial year and the introduction of its operations on the environment.
from road transportation to sea, which of a further recycling project.
The figures will result in lower CO emissions due to on the next page demonstrates that the 2 DPM, Skipton has successfully completed environmentally friendly crude oil used by 10% recycling target has been met and its accreditation audit for ISO 14001:2004 ships.
As Uldum is the central logistics exceeded, which has been achieved by Environmental Standard Certification hub for Dechra this endeavour will have changing the way waste is collected in during the year.
This standard requires a significant impact on our environmental the process areas, providing awareness that organisations have an environmental footprint.
training for Environmental Health and Safety policy and an action plan for managing their representatives and work colleagues, impact on the environment.
The business is DVP EU, Uldum has contributed DKK15,000 obtaining warehouse employees committed to a programme of continuous to Energreen ApS for the construction of commitment to recycling and a reduction in improvement which is reviewed annually new green energy production facilities within the size of the landfill waste compactor.
with a view to ensuring that progress is Denmark.
During the financial year the Waste environmental improvements at this site In respect of waste, the Group is a have included considering and reducing the registered member of the Waste Packaging environmental impact in all refurbishment Obligations Regulations compliance work undertaken by contractors, the scheme.
The general waste is sorted for upgrade of the incandescent lighting to collection by third party waste management energy efficient LED and changing the companies.
DPM, Skipton monitors its heating system from fuel oil to energy waste management as part of the sites efficient air conditioning units.
commitment to improve its recycling 56 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2015 www.
com slugline Strategic Report Waste disposed Averaged for the 12 month periods ending: Waste type Tons June 15 June 14 Annual % change Target Recycled 8.7 7.7 13% 10% increase Landfill 106.0 134.0 - 21% Reduction Contaminated Waste and Controlled Drugs 82.1 60.8 35% Divert from landfill The Skipton facility continues to comply working with Dechra to verify the evidence Scope 1: includes emissions from with effluent discharge standards into required to confirm compliance to the combustion of fuel and operation of local water supplies, which is subject to Environmental Agency.
No other Group facilities excluding combustion of fuel random monitoring by Yorkshire Water company is affected by this EU Directive.
Standard operating procedures Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope 2: includes emissions from are in place to provide that all contaminated This is the second year that Dechra has purchased electricity, heat, steam and waste is disposed of under strict controls.
collated and reported on its Greenhouse cooling: and Furthermore, all exhaust air is fully filtered Gas Emissions.
from the manufacturing unit before Vehicle emissions.
Methodology UK Governments Conversion Factors for In order to determine our emissions, we ESOS Company Reporting 2014 have been used have used the GHG Protocol Corporate The Group is currently working to comply to convert Dechras usage into a carbon Accounting and Reporting Standard with the Energy Savings and Opportunities dioxide equivalent, and Dechra has selected and have reported on Greenhouse Gas Scheme ESOS.
This is a UK Government Tonnes of CO e per total m sales revenue 2 Emissions arising from those sources over initiative to implement Article 8 of the EU as the intensity ratio as this is a relevant which we have operational control.
The UK indicator of the Groups growth.
disclosures below encompass: Group have collated the data and have appointed an external assessor, who is Tonnes of CO e 2 1 July 2013 to 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2014 30 June 2015 restated Scope 1 636 613 Scope 2 1,740 1,712 Vehicle emissions 1,241 1,165 Total Carbon Footprint tonnes of CO e 3,617 3,490 2 Intensity ratio tonnes of CO e per m 17.8 18.0 2 Figures restated to take into account corrections made to our carbon footprint calculations as well as the inclusion of new businesses.
