38 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY & RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW As a result, in December 2014, we launched we need to understand the impact we have 2015 has been a year of new, ambitious targets for 2020 for our as a company, with the aim of ensuring that significant progress in our most material issues, which build on our overall, our contribution is a positive one.
achievements to date, and are aligned with We have already begun this work with approach to sustainability the emerging UN Sustainable Development our new integrated water strategy, our Water and responsibility.
Our targets, which focus on leadership Blueprint, launched in April 2015, which has in alcohol in society, building thriving given us a deeper understanding of the total 2015 targets expiring this communities and reducing our impact of our water use and in which we year, and in light of external environmental impact, are an essential part have prioritised what we need to do to of how we will deliver our Performance improve our stewardship of water.
factors such as the UNs new Ambition see page 16 for more information.
Sustainable Development Performance against 2015 targets Given their increasing importance to the We will be reporting next year on how we are business as a whole, this year we have added Goals, we evaluated the developing our approach beyond water and safety and carbon emissions to our 2014 strengths and weaknesses how we are performing against our new non-financial key performance indicators, targets for 2020.
In the meantime, in this responsible drinking programmes, water of our strategy against our report we are focusing on the progress we efficiency and employee engagement.
track record of performance have made towards our 2015 targets and the challenges and opportunities that face us as Looking ahead focusing on impact and the work we have During the year, we appointed a new we look towards 2020 and beyond.
In done over the last few Sustainable Development Director to lead recognition of our new targets, we are the team, embed our strategy, and develop structuring this review around the three areas: years in understanding the sound metrics for our targets and a Leadership in alcohol in society expectations and concerns co-ordinated framework for meeting them which covers our existing target for everywhere we do business.
This will involve of our stakeholders.
responsible drinking programmes a more sophisticated approach focused Reducing our environmental impact on impact rather than input.
We need which covers our existing targets for to improve how we measure what our water, carbon emissions, waste and programmes are delivering both within packaging and outside our business.
Thriving communities which covers We also need to understand better how our existing targets for our communities, everything we do is connected our impact and our indicators for our people and our as a local employer providing jobs and supply chain.
paying taxes, with our impact as a company selling alcoholic drinks in regulated markets: APPROACH TO UNITED SPIRITS We also continue to report on governance our impact as a manufacturer using shared LIMITED USL DATA and ethics see page 47, which underpin natural resources and purchasing from local Following the acquisition of USL, we are how we do business in a responsible and and global suppliers, with our impact as a progressively integrating operating ethical way and which are essential for marketer of iconic, much loved brands, for systems and practice.
As a result, we have earning the trust and respect of everyone instance.
To create one of the best only included USL data in the following: who comes into contact with Diageo.
performing, most trusted and respected Employee numbers and Values consumer goods companies in the world, Survey data Further details in the S&R Performance Addendum 2015.
Environmental data for water, carbon and waste.
All other data excludes USL.
