Dignity plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate and social responsibility Operating sustainably and responsibly is fundamental to delivering on our strategic objectives.
Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director Marketing and Purchasing.
This approach Sustainability and strategy Dignitys sustainability programme shapes demonstrates our commitment to providing the way that we do business.
Conducting our staff in locations where they can directly help and support our clients.
business in a responsible way is one of our fundamental values and a key element of To achieve our our business growth strategy.
Behaving in an Risk management business goals we Our Code of Conduct ensures that all staff are ethical manner, working safely, reducing our need to look after the environmental impact, developing our people aware of the principles that govern how we and contributing to the communities we serve operate in the business environment and communities, people explains the standards of behaviour that all enables us to create long-term value for our and environment stakeholders.
our employees are expected to adhere to.
which support our operations, so we can We define our reporting in terms of our Our Code of Conduct which is available on our workplace, the environment and the corporate website www.
co. uk continue delivering communities of which we play an important is reinforced by a staff handbook, Helping our value to all our part.
We strive to improve the way that we clients every step of the way which states that stakeholders.
perform, manage and report on corporate and all clients should be supported during the funeral arrangements, at the service or when social responsibility CSR matters across all aspects of our business.
Within Dignity, choosing a memorial or funeral plan in a Performance in 2015 Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman, caring and sensitive manner.
We should be 29 per cent of Dignity staff have compassionate and caring: pay attention to is accountable for CSR and under this remit over10 years service: identifies major issues and reports these to detail: spend as much time as the client needs: In the last five years the number his fellow Board members.
be open and straightforward and keep in regular of accidents has reduced by contact with the client.
25 per cent: Governance Dignitys CDP formerly Carbon Business integrity and ethics Accountability Disclosure Project submission We make our clients feel confident in us so was shortlisted for the Best The governing principles of Dignity are that that they are reassured they are being served Year on Year Change in we are here to help people at one of the most by responsible individuals working for a Performancecategory amongst difficult times of their lives and we do this responsible company.
FTSE 350 companies: and with compassion, respect, openness and Dignity raised 59,000 for its care.
Our objective is to be the company that Dignity continues to be identified by the corporate charity, Marie Curie.
everyone knows they can trust in their time FTSE Group in its FTSE4Good initiative as a of need.
Our values, which are ensconced in company that is working towards environmental our governing principles, are a fundamental part In this section sustainability, developing positive relationships of our culture.
By living these values, we ensure In this section, we provide an with stakeholders and upholding and supporting overview of the importance and that we operate in a responsible way and that universal human rights.
our approach to CSR and our we deliver the excellent service upon which performance in 2015.
details and case studies can be We build trust and respect with everyone found on Dignitys website: touched by our business operations our Implementation www.
co. uk clients, our colleagues, our suppliers, trade responsibility The flat management structure of Dignity associations, local authorities and members means that local management are empowered of the communities we serve.
Everyone at to make decisions that provide quick and Links Dignity understands that at all times they are effective solutions to the needs of their clients, See Strategy and business model: an ambassador for Dignity and that the future businesses and the communities they serve.
p. 12 and p. 13 success of the business depends on its Only seven per cent of our employees are based See The Client Survey reputation.
performance: p. 16 at our head office where they perform such necessary business tasks as Finance, IT, HR, See Governance: p. 38 to p. 64 Our four CSR commitments: People development: p. 33 and p. 34 Health & Safety: p. 35 Environment: p. 36 Community: p. 37 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 Managing and supporting our people Dignity is a people business with over 3,000 employees working across our operations from a wide range of backgrounds.
Our success rests on having the right people, with the right skills and experience to deliver high quality services consistently.
Our business principles, Code of Conduct and core company values have helped us to create a distinctive Dignity culture.
Key and link to strategic objective Continue to prioritise excellent client service which we believe will 1 lead to organic growth.
See Strategy and business model: p. 12 and p. 13 Our People What we believe in Our commitment What we focus on: We value our people and Learning and development: What we are here to do: understand, respect and Recognising achievement: To help people at one of the most difficult value personal and cultural times in their lives.
Dignity is Promoting diversity: and committed to high standards Employee engagement.
How we do this: of employment practice and With compassion, respect, openness and care.
aims to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
What we want to be: The company that everyone knows they can trust For additional information: in their time of need.
co. uk responsibility Our people, culture and values qualifications including the National Association of Funeral Directors NAFD Diploma in Funeral Directing: the London Our people come from the towns and cities they serve or from families that have been in the funeral profession for generations.
Association of Funeral Directors LAFD Certificate in Funeral They are all dedicated to delivering excellent client service.
Arranging & Administration and membership of the British Institute of Embalming.
Our Code of Conduct is reinforced by our Staff Handbook which is given to all new employees working in our business.
Reward and recognition In a competitive marketplace we recognise the importance of This document ensures that we embed all new employees into the Dignity culture and reminds existing members of staff of financially rewarding employees appropriately for the value they the standards of behaviour and attitudes that are expected of bring to the business.
Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff with long service awards totalling approximately 0.2 million in 2015. them.
The Code of Conduct is also published on our corporate website.
During 2015 our HR policies have been reviewed, updated and developed in a format where they can be easily Promoting diversity accessed by managers and employees on our intranet.
Dignity was awarded the Two Ticks Positive About Disability Symbol by Jobcentre Plus in 2014 and has continued to We adhere to the Bribery and Corruption act of 2010 and have employ, retain and develop the abilities of disabled people.
policies and procedures to minimise the risk of bribery.
This is Dignity joined the Business Disability Forum in 2015, a also published on our corporate website and we have advised not-for-profit organisation that encourages the fair treatment of disabled people in the workplace and their community.
our suppliers that our Bribery Policy is available on that website.
Learning and development Employee engagement To achieve our business objectives we need engaged employees Whether its at the start of a career through our training initiatives: a flexible job for working parents or carers: or a dedicated to our vision and values.
Dignity has continued to second or third career for someone later in life: we offer job publish a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity Express, to enable the Companys Directors, managers and employees to opportunities and support for people to fulfil their potential.
communicate objectives and client satisfaction results, explain Dignitys investment in training enables our staff to provide developments in the funeral sector and to share best practice and news in a cost effective manner.
Dignity Express is our clients with the highest standards of service and care and to ensure that our rigorous procedures are followed in supplemented by monthly bulletins to keep all employees all branches.
In 2015, Dignity continued to provide its staff informed of what is happening within the organisation.
with both relevant job training and tutoring for professional Employee diversity Senior managers % & number Totalemployees ratio %& number Employee service % & number Positive about disability 3,038 1 year: 16% 474 employees Male 77% 23 senior managers Dignity remains committed to Male 49% 1,498 employees 14 years: 32% 965 employees Female 23% 7 senior managers Female 51% 1,540 employees employing, retaining and developing 59 years: 23% 706 employees the abilities of disabled employees.
1019 years: 20% 622 employees 20 years: 9% 271 employees Dignity plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 2.
Shirley Roberts, Regional Expanding our HR team Corporate and social responsibility Manager Memorial Sales, has During 2015, Dignitys HR been with Dignity for 20 years and continued her experience and knowledge team has expanded to meet ensures Dignity crematoria offer the requirements of a growing a variety of memorial options.
The team is responsible for the integration 3.
Dignity Express, the companys staff of new staff and the magazine, was redesigned in 2015. development and welfare 4.
Angela Eames, Financial Controller, of people across the Group.
has performed various financial roles and has been involved with 1.
Ella Rhodes, Head of HR middle, numerous significant projects left with HR Business Partners, in her 26 years with Dignity.
Maria Glenholmes, Steve Williams and Richard Preston.
Our People continued 1 2 We value and invest in our people To achieve our business objectives we need dedicated employees who share our vision and values.
Our people continue to be our most important asset.
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive 2 3 4 Attracting and retaining Long service Career development Gender diversity the best people We believe in nurturing talent, % % 29 23 providing experience and formal We want to attract and retain qualifications, enabling our loyal employees who add value 29 per cent of Dignity staff 23 per cent of Dignitys senior people to excel and create senior to what we do and recognising 893 employees have over managers are female.
and rewarding performance 10 years service.
and long service plays a key part in this.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 Health & Safety Our commitment What we focus on: Our business is conducted Ensuring safety: in such a way as to ensure as Proactive management: far as is reasonably practical, Employee welfare: and the health, safety and welfare of all our employees and all Occupational safety.
persons who may be attending our premises.
co. uk responsibility Effective health & safety management in the workplace Dignity has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is supported by eight Health & Safety Officers.
Dignitys head office, crematoria and coffin manufacturing facility also have their own managers with responsibility for Health and Safety.
In the last five years the number of accidents has reduced by 25 per cent.
Changes in personnel within the Health and Safety Department have created the opportunity to broaden the collective experience of the team thus increasing the level of support available within Dignity.
The current department is now one in which funeral experience is blended with knowledge gained in the armed forces and both local authority and private business sectors.
Whilst maintaining the annual trend of accident reduction, the department has focussed on preparation for the launch of a health and safety management resource in early 2016.
This software, which includes a library of resources accessible to every employee, will enable managers to monitor compliance in real-time and proactively identify areas requiring action with Enhancing health & safety the intention of further risk reduction across Dignity.
procedures Dignity monitors health and safety proactively through quarterly analysis, premises Health & safety training number inspections, surveillance and regular reports to the Board and monitors reactively by 12 investigating accidents and analysing statistics.
154 286 0 25 50 7 5 1 00 125 150 175 200 22 5 250 275 300 Reduction in reportable accidents Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 12 % 25 Employees with IOSH qualification: 154 Employees with CIEH qualification: 286 In the last five years the number of accidents has reduced by 25 per cent.
Dignity plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Award-winning crematorium Corporate and social responsibility In May 2015, Dignitys Wyre Forest Crematorium in Worcestershire was continued honoured at the Stourport Civic Society Awards.
The annual awards encourage and recognise projects that contribute to the quality of the environment in the town.
The crematorium and cemetery opened in December 2011 and is a state of the art facility set in 23 acres of superbly maintained grounds and is a great example of how an inspirational new building can transform an area and provide a high level of comfort to the local communities it serves.
Environment Our commitment What we focus on: We are committed to Reducing our carbon footprint: maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all Reducing energy live and we aim to reduce the consumption: impact ofouroperationsso that Promoting sustainable we act in an environmentally development: and friendly manner.
Minimising our For additional information: environmental impact.
co. uk responsibility Managing our environmental impact Smart energy management Improving efficiency through In 2015 our business continued to have a low environmental investment We had fitted 1,011 electric impact and its activities are not expected to give rise to any smart meters by the end of A new conveyor system significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
the period with a further 88 was introduced at the coffin All waste generated is properly disposed of in accordance remaining to be fitted in 2016. manufacturing facility.
This with current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste This represents 92 per cent of reduces noise, material wastage the estate where such meters wherever this is practical.
Approximately 31,000 cremations at Dignity crematoria were Investment We have fitted 249 gas loggers mercury abated during 2015, representing 54 per cent of the so far, 50 per cent of the total total number of cremations.
estate of 502 sites where such 0.2m loggers can be fitted.
A further Dignitys coffin manufacturing facility has ISO14001 accreditation, The new conveyor system 84 have been installed since the an internationally accepted standard for an effective environmental period end so a further 165 required investment of 0.2 million.
management system that is designed to address the balance between maintaining profitability and reducing environmental impact.
Our coffins are manufactured using raw materials that are sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources.
97per Greenhouse gas emissions reporting for 2015 cent of the coffins manufactured by Dignity are from Forest Dignity reports its greenhouse gas to CDP on an annual basis in tonnes of Stewardship Council FSC accredited timber.
carbon dioxide equivalent resulting from the combustion of fuel direct Scope 1 Emissions and that resulting from the purchase of electricity indirect Scope 2 Emissions.
The emissions for the last five years are as follows: CDP As part of the Groups ongoing commitment to reducing its carbon 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 footprint and environmental impacts, Dignity has been reporting Scope 1 14,988 14,437 15,077 15,097 15,202 Scope 2 7,455 7,389 7,151 7,861 7,388 to the CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure Project since 2008.
The CDP is a not-for-profit organisation that aims to reduce impacts Total 22,443 21,826 22,228 22,958 22,590 on the environment by measuring disclosures from thousands Per FTE Employee 8.2 8.5 9.0 10.0 10.2 of organisations across the worlds major economies.
CDP encourages best practice in reporting and reducing environmental Methodology Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated on a per full time impact though a scoring process.
Scoring is based on a number equivalent employee ratio.
This intensity metric is the best measure of criteria designed to assess our Energy Management practices available to the Group given the diversity of the property portfolio, the and Environmental Strategy, specifically around Performance three separate divisions of the business, and the absence of a similar and Reporting, Risk Management, and Business Strategy in business to benchmark against.
We have calculated our scope 1 and scope 2 GHG emissions since 2010 and have recently engaged with Ecometrica Ltd to assist with the carbon emissions reporting, which supports greater transparency and accuracy Dignitys 2015 submission represented a significant improvement of data.
Emissions have derived from accurate consumption information in our reporting practices and environmental policy and as a on utility bills, smart meter readings and fuel card data.
result Dignity was shortlisted for the Best Year on Year Change GHG emissions have been calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol in Performance category amongst FTSE 350 companies.
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, using the location based scope 2 calculation method, together with the latest ESOS compliance emission factors from recognised public sources, principally Defra DECC.
Dignitys carbon emissions disclosure has been undertaken in accordance Dignity qualifies for the Energy Savings Opportunity with the Companies Act 2006.
Scheme ESOS and completed an ESOS assessment during The Group is starting to collate Scope 3 data with a view, if possible and 2015 confirming compliance by the revised due date of feasible, to reporting it in the future.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 37 1.
During 2015, Dignity sponsored a decorative owl statue forThe At the heart of local communities.
Big Hoot to help raise funds for Birmingham Childrens Hospital and increase tourism across the city.
Dignity has continued to support Marie Curies Great Daffodil Appeal in 2015 by selling lapel badges at our premises.
Dignity employees have continued to enthusiastically support our corporate charity.
Community Our commitment What we focus on: We are committed to making Making a positive a difference to our clients and contribution to the local improving the welfare of all communities we serve: who live in the communities Building closer relationships we serve.
with local communities: and Developing a greater understanding of our clients For additional information: and communities needs.
co. uk responsibility We continue to build strong links with the communities in which we operate through local engagement and fundraising for charities.
Local community engagement and charitable support Our people support hundreds of local community initiatives and charitable events every year.
In 2015, Dignity raised 59,000 for its corporate charity, Marie Curie and has raised 274,000 since January 2012.
Fundraising initiatives included charity car washes and taking part in sponsored walks, skydives and fun runs.
Dignity also raised money for Marie Curie by taking part in national campaigns such as The Great Daffodil Appeal, where branches sold the charitys lapel badges and The Blooming Great Tea Party where visitors could purchase hot drinks and homemade cakes for a charitable donation.
To demonstrate our principles and values we have provided financial support for local sports clubs, hospices, nursing homes and churches in addition to fundraising for many other national and regional charities.
Dignity has also continued to support a restoration project at a historic church close to its head office in Sutton Coldfield.
The Big Hoot During the summer of 2015, Dignity sponsored a decorative owl statue for The Big Hoot, a public art project that took place across Birmingham.
The initiative aimed to attract tourists and inspire residents to explore areas of the city they may not have visited before.
In October, the 90 owl statues were sold at auction and raised over 500,000 for Birmingham Childrens Hospital.
1 3 2 Marie Curie Cancer Care 274,000 Dignity continues to work with Marie Curie Cancer Care and over the last four years our staff have helped to raise more than 274,000 in support of this vital charity.
