Dignity plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report A strong and sustainable business The way that we operate and manage our business through our consistent strategy and business model continues to underpin our performance and supports our goal of growing and developing Dignity as a long-term, profitable and sustainable business.
This enables us to deliver value to all our stakeholders our clients, employees, shareholders and the local communities we serve.
This report demonstrates how our strategy, governance, people and consistent performance combine to create and sustain value.
Our clear and consistent strategy and business What we believe in model provides a robust platform for delivering What we are here to do: long-term sustainable growth and value.
To help people at one of the most difficult times Read more about our strategy and in their lives.
business model: p. 12 and p. 13 How we do this: With compassion, respect, openness and care.
Our competitive advantage is sustained by investing in the best people, our locations and services to What we want to be: ensure we continue to meet our clients needs and The company that everyone those of the local communities we serve.
knows they can trust in their time of need.
Read more about our operational performance in the Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 Strong management and development of our core portfolio enables us to maintain our market-leading position and capture future growth opportunities.
Read more about our industry and our strong position in Market overview: p. 06 and p. 07 We are committed to building relationships through the consistent delivery ofexcellent client service: informed investors:dedicated employees: and well Our vision and values supported communities.
continue to provide the Read more about commitment to building strong relationships foundation for our business.
in our strategy and business model: p. 12 and p. 13 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 09 Continuing focus on excellent client service At Dignity, we focus on people those that work for us, partner with us, invest in our strategy and the local communities we serve, but above all, those who depend on the services we provide everyday.
High standards of service and care Serving the people in our local communities at one of the most difficult times in their lives remains at the heart of everything we do and we are committed to providing the highest standards of service and care.
Our clients continue to return and recommend us because of the quality and consistency of service we deliver.
Our people Our continued focus on outstanding service remains central to our business success and our dedicated Focus employees are integral to the delivery of our strategic objectives.
We value, support and engage with them to ensure that we continue to have the right people with the right skills and experience to deliver the best possible service for our clients.
Read more about Our people Read more about our consistent in CSR: p. 32 to p. 37 performance in The Client Survey: p. 16 Dignity plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Maintaining investment and development in our core business A strong core business Our focus, scale and quality sets us apart and we continue to build on and reinforce the competitive strengths in our business.
Each year we invest in the refurbishment of our funeral properties, the renewal of our fleet and staff training initiatives, enabling our Maintain people to provide a better service.
We continue to invest in our crematoria facilities to provide peaceful gardens of remembrance and facilities for our clients.
We continue to work closely with our affinity partners and funeral locations for the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
Other growth opportunities We also develop and grow our business through: the acquisition of well established and well respected funeral businesses: the opening of new satellite funeral locations: the construction or acquisition of new crematoria: management of local authority owned crematoria: and developing new affinity partner relationships for the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
Read more about our performance in the Operating review: p. 18 to p. 23 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 11 Delivering long-term value and sustainable growth Our ongoing commitment We are committed to both quality of service and business success and how we do business is integral to what we deliver.
Our business is built upon trust, respect, reputation and relationships and we demonstrate our values and governing principals through our day-to-day behaviour and conduct ourselves in a responsible and ethical manner.
We remain committed to delivering excellent client service and to our clear and consistent strategy which continues to provide a robust platform for delivering long-term value and sustainable growth to all our stakeholders.
Deliver Read more about our consistent strategy and business model: p. 12 and p. 13
