Corporate Responsibility 38 Employees sponsorship for high potential employees for higher education courses Building and developing the skills, competencies, motivation and where appropriate.
Vocational training is also provided and some staff teamwork of employees is recognised by the Board as being key to are enrolled on National Vocational Qualification NVQ or similar level achieving the Groups business objectives.
Employees are actively encouraged to undertake Continuing commitment of the employees is demonstrated by the average length Professional Development CPD to maintain any relevant of service which has remained high.
In addition, the number of working professional accreditations.
days lost to sickness is ca.
These measures remain consistent In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, across each of the Groups Sectors.
employees are required to seek approval of the Company before Key employee statistics dealing in its shares.
2015 2014 2013 Average number of employees Health & Safety in year 1,449 1,264 1,145 The Group is fully committed to ensuring clean, safe and healthy working conditions.
The Group actively promotes a strong safety Females as percentage of total 34% 35% 35% culture and ensures a collective responsibility for ensuring Health & Length of service years 6.6 6.3 6.2 Safety standards are continually improved.
Average staff turnover 23.0% 21.5% 20.4% Sick days lost per person 3.0 3.0 2.2 The Group Chief Operating Officer, Iain Henderson, has overall responsibility for Health & Safety policies and procedures across the The similar level of sick days lost per person in 2015 is heavily influenced Group.
However, in line with the Groups decentralised management by a small number of employees who are on long term sick leave.
approach, accountability for Health & Safety is with local management to match local regulatory requirements, culture and specific business Set out below is an analysis of the number of employees by gender at needs.
The Group requires that each operating business conducts the year end.
Health & Safety reviews against its specific operational risk profile and 2015 2014 local regulatory requirements.
Male Female Male Female 2015 2014 2013 Directors 6 2 6 1 Minor injuries 54 55 54 Senior Managers 71 19 67 17 1 Reportable lost time incidents 4 5 1 Employees 910 497 788 445 Minor injuries per 1,000 Total 987 518 861 463 employees 37.3 43.5 47.2 1 Reportable lost time incidents per 1,000 employees 2.8 4.0 0.9 The Group values the commitment of its employees and recognises the importance of communication to good working relationships.
The Group keeps employees informed on matters relating to their employment, on 1 Three or more days absence from workplace.
business developments and on financial and economic factors affecting The overall level of minor injuries has remained broadly constant, butwhen the Group.
This is achieved through management briefings, internal normalised to a rate per 1,000 employees there is a marked decrease in the announcements, the Groups website and by the distribution of overall number of minor injuries.
The absolute number ofreportable lost Preliminary and Interim Announcements and press releases.
time incidents has reduced slightly with only one of theinjuries resulting in greater than five days lost time.
Again, when normalised to a rate per Copies of the Annual Review and Annual Report & Accounts are also made 1,000 employees, the reportable lost timeincidents have reduced in 2015. available in the operating businesses.
This communication programme Owing to the nature of the Groups operations, the most common types enables employees to gain a better understanding of the Groups business of injury relate to minor cuts, slips trips or lifting injuries.
objectives and their roles in achieving them.
Both employment policy and practice in the Group are based on non-discrimination and equal All injuries are fully investigated and corrective actions and preventative opportunities.
Ability and aptitude are the determining factors in the measures put in place to ensure that the injury does not reoccur and selection, training, career development and promotion of all employees.
The Group remains supportive of the employment and advancement of Health & Safety forms part of the induction process for new employees disabled persons.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are and where relevant, more specialist training is provided for specific always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective aptitudes and functions.
The Group has good coverage of employees who have abilities of the applicants concerned.
If an employee is, or becomes formal Health & Safety training and or qualifications and this has disabled during their period of employment, the Group will, if necessary continued to increase during 2015. and to the extent possible, adapt the work environment to enable the employee to continue in their current position or retrain the employee Human rights for duties suited to their abilities following disablement.
At 30 The Groups activities are substantially carried out in developed September 2015 the Group employed four disabled employees.
countries that have strong legislation governing human rights.
Employment policies throughout the Group have been established to The Group complies fully with appropriate legislation in the countries in comply with relevant legislation and codes of practice relating to which it operates.
employment, Health & Safety and equal opportunities.
The Group provides good quality working environments and facilities for employees Environmental and training and development appropriate to each of their roles.
The Group comprises sales and marketing focused businesses whichessentially receive products from suppliers and despatch them to Some of the Groups operating companies have structured customers.
The Groups businesses do not operate delivery fleets: they apprenticeship schemes for technical staff and the Group provides Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 39 use third party carriers to deliver their products to customers and to Business ethics provide much of their packaging requirements.
The Groups ability to The Group recognises its obligations towards the parties with whom control the environmental impact of its logistics partners is therefore the Group has business dealings including customers, shareholders, limited.
The primary impact on the environment, which is entirely in the employers, suppliers and advisors.
Groups control, is consumption of the normal business energy sources In general, the interactions with these parties are managed at a local such as heating and power, which the Group aims to minimise.
level by senior management and the Group expects a high standard of The Group ensures it minimises its impact on the environment through expertise and business principles to be maintained in such dealings.
compliance with relevant environmental legislation.
The Group is The Groups policy towards suppliers is that each operating business is committed to identifying and assessing environmental risks, such as responsible for negotiating the terms and conditions under which they packaging waste, arising from its operations.
The Group does not operate a formal code Waste management initiatives are encouraged and supported by that it follows with regard to payments to suppliers.
Group companies theGroup and materials are recycled where practical.
agree payment terms with their suppliers when they enter into binding purchasing contracts for the supply of goods or services.
Suppliers are, Local management are committed to good environmental in that way, made aware of these terms.
Group companies seek to management practices throughout our operations.
The Managing abide by these payment terms when they are satisfied that the supplier Directors have responsibility for environmental performance of their has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed operating businesses and each subsidiary is required to implement terms and conditions.
initiatives to meet their responsibilities.
Community Each facility participates in recycling paper, plastic, cardboard, and wood The Group believes that good community relations are important to the from pallets and continues to focus on minimising energy consumption long term development and sustainability of the operating businesses.
through the efficient use of heating and lighting.
In addition a number of the businesses now use fully recycled and biodegradable filler materials The Group considers the environmental and social impacts of for packaging.
conducting business on the community and this forms part of the business decision making process.
Many community activities and Greenhouse gas emissions events are fully supported by the Group and this relationship is In 2014, the UK Government introduced a requirement that UK managed by the local management teams.
listedcompanies should report their global levels of Greenhouse Gas emissions in their Annual Report & Accounts.
The mandatory Some highlights from the year include: requirement is for disclosure of Scope 1 and 2 only direct emissions, In North America e. g. heating, cooling, transport fuel and indirect emissions, e. g. from Somagen Diagnostics supported the Canadian Blood Services in purchased electricity and only to the extent that such emissions are the their Partners for Life programme which involves a corporate pledge responsibility of the Company.
for blood donation through staff, family and friends.
The Group has considered the six main Greenhouse Gases GHGs Various charitable events at Hercules US including support to local and report emissions in tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for Scope 1 charities such as United Way, Clothes To Kids, The Haven domestic 2 2 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions.
These emissions are calculated abuse charity, Paul B. Stephens Exceptional School for Disabled following the GHG Protocol and UK Government Environmental Children and Metropolitan Ministries food bank.
The Group has used DEFRA UK GHG Conversion Somagen funds two academic awards each year in two universities Factors, US Environmental Protection Agency Emission Factors and in the fields of histotechnology and biomedical engineering.
J Royal took part in a charity cycle ride for a multiple sclerosis charity.
Hercules Canada took part in an Earth Day Clean Up and a golf As a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, the Groups primary tournament to raise funds for a local cancer care centre and cystic direct energy usage and related CO emissions arise from the Groups fibrosis research.
Where possible the Group has reported billed data which represents ca.
80% of the Groups global emissions.
For the remaining In Europe entities the Group has used an estimation using sales data and local Specialty Fasteners held a fundraising day for Breast Cancer Now conversion factors.
FPE Seals supported Downs Syndrome by entering a team into the An intensity ratio of CO e per 1m revenue has been selected, which Great North Run, supported a breast cancer charity and sponsored 2 will allow a comparison of performance over time and with other similar anew strip for a local junior football team.
A Hawco employee completed a 190 mile cycle ride from Hawcos offices in Surrey to Paris to support Macmillan Cancer Research and Tonnes of CO e 2 the Anaphylaxis Campaign.
Source of emissions 2015 2014 Various charitable events at IS-Rayfast including running the London Direct emissions Scope 1 Natural gas 824.4 822.0 Marathon, a charity sky dive, supporting Movember and a 72 hole Owned transport 94.0 63.2 charity golf challenge.
Indirect emissions Scope 2 Electricity 2,226.2 2015.1 Gross emissions 3,144.6 2900.3 The Group also contributes to local worthwhile causes and charities Tonnes CO e per 1m 2 and in 2015 the Group made donations of 35,504 2014: 42,698. revenue 9.4 9.5 No political donations were made.
