STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report In 2013, we began to develop a corporate social responsibility CSR Community values have always been strategy by analysing our current business practices and devising a plan for the years to come.
We have a successful business, built on a simple atourheart.
There is more tobeing a business model deliver hot, freshly made pizza to our customers as responsible business than our charitable quickly as is safely possible.
funding, namely the quality ofour food, We have a responsibility to uphold the solid reputation our business hasformed since we arrived in the UK in 1985.
To ensure we build theimpact we have on theenvironment asustainable business for the future, we have developed a responsible and how we treat ouremployees.
delivery plan, our CSR strategy.
ALL OUR PIZZA ARE FRESHLY MADE TO ORDER USING ON THE BEST INGREDIENTS WE CAN SOURCE.
FOOD As a food delivery business, the origin and qualityof the food we supply to our customers isparamount.
All our pizzas are freshly made toorder, using only the best quality ingredients we can source.
Healthy eating and obesity We follow the ongoing public debate about healthy eating and obesity very closely.
While our pizzas are intended as occasional treats and seen this way by many of our customers, the possibility of Government action or a change in societys attitudes in relation to energy-rich foods such as pizza is a key risk that we face.
Our response has been four-fold.
We are entirely transparent about the calorie content of our products, we offer a choice of ingredients including low-fat alternatives, Product sourcing we focus on the provenance and quality of all our ingredients and we We continue to look at ways of reducing food miles, where possible, have maintained our long standing trend of eliminating unnecessary through local sourcing whilst maintaining the best quality products.
Weare proud that all of the mozzarella we use is sourced from north-west Wales using milk produced on farms no further than Nutrition a160-mile radius of the production plant.
We are proud to state that we have no trans-fats or artificial colourings During 2015, we will look for further opportunities to increase the or flavourings in any of our food.
During 2015, we continued to work on sustainability credentials of the products we buy.
the pledges we made as part of the Department of Healths Responsibility Deal.
As a signatory to it, we have pledged to ensure that our products Objectives for 2016 do not contain artificial trans-fats, reduce the amount of salt in our food o Further reduce the salt content of our products.
o Seek to increase the sustainability credentials of the products we buy.
We have continued to work closely with our suppliers to see where further reductions can be made to the amount of salt in our products.
o Engage with Government as its strategy becomes clearer.
We will continue our work on this in the coming year.
co. uk csr Dominos Pizza Group plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENVIRONMENT Achievements in 2015 Intensity ratio o Achieved certification to ISO 50001.
We continue to track GHG emissions over time against our dough production levels and we are becoming increasingly resource efficient: our o 92% of our waste was either recycled or recovered.
intensity ratio for scope 1 and 2 for this reporting year is 0.34 tCO e tonne 2 o GHG emissions decrease by 23% in the past three years.
of dough produced 2014: 0.40 tCO e tonne compared to our baseline 2 figure of 0.45 tCO e tonne of dough produced.
This has decreased by 2 Our commitment to energy efficiency 24% putting us in a good position to meet our 25% relative reduction We are very proud to announce that, in November 2015, we achieved target by 2018. certification to the ISO 50001 energy management standard across Methodology ourUK operations.
The internationally recognised ISO 50001 standard requires organisations to put in place a comprehensive framework to Dominos reports on all emissions sources stipulated under the monitor, manage and reduce energy consumption: this significantly Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations helps us to identify opportunities to reduce our greenhouse gas 2013.
The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with GHG emissions.
the requirements of the following standards: the World Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Defras Environmental Reporting As part of the framework, we have established electricity reduction targets Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting for our supply chain centres and fuel reduction targets for our fleet, which guidance June 2013 : and ISO 14064 part 1. align with our overall objective to make a 25% reduction in our relative emissions intensity per tonne of dough produced, by 2018.
Over the We have adopted a financial control approach to define our organisational coming years, we will be implementing a whole range of energy efficiency boundary: as a result we report GHG emissions from all four markets measures across our operations to drive down our energy consumption.
considered as part of the Groups current financial consolidation: United Kingdom, ROI, Switzerland and Germany.
Accountability for our overall Striving for zero waste to landfill environmental performance rests with our Executive Committee.
We continue to strive towards reaching zero waste to landfill, with over Objectives for 2016 92% of our waste in the UK being either recycled or recovered.
o Reduce our electricity consumption relative to tonne of dough produced Greenhouse gas emissions at our Milton Keynes and Penrith Supply Chain Centres by 5% by 2017.
1 Our reporting period for GHG emissions is 1 October to 30 September o Reduce our fuel consumption relative to tonnage delivered with our and the 2014 2015 GHG emissions inventory marks our third year of fleet by 5% by 2018.
Our material GHG emissions from business activities in this period amount to 12,237 tonnes CO2e and are set out o Invest in the procurement of energy efficient products and services inthetable below: where financially viable.
2 Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e Percentage change 2 2 2 Emissions source baseline 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 from baseline Scope 1: CO2e from the combustion of fuel Natural gas 802 710 646 -19% andtheoperation of any facilities Kerosene 99 71 41 -58% Refrigerant 189 156 302 60% 3 Owned vehicles 6,726 6,359 6,494 -3% Scope 2: CO2e from the purchase of electricity, heat, Purchased steam or cooling by the company for its own use electricity 4,500 5,064 4,754 6% Total Total 12,316 12,360 12,237 -1% A more detailed view of our GHG emissions including our scope 3 emissions broken down by region can be found on our website as well as scope 2 dual reporting overview.
Read more online For more insight into our overall environmental performance, please access the Environment page on our corporate website corporate.
co. uk csr Notes: 1 Our financial reporting year is the calendar year: however, we have set our reporting period back by a quarter to facilitate data collection.
2 We report all material GHG emissions, using tonnes of CO2-equivalent tCO2e as the unit, to account for all GHGs which are attributable to human activity, as defined insection 92 of the Climate Change Act 2008 a.
The only exception is for GHG emissions from electricity in ROI, Switzerland and Germany where the GHG emissions arereported in CO2.
3 Includes fuel consumed petrol, diesel, red diesel by our supply chain delivery fleet, our company cars and our corporate store delivery fleet.
Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility report continued We strive to provide a happy and safe environment for our employees and on an annual basis our Happiness at Work team undertakes an annual employee survey to understand what improvements we can make in our employee experience.
In addition, it looks at work-life balance initiatives and provides opportunities for team colleagues to socialise through team days that encourage cross-team interaction, most recently with the Family Summer Barbecue and Christmas party.
Performance and development We have recently launched a high performance programme into the business with the aim of building a high performance culture where people can thrive and do their best.
The benefits to the business will include the retention and attraction of high performing people, more high performers ready to step up into bigger roles, people leaders more able to coach and develop their people.
During 2016, we will embed high performance principles across the business through the entire employee lifecycle.
EMPLOYEES Attracting talent and succession planning We will continue to develop our recruitment strategy to make Achievements in 2015 theprocess rigorous but easier for managers and candidates.
o Increased employee Vitality health reviews via PruHealth by 21.1%.
We recognise the need to maintain our strength in depth and during o Reintroduced head and shoulder massages at all sites.
2016 we will formalise our succession planning process to enable the assessment of key roles, identification of key talent, and prepare, o Celebrated success through regular pizza lunches, staff social events monitor and review development of that talent.
Objectives for 2016 o Developed an Employee Value Proposition that we will launch in 2016. o Continue to embed the corporate mission and high o Launch of the Dominos high performance programme.
In last years Annual Report and Accounts, we set ourselves a number o Build a dedicated in-house recruitment function.
of goals and we have taken great strides in the year under review towards achieving these.
o Formalise our succession planning process in Head Office.
o Embed our Employee Value Proposition across our store, Engagement and wellbeing HeadOfficeand supply chain populations.
Our employees continue to get healthier through the PruHealth Vitality scheme.
Participation rates continue to rise with an increase in Vitality points earned in 2015 up by 12.5%.
Vitality status has increased by Read more online 116% above the Bronze status.
This tool encourages and rewards corporate.
co. uk csr healthy behaviour, nutrition and physical activity and provides help inachieving a positive work-life balance.
We also continue to see anincreased uptake of our Cycle to Work scheme.
WE STRIVE TO PROVIDE A HAPPY AND SAFE ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR EMPLOYEES.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WE CONSIDER OUR PLACE TO BE AT THE HEART OF THE LOCAL COMMUNITY AND SUPPORT A NUMBER OF CHARITIES WORKING NATIONALLY AND LOCALLY.
We have a long-running partnership with the charity Pennies.
Its digital charity box has enabled customers using our website and apps to roundup their orders to the nearest pound.
2015 was by far the most successful year to date and, on behalf of the charities, we would like topass on a big thank you to our customers who have embraced Pennies in their millions.
We are proud to have been the landmark partner for Pennies and haveseen this trend of online donations grow considerably since itbegan in 2010.
In Great Britain, our 2015 beneficiaries were Teenage Cancer Trust 82.5% of donations and Special Olympics Great Britain 10% of donations.
In Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice received the full 92.5%.
Pennies receives 7.5% of all donations as a contribution to its charitable objectives and to drive the movement for the benefit of the charitable sector as a whole.
COMMUNITY Following completion of the re-development of our ROI website we plan to implement Pennies in 2016, providing the opportunity to support the Achievements in 2015 local charity, Barretstown.
o Raised over 811,000 for charity: Our social impact o over 475,000 for Teenage Cancer Trust: Teenage Cancer Trust was appointed as our charity partner of choice in o over 90,000 for Special Olympics Great Britain: 2015 and the money we raised over the year equates to 19,004 hours of expert care from a specialist nurse for a young person with cancer.
o over 11,000 for Barretstown: This partnership has been embraced by our franchisees, store teams o over 155,700 for Rays of Sunshine: and support office employees, who all joined together to raise money.
o over 30,000 for Northern Ireland Childrens Hospice: and o Young people and their families are at the heart of our business, soapartnership with a charity that supports this age group and their o over 50,000 for Pennies.
families through one of the most difficult times in their life made sense o Boosted fundraising by strong engagement with Pennies through to us.
Were helping Teenage Cancer Trust to deliver life-changing ourapps.
care and support so that no young person has to face cancer alone.
o The average weekly donation total grew from 10,080 in 2014 o Throughout 2015, Dominos employees took part in various to14,814 in 2015. fundraising challenges and customer-facing activities and provided pizza for Unit Pizza Nights.
In 2016 we are hoping to continue our o Our customers have raised over 1,600,000 since introducing Pennies support financially through various fundraising activities but also to in 2010 and in 2015 alone made over 4m micro-donations.
offer work experience opportunities for those young people whose o Galvanised fundraising and awareness activity with our franchisees lives have been derailed by their cancer diagnosis.
Charity objectives for 2016 Every penny counts o Evolve the charity programme in line with fresh businesspriorities.
We consider our place to be at the heart of the local community, not only o Increase overall giving, aided by the introduction of Pennies into ROI.
providing quality products but also contributing to the surrounding area.
A crucial element in achieving this has been our charitable funding, where we support a number of charities working locally and nationally.
co. uk csr Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 29
