42 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Stakeholder engagement Like most businesses, our stakeholdersare many and diverse, including our shareholders, employees, customers, energy consultants, suppliers, the local community, government, non-governmental organisations, regulators, opinion formers and themedia.
Communication with all our Drax and shareholders: Drax and employees: Drax and US and UK politicians: stakeholders is considered to be an essential part of Reports and announcements Briefing sessions Briefing papers our business and we aim to Website Intranet Face-to-face meetings be open and transparent in Road shows Written Group briefs Written and oral evidence all that we do.
Face-to-face meetings Open Forums and ToolBox talks Visit programmes Visit programmes Drax and government Drax and European Union: Drax and local government: departments: Briefing papers Liaison meetings Face-to-face meetings Face-to-face meetings Annual consultative committee meetings Consultation responses Via trade associations Exhibitions Visit programmes Via trade associations Drax and local community: Drax and media: Drax and government agents regulators in the US and UK: Sponsorship Press releases Face-to-face meetings Fundraising events Face-to-face meetings Correspondence and data Themed campaigns Visit programme submission Visitor programme Via trade associations Exhibitions Newsletters Drax and NGOs and opinion Drax and suppliers and Drax and trading formers: customers: counterparties: Face-to-face meetings Face-to-face meetings Face-to-face meetings Briefing papers Conferences Industry events Contractor briefings Contractor safety conference Strategic report Drax Group plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2015 The organisation encourages greater Business conduct Supply chain transparency throughout the supply chain.
We are committed to high ethical standards Non-fuel procurement Through Bettercoal, Drax encourages mining and to conducting our business with honesty We take a balanced approach to our supply companies to demonstrate that they operate and integrity and in accordance with applicable chain and we look to use suppliers and working ina socially responsible way.
partners from diverse backgrounds, in particular, small and medium-sized suppliers in the local Bettercoal assesses mines against a set In order to prevent bribery and corruption we community where possible.
ofstandards covering social, ethical and takeresponsibility for maintaining a culture environmental issues.
Bettercoal is based on within the Group in which bribery is never We recognise that prompt payment is critical to human rights principles, International Labour acceptable.
Inprotecting fundamental the cash flow of our suppliers, particularly the Organisation conventions and environmental humanrights, Drax does not tolerate the smaller businesses, and as a signatory to the performance.
Drax encourages all coal useofunderage workers oranyconcept of Prompt Payment Code, we commit to paying suppliers to gain Bettercoal certification.
forced labour, at the same time ensuring our our suppliers on time.
suppliers activities have a minimal impact on the environment and local communities.
Any Sustainability is an essential element of good supplier found to be complicit in a breach of procurement practice and takes account of such standards, either directly or indirectly, wider social, economic and environmental willbe barred from further participation in our factors in addition to the conventional criteria supply chain activities.
of price, quality and service.
By applying these wider principles our procurement practices go The Groups Code of Business Ethics establishes beyond meeting simple tender requirements to the rules and framework on which employees delivering improved value and real cost savings should base their decision making.
Employees throughout the supply chain.
are expected to follow not only the letter of the Code, but the spirit.
Coal procurement We buy coal from a range of sources with The Groups whistleblowing policy provides theobjectives of managing our commercial aconfidential means for our employees to exposures, environmental obligations and speakup with confidence.
The policy provides diversity of supply.
In 2015, 46% of the coal we guidance on how to make a disclosure of burnt came from UK deep and surface mines information, in good faith, relating to safety, with the remainder coming from major supply fraud or other illegal or unethical conduct basins around the world, including the US, thatan employee may have witnessed or is Colombia and Russia.
When buying from overseas we have The Group appreciates that public policy continuedto require, through our contracts, ontaxation and the external tax environment minimum standards with suppliers in respect are constantly evolving and this is reflected in ofcompliance with legislation, human rights, our tax strategy.
In 2015, the Group made a labour relations and health and safety significant contribution to local and national arrangements.
To this end Drax is an active communities in which it operates, with paid member of an initiative called Bettercoal, a taxes in excess of 200 million, comprising not-for-profit organisation founded by a taxes on profit, labour and payroll taxes, taxes numberof major European coal generators.
on burning fossil fuels, and environmental taxes but excluding VAT.
44 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Stakeholders engagement continued Customer relations Public affairs Customers and their consultants are at the heart The business maintains good working of our Retail business.
All of our customers have relationships with public affairs audiences in the 296k named account managers who are responsible UK, US and EU on issues with implications for our for the service that we deliver.
With energy policy high on the political Our financial support to local build on our reputation for providing good agenda in 2015 we had significant engagement communities service and this supports an ongoing good with elected representatives and officials at all levelof renewal at the end of customers levels on wide variety of sector related issues supplycontracts.
including forthcoming environmental legislation, renewables policy and market reform issues.
We held a range of events throughout the year targeted at customers, prospective customers The form of engagement was varied and and their consultants to inform and educate included both face-to-face and written them about our business and other industry briefings, participation in public consultations, developments.
These events share information written evidence to inquiries and visits by which is invaluable to customers and elected representatives and officials to Drax consultants and provide us with the opportunity Power Station.
As in the past, membership of a 12,500 to obtain direct feedback to better meet their number of trade association proved helpful to needs.
Events such as these complement the the Group.
The ability to meet with and discuss Visitors to Drax Power Station high level of service and account management issues of the day with other interested parties we offer and this is reflected in our positive has facilitated presentation of collective customer satisfaction results.
positions on energy policy matters.
Our online portal community continues to grow No political donations were made in the UK or and offers our larger customers 24 7 access to elsewhere during 2015 2014: nil, and the bills and statements as well as consumption Groups contact with those active in the data and flexible purchasing information.
political arena has been and will continue to be aimed solely at the promotion of the Groups business interests.
Investor relations We are committed to delivering shareholder The definitions of EU political expenditure are value.
We communicate our results and broad and there is uncertainty about the extent prospects to our shareholders in an accurate to which normal business activities, which and timely manner using a variety of channels.
might not be thought to be political Inaddition to the Annual General Meeting, we expenditure in the usual sense, could be communicate through our Preliminary and considered to be political expenditure within Interim results announcements.
Annual report the meaning of the legislation.
The Company and accounts and Trading updates.
All of these wishes to avoid any inadvertent infringement of documents are made available on our website at the legislation and each year, through a www.
Significant matters relating to resolution at the Annual General Meeting, trading and the development of the business seeks the authority of shareholders to incur aredisseminated to the market by way of expenditure for the Company and its announcements via a regulatory information subsidiaries for such purposes of 100,000. service and those announcements appear as soon as practicable on our website.
Announcements are frequently followed up witheither conference calls or presentations to provide further detail and greater understanding.
In addition, face-to-face meetings are held with our major institutional shareholders, and other potential investors in the Group, to assist them in their understanding of the announcements and also to ensure that the Board is aware of their views and concerns.
To aid our communication with private investors, the investor section of our website has been developed to be a readily accessible and transparent source of information to enhance understanding of the business.
Strategic report Drax Group plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2015 Community relations We are committed to being a good neighbour toour local community and we are involved in anumber of local and regional community initiatives.
Our involvement takes the form ofsponsoring a variety of local charities and fundraising events, promoting our own campaigns which focus on education andtheenvironment.
We also maintain opencommunication channels and good working relationships with the regions key opinion formers.
Sponsorship and fundraising During 2015, the Group gave financial supportof 296,000 2014: 228,000 in total across a range of charitable and non-charitable community causes.
Of that total, charitable donations amounted to 155,000 2014:154,000.
Education in the community We provide a choice of educational experiences hosted by our team of power station guides and, at times, technical experts.
A state-of-the-art visitor centre is of particular interest to students of all ages allowing them to explore the properties of electricity, discover how a power station works and consider the environmental issues related to electricity generation.
Another visitor opportunity exists at our nature reserve that lies at the heart of our ash disposal site.
Established as a sanctuary for over 100 species of wildlife, it is specially designed to help schoolchildren understand more about the natural habitat and ecology of the area.
Campaigns such as Drax in the Classroom and the Community Pride Awards are now firmly established in the annual calendar of local events and continue to prove popular.
Visitors to Drax During 2015, we played host to more than 12,500 visitors through organised tours of the power station, and various activity days and charity events.
The tours and activities have wide appeal attracting schools and colleges aswell as business organisations, local and professional associations and members of ourcommunity.
