36 Strategic Report Employees ambition to become a leader in our industry.
To achieve our strategic goal to CORPORATE SOCIAL During 2014 15 we have supplemented our realise the potential of our people, RESPONSIBILITY employee communications offering in order we are committed to creating a We have also taken steps, as a leading to keep people updated on our progress working environment where our company, to demonstrate what our and aims.
This has included the continued corporate values mean to the development of our intranet platform both people are proud and able to do communities in which we operate in the quality of content and its accessibility their best.
and the wider world: for employees who do not work on A clear and primary focus of these efforts computers every day.
is on making sure that our people are safe Be caring As well as looking at what we want to at work and you will find more information achieve as a business, OWN IT!
also provides We have held open days at 91 sites on our Health and Safety initiatives and tools to the business to facilitate discussions across the globe and invited friends, performance in the next section.
about how we are going to achieve those family and neighbours to visit our In addition to safety, we focus our efforts ambitions, making particular reference to our production sites to understand better to create this working environment in three corporate values: Be Caring, Be Challenging, what we do and to experience main areas: Be Trusted, Be Responsive and Be Tenacious.
our corporate culture first hand.
As a consequence, the values have been built Engaging our people in what we are into the performance management process trying to achieve as a business Be responsive to enable employees to understand how OWN IT!
they are expected to behave and how Over the past four years, teams throughout We have been responsive to the major they can improve in the way they work.
DS Smith have used the OWN IT!
programme issue of youth unemployment in Europe as a vehicle to discuss the strategy and our by joining the Alliance for YOUth, initiated by Nestl.
As a partner in the alliance we are increasing the level of support and opportunity we offer young people through CV clinics and work experience.
Be challenging We have been challenging to the way green spaces have been treated in our local communities.
Through our sponsorship and volunteering as part of the Keep Britain Tidy Green Flag award we are clearing, maintaining and recognising the best green spaces whether urban or rural, especially those close to our own operations.
DS Smith Recycling, Bolton, working with Friends of Longsight Park.
as part of DS Smith's sponsorship of Keep Britain Tidy's Green Flag award.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 37 diverse thinking in our workforce at all times Embracing differing opinions and GENDER DIVERSITY to strengthen our decision making and finding the best way forward Board creative processes so that we can provide Employee Survey innovative solutions to our customers.
In October 2014 we ran our third GroupMale: 6 Female: 2 wide employee survey, asking our DS Smith is an equal opportunities employer 25% colleagues to share their views on their and is firmly committed to both the principle role, their workplace and their managers.
and realisation of equality as set out in our With a response rate of 81 per cent there Code of Conduct.
Recruiting for talent within was strong participation in the process an equal opportunity environment, we also 75% from our employees.
The extensive data take good care of the complementarity of obtained from this survey is invaluable for profiles that will form our teams, and whilst the prioritisation of our activities and personalities are all individual, we strive to measurement of our initiatives.
ensure that peoples own values will be Senior Management consistent with the DS Smith values.
The main areas for improvement which Male: 127 we are focusing on are: Involving our people in developing Female: 12 9% themselves and the business Performance Management: the A fundamental element of the workplace completion of quality performance experience that we are creating is the appraisals, at least once a year, for all involvement of people in developing employees is mandatory and should solutions and not just identifying problems.
be supplemented by regular informal 91% Engaging Managers Programme feedback both positive and constructive Feedback from the business informed challenge from line managers.
us that our managers needed more Communication: building on our existing support to fulfil the people management Group employee engagement activities under responsibilities within their role.
As a the banner of OWN IT!, we seek to Male: 17,084 consequence, a course was developed continue the development of skills, Female: 4,269 by our in-house HR teams to provide that 20% channels and our culture to allow the support to managers throughout DS Smith.
"open exchange of ideas and information The ""Engaging Managers"" programme is between individuals and teams."
focused on understanding and role modelling the values, communication Recognition: we are working on skills and emotional intelligence: it equips solutions to improve the identification, 80% managers with the framework to review encouragement and reinforcement situations and make decisions about the of exemplary behaviours and high right course of action, not just follow a performance throughout the business.
Employee data as at 30 April 2015. playbook.
Having been thoroughly tested Our Senior Management population consists of the Group These areas for improvement will be the with focus groups of line managers from Management Team excluding Executive Directors plus main priorities in the coming 12 months but those who report into the Group Management Team.
around DS Smith, internal trainers and we will be adopting a balanced approach and facilitators have been trained to deliver following up on all the topics covered in the the course covering diverse languages, survey, collecting feedback through pulse cultural and business groups.
The end result surveys and providing quarterly updates is a course that drives engagement of the to our people on actions taken.
managers themselves, equips them to engage their teams and builds the corporate Diversity culture around our values.
We will be rolling The employee survey is a formal exercise to this out over the next two years, helping to bring together the diverse opinions of all our ensure representation is strong for the employees on a range of topics.
However, most under-represented groups in our we recognise and value the importance of senior management.
com 38 Strategic Report Employees continued The SLG has also set up working groups on reported monthly to the Group Management HEALTH AND SAFETY specific topics such as machine guarding Team, with quarterly reports to the Board The safety of our people remains a and workplace transport and is working to as in previous years.
The established cornerstone of our business.
We seek to identify and share best practice across the Divisional safety audits will continue with improve our performance continuously Group.
It has also revised the safety incident support from external consultants as well as a Group and strive to ensure that our definitions and is in the process of revising as internal specialists.
These audits assist colleagues and the public are kept safe.
the sites in reducing risks and establish Health and Safety greater consistency within the Group.
Going forward the business will continue Key Performance Indicators to set stretching safety key performance 2014 15 2013 14 Variance indicators to act as milestones to a zero Total LTAs 146 171 15% accident culture.
These are tracked and AFR 4.16 4.79 13% Definition: HEALTHY HEARTS Lost Time Accident LTA : number of accidents resulting in lost time of one shift or more.
Since DS Smith launched the Healthy At our site in Crumlin they have placed Accident Frequency Rate AFR : number of LTAs per million Heart Mark employee campaign in the Fit to Work notices around the site hours worked.
UK in January 2014, over 1,300 employees to highlight the benefits of different We are delighted to report another year have received an individual lifestyle check activities such as taking the stairs where our key safety measures of LTAs providing workers with the opportunity or walking to see a colleague rather and of AFR, have both continued to improve.
to have their blood pressure, cholesterol than e-mailing.
This has been the result of a programme levels, BMI and waist measurements of continuous improvement and the high Hosting a DS Smith UK six-a-side checked and ask questions about their priority assigned to safe working practices.
football tournament the Healthy lifestyle habits.
Our goal is for zero accidents.
Any accident In addition, four sites have already which causes injury and suffering is one too The initiative is going from strength been presented with Bronze Awards many.
We are committed to achieving a zero to strength and we are committed to in recognition of their efforts by Heart accident culture and recognise that more supporting our employees to achieve Research UK.
To achieve the Bronze work needs to be done on improving our sustained improvements in their Award, sites have to demonstrate that sites, reducing risks and raising our safety heart health.
they are promoting and educating their awareness.
We believe that this target, employees on the benefits of making although challenging, is achievable.
Our the right lifestyle choices.
Benelux region had no LTAs for the whole year having had six in the prior financial There are many initiatives being run year and 182 sites had no LTAs in the at all the UK packaging sites but here year, up from 132 in the prior year.
It is our are a few of them: challenge to extend this to the full Group.
At Belper they offer healthy options The Group Health and Safety Director within their canteen and all sites now leads the Safety Leadership Group SLG, offer free fruit one day per week.
which coordinates Group policy and best Our Lockerbie site is running a practice from the various parts of the Weight Loss Club.
organisation and further raises the visibility of safety within the organisation.
The SLG meets monthly to review major LTAs high potential severity incidents, thus further improving the level of challenge on accident investigation.
