Through the Group Management Team, policy is communicated to the heads of each business unit, and Sustainable compliance with these policies is monitored throughout the year.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT packaging solutions AND REGULATION The Group has a governance structure in place to consider carbon emissions, energy usage, water consumption, waste and SUSTAINABILITY AT DS SMITH OUR PRINCIPLES product responsibility.
Each production site The past year has been transformative in We remain committed to conducting is required to implement an environmental regard to DS Smith's capabilities in the our business in a responsible manner.
management system which is appropriate sustainability sphere.
Our business model We believe that delighting our customers to its level of activity.
At present, 119 has long been based on providing inherently and ensuring our employees operate in a manufacturing sites have an ISO 14001 sustainable packaging solutions for our safe and productive workplace is the only certification.
The Energy Efficiency Directive customers: something we feel necessary sustainable route to the long-term creation 2012 27 EU has led to many production for good corporate citizenship.
Over the of value for our shareholders.
DS Smith sites in a number of regions pursuing the previous 12 months, we have aligned our subscribes to a number of international ISO 50001 certification for energy activity and engagement more closely with standards and guidelines relevant to management.
We are evaluating whether the requirements of our customers, and we corporate responsibility and business the benefits of such a programme extend have recognised that as a B2B supplier to conduct, including: beyond compliance, and if proven to be some of the world's most famous brands effective we will widen the scope of this United Nations Global Compact: we have an opportunity to aid them achieve initiative to all regions.
Each production site their environmental objectives and social United Nations Declaration of Human that converts or trades in wood fibre or purpose.
We continue to emphasise the Rights and the Convention on the Rights other wood derivative products is mandated role that recycling has to play within a of the Child: to pursue a recognised certification sustainable supply cycle.
Our core business programme leading to a chain of custody for International Labour Organisation eight remains the design and manufacture of responsible fibre sourcing.
Once complete, Fundamental Conventions: and recycled packaging for consumer goods.
this will result in 100 per cent of relevant We measure and report the direct Organisation for Economic Co-operation production sites holding a certification environmental impacts of our factories and and Development Guidelines for from a credible external body.
production facilities, however we are now Multinational Enterprises.
better able to assess our indirect impacts: In addition, DS Smith has reported its FTSE Group confirms that DS Smith upstream through our sourcing activities, greenhouse gas emissions and climate has been independently assessed and downstream in the way our customers change risks to CDP since 2006, and in according to the FTSE4Good criteria, utilise our products and the way consumers February 2015 it became a corporate and has satisfied the requirements to dispose of them.
We have expanded our member of SEDEX.
remain a constituent of the FTSE4Good capacity to work with our customers to Index Series.
Companies in the reduce the carbon footprints of their SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE FTSE4Good Index Series have met products throughout their supply cycle by The Board considers risks arising from stringent environmental, social and ensuring the right packaging solution is sustainability issues as one of the key risks governance criteria, and are positioned provided to them.
We have also expanded to the Groups operations.
It ensures that to capitalise on the benefits of our capacity to provide bespoke reporting the Group has in place effective policies and responsible business practice.
on the role our products play in their supply procedures for managing any significant cycles both positive and negative sustainability risks and it receives regular and in 2014 we published our inaugural reports on performance.
The Group Chief Sustainability Report.
Executive is responsible for sustainability issues.
The Group Sustainability Committee For an in-depth analysis of our material oversees the management of these issues, and our environmental performance and policies, refer to our website processes, and establishes targets and dssmith.
com company sustainability strategies for sustainability risks and dssmith.
com 34 Strategic Report Sustainability continued worsened figure for our target, taken on a With the exception of one effluent spillage of this has been a greater power generation like-for-like basis.
As indicated last year, this at our Clay Cross site on 3 February 2015, capacity, and a resultant increase in exports particular target is becoming less relevant as which resulted in a warning letter from the of electricity to the grid, which have also we focus more closely on the role water and United Kingdom Environment Agency on 30 contributed to an overall reduction in steam play as carriers and stores of thermal March 2015, no other major environmental absolute emissions apportioned to internal energy.
Future efforts will concentrate on incidents or incidents of significant impact production.
The large impact of the CHP reducing water throughput per tonne of reportable to local or national authorities, installations at our paper mills masks the production, and in the coming year this is or incidents potentially resulting in legal many improvements across our packaging likely to result in a recalibrated target.
prosecution have been reported for the and plastics plants which are of a smaller period of this report.
scale but are nevertheless important.
Of the As our business mix across Europe 155 sites where a year-on-year comparison continues to evolve, the impact of those OUR ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS is possible, 102 have achieved reductions operations which still rely on landfill will For 2014 15, our environmental targets in absolute scope 1 emissions.
This is the become even further diluted, and our have remained unchanged.
Relative to consequence of greater production original waste to landfill target will production, we aim to: efficiency and continued investments increasingly also lose its relevance in more efficient boilers.
Analysis of our Reduce our CO equivalent CO e at a Group level.
For this reason, in our 2 2 performance in reducing scope 2 emissions emissions from fossil fuels by 20 per cent Sustainability Report we will publish tells a similar story, with 79 sites achieving over the 10 years to 2020: absolute values, by country, and establish an absolute reduction.
This has largely been site-specific targets to achieve zero waste Reduce our water usage in our paper driven by initiatives to replace halogen to landfill in a timeframe that is feasible mills by 20 per cent over the 10 years lighting with LED lighting.
based on local waste management capacity to 2020: and The figure for total production volume, and legislative requirements.
Reduce the amount of production rejects used to normalise our total emissions, water ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE sent to landfill by 20 per cent over the and waste figures, has reduced slightly since INDICATORS 10 years to 2020. the previous year.
This is primarily due to consolidation of our assets and a shift in We collect environmental data on a monthly These targets are supported by ongoing business mix.
A number of recycling depots basis, and report this data for the previous action plans.
Since 2013, we have were closed during 2014, and this has calendar year in order to align with the incorporated additional greenhouse gases outweighed increases in production in our generally accepted practice of industry in our data in accordance with statutory packaging and paper making businesses.
As a peers and external stakeholders.
This requirements, and now express this target result, our emissions per tonne figure is lower aids sector and industry benchmarking.
in terms of CO e. We are pleased to have 2 than the improvement in absolute values.
Emissions figures given in this report are achieved a reduction in our overall CO e 2 therefore all on a calendar year basis.
Our scope 1 emissions This has also affected the amount of environmental performance data table have increased as a consequence of our effluent water we have discharged.
In overleaf displays the data for calendar year acquisition of the Combined Heat and Power absolute terms, there was an increase due 2014 together with the data previously CHP installation at our paper mill in Italy, to record production across a number of reported for calendar year 2013. which resulted in a corresponding drop in paper mills, but the overall denominator of scope 2 emissions.
Another consequence all production across the Group results in a DS SMITH CHARITABLE FOUNDATION DS Smith is proud to have established the DS Smith Charitable Foundation.
The purpose of the Charitable Foundation is to support with donations, charities with values aligned to those of DS Smith, in particular, charities that support the environment.
As a large employer with a responsibility to the communities in which we operate, the Charitable Foundation also supports charities which help train young people and assist them into work.
More information on the work of the Charitable Foundation, including details of charities that have been supported and also how to apply for funding, can be found at www.
com company sustainability  charitable-trust Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 35 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data for period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 Unit of measure 2014 2013 2012 Change Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities ktonnes of CO e 1,281 1,215 n a 5.4% 2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use ktonnes of CO e 526 576 n a 8.6% 2 CO e impact of electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties ktonnes of CO e 584 519 n a 12.4% 2 2 Total 1,223 1,272 n a 3.8% Other environmental indicators Unit of measure 2014 2013 2012 Change Total production ktonnes 5,916 6,027 5,322 1.8% Electricity, heat, and steam exported to third parties GWh 2,183 1,995 n a 9.4% 3 Total effluent water discharged Mm 17.0 16.6 16.0 2.4% Total waste to landfill ktonnes 63 64 68 2.1% Our environmental targets Unit of measure 2014 2013 2012 Change Emissions per tonne of production CO e net of energy exports kg CO e tonne 206.8 211.0 n a 2.0% 2 2 3 Total effluent water discharged per tonne of production m tonne 2.9 2.8 3.0 4.3% Total waste to landfill per tonne of production kg tonne 10.5 10.6 12.8 0.3% Methodology 1 D S Smith collects and reports environmental data in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is practicable.
2 T he figures reported above include data from all the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned manufacturing operations.
Of the 89 sites whose production process requires fossil fuels paper mills, corrugating plants and foam plants, actual consumption figures were available for all sites.
The total figures also include emissions data from a further 81 smaller production facilities that use only grid electricity.
3 The CO and CO e emissions were calculated using the UK Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs 2014 emissions factors.
The factors used for converting grid electricity reflect 2 2 the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country.
4 S cope 3 emissions, from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Groups products and services, are not included.
5 T he waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste collected from third-parties as a raw material by our recycling operations.
6 P roduction is defined as sum of the production output in tonnes from each site whose energy, waste and water consumption is reported above.
7 T he combined heat and power plant that supplies Witzenhausen with steam is fired predominantly by biogenic fuels.
The emission factor for this site has been estimated as 92.019 kg MWh of CO e. 2 Verification Statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd Bureau Veritas UK has been commissioned by DS Smith Plc.
DS Smith for the seventh year to provide an independent opinion on the Environmental Performance Indicators presented on this page of its 2015 Annual Report.
Having completed a process of assessment including site visits, document review and interrogation of associated management and reporting systems, Bureau Veritas concludes that there is no evidence to suggest that the data presented here is not a fair and accurate representation of DS Smiths performance.
DS Smith should be commended on its approach to consistent data collection and the work which has been undertaken this year to ensure that there is a good understanding of associated processes across the company both at a Group and a site level.
It remains clear that DS Smith is constantly looking to improve its internal processes and has proactively engaged in the verification process.
A full verification statement including the methodology, basis for the opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement of Bureau Veritass independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc website at: www.
com company sustainability environment performance dssmith.
