Corporate Social Responsibility Report CSR How we manage our CSR Customers, product, colleagues and our store environments are at the heart of our growth strategy and as such they are business priorities for us.
Our CSR areas of focus have direct relevance to these priorities as follows: X Customer Customer, Health and Safety, Community X Product Customer, Suppliers and Human Rights, Environment X Colleagues Colleagues, Health and Safety, Community X Store Environment Colleagues, Health and Safety, Environment, Community Although we report on CSR topics separately, they form part of the role accountabilities of our Executive Board members and are regular agenda items for the Board and Executive Board.
"BOARD Overall responsibility for CSR t ""QQSPWF QPMJDJFT t &YFDVUJWF NFNCFST IBWF MJOF SFTQPOTJCJMJUZ GPS NBOBHJOH TQFDJmD $43 UPQJDT t. POJUPS QSPHSFTT UISPVHI, 1 T BOE #PBSE SFQPSUT t ""OOVBM QSFTFOUBUJPOT PO IFBMUI BOE TBGFUZ BOE FUIJDBM TPVSDJOH EXECUTIVE BOARD Members have line responsibility for managing specific CSR topics t ""QQSPWF QPMJDJFT QSJPS UP TVCNJTTJPO UP #PBSE t 3FHVMBS &YFDVUJWF #PBSE NFFUJOH BHFOEB JUFNT HOW WE MANAGE OUR CSR DIALOGUE AND COMMUNICATION Customers: through Colleagues: weekly Suppliers: annual Others: social media, customer care, weekly Wills Word, in-house conference and corporate website online surveys and social magazine and through meetings throughout media Colleagues Council the year dunelm."
com Stock code: DNLM 10 STRATEGIC REPORT Our key areas of focus why these matter AREA OF FOCUS Who manages this for Dunelm?
Our Customers Our core strength as a business is the delivery of market leading choice of products and services, at great value for money, backed up by friendly and knowledgeable customer service.
We can only deliver this by having customer interests at the heart of our business.
Chief Executive Our Colleagues We believe that a Great Place to Work Great Place to Shop.
Our success is founded on the hard work and dedication of our colleagues: our aim is to keep our uniqueness as we grow, and to provide our colleagues with more opportunities and more training, and to celebrate their success.
People Director Our Health and Safety We have a duty of care which we take very seriously to ensure the health and safety of customers, colleagues, contractors and all other visitors to our premises.
Chief Executive Our Suppliers and Human Rights We do not manufacture the vast majority of the products that we sell: therefore we need to maintain relationships with suppliers and manufacturers worldwide who can meet our high standards for design, innovation, quality and value.
These suppliers must also demonstrate that they operate in accordance with recognised standards that uphold human rights and safety.
In accordance with the requirements of the governments Modern Slavery Bill, our sourcing policy now specifically prohibits forced labour, slavery and human trafficking.
Product Director Our Community It is important to Dunelm and its colleagues and shareholders that we are responsible members of our community, and that we support local and national charitable causes.
Marketing Director Our Environment Dunelm recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
The Group is committed to controlling and minimising the impact of its operations, directly and indirectly in the key areas of waste management, energy consumption and carbon CO emissions.
2 Chief Financial officer Read more about our areas of focus on our website www.
com Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 11 Customers Executive responsibility: WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED THIS YEAR?
Chief Executive 2014 2015 OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Link to strategy: Reinforce our Customer X 8,000 colleagues completed the second phase First ethos through further of our training programme What do we do?
We aim to provide to our customers: Major upgrade of our X New website launched in July 2015.
X Great value products and services, website and a new mobile that are safe, legally compliant and app to enhance the online competitively priced.
X Excellent service in store, online and Further extend the range X Introduced extended ranges of garden and through our contact centre.
of products available for electrical items.
X Stores that are safe and accessible.
order from our website and catalogue.
Other achievements Awards 2015 16 objectives X Director of Customer Experience X House Beautiful 2014 Gold award X Further develop product ranges, appointed, a new role with for Favourite Home Retailer of the including more market beating value responsibility for the delivery Year, Silver award for Favourite Online offers and exciting new products.
of service excellence across the Retailer of the year, both voted by X Enhance our made to measure business.
readers curtains and blinds proposition.
X significant investment in upgrading X Excellence in Housewares Award X Implement further improvements to our customer contact centre.
2014 Excellence in Non-Specialist our home delivery service, including Multiple Retailing X Deeper analysis of customer feedback named day delivery options.
and our first use of customer focus X British Sandwich Association groups to help us understand better Sammies award Caf Coffee Bar what our customers like and dislike Sandwich Retailer of the Year about us.
X Introduction of same day Reserve and Collect service and next day home delivery with 8pm cut-off.
X New carrier appointed for two man deliveries, leading to a signicantly better customer experience.
X Further improved Autumn winter and Spring summer catalogues.
Link to strategy LFL store sales growth National coverage from rolling out new stores Growing sales and profit in the home delivery channel dunelm.
com Stock code: DNLM 12 STRATEGIC REPORT Colleagues Executive responsibility: WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED THIS YEAR?
People Director 2014 2015 OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Link to strategy: Launch new careers website in X Website launched in July 2014.
financial year we processed over 180,000 job What do we do?
applications We employ over 9,000 colleagues across Continue to add talent to our business, including our colleagues X We recruited 13 graduates in September 2014. the organisation through our in stores and our distribution and graduate programme.
manufacturing operations, our Dunelm at Home consultants who advise our Continue to develop and roll out X We trained over 8,000 colleagues in the year.
customers in their homes, colleagues in the Customer First programme our contact centre in Radcliffe, and our to all areas of the business.
store support centre team in Leicester.
Continue to develop and deliver X 157,000 hours of training delivered to our We are an equal opportunities employer: learning and development colleagues from training over 100 colleagues our policy is to recruit, develop, promote initiatives to meet the needs of in leadership skills to more practical training in and retain skilled and motivated people the business.
regardless of disability, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation, gender Respond to issues and X Surveys held with over 90% participation and reassignment, marital status or age.
opportunities identified from the an improved engagement score each time.
engagement survey taking place At the end of the financial period Actions to address the issues raised agreed in September 2014 and again in the breakdown of male and female and implemented by the Executive Board.
March 2015. colleagues was as follows: % Continue to recruit and train X Opened 12 new superstores with fully recruited Male Female Female colleagues in line with our new and trained teams.
Group Board 6 2 25% Senior These include: 2015 16 objectives Managers 15 7 32% X Further graduate intake in X Nationally accredited modern All colleagues 2,879 5,977 69% September 2015. apprenticeships and NVQs.
We maintain regular communication X Review pay and benets structure to X Our graduate programme, which with our colleagues via a weekly email ensure that it remains competitive leads to an Institute of Leadership from our Chief Executive Wills Word, and meets the needs of the business, and Management qualication.
through regular store manager huddles, taking into account the implications of X Support for colleagues studying for our Dunelm Gazette magazine which is the new National Living Wage.
professional qualications, such as in published at least quarterly, and via the X Continue to develop and roll out the finance, HR and IT.
computer-based Dunelm Academy, to Customer First Programme.
which all colleagues have access.
X A range of workshops in key X Respond to issues and opportunities management skills, such as leadership We operate a Colleagues Council, arising from the engagement surveys and communications.
through which colleague representatives to take place in September 2015 and X Interactive computer based product can raise and discuss ideas and concerns March 2016. knowledge and other training.
These are X Implement a new Learning fed back to the Executive Board for Other achievements Management System to enable consideration and action.
In addition we X People Director appointed to the training to be delivered at the touch run a colleague engagement survey, now Executive Board in April 2015 to help of a button.
twice a year, the output of which also us develop and deliver our People is fed back to the Executive Board and Strategy.
X significant investment in our contact We offer a range of training and centre in May 2015, to provide a development opportunities to modern working environment for our colleagues at all levels of the business.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 13 Health and Safety Executive responsibility: WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED THIS YEAR?
Chief Executive 2014 2015 OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Link to strategy: Further improve support to X Store inspections carried out by Health and Safety stores.
team covering common causes of accidents, with What do we do?
The Board is ultimately responsible for X Online training database created for first aid, the creation and implementation of our fork lift truck safety and food hygiene, to ensure health and safety policy and procedures, sufficient cover and re-qualication planning.
which include an effective system of upward and downward communication, X Approved registration with the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health for delivering in house and appropriate standards for monitoring performance and for ensuring that training for First Aid and Fire Safety sufficient resources are available to Monitor standards and X Additional Health and safety team member support this activity.
potential issues in stores appointed.
All sites now inspected each quarter, more closely.
Health and safety is a standard agenda alternating between health and safety and re item at every Board and Executive Board safety inspections.
meeting and each of these receive a X Online accident and re evacuation reporting has monthly report and a formal annual simplied data entry and analysis.
presentation from the Groups Health Provide greater support to X Quarterly health and safety review meetings and Safety Manager with accident risk non-store sites.
are held for each non-store site to identify analysis, review of previous objectives and opportunities to reduce risk and identify required agreement of new objectives for the next support.
Progress against objectives is scored and year.
reported to the Executive Board each month.
Although senior management take responsibility for the overall Safety Manager.
Regular review meetings Passenger lifts -3D sensors tted implementation, maintenance and are held between the Groups Health and to ten stores and all new lifts since development of our safety management Safety Manager and senior management March 2015 system, every colleague has a from key operational functions.
Store entrance gates closing responsibility for the safety of themselves speed dampened at all stores and other colleagues, customers and We have a proactive approach to safety, and colleagues are encouraged to report Safe Merchandising inspections visitors.
all potential hazards and risks.
We have carried out at all stores and follow In our stores, each store manager an ongoing programme of education and up actions completed is responsible for ensuring the training, including DVDs and interactive X All stores audited during the year with implementation of health and safety computer based learning and ensure all 100% achieving a pass score for policy and procedures in his or her store, colleague involvement through the 2014 15 93% for 2013 14. supported by the area manager and the Colleague Council.
X Accident rate of 3.2 accidents for Group Health and Safety Manager.
Risk assessments are in place and updated as every 100,000 customer visits in Other achievements 2014 15 3.5 in 2013 14. required.
X Review of Health and Safety Policy and Fire Safety Policy completed.
We have an in-house health and safety 2015 16 objectives audit, which monitors compliance to X Consultants have been employed to X Implement the health and safety improve our asbestos management policy and procedures and is reviewed management system for our new annually to ensure that it meets best by performing visual inspections, and distribution centre, air monitoring as appropriate where practice industry standards and to address X Roll out in house first aid training any specic risks identied.
Our stores asbestos is present in store.
X Review of specic safety risks in complete an online selfaudit monthly X Risk management measures relating coffee shops.
and area managers audit each of their to company car drivers extended to stores at least once a year.
This is backed X Specic health and safety guidance colleagues who drive private cars on up by our in-house operational audit for our Dunelm at Home service.
team and followed up by the Health and X Update legionella database and X Actions taken to address specic produce action plan.
com Stock code: DNLM 14 STRATEGIC REPORT Suppliers and Human Rights Executive responsibility: WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED THIS YEAR?
Product Director 2014 2015 OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Link to strategy: Improve communication with X Code of conduct which now includes a factories to develop their prohibition on forced labour, slavery and human What do we do?
understanding of our ethical trafcking reissued to all product and coffee shop Effective management of human rights requirements.
suppliers, and suppliers of non-stock products and throughout our supply chain is built into services over a minimum spend threshold.
Code our product procurement procedures.
of conduct available at www.
Members of our in-house technology X Supplier conference held in Far East: ethical, team have extensive experience of human rights, environmental and bribery and working with factories to improve corruption policies explicitly reinforced.
adherence to quality and ethical standards.
Monitoring and working to Increase the proportion of X Score increased to 70% of product supply base improve human rights issues forms part factories with green or 56% in 2013-14. of the factory management role carried amber audits against our out by our Far East sourcing partners on Ethical Code of Conduct.
Continue to develop our inX Programme of training ongoing.
We work with our suppliers to ensure house expertise in relation to that our products are produced in clean human rights issues.
and safe environments, that workers are treated with respect and earn a We aim to treat all of our suppliers 2015 16 objectives reasonable wage and that suppliers fairly and consistently.
We ask all of our X Monthly audit corrective action work within the relevant local laws and suppliers to sign our standard terms and reporting to be introduced for high regulations.
All manufacturers with whom conditions.
All new suppliers are made volume Far East suppliers.
we trade directly are required to sign aware of the basis of trade with Dunelm up to our Code of Conduct based on X Extend audit regime to major coffee and in particular our standard payment the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI base shop suppliers terms in advance of commencing trade.
This is available on our website X Include training on ethical matters We have signed up to the Prompt www.
No new factory in induction for all members of the Payment Code which requires companies source is taken on without a satisfactory Buying Team, with annual refresher to pay suppliers in accordance with audit being in place, and audits are training.
agreed terms, with a default period of repeated at least every two years.
X Investigate core routes for high risk 60 days.
The number of days purchases Where non-compliance is discovered raw materials and start creation of outstanding for payment at 4 July 2015 we have a formal procedure for working database.
The main with a supplier to help them achieve X Monitor developments in anti-slavery reason for the increase in creditor days compliance, usually within three months.
was the extension of the accounting legislation and practice and adapt our Critical non-conformances such as use processes accordingly.
of child labour, working against choice or absence of valid Building or Fire Other achievements Certicate are escalated immediately, X Intertek appointed to provide a and supplies cease until the issue has consistent audit service across been resolved.
Ultimately if progress is our Far East supply base with the inadequate we will cease to trade with internationally recognised SMETA the supplier.
audit progressively being adopted as standard.
X Responsibilities of Far East agents redened to give more effective day-to-day ethical assurance.
X Focus on ensuring that requirements are extended to subcontractors where their use is common.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 15 Community Executive responsibility: WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED THIS YEAR?
Marketing Director 2014 2015 OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Link to strategy: Support our Charity of the Funds were raised through a variety of ways Year, Barnardos, whose including: What do we do?
work includes reaching and Our colleagues have told us that they X The annual Friends and Family night, a themed helping children who have fancy dress fundraising evening in store.
want the Company to support charitable been sexually exploited, causes, both nationally and in the local young people leaving the X Team fundraising events.
We have a Charity care system, children with a X Regular local donations including supporting Committee which adopts a charity of parent in prison and families schools, the local community, and the town of the year, for which collections are made struggling to cope.
Syston where Dunelm Store Support Centre is in-store, specic fund-raising events are Continue to support based.
organised and the Group makes its own colleagues in their X National and International donations with funds donations.
Each store has a Charity fundraising efforts.
being sent to a variety of charities including: East Champion and amounts raised by store African Playgrounds, LOROS, Macmillan, Blesma are reported monthly, with the top three and Cancer research.
recognised in the Dunelm Gazette.
X Colleagues regularly volunteer their time thanks We also support colleagues who are to the free Charity Day: this has included a team raising money for charities of their of 40 Dunelm colleagues transforming the Four choice, often by matching the sums Dwellings Childrens Centre in Birmingham for raised.
All colleagues are entitled to Barnardos.
an extra days paid leave to undertake X Gift in kind donations to local families in need charitable activities.
through our Barnardos charity partnership.
We donate funds raised from carrier bag X Company-wide fundraisers for national events sales legal requirement in Wales and such as Red Nose Day, including a Superhero Scotland to GroundWork a charitable day, Christmas Jumper Day and Pyjama Day.
organisation which brings people and the environment together with The total value of charitable donations made by the Group in the period ended 4 practical local action to build stronger July 2015 was 98,000 2014: 206,000, which included a donation of 129,000 in communities, more green spaces and lieu of 2013 annual bonus waived by Will Adderley.
Total funds raised for charity by getting people back into work by the Group and colleagues was 366,000 2014: 352,000. creating green jobs.
We do not make any political donations.
X Dunelm is the main sponsor for the 2015 16 objectives 7days 7irons challenge, supporting The Group pays corporation tax on its X During 2015 16 our charity of the an individual who will complete seven operations in the United Kingdom and year will be Roald Dahls Marvellous triathlons from Lands End to John does not operate in any tax havens, or Childrens Charity and we will OGroats in seven days, and passing use any tax avoidance schemes.
continue to create fun fundraising by 23 of our stores en route.
activities including Christmas Jumper Day, Snappy Dresser Day and Marvins Egg Hunt Easter.
X We will continue to support our colleagues in their charitable fundraising efforts and by offering an annual days leave to support charitable activities.
com Stock code: DNLM 16 STRATEGIC REPORT Environment Executive responsibility: The Group has an Environment Committee tasked Chief Financial officer with the development and implementation of Link to strategy: strategy as well as ongoing monitoring to achieve high levels of environmental performance.
Waste Recycling 0VS, FZ 0CKFDUJWFT X To maximise levels of waste recycling X To anticipate and to be fully compliant with all waste legislation 2015 16 Targets X We will launch a new colleague Any waste that is not directly recycled What we do engagement programme to promote within the business is sent off-site Through our Recycle at Work initiative greater awareness and compliance.
for further sortation, to extract other Dunelm has invested in a waste strategy recyclable content, with the remaining X A new web-based waste compliance to deliver high levels of recycling.
general waste being incinerated in audit will be live throughout the year All sites have balers for cardboard a waste to energy plant with carbon to drive improvements.
and colour-coded bins to segregate capture technology.
X We will introduce dedicated foodwaste and are supported by training waste collections across the UK by programmes that increase colleague April 2016. awareness and compliance.
Waste Recycled X We aim to eliminate glass drinks Our National Distribution Centre in Stoke % packaging within our coffee shops.
recycles all of our cardboard, plastics, 100 paper, bottles, cans, metal and wooden pallets.
In addition all electrical waste 90% 80 83% is recycled through a WEEE compliant 82% 78% 76% scheme.
68% 60 40 20 Target 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 0 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 17 Environment CONTINUED Energy Use 0VS, FZ 0CKFDUJWFT X To optimise energy use across the business X To evaluate renewable technology options and trial where appropriate X To fully comply with the new Energy program is under way to convert the Savings Opportunities Scheme What we do rest of the chain over the next two years.
Dunelm targets energy reduction on a 2015 16 Targets LED lights are typically 40% more energy site-by-site basis.
Smart meters, tted efficient than non-LED.
X To deliver LED lighting systems to to both electricity and gas supplies, over 50% of stores by end FY16 measure energy consumption on a halfWe have also added two more stores X To re-lamp all Lighting Department hourly basis allowing us to prole high or in Bristol and Dunstable to our existing display canopies to LED bulbs unusual patterns, target specic sites and solar energy trial at Leeds.
These trials to monitor the success of various energy X To fully test voltage-optimisation will determine the benets of investing reduction initiatives.
in this renewable technology across technology and reduce site capacity requirements Dunelm estate.
Building Management Systems designed X To conduct a full review of Coffeeto optimise energy use, are tted as shop energy use standard across the estate.
These are Year on year reduction hosted and monitored by a specialist in electricity energy partner who, together with our dedicated Energy Manager, targets 2 performance to maintain an optimal 1 1.2% 1.1% balance between a comfortable trading 0 environment for our customers and -1 colleagues and maximum energy -2 -3.2% -3 efficiency.
-4 -5.0% A focus of the business has been to -5 -5.8% invest In LED lighting in many areas.
All -6.3% -6 new stores are 100% LED and a retro-t -7 Target 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Greenhouse Gas 0VS, FZ 0CKFDUJWFT Emissions CO e 2 X To reduce CO emissions relative to 2 turnover year-on-year X To identify and trial new technologies to reduce Greenhouse gas emissions Our current performance Our company car eet is graded on What we do Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e 2 emissions and we encourage the use of As part of our carbon reduction work we emissions data is reported using the fuel efficient vehicles in all schemes.
have invested in photovoltaic technology GHG Protocol Corporate Standard in three stores: Leeds, Dunstable and Average emissions in 2015 were 110 Scope 1 & Scope 2 and applies to our Bristol.
These systems ultimately replace CO2 g km 2014: 112 CO2 g km.
organisational boundary as dened by energy sourced through the national grid the operational control approach.
CO e emissions were as follows: 2 with locally sourced energy.
The methodology used to calculate We continue to source electricity Tonnes of CO2e 2013 2014 2015 our emissions is based on the UK from Green Energy supplies such as Governments GHG Conversion Factors Purchase of combined heat and power sources for Company Reporting 2013.
Energy 26,747 28,504 28,487 where CO emissions are 30% lower than 2 Dunelm uses Tonnes of CO e per m the national average.
2 Cars on Company of turnover as its intensity measure Business 500 650 675 Dunelm also works with a specialist reecting the link between growth, Total 27,247 29,154 29,162 partner to consult on our energy buying activity and performance.
strategy, investments in energy saving Intensity Measure technology and to further focus on tCO2e per 1m reducing our carbon emissions.
com Stock code: DNLM 18 STRATEGIC REPORT Performance Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 19
