Y S T A E F F E A T S Y Chief Executives review continued Whilst the overall short-haul market has grown over the last 10 EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT years, the low-cost carriers have taken significant market share, easyJet operates in the short-haul European aviation market, as the legacy carriers have cut mainline capacity across their which has seen strong underlying demand throughout the year.
networks in order to address their lack of competitiveness.
easyJets focus is primarily in Western and Northern Europe, At the same time the legacy carriers are transferring capacity where there is a high propensity to travel and deep, rich markets.
from their flag airlines to lower-cost subsidiaries such as Vueling, Economic trends are currently favourable, with GDP growth in Eurowings and Transavia.
In its 20 years of existence, easyJet has our main markets.
The UK is the strongest country in terms grown its own market share as part of that low cost growth and of absolute GDP performance in 2015 and we continue to see now has an estimated 8% of the European short-haul market.
an improving outlook across all of our other major regions.
In We see a number of opportunities to increase our market share.
addition, consumer confidence is growing in those markets, easyJet has delivered a strong performance against this which we expect to support growth in economic activity.
competitive backdrop, demonstrating the strength of its model These positive trends, combined with our market positioning, and implementation of its strategy.
With a track record of high are reflected in strong demand for our services.
growth across economic cycles, strong underlying demand, 2 The total European short-haul market grew by 5% year-on-year as well as our relatively low current market share, we continue to in the 12 months to 30 September 2015, sustained in part by a see opportunities to deliver further growth over the medium term.
Low cost carrier share of the short-haul market increased by around one percentage point to 42%.
In the same period, easyJets competitors increased capacity by 7% in its markets, with particularly strong growth in the UK market.
Over its financial year, easyJet increased capacity by 5%, with growth of 4% in the first half increasing to 6% in the second half.
Our strategy easyJet is confident that through its strategy it will deliver sustainable growth and returns for shareholders.
BUILD STRONG NUMBER ONE AND TWO NETWORK POSITIONS 4.
DISCIPLINED CULTURE, DRIVE DEMAND, USE OF PEOPLE AND CONVERSION CAPITAL PLATFORM AND YIELDS 3.
MAINTAIN COST ADVANTAGE 2 Capacity and market share figures from OAG.
Size of European market based on internal easyJet definition.
Historical data based on 12 month period from October 2014 to September 2015. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 10 Y S T A E F F E A T S Y Strategic report Governance Accounts Italy easyJet has a 12% market share in Italy.
At year end Italy had BUILD STRONG NUMBER ONE 1 29 based aircraft.
AND TWO NETWORK POSITIONS We continue to target increasing market share in Italy, by easyJet flies to a network of primary airports and routes that tap reinforcing our existing strong positions and investing more in the into deep, wealthy markets with populations that have a high higher value catchment areas.
We are the biggest operator at Milan propensity to fly.
We have chosen to establish ourselves at the right Malpensa with 22 touching aircraft, have recently opened a new airports, serving valuable catchment areas that represent Europes base at Naples and will open a base in Venice early in 2016 and we top markets by GDP, driving both leisure and business travel.
This is are already the number one airline at both.
We are supporting this also where strong markets already exist, built up over a period of by redeploying aircraft and crew from Rome Fiumicino, which still time by legacy carriers.
We have the opportunity both to capture remains an important part of our network with an expected two further market share and to grow the overall market.
During 2015 we increased capacity in Driven by strong underlying demand and an attractive customer Italy by 7% launching 23 new routes in the year, including Milan proposition, we will continue to invest in growing our network.
Malpensa to Munich, Milan Linate to Paris Charles fide Gaulle and We operate more of the top 100 routes in Europe than any other Milan Linate to Amsterdam.
airline and our route frequencies deliver choice and flexibility for Switzerland our customers while increasing returns.
Our competitive advantage easyJet is Switzerlands second largest airline with a 23% total is reinforced by the overall portfolio of peak time slots at airports market share.
At year end Switzerland had 23 based aircraft.
where either total slot availability or availability at customer-friendly times is constrained.
easyJet is the number one operator at both Geneva and Basel airports, with the latter also part of the Zurich catchment area.
We regularly review the route network in order to maximise returns We increased capacity by 9% in the twelve months to 30 and exploit demand opportunities in the market.
During the year we September 2015, building and reinforcing our leading positions added a net 60 routes to the network, slightly more than last year.
As the leading airline brand in Geneva and Basel These were allocated to new bases, such as Amsterdam, Hamburg, easyJets strategy is to continue to build customer preference in Naples and Oporto, and to markets where we want to consolidate the market.
Competitor capacity growth on our markets was our position and grow our share, such as Switzerland and Italy.
easyJet launched eleven new routes in the year such We have recently announced new base openings in Venice and as Geneva to Menorca and Basel to London Luton.
Our plans for fleet expansion will help us to capitalise Germany on expected demand in markets that we understand.
easyJet has 4% market share in Germany.
At the year end Germany Over time, increased route maturity and greater numbers of had 12 based aircraft.
frequencies have contributed to increasing profitability and returns.
Germany is a large and attractive market, although with a more We continue to establish stronger leadership positions in all of our regional, federal structure than other European countries.
easyJet markets, to achieve the aim of holding the position of number is focused on its two bases at Berlin Schoenefeld, where it is the one or number two in each market.
We currently have 52% of number one airline, and Hamburg, which opened in 2014.
We target our capacity in airports where we have the number one position continued growth in Germany, taking share from the incumbent by share and 83% as one of the top two.
We have increased capacity by 15% during the year.
Progress in our main markets is as follows: Competitor growth on our markets was 6%.
We launched sixteen new routes in the year such as Hamburg to Lanzarote and United Kingdom Hamburg to Paris Orly.
easyJet is the UKs largest short-haul airline, where we have a 2 20% market share.
At year end the UK had 134 based aircraft.
Portugal Spain easyJet has 13% market share in Portugal and 8% market share in We are continuing to reinforce our already strong position in the Spain.
At year end Portugal had six based aircraft.
UK market, both London-based and regional.
easyJet remains the Portugal and Spain are principally an in-bound market for easyJet, number one carrier by market share at almost all of its UK bases, with strong demand on key flows to the region from the rest of including its major bases of London Gatwick, London Luton, Bristol, Europe.
We increased capacity by 8% and 2% in Portugal and Spain Belfast and Edinburgh.
Our positioning, market share and airport respectively, reflecting in particular the investment in a new base in bases are driving both leisure and business passengers.
We Oporto from where we launched six new routes to Luxembourg, increased capacity by 3% in the twelve months to 30 September Nantes, Stuttgart, Manchester, Bristol and London Luton airports.
2015, launching new routes such as London Gatwick to Stuttgart We also announced that a new base at Barcelona would be and London Luton to Essaouira, while continuing to increase opening in February 2016.
Competitor market growth on our frequencies on selected routes.
Our competitors increased their markets was 10% in Portugal and 7% in Spain.
capacity on our markets by 9%.
Netherlands France easyJet is the Netherlands second largest short-haul airline easyJet is Frances second largest short-haul airline with a 14% with a 9% market share.
At year end the Netherlands had three market share.
At year end France had 26 based aircraft.
We see opportunities to grow our market share in France, leveraging The Netherlands is a significant opportunity for easyJet, where our competitive market position, adding capacity at Charles fide we currently carry four million passengers a year.
In March 2015 Gaulle through up-gauging and strengthening our domestic network we opened a new base at Schipol Airport, Amsterdam where we are the number one or two carrier after Air France in most of the we are now the second biggest operator and we are continuing airports where we operate.
We increased capacity in France by 6% to invest in growth of our market share.
As a result we have in the year, against competitor growth on our markets of 5%, increased capacity by 17% during the year against competitor launching eight new routes in the year such as Toulouse to Seville growth on our markets of 9%.
easyJet launched nine new routes and Paris Orly to Split.
in the year, such as Amsterdam to Nice.
com 11 Chief Executives review continued Innovation and digital leadership DRIVE DEMAND, CONVERSION Our digital platform is a key point of differentiation with our 2 competitors.
We believe that we have significant advantages in AND YIELDS the capability of our web platform, our Customer Relationship Alongside the quality of its network, easyJet is able to drive Management CRM data and our mobile offering.
During the profitable growth through its leading customer-focused year we had over 500 million visits across all platforms, an 18% proposition.
In particular we are driving increasing levels increase in the last two years, and we grew web conversion by of loyalty and attracting passengers through the quality 13% over the same period.
and innovation of our digital platform.
Our CRM enables our customers to benefit from increasing levels Leading customer offering of personalisation across multiple channels, with examples such easyJets strong relationship with its customers continues as saved passport details, targeted marketing campaigns via to develop, with passengers increasingly likely to travel email and text message and bespoke offers from our affiliate with easyJet again after previously taking an easyJet flight.
The user experience has been further developed over Increasing customer loyalty helps to create more sustainable the year, with greater ease of interaction on the website and long-term revenue.
mobile and optimised layouts and design.
In the last year, 74% of our seats were booked by returning We have put significant focus on the mobile offering over the customers, which is a six percentage point increase from 2010. past two years, with an award-winning app that enables mobile All easyJet markets have seen an increase in customer loyalty, hosting through the airport, disruption notification live with the with France showing the biggest increase of 28% since 2011. ability to change flights, and saved personal data such as The strength of the relationship was best illustrated during the payment details.
We have seen very positive take-up of mobile very busy summer trading period, with approximately 80% of as the platform for seat sales, almost doubling as a percentage passengers who flew with easyJet being returning customers.
over the last 12 months to over 8%.
As part of the 20th Anniversary celebrations easyJet announced The strength of this platform was recently demonstrated when the launch of its new customer loyalty program.
This aims to our summer 2016 season tickets went on sale.
On the day we recognise and retain our high value and loyal customers with were commanding 33% of all UK airline web traffic share.
Across a scheme that makes travel with easyJet even easier.
Very all channels we had 2.6 million visits, up 30% on the prior year, of different to legacy frequent flyer programs, which are highly which over 15% were on mobile.
In the early moments we were expensive and complex, we want to make the simple things easy selling 800 seats per minute, rising to a peak when we were for our customers.
The programme offers a range of benefits selling out the equivalent of an A320 every seven seconds.
such as free name changes, free booking changes and a low price promise, all reinforced by a dedicated customer support We will be investing substantially in our digital capability over team.
This is expected to be rolled out in early 2016. the next three years, as we continue to innovate and maintain our leadership position in the sector.
Our initial focus will be Our combination of using primary airports in large economic on enhancing the digital customer interface, to be delivered markets, alongside high frequencies and attractive flight timings, by summer 2016, followed by the development of support also makes easyJet a logical choice for business passengers.
systems that will lead to easyJet having the first fully-integrated We are focused on providing a bespoke business offering e-commerce platform in the airline industry.
In the longer term through distribution platforms, Travel Management Companies we are committing to the acceleration of our use of data science and direct to small and medium sized enterprises.
We signed to improve efficiency, increase revenue and drive greater up 100 corporate customers during the year.
comparable benefit in 2014 due to the Air France strike, we nevertheless continued to increase the business yield premium The digital programme will offer increasing amounts of during the year.
Sales of business products performed well, personalisation, introducing a more relevant booking journey with a 58% increase in the sale of flexible business fares when based on previous behaviour to drive higher footfall, higher compared to 2014.
Sales through Global Distribution Systems conversion rates and higher attachment rates.
It will also enable grew by 32% in the year as easyJet continued to leverage its greater self-management capability through the entire journey relationships with the Travel Management Companies.
Bookings chain, from booking to check-in, through the airport and in the from corporate customers direct also went up by 30%.
easyJet continues to see opportunities to sell its business We are subsequently building an e-commerce platform that will product across Europe and we have recently strengthened give us a competitive advantage for the long term.
Its primary our corporate sales capability through a new market, objective is to give us significantly better flexibility and capability customer and industry structure.
than we currently have, specifically around our ability to offer customers bespoke, attractive options.
Lastly, we have started to explore ways to innovate in other areas across the business.
In June we showcased new technology such as engineering drones and prognostics software.
Looking to the future, we are investing in research around Artificial Intelligence to exploit the large amounts of data generated by our operations.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 12 Strategic report Governance Accounts DISCIPLINED USE OF CAPITAL MAINTAIN COST ADVANTAGE 4 3 easyJet has a clear capital structure framework and a strategy easyJet has a strong cost-focused culture, with a number of which is intended to maximise shareholder returns.
The Company structural advantages in key areas that enable it to combine maintains a strong balance sheet with low gearing, which gives the offering of a primary airport network with good value fares.
us a strong competitive advantage through access to a lower Every year easyJet delivers substantial cost savings against cost of funding as well as operational flexibility.
underlying cost inflation, whilst in the longer term we have a pipeline of opportunities that will further improve our Our objective is always to optimise our return on capital structural competitiveness.
employed through the allocation of aircraft and capacity across the network, regularly moving them to airports and routes with In 2015 cost per seat decreased by 3.4%, primarily reflecting better opportunities.
In line with this strategy, we took the benefits from fuel and foreign currency.
On a constant currency, decision in June to close our base at Rome Fiumicino and will ex-fuel basis cost per seat rose 3.6%.
Part of this is the cost of redistribute those eight based aircraft to other bases in Italy, doing business within our successful business model: part was including the opening of a new base in Venice.
These actions due to one-off factors during the year.
We have generated reiterate our focus on returns and will increase the return on sustainable savings during the year of 46 million.
capital employed of the Company as a whole, as we have done easyJets structural advantages are an integral part of our regularly in the past and will do so in the future.
business model, with established benefits in fleet, airports As we continue to add frequencies and commit to basing and handling, engineering, pensions and overheads: aircraft around the network in scale, we are able to maintain We operate an exclusively Airbus A320-family fleet.
This the very high fleet utilisation that sets us apart.
In 2015 we delivers operational flexibility as well as efficiencies in maintained our asset utilisation across the network, at an engineering and maintenance, crew, ownership and fuel.
As average of 11 block hours per day 2014: 11 hours.
the second-largest operator of Airbus aircraft in the world we Fleet also benefit from significant economies of scale on acquisition.
We manage our fleet to provide flexibility in our planning Between 2016 and 2021 we will derive a major benefit from arrangements, so that on the one hand we can maximise up-gauging of our fleet, from a majority 156-seat A319 opportunities in a strong demand environment, whilst being able composition to a fleet that is over 70% 186-seat A320s.
to manage our capacity as necessary.
easyJets total fleet as at This is expected to have a 13-14% cost per seat benefit, 30 September 2015 comprised 241 aircraft and increased by a which translates into over 110 million of comparable savings.
With significant positions in our airports, we are able to drive Over the next five years we will reduce cost by changing the economies of scale from long term deals with the airport fleet mix and ownership structure.
We took delivery of 20 A320 owners and operators, as well as with ground handling agents aircraft in the 12 months to 30 September 2015, which provide at those airports.
We are now in our second year of a seven a per seat cost saving of 7% to 8% over the A319, through year contract with Gatwick airport, as the largest operator at up-gauging.
Five A319 aircraft were retired and the average the airport, and likewise at London Luton airport, where we age of the fleet increased to 6.2 years 2014: 5.8 years.
In Ground Handling we signed an arrangement with GH Italia covering all of the nine airports where we operate in Italy.
We expect to agree a number of new contracts in both areas in 2016 and 2017.
During 2015 we completed our new component support arrangement with AJW Group, consolidating previous arrangements and again leveraging our increasing scale.
This has been successfully implemented in October 2016 and we expect to drive significant maintenance savings over the term of the contract.
easyJet is not encumbered with significant historic costs that legacy carriers have.
Our crew are more productive.
We maintain a lean and efficient head office and we do not have expensive pension arrangements for current and previous employees.
We believe we can leverage this position to drive incrementally profitable growth in the medium term.
We will relentlessly focus on delivering these initiatives in the next few years.
Our experiences in 2015 have given us the impetus to increase our cost saving efforts.
We plan to re-invigorate what has already been a hugely successful cost saving programme, leveraging our increasing scale and reviewing our cost management down to the lowest level.
com 13 Chief Executives review continued Fleet as at 30 September 2015: Future committed deliveries at 16 Unexercised Operating Finance Changes November purchase Owned leases leases Total % of fleet in year 2015 rights A319 93 49 6 148 61% 5 A320 70 18 5 93 39% 20 56 A320neo 130 100 163 67 11 241 15 186 100 Agreement for 36 additional aircraft Due to our continued robust trading, high demand for easyJet CULTURE, PEOPLE AND PLATFORM 5 flights and the number of profitable opportunities we see in our markets, we are pleased to have secured an agreement with easyJet is passionate about its people and we believe that it is Airbus to take delivery of an additional 36 A320 aircraft between 2018 and 2021, all in the 186 seat configuration.
These aircraft will what sets us apart.
In particular we believe that our customerfacing employees are the best in the industry and contribute offer increased flexibility in fleet planning, including the faster replacement of some of our A319 aircraft, lower overall unit costs significantly to the positive experience that our passengers enjoy, which in turn drives their loyalty and repeat business.
and ensure easyJet can continue to grow past 2019 to support increasing total shareholder return.
It is our people who continue to deliver the strategy for the easyJet is exercising rights to 30 next generation A320 NEOs business and will drive future success.
Internally we continue to 3 focus on recruiting the right people, helping them to understand under the existing framework agreement signed in 2013.
The additional six aircraft are current generation A320 added to that the Companys values and their role in the business and then giving them the tools to develop a high-performance culture.
We have secured an additional 30 A320 NEO purchase rights to replace those we are exercising.
Funding is Our people are truly exceptional.
They are passionate and available.
easyJets balance sheet and cash generation is strong driven to achieving a winning strategy.
They have responded with gearing at 30 September at 14%, marginally below the to recent tragic events with energy, care for our customers and Boards target of 15% 30%.
We couldnt achieve these results without this orange spirit.
In line with the rest of the business we recruited during the year to help support our growth, adding over 290 pilots and 1,300 cabin crew, as well as 390 people within the management, administration, engineering and maintenance departments.
Retention rates remain good with employee turnover of 6.6% 2014: 6.7%.
DELIVERING SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Our high revenue growth and good cost control have driven strong profit growth and this year we have recorded record profit for the fifth consecutive year.
Our cash generation is also strong.
We generated 895 million in operating cash, before investing 532 million, principally in the acquisition of 20 aircraft.
easyJet ended the year with net cash of 435 million and gearing of 14%, marginally below the bottom end of the Boards target range.
Return on capital employed increased to 22.2% from 20.5% last year, as the increase in profit more than made up for the increase in fleet.
As we embark on a new phase of fleet acquisition we expect this to reduce slightly in the next few years, whilst remaining among the higher performers in the market.
As we look forward, we expect that our ability to grow revenue and the renewed focus on cost will deliver strong earnings momentum and significant returns to shareholders.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 14
