Creating the right connections eCommerce with a Human T ouch Connecting with and listening to our customers to enhance our eCommerce offer Transforming the user experience on our website To achieve our medium-term target for 70% Analysis of the extensive global data of our business to be transacted online, we we collect identified the key concerns need to continually improve the eCommerce and frustrations our customers had on experience for our customers all over the their online journey.
Connecting with and listening to Agile method of working, we achieved them and monitoring how they interact unprecedented levels of collaboration across with us on our website are key to our the business to introduce and test the understanding of how we can achieve this.
enhancements we made, enabling rapid improvements to the website.
Over the past year we have successfully transformed the product search, purchase The transformation resulted in significant and tracking facilities on our website to benefits to sales performance and customer improve customer satisfaction and increase satisfaction while also revolutionising traffic conversion.
With 60 websites, mostly our working culture.
Our investment in in local languages, and around 500,000 improving our eCommerce offer has driven products at over 10 million price points, this our search and buy conversion growth to a is a significant achievement.
The transformation of the user experience The initiative won us the Customer and has been focused on improving the speed, User Experience award at The Digitals efficiency and ease of finding and buying 2014.
At the National Business Awards 2014 a product on our website, and was guided we were named UKTI Digital Business of at every step by customer feedback and the Year for our use of digital technologies behaviour.
in providing true value to customers and suppliers.
com Stock Code: ECM 22 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report Watch the video online www.
electromponents elementum quis quam Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 23 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
