CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Introduction To help our employees meet the standards that are expected of them, theBoard has adopted the Elementis Code of Business Conduct and The Board and management team continue Ethics the Code of Conduct and a compliance programme that are togive their attention to this important aspect underpinned by training, policies, processes and guidelines covering a ofour business.
The Board sets the tone for our wide range of compliance matters, such as anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, fair business practices and compliance with local laws overall approach to and culture on corporate and regulations.
Our compliance programme includes comprehensive responsibility CR matters, and exercises whistle-blowing procedures, supported by an anti-retaliation policy.
oversight in this area, whilst the CEO and All new employees are required to undertake training on the Code management team are responsible for setting ofConduct and refresher training is given to all employees periodically.
The Board and management team consider the Code of Conduct to day to day policies and keeping our becritical to the Groups continuing success and in how it meets its performanceunder review.
Our training programme on the Code of Conduct is translated into sixlanguages and supported with interactive online training to help employees stay up to date with their responsibilities.
The following compliance training courses were run in 2015: responsible social media use, records retention, careful communications, EU competition law, anti-trust essentials, preventing harassment and discrimination, business identity theft and valuing diversity in the workplace.
Diversity Elementis continues to be fully committed to equality of opportunity.
The Company has been a member of the FTSE4Good index, a leading Ourpolicy of non-discrimination applies throughout the Group and to global responsible investment index, since September 2009.
Our allaspects of our employment practices.
A summary of our employment membership demonstrates the Companys commitment to CR and policies appears on page 52 of the Directors report.
Our total workforce that its activities and aspirations are aligned with the principles of the including contractors and temporary workers numbers in excess of UN Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and 1,400.
In terms of gender diversity, out of our total workforce excluding anti-corruption.
The principal features of our CR framework and our contractors and temporary workers as at the year end, 974 were male performance in these areas are set out in the rest of this report.
76per cent and 305 were female 24 per cent.
Of these female employees, 44 14 per cent held managerial positions and 31 10 per cent During 2015, Elementis continued to participate in various sustainability held an executive management position within the four tiers below Board programmes as shown by the logos above.
These include the Carbon level.
At Board level six directors were male and one was female and at Disclosure Project climate change CDP programme, EcoVadis senior manager level as defined under the prescribed regulations 20 sustainable supply management accreditation programme, Roundtable were male and 1 female.
The Group does not consider targets or quotas on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO and Repasack.
Based on the to be appropriate for increasing the percentage of women in management standardised scoring methodology, we achieved a disclosure score positions, although it recognises the benefit of having women represented of90and a performance band of B in the CDP programme, which in all layers of management.
Staff turnover across the Group for 2015 was compares against 84 and C for the average score and band of companies 5.4 per cent 2014: 7.0 per cent.
participating in the programme and qualifying for a performance band.
The disclosure score measures the level of transparency in our responses Human rights and information shared and the performance band measures how Elementis agrees with and supports the statements in the Universal effectively we are addressing climate risk.
Our involvement in CDP Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the International Labour andtheother initiatives listed demonstrates a commitment to recognised Organizations Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, sustainable business practices that benefit the environment, improves the latter being freedom of association and the effective recognition of ourperformance and helps to reduce the impact of our activities on theright to collective bargaining, the elimination of forced or compulsory theenvironment.
labour, the abolition of child labour and the elimination of discrimination inrespect of employment and occupation.
Elementis also supports the Business conduct and ethics principles of the UN Global Compact which includes those on People fundamental human rights.
These are applied in our employment policies Our employees remain our most valuable asset and it is their dedication as well as to our business practices in relation to contractors, customers and hard work that drives the success of our Group at all levels, from and suppliers, such as the right to privacy, safety and to be treated fairly, innovation and technology leadership to business performance and with dignity and respect.
Our employment and business practices are customer service.
Although our workforce is spread across three regions supported by Group policies on, for example, risk management, 43 per cent in the Americas, 26 per cent in Europe and 31 per cent in communication, training and compliance monitoring, as well as our Asia, Elementis globally has one set of corporate values with which all anti-harassment policy, grievance procedures and Code of Conduct.
ouremployees can identify and these are to be innovative, successful, Elementis prohibits the use of child and forced labour and is committed responsible and leaders in the sectors in which we operate.
To foster tothe principles of freedom of association, equality of treatment and ourperformance and success culture, the management and business non-discrimination.
Over 40 per cent of our employees are union leadership teams lead by example and we have policies and guidance members and just under 30 per cent are subject to collective that encourage and support positive behaviours.
20 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Customers, suppliers, supply chain and quality The number of recordable incidents across the Group in 2015 reduced We have continued in 2015 to develop and nurture our relationship toten 2014: 12.
Of those recordable incidents only two required days withcustomers through our key account business process and by away from work greater than three days 2014: two.
Of particular note participating in trade shows and industry forums, as well as conducting isour hectorite clay mine in Southern California which now has an workshops, training seminars and hosting collaborative laboratory outstanding record of 24 years without an LTA.
Our facility in Corpus sessions to work with customers on a one on one basis.
We continue Christi has also achieved the distinction of reaching 12 years without tobe responsive to questions from our customers on social responsibility arecordable incident, and the Amarillo, Changxing, Dakota City, Jersey and environmental awareness programmes and have successfully Cityand Milwaukee plants have all exceeded three years without a completed a number of surveys and informal audits.
In 2015 we launched an online supplier survey to increase supplier As well as the total number of recordable incidents, the Group uses the awareness and compliance with respect to anti-corruption and social total recordable incident rate TRIR as a performance indicator.
We updated our Purchasing TRIR in 2015 was 0.77 per 200,000 hours worked 2014: 0.92.
Within the Code of Practice to incorporate additional requirements to ensure chemical industry, this sustained performance of Elementis is comparable compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Our programme includes to companies that are generally viewed as having industry best safety communicating our requirements to suppliers, carrying out risk based performance based on data for the American Chemistry Council supplier risk assessments and supplier audits, and training.
Responsible Care members, who achieved 0.82 in 2014, the latest data available, and is significantly better than the general chemical industry in We continue to buy only RSPO certified quaternary amines for all of our the US 2.3 in 2014 based on the latest data available from the US Bureau Personal care business requirements and have also increased our use of Labor Statistics.
ofnatural products in 2015 to $18.2 million 2014: $17.7 million.
Recordable incident rate Our commitment to quality remains unrelenting and an example of our Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked efforts is that the Specialty Products facility in Milwaukee, which was 3 partof the Hi-Mar acquisition in February 2013, achieved ISO 9001 certification last year.
This takes the number of global facilities with this 2 distinction in the Specialty Products operating portfolio to 11, or 85 per cent, spanning the US, Europe and Asia.
Another example of our commitment to quality is the use of Statistical Quality Control tools to 1 support continual quality improvement and increase operating efficiencies, with the added benefit of helping cost management initiatives.
0 Health, safety and environment 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The Board and management team continue to place the health and safety Key of employees, contractors and visitors, as well as the preservation of the Elementis American Chemistry Council Responsible Care environment, among the Groups key priorities.
Elementis recognises a US chemical industry shared responsibility globally for conserving natural resources, minimising the impact of our operating activities on biodiversity, wherever practicable, and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Elementis applies the same high safety standards to onsite contractors.
Allcontractors are required to comply with the same safety practices and The Groups health, safety and environmental HSE management procedures expected of employees.
As a result, Elementis is confident that programmes conform to international standards and include documented contractors experience a similar high level of safety as its own employees.
policy and procedures, internal and external auditing, risk assessments, management systems, personnel training, incident investigation, In 2015, contractors suffered two recordable injuries 2014: one across all management of change, emergency planning and risk mitigation.
manufacturing locations, which equated to an incident rate of 0.91 per Theeffectiveness of these programmes, as well as overall performance, 200,000 hours worked 2014: 0.49. iscontinually evaluated through management reviews to ensure they are effective and current with regulatory requirements and industry Health and safety initiatives bestpractices.
During 2015, our health and safety leadership team continued to focus onboth occupational health and safety and process safety improvements.
Health and safety performance Industry recognised process safety programmes include process hazard One of our main objectives in this area of focus is to eliminate accidents analyses PHAs on installations handling highly hazardous chemicals and injuries within the workplace by taking all reasonably practicable andPre-Startup Safety Reviews PSSRs before commissioning key steps towards achieving this goal.
These steps include sustaining a strong equipment.
Mechanical integrity inspections are conducted as a focus on and commitment to: improving the work environment, using predictive and preventative exercise to reduce the likelihood of incidents.
industry best standards, establishing and communicating safety policies and procedures, training, coaching safe behaviours and developing a As in previous years, there are corporate and site specific objectives culture where safety is the first priority and not compromised by established with the management of each manufacturing location.
objectives address general opportunities to improve performance, based for example on industry best practice, or learning from incidents across the The Group uses recordable incidents as its principal measure of safety Group.
Site specific objectives reflect the particular needs at each location, performance.
Recordable incidents as defined by the US Occupational as well as to align practices with corporate objectives.
Safety & Health Administration are basically work related injuries and illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first aid, work restrictions to normal duties or time away from work.
To monitor performance and trends among more serious injuries and illnesses, the Group also records lost time accidents LTAs that require greater than three days away fromwork not including the day of incident.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Health, safety and environment continued Monitoring and compliance with environmental permits and good A formal procedure for incident reporting and investigation continues environmental practice ensures that permitted discharges from the tobe a key management tool used for recognising unsafe conditions Specialty Products Charleston facility in West Virginia do not affect andbehaviours and for communicating globally any investigative findings freshwater mussels in the Kanawha River, another protected species.
An example of a corrective action is the Our Chromium business has maintained relatively large fenced areas introduction in a number of our manufacturing sites of a short session of undeveloped land 130 hectares adjacent to its main manufacturing ofstretching exercises at the start of work each day to help reduce the site in Castle Hayne, North Carolina, which will remain forested to possibility of back and muscle strains.
This initiative is being rolled out provide a haven for wildlife to inhabit.
At two sites, Milwaukee, Wisconsin Chromium, and Anji, China Specialty Products, retaining walls have been constructed to prevent In 2015, renewed emphasis was placed on increasing near miss reporting silt and residual clay from being washed into the adjacent rivers.
as a warning of the potential for more serious incidents in slightly different The Specialty Products facility in Livingston, Scotland, which is the circumstances.
In addition, site leadership communicates current safety primary manufacturing site for our Personal care business, achieved concerns and reinforces commitment to safety by a variety of means such in2014 the rigorous standards required to be certified under RSPO as issuing safety alert bulletins based on learning from incidents, safety for its organoclay range of products, which it plans to extend to its gel stand-downs where time out is taken to discuss safety with management, product range in 2016.
The site is a member of RSPO and also and tool box talks led by supervisors to raise awareness on specific achieved Good Manufacturing Practice 2012 certification in 2014 from topical issues.
the European Federation for Cosmetics Ingredients, demonstrating ourcommitment to quality, safety, sustainability and innovation for the Environmental impact personal care industry.
The Groups activities are closely regulated by robust environmental permits, which Elementis complies with rigorously.
Environmental performance Elementis monitors key environmental statistics for each manufacturing Elementis records and categorises environmental incidents into tiers facility.
Energy and water consumption, air emissions, effluent discharges based on the severity or actions taken by regulatory authorities.
Tier 3 and solid waste disposal will all vary according to production output incidents are those that have an impact on the environment and require which is a function of demand as well as changes in fuel and production reporting to an external authority and where enforcement action is likely.
However, they are also affected by changes in product mix Tier 2 incidents have a minor impact and require notification but are likely and plant efficiencies related to operational requirements, and special to result in minimal or no action by the authorities.
Tier 1 incidents require events planned and unplanned.
no external reporting and are recorded internally and investigated so that continual improvements can be made to reduce the likelihood of future As is standard practice in the chemical industry, emission values may Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents.
becalculated from energy use or based on representative sampling, aswell as continuous monitoring.
In 2015, Elementis had no Tier 3 or Tier 2 incidents 2014: one Tier 3: zero Tier 2.
Elementis continues to work proactively to improve environmental performance.
For example in 2015 a new, high efficiency regenerative Biodiversity thermal oxidiser was installed at the Jersey City plant.
Improvements Our policy is that biodiversity should be protected insofar as it is tothe amine unloading area at the St Louis plant have reduced the reasonably practicable to achieve, by reducing or avoiding the impact on environmental risk of spillage and improves operational safety.
and potential for damage to sensitive species, habitats and ecosystems.
Our policy is supported by biodiversity surveys of all 18 global facilities Energy consumption bymanagers at the plants, which help to frame our actions.
These plans Elementis consumes energy from several sources electricity, steam, are based on site level impact assessments.
For example, if a facility natural gas, LPG, coal, biomass and oil at manufacturing sites, principal islocated in an industrial zone, then there may be limited impact on offices and laboratories.
For comparison purposes, energy consumption biodiversity.
Other factors considered might include an assessment of is converted into consistent energy units, Gigajoules GJ.
Energy thelocal environment for natural features or habitats.
Of our 18 facilities, consumption is shown in the table below.
seven are based in industrial areas, seven in areas classed as rural, three classed urban and one a desert.
Of the seven rural locations, these tend Energy consumption to be on or near woodlands, grasslands or farmlands.
Local plans for reducing or avoiding impact on biodiversity are therefore based on factors 2015 2014 2013 specific and appropriate to each site.
Per Per Per Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production Biodiversity, the variety and variability of life, is protected, and in some 4,864 12.7 5,046 12.1 5,102 13.0 cases can be enhanced, in a variety of ways.
A major contribution is Energy achieved through effective design, operation and monitoring of consumed GJ environmental control systems.
Biodiversity benefits generally from reduced emissions to air, discharges to water and solid waste disposal.
For reference: one GJ 277.7778 kWh However, some specific actions and controls are targeted at achieving particular objectives.
Examples of our efforts and specific action plans Energy consumption reduced in 2015 mainly as a function of production.
implemented include the following: In addition Elementis seeks wherever practicable to improve its energy efficiency in the plant and equipment used.
This is illustrated in the Seedlings for native species trees more than one hectare have been examples of energy saving initiatives described on the next page.
planted at the Specialty Products site at Palmital in Brazil.
Action has been taken to preserve and protect the habitat of desert tortoises, which are a protected species, from activities at the Specialty Products hectorite clay mine in the Mojave Desert in California.
These include erecting a tortoise fence and barriers and working with a certified biologist to remove tortoises that make their way beyond the barrier and return them to their own habitat.
22 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 ESOSR Greenhouse gas emissions Elementis falls within the scope of the UK Energy Savings Opportunity Elementis reports greenhouse gas GHG emissions for its global Scheme Regulations 2014 ESOSR because the UK turnover and operations as Scope 1 and Scope 2 according to the requirements of balance sheet exceed the qualification threshold.
Previous work by TheCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Elementis to improve energy efficiency meant that much of the evidence Regulations 2013.
The Elementis GHG emissions reporting process was for compliance with ESOSR was already in place.
Nevertheless, as audited by our internal auditors, PwC, in 2015.
The internal audit report required, Elementis undertook the necessary audit of energy consumption found the procedures to be appropriate and the data collection and with third party assistance and identified energy saving opportunities.
A conversion process to be robust and supportable.
registered lead assessor verified the ESOSR assessment and notification of compliance with ESOSR was made to the Environment Agency by the The principal GHG due to operations at Elementis locations is carbon due date.
GHG emissions are calculated from energy purchased.
Energy units are converted into carbon dioxide equivalent Examples of 2015 energy initiatives that have improved CO2 using official data provided by the UK Department for energy efficiency Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra.
There are also GHG The Delden facility in the Netherlands was in the third year of a four year emissions from chemical reactions in production processes and carbon energy efficiency initiative.
Replacing the nitrogen compressor unit and dioxide used for process cooling.
Commencing in 2015 the report now the planned investment in the boiler plant room will bring substantial includes an estimate of GHG emissions from onsite wastewater treatment energy savings projected to be over 10,000 GJ per year.
GHG emissions are reported for all 18 manufacturing sites, the principal offices and laboratories, as well as a site The Chromium facility in Castle Hayne, NC, has reduced energy undergoing closure procedures in Eaglescliffe, UK.
A number of much consumption by installing lower energy, longer life LED light emitting smaller sales offices have been excluded because the level of CO2e diode lighting in place of the older types of lighting.
emissions was deemed not to make a material contribution to the total.
Operators at the Specialty Products hectorite mine were able to improve Elementis is providing two intensity ratios: tonnes CO e per tonne of 2 fuel consumption on their equipment through better utilisation of larger production and tonnes CO e per kWh of energy consumed.
Over a period of years both of these indicators should give an indication The building optimisation project at SciPark in East Windsor, NJ, which ofenergy efficiency improvements including cleaner fuels consumed.
comprises a technical centre and management headquarters, is achieving 11 per cent savings on gas consumption and 10 per cent on electricity Note that the intensity ratios are subject to variations due to changes consumption.
inthe mix of products manufactured, volumes and energy efficiency improvements.
Global initiatives elsewhere include conversion to LED lighting, installing variable speed drives on large electric motors, and improved operating GHG emissions are shown below.
practices to minimise the time equipment is idle.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Current reporting Prior year for Base year for period 2015 comparison 2014 comparison 2013 Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities tonnes CO e 208,610 221,420 221,076 2 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use tonnes CO e 78,750 82,265 89,500 2 Total Scope 1 and 2 tonnes CO e 287,360 303,685 310,576 2 Intensity ratio: Tonnes CO e tonne production 0.75 0.73 0.77 2 Supplementary intensity ratio: Kg CO e kWh energy consumed 0.26 0.27 0.27 2 Out of Scope: Biofuel tonnes CO e 3,408 0 0 2 Note: CO e values were derived using DEFRA published factors 2 During 2015, as in 2014, the Livingston facility in Scotland purchased In this third year of GHG emissions reporting, the table shows that the electricity from 100 per cent renewable sources and therefore did not total Scope 1 and 2 CO e emissions in 2015 decreased by 7 per cent contribute to Scope 2 emissions.
2 compared to the base year and 5 per cent compared to 2014.
In part thetotal is affected by changes in production volumes and product mix.
Elsewhere the Group continues to use cleaner energy sources such as However, a significant change in 2015 was in China.
During the year the natural gas, which represented almost 95 per cent of energy required for organoclay sites in China at Changxing and Anji switched from using coal combustion with coal 2.6 per cent in 2015 and now no longer in use.
to biomass, comprised of renewable organic material bamboo and wood pellets, as an energy source.
Following guidance from DEFRA, CO 2 emissions from biofuel use are excluded from the Scope 1 total to balance the CO absorbed by fast growing bioenergy sources during their growth.
2 However a CO e allowance is included in the Scope 1 total to account for 2 the small amount of methane and nitrous oxide GHG emissions, which are not absorbed during growth.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Health, safety and environment continued Hazardous waste increased slightly while non-hazardous waste reduced Other emissions to air slightly in 2015.
The solid waste arising in 2015 is considered to be within Emissions of the oxides of sulphur and nitrogen and volatile organic the normal variability of operations.
compounds VOCs arising from the Groups operations are controlled tocomply with regulatory permits.
As the volumes are not considered to Waste disposal be significant, they are not reported separately here but will be available on the Elementis corporate website.
Any emission to air above regulatory 2015 2014 2013 permitted levels would normally be reported as an environmental incident.
Per Per Per 1,000 1,000 1,000 Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Discharges to water 000s production 000s production 000s production The Groups production activity generates process effluent that is Hazardous routinely tested to ensure that the quality meets strict permit limits prior waste todischarge.
Typical analysis includes chemical and biological oxygen disposed demand and total suspended solids.
The volumes of these discharges tonnes 0.94 3.68 0.79 3.09 0.93 3.64 arenot considered to be significant and are not reported here but will Nonbeavailable on our corporate website.
However, any discharge to hazardous waterabove regulatory permitted levels would normally be reported waste asanenvironmental incident.
disposed tonnes 100 391 104 405 105 410 Water consumption Water is a valuable resource and the Company recognises the global R&D and sustainability need to conserve it.
Water consumption is minimised where possible Our global R&D efforts continue to maintain focus on activity that bytreatment and recycling.
supports and contributes to a more sustainable future.
Examples of these include the following: Water consumption is related to production output, product mix, plant utilisation and cleaning activities.
The net result in 2015 was a 2 per cent Greenhouse gas mitigation through programmes aimed at VOC reduction.
volatile organic compound reduction, as well as the conversion ofsolvent-borne to water-borne coatings.
Water consumption Reducing the energy demand in the manufacture of coatings.
Expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
2015 2014 2013 Per Per Per Examples of some of our more significant new product developments in Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production the past year that help demonstrate how our R&D efforts contribute to greater sustainability include the following: Water consumed 3 m 1,778 6.93 1,811 7.08 1,908 7.48 Rheology control additives for sealants and for marine and protective coatings that facilitate the manufacture of these coatings at lower temperatures, resulting in energy savings and increased productivity.
Solid and liquid waste New generation of wetting agents that accelerate the transition to As part of the Groups commitment to sustainable development, water-borne coatings through enabling surface tension reduction Elementis seeks to reduce the quantity of all types of waste.
The first oflow energy substrates, without the negatives of, for example, foam concern is to reduce the amount of waste that is classed as hazardous.
Beyond that non-hazardous waste is minimised and recycled.
NonTechnology that allows for the faster and safer removal of nail hazardous waste is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln polishgels.
operations, which is deposited in permitted impoundments and licenced landfill sites adjacent to the manufacturing facilities.
24 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Product stewardship Community Elementis is passionate that our products are safe for their intended use Our community programme remains centred on encouraging and topeople and the environment throughout the products life cycle and supporting employees to be active in their communities through volunteer thatour products help move all towards a more sustainable future.
The Group understands the need to work with local communities and be a responsible neighbour.
The Groups activities in 2015 resulted in the successful implementation ofthe OSHA GHS Globally Harmonised System hazard communications Approval of Strategic report standard in the US ahead of schedule.
In addition, GHS implementation The Strategic report comprises the following sections: Chairmans inBrazil, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand was also successfully statement, Our objectives, strategies and business model, Our completed.
New multi-language labels were deployed worldwide to businesses, Finance report incorporating Key performance indicators reduce shipping costs and to facilitate product transport across borders.
and the Risk management report and Corporate responsibility report which incorporates information relating to greenhouse gas emissions The EUs REACh regulation continued to dominate Group preparations required to be included in the Directors report.
The Strategic report forthe major registration effort for 2018.
Due to the enormous complexity wasapproved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: of registering over 100 substances for the next REACh deadline in 2018, the Group worked with a major software developer to create a specific cloud based REACh registration tool, called Euphor, to track, manage anddocument the multitude of tasks and costs associated with each Brian Taylorson substances registration dossier.
Euphor will allow for easy cross Finance Director functional collaboration which provides greater coordination, transparency 1 March 2016 and costs tracking of the EU REACh programme, as well as subsequent programmes in other countries.
The Group continued to further enhance its compliance tools by utilising the Wercs software platform to automate SVT Substance Volume Tracking to reduce the time and manpower needed to comply with various REACh programmes in Europe and Asia, and other substance volume reporting programmes like the forthcoming 2016 CDR Chemical Data Reporting in the US.
The Group has also began the deployment of its enhanced export control management system to its business in Asia last year.
Export control measures to perform Denied Parties screenings and sanctions notifications were boosted to ensure stronger compliance with export restriction programmes in the US and EU.
Efforts towards sustainability initiatives continue to be an important component of our product stewardship programme.
In 2014 the Group obtained its RSPO certification for its Livingston production facility and several important personal care products.
Preparations have begun toexpand RSPO certification to other sites and products in 2016.
TheGroupcontinued its sustainable supply chain programme through EcoVadis and began a new assessment that will be completed in the firstquarter of 2016.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 25
