Our health and safety Health and safety is recognised as a key priority for the We have developed and delivered an internal health and business with solid cultural engagement and support.
Key safety two-day management training course, aimed at achievements over this year have been: improving the general health and safety knowledge of supervisors and managers, as well as looking at specific A significant year-on-year reduction in the Lost Time procedures and processes regarding health and safety.
Accident rate number of lost time accidents per 200,000 Global occupational health and well-being initiatives have hours worked from 0.42 in 2014 to 0.29 in 2015.
As a included stress awareness, healthy lifestyle campaigns reminder, this rate was over 1.0 as recently as 2011. and the creation of healthy rooms.
We continue to A 19% reduction in the number of days lost due to support EU-OSHA to improve working conditions in accidents from 151 in 2014 to 122 in 2015.
We have also worked with injured employees and those with health issues to assist rehabilitation and The most serious accidents we record are lost time provide support.
accidents: this year we have recorded a total of 18, which shows a 31% reduction over last year and compares to Manual handling injuries account for the highest number a total of 26 in 2014.
This shows a reduction of 49% over of injured employees.
In high risk areas of the business the last three years.
we have introduced the use of Backtrack, a system that allows us to monitor and correct manual handling The total number of recorded accidents has decreased behaviour, undertake more informed risk assessments in over the year.
We have seen a fall from the 547 recorded the workplace and improve the focus of training.
In the UK, fleet risk management continues to be a key 10,595 near misses have been reported globally, focus.
We have developed the driver safety forum and compared to 8,247 reported in 2014. amended the drivers risk assessment process, providing For three years, health and safety has been the highest a more in-depth analysis to identify high-risk drivers.
scoring element on the employee engagement survey.
This In recognition of our health and safety success over this improvement in employee engagement and awareness of year, we have been granted the Royal Society for the safety issues is also reflected in the increase in the number Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Award for ongoing of near misses reported in our facilities.
We continue to use commitment to raising occupational health and safety behavioural safety as a key tool to change and adapt our standards.
Furthermore, we have received an International employees attitudes and approach to health and safety.
Safety Award for our commitment to the health, safety and Engagement from our employees is further demonstrated well-being of our people.
by the use of daily management within operations and some customer services teams through the implementation of Our Performance.
This allows accident and near miss data to be reviewed and action taken by local team members, further increasing employee awareness and ownership.
Over the last four years, the approach to health and safety and the subsequent results have been reflective of the investment in health and safety across the business.
There is a clear vision and strategy in place and visible leadership from senior management and the GEC.
Some of the major activities and initiatives are as follows: Target Zero remains at the heart of our approach to improving safety across the business: it is inspired by the vision of zero accidents or harm to employees.
It includes safety leadership, personal safety and generally looking after each other in the workplace.
The Target Zero tool kit, developed to build on the success of recent leadership training, consists of five modules designed to allow managers to focus team communications on health and safety.
The modules are focused on working from home, leadership, safe driving, well-being and safety on customers premises.
