Our people Investing in our people has been a key focus area for us as we work to create the conditions for high performing teams.
We have continued to use the results from our 2014 global employee engagement survey, My Voice, to inform our actions.
Employee engagement We have been focused on implementing My Voice action plans in all functions across the business to drive higher employee engagement.
Our global My Voice Project Board has met on a regular basis to share functional action plans, discuss best practice and monitor progress.
The top four drivers we worked on are: Delivering on promises: Valuing employees: Reward and recognition: and Leadership.
Examples of actions include: Career development Delivering on promises: We have actively used change We are passionate about supporting our people to fulfil their management approaches for current and future projects, career ambitions.
to improve two-way communication and keep our colleagues involved during pre-implementation in order to We are 15 months into the outsourced resourcing be more successful in implementing global processes.
partnership between RS and Alexander Mann Solutions Valuing employees: Within Global Finance and Global and see the benefits of data to drive decisions, improved HR, one of the key areas of focus has been career time to hire and reduced reliance on suppliers.
We have designed a skills and capabilities 2014, we have made 833hires, 35% of which were filled model that supports our business partnering population.
by internal candidates, reflecting our strategy to provide It is designed to help our people develop the skills and new opportunities, enabling people to fulfil their potential capabilities to support them through their career.
and develop their careers within the business.
Only 4% of hires have been via third-party agency suppliers.
Reward and recognition: In Global Offer we have identified and recognised those who have gone above Weheld Career Speaker events where people working and beyond to change the way we work and continuously across the globe shared how they have approached and improve what we do.
Moved the Dial and Have a Go developed their careers.
This has provided our people Hero awards, and Thank you cards are being made a with career support, increasing the pace of learning and part of how we work.
quality of career development plans.
Leadership: Across Global Marketing, a series of For our global leadership population we offered workshops have taken place to improve and drive Leadership Coaching and Strategic Thinking development consistency around management and leadership programmes with 340 and 50 leaders respectively having behaviours amongst our senior management team.
completed the programmes to date.
We have offered 83 training courses in 2015, up from 67 We achieved an 81% response rate in our March 2015 in 2014.
Over 545 colleagues across the business have My Voice survey and an increase of 1% in employee attended these courses through our RS People Academy, engagement.
com Stock Code: ECM 36 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4 Strategic Report Diversity and inclusion We remain committed to embedding a diverse and inclusive culture to gain the best from our people and provide the best service to our customers.
To achieve this we continued to embed our behaviours, RS The way we work to create the right environment for our strategy to flourish and succeed.
At the beginning of the year we conducted research to understand what helps and hinders peoples progress in their careers in our business and used these findings to define our priority areas which included: Recruitment and selection: Flexible working and Career paths.
Examples of actions include: Recruitment and selection: We have developed Hiring Manager training to support our managers to attract, recruit and promote in an inclusive way with pilots Human rights complete in Singapore and the UK.
Our respect for human rights is implicit in our employment Flexible working: We have enhanced the technology practices: the rights of every employee are respected and available to our people to enable work to be performed in every employee is treated with dignity and consideration.
Our employment practices are designed to attract, retain, motivate and train people and to respect their rights.
We Career paths: We have developed a career path do not use child labour in line with the Minimum Age framework ready to roll out this year to help increase the Convention, nor do we use forced labour.
We recognise transparency of career path choices for our people.
freedom of association by permitting our employees to 1 Overall headcount and senior managers establish and join organisations of their own choosing without our permission, and we recognise collective bargaining where required by local laws.
Senior Managers 104 176 3,018 3,360 MALE FEMALE 1 As at 31 March 2015 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015 37 23671-04 11 June 2015 3:03 PM Proof 4
