Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 23 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility We remain committed to operating our business in an ethical and responsible manner and to manage those responsibilities effectively.
Our CSR delivery framework is based Pub is The Hub on strategic drivers which ensure we We continue to support the make a real and sustainable difference 92% of the total philosophy and ethos of The Prince of to our people and publicans and the Waless Pub is The Hub campaign, Group estate is now communities in which our pubs are encouraging rural publicans to located.
These drivers are community, valued externally diversify and deliver a wide range of people, publicans, responsible services to the communities they providing a robust retailing and environment.
This helps to secure the longer underpin to our net term success of the pub and to keep Community it at the heart of local communities.
asset value of 2.70 With over 5,000 pubs across England and Wales, Enterprise has A number of our publicans have per share the opportunity to touch a sizeable developed a range of community number of local communities, offering services including village shops and employment opportunities and community cafes or operate as sub amenities that meet the needs of post offices where there have been local people.
The most effective way branch closures and loss of local to do this is through partnerships with amenities.
our publicans, as they are the people Supporting industry trade that live within the communities bodies and associations and should work at building lasting relationships within the local areas, We are committed to supporting and remaining sensitive to local a number of key trade bodies and issues.
The best pubs provide a associations including the BBPA, the We continue to evolve our Corporate friendly, safe, inclusive and controlled leading body representing Britains Social Responsibility CSR agenda environment, and make a positive brewers and pub companies who and recognise that it can play a contribution to the local population.
strive to promote and protect one significant part in recruitment, leading of the nations most iconic and We work with publicans, local and influencing our publicans as well important industries.
We work with authorities and other local community as our own people and operations, the Federation of Licensed Victuallers interest groups to ensure that more so now that we have adopted Associations FLVA, an organisation licensing hours and conditions new operating models and are able to looking after the business interests attached to pub premises licenses more closely translate our own values of self-employed licensees in the are appropriate and take account of onto the retail side of the business.
The British Institute the opportunities and interests of of Innkeeping BII is the professional This report does not contain all parties.
Through our membership body for the licensed retail sector information about any policies of the of the British Beer and Pub with charitable status and a remit to Group in relation to human rights Association BBPA, we engage with raise professional standards.
We work issues since it is not considered Government departments to promote closely with the BII on a variety of necessary for an understanding of the understanding of, and compliance initiatives that support our publicans development, performance or position with, the licensing regime.
Each of and the industry: the FLVA and BII of the Groups business activities.
the pubs we own or operate is unique attend our Recruitment Super Events and we and our publicans aim to We have continued to make positive and entepriselive event to discuss the provide a distinctive service to attract progress on our CSR agenda during benefits of membership with both a broad range of customers and the year and are recognised by potential and existing publicans.
All pubs aim to inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index assist all new Enterprise publicans create a congenial atmosphere and to which is designed to objectively with their first years subscription to promote the prevention of crime and measure the performance of either the BII or FLVA.
disorder, the preservation of public companies that meet globally safety, prevention of public nuisance recognised corporate responsibility and protection of children from harm standards.
and must operate so that commercial initiatives do not override the core values.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Front.
indd 23 07 12 2015 17:25:03 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 24 Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives, the national runner up The committee also organises Community Heroes receives 5,000, with the other 52 fundraising events at its Head Office Our Community Heroes Awards regional finalists each receiving up including bake sales, treasure hunts, were established four years ago to to 3,000 towards local causes and raffles and quizzes, which have recognise those publicans who make activities of their choice.
together raised another 4,000 a real difference to the communities benefitting organisations including they serve.
The awards are about Charity Comic Relief, Macmillan and the Royal going above and beyond the call of Enterprise is committed to supporting British Legion.
Enterprise are taking duty and having a positive impact at and encouraging our employees to their support for the British Legion the heart of the community.
give something back by leading or further, and have launched, together This is a long-term project for the participating in charitable events.
with Charles Wells, a beer called Company and we are investing 1 The Group operates a charity Poppy, for which the Legion will million over a ten year period to fund committee consisting of employee receive 10 pence for each pint sold.
One of the roles of In addition, Enterprise employees had have changed the award structure and the committee is to agree Enterprise the opportunity to donate selection prize level tiers this year in order to donations to sponsor employees in boxes at Christmas time, for which more widely recognise the fantastic their individual challenges.
Some nearly 200 were collected and impact so many of our publicans are examples of these challenges include distributed to three local charities.
All of the London to Paris bike ride, Cancer the many nominations for the awards Research UKs Race for Life and the make a significant and positive impact Great Birmingham Run.
We have on the communities they serve.
The donated a total of 3,000 over the national annual award winner now course of the year for these events.
receives 6,000 to spend on local The Cellar House, Norwich Victoria MacDonald The Cellar House, in its own words, The pub has close links with the Eaton aims to be a bustling Community Village Residents Association EVRA Pub that offers great beers, regular and has plans to widen their current events such as live music nights and beer festival into a larger village fete quizzes, supports local clubs and next year.
The EVRA also recently teams, and happens to be a great approached Victoria, asking her to place to eat.
The publican, Victoria consider applying to offer a local COMMUNITY MacDonald, allows a number of clubs post office service once the current to use the pub facilities for free, post master retires.
This application Community including the local ukulele club, whilst has just been accepted, which will sponsoring a number of local sports serve to further put the pub at the Heroes Awards teams.
The fabulous community work done and spirit demonstrated by Victoria and her team impressed the panel of industry experts judging this years awards and led her to being crowned Enterprises Community Heroes winner for 2015.
Learn more about our publicans at www.
indd 24 07 12 2015 17:25:03 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 25 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Across the pub estate, a large number In 2015 we completed our second of Enterprise publicans supported survey and achieved an outstanding Cancer Research UKs second national 93% response rate.
The outcome PEOPLE fundraising BBQ weekend, and demonstrated that the actions together raised over 8,000. taken since the previous survey Management had proved to be successful, with In June 2015 we entered into a Development scores improving in the appropriate Primary Authority Scheme partnership questions.
Again we have identified Programme with West Midlands Fire Service.
our priorities for 2015 16 and will Our contribution of 15,000 per year reassess next year.
to support this partnership is used In 2015 we launched a to promote the charity Safeside.
National Living Wage Management Development Safeside has experiential learning We are already building the Programme to support our centres in Eastside and Handsworth implications of the living wage into internal employees from in Birmingham which provide our expansion plans in our managed across the business who have innovative, interactive and enjoyable business.
In the short-term this aspirations to move into a learning environments inspiring will have a small impact given the senior management role.
The visitors to think and act safely.
The numbers of managed houses in the programme was delivered centres are used extensively by portfolio but as that increases we will over a 12 month period and school groups, vulnerable adults and continue with our labour investment.
consisted of a number of the elderly.
internally and externally delivered Paying the living wage supports our courses covering topics such Through our managed business we aim of attracting and retaining great as impact and influencing, have sought to align our ethos of people to operate our businesses employee engagement and being involved in and supporting the and it will reduce staff turnover and presentation skills.
Alongside communities in which we operate, improve motivation and productivity.
these, each delegate worked on and are participating in the Stride Retaining employees enables us a strategically aligned business venture which introduces young to improve service standards by project which culminated in a people in local schools to business providing on-going training and presentation to our Executive and enterprise skills.
We will be through engaged and motivated Management Group.
Feedback supporting Stride with their putting teams.
from delegates included: young minds to work programme for 200 pupils within a three mile radius This also supports the Groups I have found the experience of four of our managed pubs in the objectives of offering career thoroughly beneficial to not south east, committing 20,000 to development by internal progression only how I work, but how I this venture.
opportunities and recognised industry interact with other employees, qualifications.
People The content has been both Employee Management refreshing and motivational and I engagement survey Development Programme would definitely recommend this We seek to create an inspiring In 2015 we launched our internal to other employees looking to working environment where Management Development develop in their current role.
everyone is engaged and motivated.
The MDP has In 2014 we conducted our first been developed to support employees Group wide employee engagement who want to progress into senior Learn more about our people at survey, My Opinion.
We were leadership roles within the business.
com then able to identify a number of drivers of engagement to focus on.
These included increased internal communication, the introduction of new business equipment to improve field team efficiency and quarterly training events.
indd 25 07 12 2015 17:25:04 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Health and wellbeing Diversity Training We encourage our people to adopt a We are committed to equal At Enterprise we place great healthy lifestyle.
Enterprise offers a opportunities and the creation of an importance on developing skills and flexible benefits scheme to members entirely non-discriminatory working potential in order to support all our of staff, including benefits such as environment and operate within our employees to harness talent and the cycle to work scheme, leisure policy to ensure that all employees therefore drive business performance.
club membership, private medical are recruited, developed, promoted Wherever possible we endeavour and dental insurance, flexible and remunerated on the basis of their to fill our vacancies through internal holiday benefits, a health screening skills and job suitability and ensure no progression, however where people service and a confidential employee individual is treated less favourably join us externally we aim to provide assistance programme.
because of, amongst other matters, the best possible start with structured gender, marital status, race, age, induction plans in place for everyone.
Employment policies sexual preference, religion, belief or Training is provided in a number of The Groups employment policies and disability.
The Group is dedicated to ways, through on the job coaching, procedures are described in detail in undertaking its business operations formal training courses, e-learning and its staff handbook, which is available in a way which respects individual mentoring.
E-learning is particularly to all employees on our intranet.
This human rights, diversity and equality effective in providing regular training handbook takes account of relevant and treats individuals with dignity and and process updates to all our field employment legislation and best allows freedom of association.
New policies, procedures We give full consideration to number of employees in studying for and related training are developed as applications for employment appropriate professional qualifications.
The Groups anti-bribery and from disabled persons where the In recognition of our internal corruption code of conduct sets out requirements of the job can be development we have achieved how Group employees, publicans and adequately fulfilled by them.
We Development Partner status with the suppliers must act to ensure that our endeavour to retain the employment Chartered Institute of Management zero tolerance approach to bribery and of, and arrange suitable retraining for, Accountants CIMA and Approved corruption is upheld.
any employee who becomes disabled Employer status with the Association during their employment as well as of Chartered Certified Accountants providing training, career development ACCA.
We are currently trialling and promotion to disabled employees internal apprenticeships at our head wherever appropriate.
office and intend to implement an apprenticeship scheme within our managed estate.
At 30 September 2015 the number of employees was as follows: All-employee share schemes MALE FEMALE EMPLOYEES Enterprise encourages employee ownership of Company shares Directors Employees through the provision of a Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE and a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
In recognition of our employment Senior managers policies, we have attained the prestigious accolade of both Investors 270 in People IIP Gold and Champion.
348 This recognises our position as a role model for the IIP community and the wider business population.
This includes all staff now employed in the managed businesses.
indd 26 07 12 2015 17:25:05 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 27 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Mentoring We have a publican Gaming Gaming and leisure Publicans mentoring service for publicans machines are an integral part of Enterprise is committed to fair, who need additional help and the business for many pubs.
We transparent and lawful dealing with support to establish their business.
ensure that our publicans are our publicans.
Our Code of Practice, This invaluable support is available aware of both their legal and social accredited by the BII, sets out to new publicans and is provided responsibilities under the Gambling and governs how we manage our by experienced BII accredited Act 2005. relationships with our publicans.
Retail standards Our regional also commit to providing various Finders fee We also offer a managers work with our publicans levels of support as part of our finders fee which is paid to our to help them ensure they offer the agreements with publicans: publicans for the successful highest levels of retail standards to Business support and training introduction of a new publican on their customers and provide a safe We want to ensure new publicans a tenancy agreement.
In addition, and welcoming environment at all are as prepared as possible to we pay 500 to a charity of the times.
As beer is such an intrinsic run their pub.
We require all new publicans choice which is typically part of a pub offer, Enterprise publicans to complete the Prea local charity supported by the works closely with Cask Marque Entry Awareness Training course pub, and in the last financial year an independent body that assesses run by the BII.
We have an industry made charitable donations under the quality of beer served by leading induction programme called this scheme of more than 13,000. member pubs.
100 Days to offer intensive help Marketing Support Throughout Apprenticeships and support to our new publicans.
the year we offer our publicans Apprenticeships provide a vital All our publicans can also benefit special deals and online ordering platform for young people who from free business development promotions.
want to develop an exciting career and training courses.
We currently have more than 100 learners on an apprenticeship programme within our leased and tenanted estate.
The Butchers Arms, Brimington Nicky Claxton and Trevor Marples New publicans Nicky Claxton and Nicky and Trevor were also the first Trevor Marples took on The Butchers to go live with a brand new publican Arms, Brimington, near Chesterfield support initiative we launched in in July 2015 on a five year retail July Pub websites, whereby every partnership agreement following new publican taking on an Enterprise capital spend of 80,000 carried out pub on a long-term tenancy can by Enterprise to refurbish the internal now receive a tailored website to PUBLICANS trading areas.
As new publicans they help kick-start and promote their received training support, with Nicky business.
The websites are supported New publican attending a three day Building your by professional photography, and Business course and the Award in include information such as opening support Beer & Cellar Quality, both of which hours, location details, events listings, were funded by Enterprise to help menus, images, contact details and them get their new business venture social media links.
90 new publicans up and running.
have taken advantage of this support during the first five months since they were introduced.
indd 27 07 12 2015 17:25:06 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Addressing consequences of Responsible retailing The managed business alcohol misuse We continue The irresponsible consumption Where we now have operational to work proactively with local or retailing of alcohol can have control of our estate of managed authorities and have made detrimental effects on the social pubs with that direct control we are commitments to provide support structures of local communities.
able to influence how best to manage for schemes such as Best Bar Publicans, supermarkets, off-licences, waste disposal, recycling and energy None and Pubwatch to develop and the Government and the consumer efficiency.
As our managed business implement policies and strategies all have responsibilities towards the grows we will grow our capabilities which are designed to address the promotion and management of a to deliver sustainable operating potential consequences of alcohol responsible drinking environment.
procedures which are mindful of the misuse whilst not penalising the We seek to be responsible by the environment and the local community.
majority of responsible publicans following means: In particular we have engaged with and their customers.
Drinkaware The Company is a a specialist independent energy Drug awareness It is the sponsor of the Drinkaware Trust.
consultancy for expert advice responsibility of all publicans to Drinkaware promotes responsible and guidance on energy saving create and maintain a safe, secure drinking and finds innovative ways opportunities and efficiencies.
They and relaxing environment for to challenge the national drinking are providing detailed energy surveys their customers.
We support our culture to help reduce alcohol and recommendations to improve publicans through free training and misuse and minimise alcoholefficiency and energy management help and advice to ensure they can related harm.
This independent which allow us to focus investment fulfil these obligations.
UK-wide charity is supported by where annual savings have attractive Drinks range We supply our voluntary donations from across short and long-term payback periods publicans with an extensive range the drinks industry and provides and improve energy ratings for the of products including many low people with accessible, evidenceproperties.
In the longer-term we and no alcohol alternatives and in based information about alcohol intend to take these initiatives to our own managed pubs offer a full and its effects.
It works alongside the leased and tenanted estate range of products.
the medical community, third and include them in our investment Drink labels We support sector organisations, Government considerations, harnessing greater suppliers who have introduced and drinks manufacturers and efficiencies across the wider estate.
sensible drinking messages on retailers to promote responsible In the managed estate we do not their products.
operate any 24 hour licenses and Responsibility deal We support Proof of age We actively are able to directly promote age the Governments Public Health promote various proof of age appropriate supplies and directly responsibility deal and encourage schemes to all publicans, providing engage with local communities our publicans to embrace details of a variety of schemes where we are also able to recruit local responsible retailing and enjoyment to new publicans enabling employees for the retail business.
of alcohol, especially in the safe them to operate a scheme in and sociable environment of the Supply chain their premises.
We continue to proactively the industrys Challenge 21 and management communicate units of alcohol by Challenge 25 campaigns and have In 2015 we revisited the need for an measure to ensure our publicans provided campaign materials to ethical purchasing policy.
We have can easily inform their customers every pub.
now formed a dedicated procurement and operate our managed National alcohol harm reduction team who will work in the coming businesses in the same way.
strategy Through membership year with our key supplies to ensure of the BBPA, we have actively they share similar values to our own, participated in discussions with the to ensure sustainability is considered Government in the fulfilment of its as part of the procurement process National Alcohol Harm Reduction and that suppliers have the highest Strategy.
standards of ethical business decisions and practices.
indd 28 07 12 2015 17:25:06 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 29 for the year ended 30 September 2015 is guaranteed access to robust and leased and tenanted estate and the Health and safety reliable advice in relation to regulatory new managed businesses, as well Enterprise takes the health and responsibilities.
as assessing the feasibility of energy safety management of its employees, saving investments.
Utilising the publicans and supply chain partners Environment industry standard measures of Scope very seriously.
To ensure the health We recognise our responsibilities 1 and Scope 2 of the Greenhouse Gas and safety function is best placed to achieve good environmental Protocol GHG Corporate Accounting to meet the evolving needs of the practice and to continue to strive and Reporting Standard Revised business, we operate two groups for improvement in areas of Edition 2004 we aim to engender which deal with strategic safety and environmental impact.
Our approach a carbon saving culture across all also operational issues.
These are is to work through education, stakeholders in the organisation.
designed to ensure that every area communication and direct action and function of the organisation Head office wherever possible.
can contribute to the development At our head office we have previously of relevant safety systems and Distribution efficiencies invested in the installation of passive procedures.
Wherever possible we combine low-energy lighting and energy all drinks deliveries into a single Safety Management Group SMG reduction equipment known to vehicle drop to reduce road miles, meets on a quarterly basis to review provide voltage optimisation.
These congestion, fuel and costs.
any day-to-day operational safety initiatives continue to contribute to a challenges, demands and required CO reduction.
2 Packaging waste solutions for the organisation.
This To ensure we have a meaningful Enterprise continues to fulfil its includes developing any changes to comparison we are utilising our prior obligations imposed by the Packaging our policies or procedures.
years submissions as a baseline Waste Regulations based on all alongside a combined submission These are designed to maintain recyclables sold to publicans, an which incorporates our managed safety with minimum impact on annual total of approximately 2,600 businesses.
This will allow us to our operational and commercial tonnes.
In 2015, Enterprise changed monitor and track the improvement.
Any breaches of our its membership to the SUSTAIN As our head office facility is a policies or procedures are also Drinks Packaging Partnership, a pub significant contributor to our overall reviewed by this group.
industry initiative led by the BBPA, emissions we commissioned which will provide an improved waste Strategic Safety Group SSG meets an energy audit by an energy packaging consultancy service and on a monthly basis to oversee the consultancy company and a number lowest cost compliance.
SUSTAIN strategic direction of safety within the of recommendations have been will also help us prepare for the business.
This group is specifically highlighted to assist with further more complex obligations required tasked with a governance role to reducing CO output.
In addition for our managed pubs, including 2 discuss the businesss performance, we have already commissioned a food packaging waste and all our operational targets, and objectives feasibility study to assess the impact managed pubs have the facilities to and performance in relation to safety.
of upgrading our current heating, recycle 100% of the glass used in the ventilation, air conditioning and Primary Authority PA the Company business.
lighting systems to energy efficient continues to participate in the Greenhouse gas emissions alternatives.
Governments Primary Authority Scheme PAS and regularly interacts Carbon reduction with regulators.
The Company has a During the course of this year we relationship with Westminster City have progressed initiatives relating Council for health and safety, West to carbon reduction.
These are led by Midlands Fire and Rescue Service for employee representatives and we are Fire Safety, and is currently exploring assisted by a specialist independent a relationship with Milton Keynes energy consultancy.
Our work is Borough Council for Food Safety focused on maintaining compliance, and related enforcement.
The PAS providing advice and education to arrangement ensures a company all staff across the head office, the trading across council boundaries www.
indd 29 07 12 2015 17:25:06 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Waste reduction To reduce waste we are targeting a minimum 75% of all waste being recycled.
This has already been achieved at the head office and to ensure this is attained within the managed estate our approved supply chain has been instructed that our policy is to return all packaging to source for recycling.
We will monitor and manage this process to ensure adherence.
Car fleet Energy Performance Greenhouse Gas It is recognised that business travel is Certificates EPC Emissions GHG a significant contributor to our Carbon We continue to make good progress Statement Footprint.
towards compliance with the The greenhouse gas emissions Minimum Energy Performance To mitigate this we have already statement GHG below provides Standards Regulations to ensure that invested in large screens and a summary of Enterprises where in our portfolio leases and conferencing telephony in all meeting greenhouse gas carbon emissions tenancies are approaching expiry they rooms and encourage web-based from 1 October 2014 to 30 September are appropriately rated for energy meetings and conference calls 2015.
It gives a summary of performance prior to deadlines set for where feasible.
In addition we are emissions from fuel combustion and 2018.
We are proactively managing proactively promoting to our staff the the operation of our facilities which the future requirements of EPCs and potential alternatives for each journey include our offices, managed houses where low efficiencies are identified undertaken including public transport, and company cars Scope 1, and we are seeking to prioritise those by car sharing and cycling.
We are also from our purchased electricity used investing in remedial works.
working with company car drivers to during the year Scope 2. ensure they operate their vehicles in Energy Savings We have adopted the operational the most efficient way possible.
To control approach, as defined in Opportunity Scheme this end we are currently reviewing The Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A the use of driver training courses to ESOS Corporate Accounting and Reporting help educate them in the most safe, The Energy Savings Opportunity Standard Revised Edition, 2004. economical and efficient way to drive.
Scheme Regulations 2014 ESOS Therefore, emissions associated with Regulations promoted by the We have also undertaken a our tenanted pubs are not included in Environment Agency applies to large comprehensive review of our this statement as they are considered undertakings like ourselves, and it company car fleet.
In response to this to be outside of our operational is estimated that it will lead to 1.6 review we have already amended control.
Emissions associated with billion net benefits to the UK, with the Car Fleet Policy to ensure all new our new managed houses are the majority of these being directly cars procured are subject to CO included this year for the first time 2 felt by businesses as a result of restrictions.
Our car option choices excluded in the prior year on the energy savings.
We confirm that we have been extended in each of the grounds of materiality and for ease will be fully compliant with reporting company car bandings to include of comparison the GHG statement is requirements by the 5 December at least one super hybrid ECO car.
set out in two parts: an assessment 2015 deadline.
Furthermore we have To demonstrate our commitment breakdown for the head office only embraced this initiative and fully to reducing CO associated with with the baseline year 2013 and the 2 intend to take advantage and assess transport we intend to monitor and total combined emission statement the feasibility of all of the energy track our progress on an annual head office and managed houses saving opportunities highlighted in the basis utilising the Greenhouse Gas with the baseline year of 2015.
Emission GHG statement detailed below.
indd 30 07 12 2015 17:25:08 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 31 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Assessment parameters Head office and managed houses Head office only Baseline year 2015 2013 Consolidation approach Operational control Operational control Boundary summary All facilities under All facilities under operational control excluding managed houses for operational control year on year comparison were included including, for the first time, our managed houses Consistency with the financial The use of the operational control approach causes a variation to those assets listed in our financial statements statements.
The tenanted pubs listed on our Balance Sheet were not under our operational control and are therefore not included in our emissions table.
However, approximately 233, 2014: 259 leased vehicles which were under our operational control appear in our emissions table but not in our consolidated financial statements Emission factor data source Defra October 2015 Assessment methodology The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006 Materiality threshold Materiality was set at group level at 5%, with all facilities estimated to contribute 1% of total emissions included Intensity ratio Emissions per full time equivalent employee FTEE Head office and managed houses Head office only YEARS 2015 2015 2014 2013 tCO e tCO e tCO e tCO e 2 2 2 2 tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE tCO e FTEE 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel and fleet vehicles 1,997 3.14 1,454 2.86 1,403 2.84 1,380 2.94 Operation of facilities refrigerants 77 0.12 6 0.01 9 0.02 2,074 3.26 1,454 2.86 1,409 2.85 1,389 2.96 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 1,244 1.95 444 0.87 481 0.97 450 0.96 Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 3,318 5.21 1,898 3.73 1,890 3.82 1,839 3.92 Group metrics 2015 2015 2014 2013 Full time equivalent employee FTEE 637 509 494 470 Intensity ratios gross emissions 2015 2015 2014 2013 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per full time equivalent employee tCO e FTEE 5.21 3.73 3.82 3.92 2 Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Note: Items that did not meet the materiality threshold have been excluded.
Hire cars have also been excluded to ensure an accurate like-for-like comparison.
Refrigerants associated with major maintenance events have also been excluded to ensure an accurate comparison.
indd 31 07 12 2015 17:25:09 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:10 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
