COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility encompasses Priorities goals How do we manage it?
a broad range of philosophies, Reduce the impact of carbon Understand current environmental Conducted energy audits across UK Establish Group-wide core minimum activities and standards.
emissions and secure continuous performance and establish Group operations in compliance with Energy standards for the identification and improvement in environmental expectations for improvements Savings Opportunities Scheme ESOS control of environmental impacts Essentra considers the issues that performance and results Regulations 2014 including the provision of training are material to its business and seeks to respond to them in a manner Establish Group minimum Included environmental and Continue to implement three-year appropriate to the interests of expectations for environmental sustainability improvement initiatives HSE improvement plan for the all its stakeholders.
management in site annual HSE improvement plans Group, supported by individual site improvement plans Identify and understand the Continued to invest in more flexible environmental aspects and equipment to improve energy and Offset emissions when possible impacts associated with the production efficiency Continue to prioritise War on Companys activities Reduced environmental impact Waste initiative Implement initiatives to reduce through site consolidation Continue to drive achievement of waste and increase recycling Gained accreditation to ISO 50001 ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 accreditation Explore the use of energy-saving at a further eleven sites for all manufacturing facilities technology in manufacturing Develop new techniques with suppliers and customers for environmentally friendly products Gain ISO 14001 accreditation at all manufacturing sites Gain ISO 50001 accreditation at all manufacturing sites Secure continuous improvement Identify and understand the Introduced Essentra Health and Safety Establish Group-wide core minimum in health and safety health and safety risks posed Management System and STEP initiative standards for the identification and by Essentras activities across all acquired businesses control of health and safety risks including the provision of training Establish Group minimum Launched a standardised Safety, expectations for the management Health, Environment and Quality Continue to implement three-year of health and safety SHEQ reporting scorecard and HSE improvement plan for the key performance indicators for all Group, supported by individual Understand current health and manufacturing and significant site improvement plans safety performance, and establish distribution sites Group expectations for improvements Demonstrate year-on-year and results Introduced an Essentra Health, Safety & improvement in the lost-time Environment Culture and Organisational and all accident incident rates Encourage employee initiatives Maturity Survey Tool in support of the to reinforce Company training Continue to drive achievement drive for cultural excellence of OHSAS 18001 accreditation Gain OHSAS 18001 accreditation for all manufacturing facilities at all manufacturing sites Ensure the highest standards of Promote Essentra Values Continued communication of core Respond to new risks and requirements business integrity and conduct policies through e-learning and Establish clear policies and guidance Provide further training reviews in Essentra Group System Secure employee awareness Drive employee responsibility Implemented new compliance systems and engagement Investigate complaints Continued to train employees in Code Continue to promote Right of Business Ethics to Speak policy Regular review of adherence with policies and guidance by Group Assurance 36 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Priorities goals How do we manage it?
Essentra recognises the significance and importance of being a responsible Reduce the impact of carbon Understand current environmental Conducted energy audits across UK Establish Group-wide core minimum corporate citizen in the workplace, emissions and secure continuous performance and establish Group operations in compliance with Energy standards for the identification and marketplace, environment and improvement in environmental expectations for improvements Savings Opportunities Scheme ESOS control of environmental impacts community.
The Companys international performance and results Regulations 2014 including the provision of training operations fulfil their responsibility to record, monitor and make publicly Establish Group minimum Included environmental and Continue to implement three-year available the potential impact of its expectations for environmental sustainability improvement initiatives HSE improvement plan for the activities.
In pursuing its corporate management in site annual HSE improvement plans Group, supported by individual strategy, Essentras aim is to adopt site improvement plans Identify and understand the Continued to invest in more flexible business practices that are economically, environmental aspects and equipment to improve energy and Offset emissions when possible socially and environmentally sustainable, impacts associated with the production efficiency and to promote these to its stakeholders Continue to prioritise War on Companys activities in order to strengthen relationships, share Reduced environmental impact Waste initiative knowledge and encourage best practice.
Implement initiatives to reduce through site consolidation Continue to drive achievement of waste and increase recycling Gained accreditation to ISO 50001 ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 accreditation The Companys risk management Explore the use of energy-saving at a further eleven sites for all manufacturing facilities processes include consideration of the technology in manufacturing potential impact of corporate responsibility issues on Essentras performance.
The Develop new techniques with Companys investment decisions take into suppliers and customers for account appropriate evaluations of the environmentally friendly products potential consequences for its employees, Gain ISO 14001 accreditation customers and suppliers and the at all manufacturing sites environment.
Gain ISO 50001 accreditation The Essentra Values are fundamental to at all manufacturing sites the Companys adoption of the highest Secure continuous improvement Identify and understand the Introduced Essentra Health and Safety Establish Group-wide core minimum standards of business ethics and integrity in health and safety health and safety risks posed Management System and STEP initiative standards for the identification and that underpin its relationships with both by Essentras activities across all acquired businesses control of health and safety risks internal and external stakeholders.
including the provision of training Essentras culture is one of openness, Establish Group minimum Launched a standardised Safety, integrity and accountability.
Employees expectations for the management Health, Environment and Quality Continue to implement three-year are encouraged to act fairly in their of health and safety SHEQ reporting scorecard and HSE improvement plan for the dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, key performance indicators for all Group, supported by individual Understand current health and suppliers and business partners.
manufacturing and significant site improvement plans safety performance, and establish distribution sites Group expectations for improvements Demonstrate year-on-year The Essentra Values can be found on the and results Introduced an Essentra Health, Safety & improvement in the lost-time Companys website www.
Environment Culture and Organisational and all accident incident rates Encourage employee initiatives Maturity Survey Tool in support of the to reinforce Company training Continue to drive achievement drive for cultural excellence of OHSAS 18001 accreditation Gain OHSAS 18001 accreditation for all manufacturing facilities at all manufacturing sites Ensure the highest standards of Promote Essentra Values Continued communication of core Respond to new risks and requirements business integrity and conduct policies through e-learning and Establish clear policies and guidance Provide further training reviews in Essentra Group System Secure employee awareness Drive employee responsibility Implemented new compliance systems and engagement Investigate complaints Continued to train employees in Code Continue to promote Right of Business Ethics to Speak policy Regular review of adherence with policies and guidance by Group Assurance 37 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Workplace The Group-wide intranet-based where appropriate, implementing health management reporting system continues surveillance programmes.
The Company Health and safety to facilitate an extensive live programme has achieved the Occupational Health Essentras overriding commitment in of active monitoring, which measures in & Safety Management Systems OHSAS the workplace continues to be the health, detail how successful the Company is in 18001 standard for all its principal safety and welfare of its employees and all managing the safety of its workplaces manufacturing facilities and is now those who visit the Companys operations, at an individual site level.
This has been driving this into all sites.
as well as those who carry out work on supplemented during the year by a behalf of the Group.
The Board provides structured common key performance As part of its three-year improvement health and safety leadership, and the indicator scorecard covering SHEQ at plan, a twelve-point Essentra Safety and Chief Executive has primary responsibility a site, regional, SBU and Group level.
Health Management System ESHAM for setting the principal health and safety supported by a comprehensive objectives within which the detailed The Company manages occupational communications programme was policies operate, and for reviewing health by identifying key risk activities, introduced in 2014 across all sites, to progress against those objectives.
undertaking health assessments and, facilitate the adoption of best practice and encourage behavioural change, and has continued to show an improvement Lost-Time Accident Incidence Rate MAT in scores during 2015.
lost time accidents per 100 employees together with the shop floor STEP initiative 1.15 to improve hazard spotting, reporting and corrective action, has been rolled 1.10 out to acquired sites during the year.
1.05 Although acquisitions and growth have 1.00 led to an increase in the raw number of 0.95 accidents, sustained reductions in both lost-time accident incidence rate and all 0.90 accident incidence rate have been achieved 0.85 in 2015.
However, notwithstanding these improvements, the number of accidents 0.80 occurring is still seen as an area for further 0.75 improvement and thus, in 2016, a Groupwide back to basics initiative is to be introduced in support of local site Lost Time Accident Incident Rate MAT Linear Lost Time Accident Rate MAT performance improvement programmes.
During 2015, an Essentra Health, Safety & Environment Culture and Organisational All Accident Incidence Rates MAT Maturity Survey Tool, in support of our drive No.
all accidents per 100 employees for cultural excellence, was introduced.
5.6 The tool is utilised at a site level, and there is a requirement that an action plan is 5.4 developed locally to address the main 5.2 opportunities for improvement identified in the survey.
5.0 4.8 Details of Essentras health and safety performance for 2015, and subsequent 4.6 progress throughout 2016, can be viewed 4.4 on the Companys website www.
4.2 4.0 All Accident Incident Rate MAT Linear All Accident Incident Rate MAT 38 Jan-14 Jan-14 Feb-14 Feb-14 Mar-14 Mar-14 Apr-14 Apr-14 May-14 May-14 Jun-14 Jun-14 Jul-14 Jul-14 Aug-14 Aug-14 Sep-14 Sep-14 Oct-14 Oct-14 Nov-14 Nov-14 Dec-14 Dec-14 Jan-15 Jan-15 Feb-15 Feb-15 Mar-15 Mar-15 Apr-15 Apr-15 May-15 May-15 Jun-15 Jun-15 Jul-15 Jul-15 Aug-15 Aug-15 Sep-15 Sep-15 Oct-15 Oct-15 Nov-15 Nov-15 Dec-15 Dec-15 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Employees Essentra is committed to improving The Company gives full and fair Essentras employees are a vital resource employee engagement and learning consideration to employment applications in the pursuit of operational excellence more about the needs of its workforce.
In the event of and the provision of quality products and In addition to the impact of the training employees becoming disabled, every effort service to its customers.
The skills and and development programmes, employee is made to ensure that the training, career expertise of Essentras employees drive the engagement is enhanced by the development and promotion opportunities innovation which enables the Company communication practices which have available to disabled persons are as far as to provide added value to its customers, been adopted across the businesses.
possible identical to those of non-disabled enhance supply chain logistics with its Essentra values highly the commitment employees.
suppliers and reduce the environmental of its employees and recognises the impact of its operations.
importance of communication to good Throughout its global activities working relationships and practices.
Essentra supports human rights as set The Company regularly reviews its The Company seeks to ensure that down by the United Nations Declaration organisational structure to ensure that employees are informed on matters and its applicable International Labour the business has the necessary personnel relating to their employment and on Organisation conventions.
Operations to deliver its strategic priorities.
financial and economic factors affecting based in India, Indonesia and Thailand are the businesses.
The Company actively also accredited to SA 8000 which details Essentra understands the importance of seeks feedback and ideas from employees fundamental principles of human rights.
having the right people with the right skills to improve its operations, and forums now and in the future to deliver the appropriate to Essentras local businesses The Groups activities are carried out in exceptional service and expertise which is have been established to allow employees developed countries that have strong the bedrock of the Companys long-term to voice their views as to how the legislation governing human rights.
To deliver Company should fulfil the demands of The Group complies fully with appropriate that service and expertise, Essentra is all its local and international stakeholders.
legislation in the countries in which it continually improving its comprehensive The Companys European Information operates.
Essentras commitment to talent pool, from graduates to senior and Consultation Forum facilitates the human rights is repeated in its Values management.
Essentra runs a very discussion of issues across all of its and Code of Business Ethics policy.
successful graduate training programme, operations in the European Union.
which continues to expand its international reach.
The Company recognises the importance of, and the benefits to be derived from, Key strategic aspects of recruitment, diversity across its international operations training and development are overseen and is committed to offering equal or co-ordinated at a Group level, to ensure opportunities to all people without consistency of approach, to identify discrimination of any form.
Essentra strategic threats and opportunities, and remunerates fairly with respect to skills, to open up a wider range of opportunities performance and local market conditions.
The gender of Essentras employees as Essentra encourages its employees to at 31 December 2015 was: develop and manage their own careers.
It facilitates this by providing relevant job Male Female training and, where appropriate, aims to fill vacancies with existing staff where 5 1 Non-Executive employees are suitably qualified Directors and experienced.
2 0 Executive Directors Essentra encourages the involvement of 38 2 Senior Managers employees in the Companys performance through employees share schemes.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Marketplace Environment Essentra uses a variety of indicators to monitor environmental performance, but Essentras reputation with its customers Essentra applies a structured approach to the following core impacts are identified and suppliers, and in the communities maintaining its environmental impact by: for the Group as a whole: where it operates, is based not only on Implementing and maintaining Greenhouse gas emissions from the quality of its performance, but also environmental and energy energy use, including electricity, on the integrity of its management of management systems certified natural gas, heating fuel, transport the workplace and the environment, to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 on a and travel and its ethical and responsible conduct global basis Use of resources, including water in the marketplace.
The development Measuring and monitoring and continuation of long-term business Generation and disposal of waste consumption and emissions, and relationships reflects the trust placed in setting targets to improve performance Essentra continually seeks ways to improve the Company, and such commitments its utilisation of natural resources.
A are an important component in the Conducting environmental impact process of continuous improvement ongoing success of Essentra.
assessments and developing site is applied, not only to the impact of its management plans usage, but also to the measurement Essentras Code of Business Ethics policy Providing training to employees, and capture of key environmental data.
is applicable to all its businesses around and engaging with customers and The Group has research and development the world.
The policy details the standards suppliers to raise environmental facilities in the UK, Asia and the US to expected by Essentra in the conduct of awareness investigate the use of renewable resources its business and its relationships with and recyclable biodegradable versions third parties, including free and fair Providing facilities to segregate and of products.
competition, plus the prohibition of bribery reuse or recycle waste and political donations, and provides Essentra is listed in the FTSE4Good The following assumptions, methodology, general guidance on honest and fair Index which is designed to measure definitions and data validation processes dealings with suppliers, customers and the performance of companies striving have been used to report the Groups key local and national authorities.
to meet globally recognised corporate environmental performance indicators in responsibility standards, and to facilitate 2015.
The reported data complies with Essentra is committed to working with investment in those companies where the Companies Act, for the Mandatory its suppliers to ensure the welfare of corporate responsibility issues are an Reporting of Greenhouse Gases GHG.
workers and employment conditions influencing factor in an investors Boundary scope: Data from all within its supply chain meet or exceed decision-making process.
locations over which the Company internationally recognised standards.
has operational control is collected In the UK, Essentras sites comply with and measured the Carbon Reduction Commitment Primary data sources: These include CRC legislation.
The Company is billing, invoices and other systems registered for Phase II and has complied provided by the supplier of the energy with all relevant data submissions.
to communicate energy consumption Essentra continues to apply the principles of the CRC to its global operations and is Secondary data sources: These include well placed to manage further legislative the Companys internal systems used changes in its operating regions.
to record and report the above consumption data Given the diversity of Essentras Internal data validation: The process international operations, local used to review and compare primary management drives environmental data with secondary data.
All invoices performance in accordance with Group and data loggers for locations policy, copies of which can be found on the consuming more than 1 million kWh Companys website www.
per year are cross-checked with the Specific site-level objectives are established data held within the Companys own to ensure compliance with local legislative internal data capture systems and external management systems ISO 14001 and ISO 50001.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 | WWW.
COM Conversion factors: The 2015 Essentra is committed to ensuring Ethics Government GHG Conversion Factors good environmental practices at all its for Company Reporting, published by locations, in its operational processes and Essentras culture is one of openness, the UK Department for Environment investment decisions.
Essentras principal integrity and accountability.
Employees Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA, are manufacturing locations are ISO 14001 are required to act fairly in their dealings used when converting gross emissions.
accredited, and all the Companys with fellow colleagues, suppliers, The applicable country conversion European businesses comply with customers and business partners.
factors published in this guidance EU and domestic regulations.
All employees undertake training in the have been applied to operations Companys Code of Business Ethics policy outside the UK Due to the scale of Essentras international which is updated annually.
In addition, operations, the use of energy and raw all employees are required to review and Intensity metric: Total carbon emissions materials has both environmental and confirm their acceptance of critical Group per m of revenue are used to calculate commercial importance.
Where possible, policies, with the majority of employees the Companys intensity metric.
and financially viable, raw materials and being required to review and accept all energy from renewable resources are of the Group policies.
Essentra operates utilised to limit environmental impact, a confidential whistleblowing policy called Tonnes of CO e gross commercial risk and costs.
Right to Speak, with an external call 2 centre which enables all Group employees Year ended Year ended Essentra actively engages with its to raise any concerns.
31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 employees, customers, and suppliers 11,543 8,967 Scope 1 to exploit opportunities offered by Essentra adopts a zero tolerance approach new technologies, improved process to bribery and corruption, which extends Scope 2 104,820 74,039 operations and novel materials, to all business dealings and transactions Total gross 116,363 83,006 to reduce its environmental impact in which the Company is involved.
This emissions and improve profitability further.
includes prohibiting political donations, Total carbon offering or receiving inappropriate gifts 104.95 95.88 emissions per Community and making facilitation payments.
m revenue Essentras commitment to being a Acquisitions and growth have responsible corporate citizen extends to contributed to Essentras increased support for appropriate non-political and use of energy.
The application of energy non-sectarian projects across a range of improvement initiatives is expected to organisations and charities.
Regardless improve the Companys overall utilisation of regional or national boundaries, the of energy and raw materials.
Company aims to support the creation of prosperous, educated, sustainable and healthy communities in the countries and cultures in which it operates.
In its Core impacts attempts to bring benefits back to those communities whose support provides a Year ended Year ended basis for Essentras success, the Company 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 has focused on education and enterprise, 5,371 3,052 General 1 health and welfare and the environment, waste with support driven at a local, rather 1,026 1,716 Recycled than a corporate, level.
The approach is to factory support and enhance employee efforts in waste & 2 cardboard their communities through the application of the Companys resources.
In pursuit of 3 3 3 299.5m 257.0m Water its aims within the community, Essentra 1 has developed targeted programmes Tonnes of waste to landfill 2 Tonnes of production waste for local communities, often involving 3 Per million of Company revenue commercial sponsorship and significant employee engagement through direct involvement or secondment.
