28 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility Diversity training and development corporate aND Social The group has strong focus on the worlds reSpoNSibility The group is committed to developing emerging markets and has customers in The group is diverse and operates through a teams and individuals to achieve excellent more than 200 countries.
Delivering excellent large number of businesses in many locations.
Training and development are the quality products to the worlds diverse markets Each business provides important channels of responsibility of each operating business.
A recent communication to different sections of society.
The group has an advantage when it comes employee survey revealed that over 90 different The success of the groups businesses owes to training and development because it has languages are spoken within the company.
much to understanding and engaging with its own highly accredited training business, the communities they serve both locally and The board believes that diversity is important for Euromoney Learning Solutions, and as a result board effectiveness.
However, diversity is much globally.
a comprehensive range of training programmes more than an issue of gender, and includes a which are available as part of an employees Below are some explanations on key areas of diversity of skills, experience, nationality and personal development.
The group supplements corporate responsibility.
Diversity will continue to be a these with key initiatives, an implicit objective key consideration when contemplating the of which is to build internal networks and People composition and refreshing of the board as to foster peer assistance and collaboration, One of the groups strategic priorities is to well as senior and wider management.
The including taking part in DMGT group-wide retain and foster an entrepreneurial culture.
board recognises that while the overall balance initiatives.
Examples of these are: of gender is good within the group, with 47% Employees are encouraged to think creatively, of employees being female 2014: 47%, there be entrepreneurial and innovative, and to deliver Management Development Programme is still more work to be done to fulfil overall organic growth.
People are empowered not only MDP : this is a three-day intensive diversity ambitions.
to deliver the best for their business, but to give workshop focusing on innovation and back to the communities in which they live and The group is an equal opportunity employer.
launching new businesses, followed by work.
It seeks to employ a workforce which reflects three months of group work to develop the diverse community at large, because new business ideas, which are then The group has continued to attract talent the contribution of the individual is valued, presented to a judging panel chaired by the through the use of hackathons and irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, managing director.
communicating its technical ambitions sexual preference or orientation, race, colour, Hackathon: the group ran its second hack at conferences.
However, the market for religion, ethnic or national origin.
It does not event, TechSprint, in October in its search technology skills has never been hotter discriminate in recruitment, promotion or other for the next generation of top tech talent.
andretentionhas been a challenge in 2015 employee matters.
The group endeavours 30 recentgraduates from across the UK to provide a working environment free from which will continue into 2016. were placed in teams of five, and tasked unlawful discrimination, victimisation or to solve and build solutions to real-life harassment.
Each team researched, Further details on employees are set out in the designed, coded and then presented a Directors Report.
variety of tech products to a panel of judges.
The group sees this kind of event as evidence of its commitment toinnovation DIVERSITY PROFILE AT SEPTEMBER 30 2015 and investment in technology, and also an invaluable source of graduate talent.
14 161 2,168 Board Senior managers Permanent employees Male 86% Male 76% Male 53% Female 14% Female 24% Female 47% 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 Strategic report CorPoratE and soCIaL rEsPonsIbILIty Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Graduate Programme: graduate trainee Environment Social investment journalists join the group on a six-month The group does not operate directly in industries The group continues to expand its charitable training programme.
The scheme combines where there is the potential for serious industrial activities and raised over 0.5m for local pollution.
It does not print products in-house or and international charitable causes during on-the-job training with classroom-based have any investments in printing works.
These contributions came from its learning to equip participants for a career its environmental responsibility seriously and own charitable budget, individual employee in financial and business journalism.
The complies with all relevant environmental laws and fundraising efforts and also from clients who technology graduate training programme regulations in each country in which it operates.
generously made donations in support of recruits skilled graduates for roles including Wherever economically feasible, account is the companys charitable projects.
The group developer, business analyst and quality taken of environmental issues when placing also continues to encourage employees to assurance tester.
Graduates are supported contracts with suppliers of goods and services be involved actively in supporting charities by by a team of mentors and gain hands-on and these suppliers are regularly reviewed and fundraising themselves which it then matches.
experience working on projects across monitored.
For instance, the groups two biggest Further details can be found on the companys the group alongside divisional heads of print contracts are outsourced to companies website, www.
com corporatetechnology and project managers.
which have environment management systems .
DMGTs Leadership Development compliant with the ISO 14001 standard.
The Programme LDP : this is a comprehensive The group works and partners with recognised paper used for the groups publications is programme consisting of two weekcharitable organisations that have expertise produced from pulp obtained from sustainable long modules with a six-month period within certain sectors, thus ensuring that forests, manufactured under strict, monitored in between.
The programme allows the the implementation and management of a and accountable environmental standards.
sharing of insights in leadership such as charitable project is carried out efficiently and The group is not a heavy user of energy: that donated funds reach the communities at markets and competitive landscapes and however, it does manage its energy which the charitable cause is aimed.
At the advances in technology.
requirements sensibly using low-energy office same time, the charity committee is careful Capital appreciation Plan CaP equipment where possible and uses a common to address the sustainability aspects of each The CAP, the groups long-term incentive sense approach to office energy management.
charitable project to ensure a long-lasting scheme designed to retain and reward those beneficial impact.
Each office within the group is encouraged who drive the groups profit growth, has been to reduce waste, reuse paper and only print The group also tries to adopt a company-wide an integral part of its growth strategy since it documents and emails where necessary.
The charity and support it for a year or more.
The was first introduced in 2004.
The minimum main offices across the group also recycle waste last such charity was Action Against Cancer for performance target under the CAP is unlikely where possible.
which Euromoney raised over 1m in 2013. to be achieved given the continuing tough In 2015 the group went through a selection trading conditions with the result that the The directors are committed to reducing process to find a new charity to support for CAP costs were not amortised in 2015 and the the groups absolute carbon emissions and the next 12 to 18 months.
Employees were costs recognised in 2014 were reversed in the managing its carbon footprint.
In 2012 the requested to nominate charities and from 40 current year resulting in a credit of 2.5m to company, as part of the wider DMGT group, set nominations the executive committee compiled the Income Statement.
Further details are set a target to reduce its carbon footprint relative a final shortlist of three.
After due diligence of out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
to revenue over a three year period by 10%.
the charities and a final vote from employees The company exceeded this target, with a the decision was made to support both Afghan total reduction in emissions intensity over the Connection, a charity with over 10 years three-year period of 12%.
Further details of the experience successfully funding education carbon footprint are set out in the Directors and sports projects in Afghanistan, and Haven Report.
House, an independent charity supporting over 300 families in the UK with children who have life-limiting or life-threatening conditions.
The plan for the fundraising efforts is underway to capture the enthusiasm that employees have shown for both charities.
Further details about these charities can be found on the companys website.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8 30 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Corporate and Social Responsibility continued FTSE Group confirms that Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
FTSE4Good is an equity index series designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social Euromoney climbs and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practice.
Kilimanjaro for Haller Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual In June 2015, a party of sixteen from Euromoney climbed the summit of Kilimanjaro, events or results to differ materially from any raising more than 60,000 for the Haller Foundation, expected future events or results referred to one of the companys supported charities.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation At 5,895m high, Kilimanjaro is the highest peak in Africa and the worlds highest free or accounting standards, the directors do not standing mountain.
The Euromoney team followed the Machame route, renowned to undertake any obligation to update or revise be the most difficult route to the top.
After four days of hiking and a seven-hour night any forward-looking statements, whether as a time ascent, the team reached the Uhuru Peak on June 15 at 7:15am.
result of new information, future developments Every employee made the summit.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
The climb brought to a close a year of busy fundraising activities, including cake sales, The Strategic Report has been prepared for office breakfast deliveries, garden fete, a quiz night, an online auction and golf day.
the group as a whole and therefore focuses primarily on those matters which are significant The funds raised from the climb will allow Haller to roll out its sustainable development to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and model to another community, the Upendo Nguu Tatu Community which will benefit its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a from improved water infrastructure, healthcare and education through a mobile app.
It has been prepared solely to provide The community will benefit from more than two years of active development from the additional information to shareholders to assess funds raised by the climbers.
the companys strategy and the potential for that strategy to succeed, and the Strategic Report The Haller Foundations remarkable development model has been helping to build should not be relied upon by any other party for sustainable community economies in some of the poorest parts of Kenya since the any other purpose.
On behalf of the board chriStopher ForDham Managing Director December 14 2015 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:52 AM - Proof 8
