95 CSR Report SOCIAL POLICY Our people EVRAZ recognises the importance of working with people and for people.
The Group invests Number of employees great efforts in ensuring that it is a sustainable concern that can support its growth strategy at December 31, thousand people through human resource HR management.
The goals and initiatives of EVRAZ HR strategy are aimed at developing employee skills and improving production safety levels through training and 2015 84.5 performance management.
This reduction was mainly due to personnel optimisation c. 5,000 employees, outsourcing 110.9 2012 of support functions and the exclusion of EVRAZ Highveld Steel and Vanadium from consolidation c. 2,500 employees.
The fall will stem mainly 2010 from further personnel optimisation c. 2,500 employees, the closure of uneconomic mines at Diversity of employees, senior Raspadskaya c. 700 employees and outsourcing of support functions c. 800 employees.
2009 management and directors, Diversity | EVRAZ believes that diversity plays an important role in a successful business.
It % number of people remains committed to providing equal rights to employees regardless of their race, nationality, Men Women gender or sexual orientation, and the Group recognises the importance of diversity when recruiting employees.
Full consideration is given to applications from people with disabilities, Board 80 8 20 2 taking into account their particular aptitude and abilities.
Senior 86 31 14 5 management 2015 results 70 59,127 30 25,340 Employees Productivity is defined as labour costs exclusive of tax divided by production volumes of respective products.
In general, the 2015 targets for work productivity were achieved, apart from those for raw coal due to differences between the forecast and actual US$ exchange rate and the closure of Raspadskaya mines.
The main focus in 2015 was on: reducing staff in production, including maintenance reducing headcount by outsourcing support functions implementing projects aimed at increasing work productivity Productivity steel products, US$ t Productivity iron ore products, US$ t Productivity coal products, US$ t Actual Target Actual Target Actual Target 2016 2016 40.8 6.3 2016 7.1 2015 2015 42.8 6.9 2015 7.0 2014 2014 54.7 12.2 2014 12.0 2013 16.9 2013 57.9 2013 21.0 7.1 43.9 7.7 96 www.
com Key corporate HR initiatives for 2016 include: Keep staff costs in 2017 equal to the 2016 level.
The goal is to start work on the 2017 budget in good time to ensure that staff costs will not MANAGING exceed those in 2016.
DIRECTOR MD Extend the system of selection, evaluation and training for MD-1-4 Transform HR: introduce advanced HR processes and centralise MD-1 HEADS operations.
The main goal of this initiative is to build a new HR OF FUNCTIONS operational model and increase the effectiveness of the function.
The project plan includes to implement a HR shared services centre and develop HR processes with added value.
The overall aim is to enhance MD-2 SHOP-FLOOR MANAGERS process quality and reduce HR costs.
MD-3 AREA MANAGERS MD-4 FOREMEN Employee engagement awards in 2015 Business Unit Award Awarding organisation Comments EVRAZ NTMK Main employer of Nizhny Tagil Nizhny Tagil city administration EVRAZ NTMK XII national competition Most Socially Effective Metal Russian Mining and Metallurgical Trade Union, EVRAZ NTMKs collective labour agreement and Mining Company, Socioeconomic Efficiency of Association of Russian Industrialists and includes 20 social programmes for employees, Collective Labour Agreement nomination Entrepreneurs, Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade on which the plant has spent c. RUB900 million Internal social policy Financial motivation | EVRAZ seeks to motivate employees by offering a salary that is higher Ratio of average salary to average than the average salary in the corresponding region.
salary in the region Ukraine Employee engagement | EVRAZ pays great attention to its internal communications Russia processes and constantly seeks to build an efficient system, designed not only for keeping Kemerovo region information flowing, but also for increasing employee loyalty and motivation.
The Group 1.37 searches for, evaluates and implements best communications practices, such as corporate Sverdlovsk region intranet, bulletins and internal advertising campaigns.
Its goals are to provide up-to-date, full 1.43 and transparent information regarding its business and strategies, progress and bottlenecks: Tula region to support its development by involving employees in its initiatives: and to build a strong 1.51 international team of people, committed to the Group, its customers and the industry.
Primorsky kray 1.64 One key way in which the Group seeks feedback from employees is the EVRAZ Compliance Dnepropetrovsk region Hot Line.
The rules and regulations concerning it are adopted in special guidelines, signed by 1.72 the CEO.
The document specifies the way in which the Hot Line works, the responsibilities of 1 the sides involved and other general questions.
Employees can ask questions or report any suspected violations by email or phone, anonymously or otherwise.
Administrators take calls from 9 am to 6 pm Moscow time from Monday to Friday.
Outside these hours, an answering machine is in operation.
Respective department strives to address every report within 12 days, and employees receive a response via e-mail or phone call.
In 2015, the Hot Line received c. 1,000 requests and all were examined.
The most popular enquiries concerned labour management relations including c. 200 regarding contract details, followed by salaries, social services transportation, conditions in non-production premises, nutrition, conditions at sites and PPE periods, volumes, content of supplements, lifecycle, rules of use and washing, which accounted for c. 100 requests each.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 97 CSR Report Work with trade unions | EVRAZ respects employees rights and aims to build a Breakdown of Hot Line enquiries constructive and positive relationship with the labour unions that represent them.
The Group in 2015, % has generally high levels of unionisation at its enterprises c. 73%, although this can vary Labor relations significantly across operations and countries.
PPE excluding quality enquiries Household services The backbone of the relationship between EVRAZ and trade unions is social partnership.
Information Regular discussions and formal and informal meetings of the management and unions are Compensation 31% conducted at all EVRAZ facilities in Russia and worldwide.
18% for labour 18% 17% All EVRAZ production sites operate through the collective bargaining agreement model.
16% Bargaining agreements are drafted on the basis of industry agreements and cover employment, working hours, payment, occupational safety, benefits and welfare, and they guarantee the rights of trade union bodies.
Apart from  benefits, bargaining agreements provide for additional privileges and social programmes to support employees and their families, as well as retired employees and veterans voluntary health insurance for employees, workplace accident insurance, assistance in housing improvement, various kinds of financial support, subsidised recreation and holiday vouchers, holiday gifts, etc.
Social programmes are region and industry-specific to ensure improved value and relevance for employees.
Sporting and cultural events are held together with trade unions.
The section of a bargaining agreement relating to employee health and safety details the employers committments to ensure a healthy and safe environment for employees.
These obligations include to provide them with personal protection equipment including beyond the government requirement, hold medical examinations and provide medical EVRAZ NTMK HOLDS YOUNG EMPLOYEE services to employees in workplaces, provide public amenities, training and knowledge AND MENTOR COMPETITION tests in health and safety, and more.
The key health and safety focus areas are formalised in industry-wide agreements with trade unions.
Development of employees Employee development strategy | In 2015, EVRAZ continued its Foreman to Become an MD-1 programme, a corporate selection, assessment and development procedure.
It aims to improve the managerial skills of shop-floor supervisors and to clearly define the responsibility and authority of every management level, from foreman to shop-floor manager.
In 2015, the Group focused on foremen, the first level of manager on the shop floor and the largest managerial group, with more than 5,000 people.
EVRAZ developed Over the second half of 2015, EVRAZ NTMK held a competition for young employees and their mentors.
the requirements for the position and a quarterly assessment system covering three areas: health and safety, people management and process management.
Around 2,000 people, nominated by colleagues, took part, and a special working group chose the In 2016, the Group plans to cover area managers and shop-floor managers.
Alexei Kushnarev, managing director of the enterprise, and Vladimir Radayev, chairman of Staff recruitment policy | EVRAZ seeks to promote candidates from within the the trade union Committee, handed awards to the 40 winners at a special ceremony.
In 2015, more than 80% of management-level positions were filled by internal candidates, including vice-president and head of the Ukraine division and the Criteria for selecting the winners included managing director for KGOK and NMTP.
performance, contribution to innovative measures to increase product quality and save energy, Where necessary, EVRAZ competes for the best people in the metals and mining sector and other industries.
acquisition of new equipment skills, adherence to health and safety rules, and participation in EVRAZ NTMKs social life.
com Performance management | To encourage good performance and ensure there is a clear link between corporate and individual objectives, performance management systems are implemented across the Group.
Business tasks and development targets of the performance management process include key performance indicators KPIs of certain business units aligned with EVRAZ strategic principles and personal development plans.
Further initiatives to motivate employees and provide career development perspectives are based on the results of these performance management plans.
Training and development | EVRAZ capitalises on technical employees expertise by involving them in the development of educational materials and training courses.
As such, it ensures that experts and trainees are prepared for handling business issues.
The Retaining and Development of Engineering Competency programme started in 2012.
The purpose was to build a pool of key technology experts with unique knowledge, establish a system to maintain the knowledge, and transfer it to successors.
The programme established new formats of corporate EVRAZ science and technology youth conferences and local enterprise engineering conferences.
Engineering management of the enterprises includes engineering solutions developed by young engineers into rapid improvement experience schedules and carefully tracks their implementation.
Two young engineers clubs were organised at the initiative of engineers: the Safety First club at Raspadskaya and the Engineering club at EVRAZ ZSMK.
In 2015, for the second year in a row, young talent from EVRAZ took part in the national hightech industry trade WorldSkills championship.
Nine EVRAZ employees participated, and two of them won silver medals in the Electrical Assembly and Process Control categories.
EVRAZ places an emphasis on selecting, developing and promoting employees with vast potential, as set out in its five-year target.
In 2015, 56 Russian, Ukrainian, US and Canadian engineers joined the sixth EVRAZ New Leaders Programme, hosted by the Skolkovo Moscow School of Management to design and implement initiatives to improve process performance.
For the first time, EVRAZ experts and HiPos acted as team sponsors.
One area of focus in 2015 was to improve the quality of health and safety training.
EVRAZ has revised training programmes, implemented a programmes to improve the qualifications of methodologists and trainers at its corporate training centres, and trainers are now rated quarterly.
Assessment of training programme efficiency | In 2012, 360 people were selected under the programme Retaining and Development of Engineering Competency.
By the end of 2015, that number had more than doubled to 777 people.
Over this period, 56 master schools were 777 people held with more than 650 successors to embrace the knowledge of experts from enterprises.
As were selected under the a result, more than 100 successors were promoted to expert status following the completion of their personal development plans.
programme Retaining and Development of Engineering EVRAZ engineers have been studying the Theory of Inventive Problem Solving TRIZ to solve Competency by the end of 2015 local issues of individual processes since 2013.
In 2015, 11 TRIZ hands-on training sessions were held at the discretion of engineering managers of enterprises.
Following the results of monitoring, 40% of solutions suggested in 2014 were implemented.
Of the solutions suggested in 2015, 17% have already been implemented and 60% are in progress.
In 2015, at the initiative of managing directors and engineering directors, the Ukrainian facilities of EVRAZ joined the programme.
Two TRIZ trainings were held, a master school is under way, and young engineers are participating in a corporate science and technology youth conference.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 99 CSR Report Clearly, the programme has become significant for the professional community and is stimulating the development of production on top of employee training and education.
EVRAZ DONATES RUB300,000 TO CHILDRENS PHOTO STUDIO An initiative to hold engineering forums was introduced in 2012.
The first forums informed IN NIZHNY TAGIL EVRAZ engineers about best practices, and since 2014, the forums have been driven by enterprise engineering directors and provide detailed analysis and development of engineering strategy for each site in a certain area.
Four engineering forums involving international and Russian industry experts were held at the request of technology directors.
For instance, in November 2015, a forum dedicated to waste recycling was held in EVRAZ ZSMK and resulting in an updated environmental programme.
Three months before the forum, the plants engineers carefully revised the current situation regarding waste processing, identifying opportunities and waste recycling strategies applicable to the mill, selecting partners and suppliers, and involving research centres.
During the forum, they discussed methods and approved a consolidated solution, next steps and a schedule.
ommunity relations In 2015, EVRAZ donated RUB300,000 to buy Governance and approach professional equipment for a childrens photo studio, which organises photo-therapy sessions for EVRAZ seeks an ongoing dialogue with the communities in which it operates.
The Group children with disabilities.
The funds were used to is a responsible taxpayer and employer.
All of its enterprises operate in accordance with buy light reflectors, timers, filters, a projector and federal and local legislation.
Managing directors and regional vice-presidents are responsible new decorations for the interior.
The equipment for communication with local governments.
HSE directors are responsible for ensuring has already been tested at sessions.
EVRAZ earlier that plants activities are line with the applicable rules and regulations.
The regional pledged funds for equipping the studio, and five corporate communications centres are responsible for communicating with non-commercial professional cameras, flashes and various interior organisations on charity, environmental, social, educational and sport projects.
Photo-therapy can help children to socially adjust, Relations with local communities develop their creative talents and feel positive.
The initiative is part of the EVRAZ-Children charitable project.
EVRAZ contributes to local economies in many ways it can, supporting communities in which it operates.
The Group focuses on stable partnerships with local communities and strives to improve quality of life in its regions of presence.
It develops socially responsible programmes that support children with special needs, veterans and old people, childrens homes, as well as cultural, educational and sport projects, city infrastructure, and projects to reduce environmental impact.
EVRAZ takes its role as a taxpayer and employer seriously, offering employees development, training programmes, social protection and regionally competitive salaries.
EVRAZ is a committed partner with local governments: it helps to solve challenging 1. regional issues Relations with local communities awards in 2015 Business Unit Award Awarding organisation Comments EVRAZ NTMK Best Philanthropists of Nizhny Tagil Nizhny Tagil city government EVRAZ NTMK was awarded as one of the best philanthropists of the city.
EVRAZ National contest Leaders of Corporate Social Non-commercial organisation The Donors Forum, The project EVRAZ: City of Friends City of Ideas Responsibility.
EVRAZ charity project received an Vedomosti won an award for the second time.
Social projects award in the nomination Best Project That Helps to and PwC of non-commercial organisations in Kachkanar city Promote Initiatives of Non-commercial and Charity take part in the contest to receive financing for their Organisations in the Regions Where the Company projects.
1 in 2015 Financial statements EBITDA calculations exclude social and social infrastructure maintenance expenses.
com 2015 Projects for Local Communities Development Name Description Results in 2015 EVRAZ: City of Friends City of The main goal is to improve the quality of life in Kachkanar: In 2015, the jury chose 13 winners who received money grants for their projects.
Ideas develop culture, sport, education, and help old people and During 7 years more than 60 social projects were implemented in Kachkanar.
Non-commercial organisations present their social projects.
The jury selects 1015 winners, who receive up to RUB100 thousand to implement their projects.
EVRAZ for Kids The main goal is to support children who have special needs Every year more than 500 kids with special needs get special medical treatment and or are socially vulnerable.
The Group supports cutting edge treatment techniques photo therapy, art therapy, aqua therapy, hippo therapy, adaptive sports, EVRAZ organises special treatment and voluntary support massage courses for kids and training programs for their parents.
Every year for children with cerebral palsy and their families in the Urals EVRAZ provides more than 3 thousand New year presents in Russia, organizes and Siberia, and supports socially vulnerable children.
annual voluntary campaigns to provide books, office stationery, sport equipment and clothes for the start of school year.
EVRAZ for Cities EVRAZ supports local infrastructure in the cities where it In 2015, EVRAZ supported the renovation of the Garden of Steelworkers in operates.
Every year, the Group organises a competition for the best projects for residential courtyards.
The winners receive playgrounds for their EVRAZ donates funds for reconstructing roads, parks and yards, and nine were installed in 2015. theatres, and for equipping schools, colleges and medical centres.
In 2015, EVRAZ supported the reconstruction of the road on the Kuznetsky bridge in Novokuznetsk.
EVRAZ for Sport EVRAZ supports amateur and professional sports teams EVRAZ organised city festivals in Nizhny Tagil and Novokuznetsk, promoted sport and sportspeople, both children and adults.
and a healthy lifestyle, and raised money for charity.
The Group also supported the reconstruction of a football stadium and renovation of the swimming pool in EVRAZ provides sport equipment and donates money Kachkanar.
towards preparing for and participating in different tournaments.
In 2015, the Group also organized charity 5-km marathons in Novokuznetsk and Nizhny Tagil for employees, citizens and their children.
Some 2 thousand people took part in the race, and about 6 thousand attended a city festival.
The funds raised were donated to charity.
Big Siberian Road Tour EVRAZ helps to develop culture in the regions where it In summer, Siberian theatre companies put on shows in Novokuznetsk theatres.
EVRAZ supported the road tour of Siberian theatres.
Reading Sparks programme The EVRAZ Reading Sparks programme promotes EVRAZ North America has provided, furnished and stocked numerous libraries childrens literacy in North America.
and reading areas at elementary schools.
In addition, it is in its third year of sponsoring the Battle of the Books in the 39 Regina, Saskatchewan, school system in Canada.
Also in Regina, EVRAZ has provided books for United Ways Classroom Libraries programme, funded the purchase of dual-language books for 15 Regina elementary schools in English and 58 other languages, and is a gold-level sponsor of the Saskatchewan Young Readers Association.
In addition, EVRAZ continue its multi-year support for an extensive reading and writing programme for Colorados Pueblo City Schools.
EVRAZ Reading Sparks volunteers helped to organise and distribute more than 400,000 new books to agencies, organisations and schools serving low-income children in collaboration with Executives Partnering to Invest in Children EPIC.
In Portland, Oregon, EVRAZ funded the purchase of 500 books for a local elementary school.
Scholarship Fund for Canadian The fund assists students attending the Universities of EVRAZ North America sponsored the fund in 2015.
Aboriginals Alberta and Regina, Notre Dame College, Northern Alberta Institute of Technology and Saskatchewan Polytechnic.
Hosting a recreational area EVRAZ continues to host a recreational area adjacent to EVRAZ supported the project in 2015. adjacent to EVRAZ Regina facility its Regina facility for members of the community.
The long established and recently refreshed EVRAZ Park, open from May to September, features a swimming pool, playground, picnic facilities and prairie animals and is enjoyed by schools as a favourite field trip destination and by many Regina families throughout the community.
Sponsorship of the Enbridge EVRAZ is the presenting sponsor of the Enbridge In August, a two-day, 200-km bicycle ride through the Canadian Rockies raised Alberta Ride to Conquer Cancer Alberta Ride to Conquer Cancer, benefiting the Alberta US$7.8 million for cancer research, clinical trials, enhanced care and the discovery Cancer Foundation.
of new cancer therapies at 16 cancer centers across Alberta, Canada.
Sponsorship of First Growth EVRAZ supports this annual Portland, Oregon fundraiser In 2015, more than $3.2 million was raised for First Growth Children and Family Children and Family Charities benefiting local charities.
Charities such as the YWCA of Clark County, Randall Childrens Hospital, New Avenues for Youth, Metropolitan Family Services and Friends of the Children.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 101 CSR Report Participation in public organisations and initiatives EVRAZ for Cities The participants include rail producers, Non-commercial Russian Railways, research institutes and partnership EVRAZ supports certification centres.
Rail commission local infrastructure The commission is aimed at sharing the best practices in rail production, solving challenging in the cities where it issues, implementing new technologies and operates.
products, and developing the industry.
EVRAZ has been participating in the organisation since 2007.
Non-commercial An association of Russian iron and steel producers.
Its main goal is to represent of partnership interests of Russian iron and steel producers.
Russian Steel Members of Russian Steel account for the majority of national iron and steel production: 98% of pig iron, 90% of crude steel, rolled products and substantial share of steel raw materials.
EVRAZ has been participating in the organisation since 2001.
Steel The association is aimed at promoting the usage of steel constructions in civil buildings, Construction EVRAZ for Kids mainly to substitute cement.
The association Development unites steelmakers, mills producing steel Association constructions, research institutes, design engineers and developers.
EVRAZ organises EVRAZ has been participating in the organisation since 2014. special treatment and voluntary support for The union unites manufacturers of railway children with cerebral The union products, railway transport firms and Russian of rail palsy and their families Railways.
It aims to develop technical equipmen in the Urals and regulation and rail transport.
producers EVRAZ has been participating in the Siberia, and supports organisation since 2007.
Sergey Palkin, socially vulnerable director for technical regulation of railway children.
products is vice-president and a member of the supervisory board.
The association aims to: Association Represent and protect of the rights and of Russian legitimate interests of its members in their Steelworkers relations with government bodies, trade employers union unions, and other associations, institutions and organisations: Coordinate activities regarding social and labour and related economic issues.
EVRAZ for Sport The association comprises 10 key Russian metallurgical companies.
EVRAZ has been participating in the organisation since 2008.
EVRAZ vice-president EVRAZ supports for Personnel, Natalia Ionova, is a member of amateur the board.
and professional sports teams The association unites industrial enterprises, and sportspeople, both National design and expert organisations.
It aims to Association of children and adults.
promote the creation of a highly efficient, Mineral Resources innovation-oriented, internationally integrated Examination system of geological study of mineral resources and the development of mineral resources in Russia by consolidating the efforts of professional participants.
EVRAZ has been participating in the organisation since 2004.
Vladimir Sheglov, technical director for iron ore assets represents EVRAZ at the Association.
com 23 Meet EVRAZ 451 Strategic report 5279 Business review 80101 CSR report 102149 Governance 104 Board of Directors 108 Management 110 Corporate governance report 130 Remuneration Report 142 Directors Report 148 Directors responsibility statements 150249 Financial statements 250262 Additional information Annual Report & Accounts 2015 103 Governance GOVERNANCE 12 meetings of the Board of Directors Boardroom diversity, % Independent non-executive directors Non-executive directors Chairman 50% non-executive 30% Eecutive 10% 10% director CEO
