52 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Summary Many people find themselves unable to access essential services, such as affordable housing or utilities, just because they cannot prove who they are or demonstrate their ability to pay.
As the worlds leading information services company, we know that we can help to tackle this problem.
Our corporate responsibility CR purpose We know that we cannot achieve our CR or Having a financial identity can be lifeis to help millions of people to get fair and commercial objectives unless our clients changing.
It is the critical first step to affordable access to essential, everyday and stakeholders trust us to safeguard building a good credit profile, enabling services, by helping them to make the data and privacy and to run our business people to gain fairer and more affordable most of their data.
Delivering these fundamentals access to services such as mortgages, underpins our ability to achieve strong credit cards, overdrafts, mobile phone Through our pioneering use of data and financial performance and make a contracts and small business loans.
We analytics, our products and services help significant contribution to society.
are helping millions of people around the people and small businesses to: world to build their financial identities Helping people create and through our credit bureau services.
create and improve their financial improve their financial identity identity, so organisations know Our pioneering use of alternative, positive Most of us take our financial identity for who they are extending finance data sources, such as rental and utility granted.
Yet millions of people around the and services to: bill payments, enables people without world struggle to prove who they are to understand and manage their a bank account or borrowing history to organisations that provide services such finances, so they only borrow create a financial identity.
A study of as bank accounts or government benefits.
what they can afford: and nearly 20,000 subsidised housing leases Helping organisations to verify peoples in the USA showed that including positive protect their data, to prevent identities is a core part of our business.
rental payment history would help 11% of fraud and identity theft.
By enabling instant identity checks, our residents that did not have a credit profile We help our clients to verify peoples solutions such as Identity Authenticate to get one for the first time.
In the UK, identities and assess their ability and and Prove-ID give clients the confidence rental payment data was found to increase capacity to repay credit.
This enables to quickly accept new customers, while the number of UK social housing tenants people to gain access to essential services.
meeting regulatory requirements and who pass electronic identity checks from Eight of our core products positively minimising their business risk.
affected 13.6 million people, an increase In some parts of the world, proving who Similarly, our analysis of a random sample from the 10 million we reported last year.
you are is challenging due to the lack of of people with positive utility payment At the same time, the social innovation basic information such as names and histories found that following the addition programme we launched in 2014 invests addresses.
In India, we have trialled a new of their positive utility payment history, 9% in new products that generate both social solution that connects our Prove-ID product of people improved the thickness of their benefits and revenue for our business.
In to the governments Unique Identification credit files, indicating they were adept at 2015, we worked with partners to develop, Database, which gathers fingerprints and managing multiple credit obligations.
pilot, refine and scale up new products other data to establish an official identity We are engaging with policymakers in that have helped give around 2.6 million for every citizen.
We expect this project to different countries to allow greater use people access to essential services.
This benefit around 100,000 people within three of these types of data.
is a major step towards our goal of helping months of its launch later in 2015 helping five million more people through our social lift many out of poverty by enabling them to innovation programme by 2018. create their own, unique financial identity for the first time.
Strategic report Corporate responsibility 53 Highlights Rental payment data improved % pass rates for UK electronic identity checks from 39% to 87% 87 US$1.6bn Our new social innovation Our Recovery Portal in Brazil has products helped around helped people settle 1.1 million 2.6 million people access debts worth over US$1.6 billion 2.6m essential services since its launch in July 2013 Helping people build their credit history Life is hard enough as it is, but its even more difficult if youre poor and have a bad credit score.
We deal with people living in affordable housing who often are struggling to establish themselves or get back on their feet following financial hardship.
We help them do this by sharing data with Experian RentBureau.
Sharing data is a great way to help people living in affordable housing build their credit history in the same way a homeowner does by paying his or her mortgage every month.
A credit score is one of the most important assets a person can have because it can determine the cost of utilities and insurance, and provide access to credit.
For our tenants, its an important first step to move forward with their lives.
Matthew Manning Director of the Home Ownership Centre, AHEAD, USA 54 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Key corporate responsibility facts Providing financial education Giving our time to help 14 schools 39,139 hours In the UK, we have helped 14 schools Our people volunteered 39,139 hours during become recognised as Centres of and outside of work to help support financial Excellence in financial education education and local communities We tailor our long-standing financial Helping people understand Safeguarding data and privacy education programmes to local needs.
and manage their finances We manage vast amounts of data about In the UK, 14 schools in some of the People with a poor credit profile are people and businesses.
The continued countrys most disadvantaged areas have often seen as high risk by lenders, which success of our business depends on our become recognised Centres of Excellence invariably means they are turned down for ability to protect that data.
in financial education, through our credit or only offered it at a higher interest partnership with pfeg, a leading money We have extensive and robust security rate.
The sad consequence is that the very education charity.
In North America, we systems, with built-in safeguards against people who are the least able to afford work with the Credit Builders Alliance to physical threats and continually evolving services have to wait longer or pay more.
train service providers to educate their cyber attacks.
Everyone at Experian is customers about managing finances.
We Through our consumer services like Credit personally responsible for data protection, also launched a new financial education Tracker in the USA or CreditExpert in the with support from dedicated security product at the end of 2015, created through UK, we help people to understand their teams.
We also extend data protection the contributions of our employees in credit profile, what affects it and how requirements to third-party suppliers and our Social Innovation programme, which to use it to get what they need.
In North partners, through our contracts.
enables small business owners to learn America, our teams of Credit Educators Our Global Information Values set clear what affects their commercial credit scores.
are available to provide support.
In Brazil, expectations about how we use data across we piloted an expansion of our successful Our employees around the world the business, and our compliance principles Real Dreams financial education contribute their time, expertise and ensure effective governance, training and programme, turning its attention to helping enthusiasm to support these financial risk management.
Global Internal Audit small business entrepreneurs in So Paulo education activities.
monitors our data protection activities.
learn how they can grow their business.
Following this success, we are looking to expand this to other parts of the country.
Community investment Unpaid or excessive debt can affect 2015 2014 US$000s US$000s peoples lives, not just their credit scores.
Funds from Experian plc 3,310 2,299 So we invest in helping individuals and Financial donations and investments businesses to understand how to manage from Experian subsidiaries 1,565 2,347 their finances.
For example, more than Employee time volunteered 1,173 1,056 four million people in Brazil are registered Gifts in kind 503 604 on our free online Recovery Portal, which Management costs 937 605 helps borrowers and lenders reach a Total from Experian 7,488 6,911 compromise to stop unmanageable debts As % of Benchmark PBT 0.61% 0.56% spiralling out of control.
As a direct result Employee fundraising 1,109 1,270 of the use of this service, over 1.1 million Out of work volunteering enabled by Experian 643 873 debts, worth more than US$1.6bn, have Total value of all giving 9,240 9,054 been repaid since its launch in July 2013.
As % of Benchmark PBT 0.75% 0.73% For more information on how these figures are calculated, see the Reporting Principles and Methodology at www.
com responsibility Strategic report Corporate responsibility 55 Helping people keep better track of their spending Before I came across the Real Dreams programme, I had no idea about my spending.
I used to spend too much without realising.
It was very good for me to take this finance course.
Its helping me keep better track of my spending and think about what is truly needed and what is not.
Today, when I plan my budget, I know how much money is coming in and how much is going out.
I still cant save enough for my emergency fund, but thats my goal for this year.
I have two daughters and Im teaching them to realise that things cost money and that we all need to plan and budget to achieve our goals.
It was great to participate in the Real Dreams course and, with everything I heard, Im sure that I will stay more in control of my finances.
Adriana Rodrigues Dias participant in Real Dreams Budget Workshop, Brazil 56 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued How data is handled, managed, accessed Our people around the world volunteered In the digital era, the right to privacy is an and shared is heavily regulated, with 39,139 hours to support financial education increasing focus in relation to business requirements varying between countries.
Protecting data privacy Regulatory compliance is a priority for included 27,567 hours during work and is a priority for our business.
We use data data protection wherever we operate.
11,572 hours outside of work hours.
responsibly and balance the right to privacy We also work with policymakers to support with the benefits that data and analytics the development of appropriate regulations In Brazil, for example, 120 volunteers can bring for people, business and society.
that respond to growing consumer concerns visited community centres and schools to Minimising our environmental impacts about data privacy, whilst maintaining the provide training on money management Our most significant environmental impacts ability to collect and use data to deliver social that helped nearly 15,000 people in 2015, are from energy use in our buildings and and economic benefits.
through our long-running Real Dreams from business travel.
Employees in the USA Despite the precautions that people acted as judges at literacy competitions In 2015, we reduced our carbon footprint and businesses can take to protect their designed to help young people understand by 17% to 57.9 thousand tonnes of CO e data and privacy, unfortunately identity 2 their finances, and in the UK our people emissions.
The reduction was driven by theft remains one of the fastest growing mentored young entrepreneurs through consolidating offices and decreases in crimes, with a new victim every two the Princes Trust.
The success of our transport, where we continue to promote seconds in the USA.
We support victims Social Innovation Programme is thanks alternatives to business travel.
of identity theft through dedicated teams to the efforts of around 150 people across that provide advice and help them to the Group, who have contributed their time We set a target in 2013 to reduce CO e 2 resolve issues.
In 2015, our Victims of and expertise.
emissions per US$1,000 of revenue by Fraud team in the UK helped more than 5% by 2016 2013 baseline.
Through our 12,000 people, and in the USA our Fraud Respecting human rights initiatives, we significantly decreased our Resolution Agents helped 171,000.
Respecting human rights is a CO e per US$1,000 of revenue by 19% 2 fundamental responsibility for any compared to the 2013 baseline, achieving Operating responsibly business.
Our policies are aligned with our target ahead of schedule.
To help deliver our business strategy and the principles of the United Nations enhance our contribution to society, we Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
engage our people and operate in a way Strategic report Our Global Code of Conduct sets clear that respects human rights and minimises expectations for employees to uphold The Strategic report was approved by our environmental impacts.
these principles in the way we run our a duly authorised Committee of the Engaging our people business.
The Code is supported by Board of directors on 11 May 2015 and We aim to create a great place to specific policies that cover human rights signed on its behalf by: work, with a strong focus on culture, risks related to human resources, health Charles Brown p46 engagement and talent see Our people and safety, anti-bribery and corruption, Company Secretary section.
Our people want to know that and labour practices in the supply chain.
their work is making a difference and we We believe our risks in this area are low.
11 May 2015 encourage them to get involved in social innovation programmes and to volunteer to support their communities.
Environment In 2015, for the second year running, we Emissions from: 2015 2014 asked our people to share their ideas Scope 1 Combustion of fuel Thousands about how Experian could enhance its and operation of facilities tonnes of CO e 4.8 5.2 2 contribution to society.
Five contributors Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam Thousands were selected to become Social and cooling purchased for own use tonnes of CO e 40.9 46.5 2 Responsibility Ambassadors and put their Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e Kilograms of 2 ideas into action as regional champions.
emissions normalised by revenue CO e per US$1,000 9.5 10.7 2 They also had the honour of representing Methodology Experian at the One Young World summit We have reported on all the emission sources in line with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report in Dublin, Ireland, joining 1,300 delegates and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our Group financial statements.
There are no material exclusions from this data.
The data has been prepared in accordance with the from 190 countries to share ideas on UK Governments Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 version.
Detailed information on Experians social and economic issues.
environmental performance and the methodology for the measurement of greenhouse gas emissions is available at www.
A New Identity Fraud Victim Every Two Seconds in 2013, www.
Strategic report Corporate responsibility 57 Key data points Social reach Community investment CO emissions 2 % 13.6m US$7.5m 17 Eight of our core We invested US$7.5m We reduced our total carbon products positively to help our communities footprint by 17% from last affected 13.6m people year to 57.9 thousand tonnes
