46 Strategic report Our people Our people Summary Our global people strategy aims to deliver sustainable growth by creating a great place for our people to work.
To achieve this, our people strategy response, with 89% participation.
This focuses on two key areas: culture considerably exceeded the external highand engagement, and talent.
performing norm and ensured the results fully reflected our employees views.
Culture and engagement building a sense of pride For our sixth survey in May 2015, we aim and connection to continue the positive overall trend we have achieved since our first survey in We are now three years into our Heart 2007.
Our focus will be on closing the gap of Experian initiative, which aims to between Experians results and those of transform Experian into one of the worlds global high-performing organisations.
Heart of Experian is a way to express the ties that bind our We remain convinced that the Heart of organisation together, wherever we are Experian will deliver long-term benefits for and whatever we do.
our business performance and for clients and consumers.
Since our last Annual Our core DNA Connect, Protect, Create Report, we have continued to focus on local reflects what we do and the way we work: actions to bring the initiative to life for all our Connect bringing our people people.
Much of this work is driven through together, to make a difference for our Employee Ambassadors, of whom we our clients and communities.
One such local Protect how our people take initiative is the Career Connections site care of sensitive personal and developed by our North America business.
It helps employees to explore what it is like to work in our various business units, Create how everyones ideas matter, understand what it takes to succeed in in creating smart and insightful ways different roles and create a proactive career to help consumers and organisations.
plan that fits their interests and aspirations.
Employee engagement Selected global activities underpin our listening to our people local efforts.
For example, in September We conduct our Global People Survey 2014 we launched Engaging Minds, a approximately every 18 to 24 months.
It bespoke, highly interactive, two-hour provides valuable insights into employees workshop.
It equips line managers to drive views and their engagement with the better engagement with their people and business.
We conducted our last survey in provides a simple, effective toolkit.
May 2013 and achieved our highest ever Strategic report Our people 47 Culture and engagement building a sense of pride and connection Our core DNA Connect Protect Create Connect, Protect, Create Bringing our How our people take How everyones ideas reflects what we do and people together, care of sensitive matter, in creating the way we work to make a difference personal and smart and insightful for our clients commercial ways to help consumers and communities information and organisations 48 Strategic report Our people Our people continued Key people facts Gender split of employees Generational diversity % % % 44 56 37 46 of our global of our global is the average age of our workforce is now employees are female employees are male of our workforce classed as Generation Y The target audience is all our 3,500 leaders Performance for Growth Increasing our emphasis on and line managers around the world.
By Performance for Growth is our globally diversity and inclusion the end of January 2015, we had reached consistent performance management We need to access the broadest possible approximately 2,100 participants, with process, which is now well embedded talent pool, so we can drive innovation and clear plans to reach the remainder during across the organisation.
It is supported meet the needs of our increasingly diverse the year.
Feedback has been very positive, by our People Standard and Leadership clients and consumers around the world.
with 96% of participants to date rating the Standard, which clearly lay out the Our objective is to create an environment workshop as good, very good or excellent.
capabilities and behaviours we expect in which everyone can flourish, irrespective from our employees and leaders.
We of their gender, ethnicity, thinking style, Talent strengthening and offer a range of global resources, which experience, age, sexual orientation, diversifying our talent pool support line managers and employees physical ability and economic background.
Our talent strategy drives the attraction, and help them to get the most from This aligns to our talent strategy and the growth and retention of a deep pool their performance and development inclusiveness and sense of belonging of talented employees, who reflect our conversations.
These resources have been embodied in the Heart of Experian.
Each global reach and our belief in the value positively received by our people.
Our 360 region and global business has agreed of diversity.
It then focuses on releasing online feedback tool is particularly popular, D&I action plans based on our global the talent of every employee, to deliver with more than 2,600 employees using it framework and we track progress as part our performance goals.
Performance for so far to exchange feedback.
We also have of our Global Talent Review.
Growth and our Diversity and Inclusion development guides aligned to the People Over the last year, our global D&I Network D&I agenda are just two of the many Standard and Leadership Standard, has delivered a range of resources to ways in which we aim to achieve this for all which offer quick tips and in-depth support our D&I agenda.
We also continue to invest in activities to support our employees video outlining the importance of D&I, a targeted leadership development, as part continued development.
set of Employee Story videos sharing our of strengthening our leadership pipeline.
Diversity profile of the senior leadership team September September September September September September December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total number of senior leaders 87 87 90 85 89 92 91 Gender: female senior leaders % 11 13% 14 16% 16 18% 16 19% 17 20% 20 22% 23 25% Ethnic origins % non-white 6 7% 4 5% 6 7% 8 9% 8 9% 9 10% 11 12% Excludes vacancies Strategic report Our people 49 Global employee split % % % % 40 18 23 19 North America Latin America UK and Ireland EMEA Asia Pacific peoples experiences of working in Experian, Whilst we focus on diversity across all our the leadership succession talent pool.
global guidelines for flexible working and employees, we also want to ensure that Since the forums creation in 2008, 27 a new two-way mentoring approach.
We it flows through to our senior leadership 30% of the 89 participants have received place a particular emphasis on generational team.
The table opposite shows the current a notable promotion, of whom six 22% diversity and are taking steps to future picture and our progress.
In total, 22 women 25% proof our culture, so we attract and retain we have increased the representation of have participated in our CEO Forum.
the best Generation Y talent people born women in the senior leadership team, Executive Success between 1980 and 1999, and assure our although we know further focus is needed Launched in 2012, Executive Success future leadership pipeline.
We have also on our female leadership pipeline.
Details is a more targeted offering for our top started to use predictive analytics, to p73 of our Board diversity can be found in the global talent.
These are people who have identify trends in our talent pipeline diversity Corporate governance report.
participated in the CEO Forum and been and better inform our decisions and actions.
Global leadership programmes identified for further development.
The Of our global employee base, 44% 7,515 Building a strong talent and leadership programme accelerates their leadership are female and 56% 9,483 are male.
pipeline is a significant part of our talent development, to help them prepare Around 40% 6,608 classify themselves agenda.
We have a suite of well-established for roles in the most senior levels of as white and 18% 3,161 as non-white.
The global talent programmes to accelerate management.
Of the 34 participants to remaining 42% 7,229 are not classified, our top talents development and we revisit date, eight 24% have been promoted either because local legislation does not these programmes regularly, to ensure they during or since the programme, of allow us to request this data or because deliver the maximum impact.
In total, employees elect not to disclose it.
The seven women 21% have participated in CEO Forum average age of our workforce is 37, with Executive Success.
This development forum exposes senior 46% 7,899 classed as Generation Y. talent to the CEO and other senior executives.
We select members from GLOBAL COST PROFILE EMPLOYEES BY REGION Labour 54% Data 13% North America 6,800 Marketing 11% Latin America 3,000 IT 8% UK and Ireland 3,900 Central Activities 2% EMEA Asia Pacific 3,200 Other 12% 50 Strategic report Our people Our people continued Experian Business Network EBN leading to growing competition for analytic to four years category, which is now We launched this development forum roles in all regions.
For our Decision at 74% 2014: 63% and over the longer for high-potential and diverse emerging Analytics business line, we have therefore term, readiness in more than four talent in October 2008.
In 2014, it became defined a global set of analytic roles and years continues to improve, with 46% a truly global offering with its launch in responsibilities, mapped our regional coverage 2014: 43%.
In total, 484 employees have business growth targets to staffing Our focus is on developing the strength been or are currently part of the EBN.
requirements by role, and created a and depth of our talent pipeline.
As part Given the larger numbers of participants consistent global analytics career pathway.
of the Global Talent Review, we identified and the length of time that the programme gaps and agreed actions to resolve Succession planning is also integral to has been running, in 2014 we started to them.
As well as reviewing our top talent, our talent strategy, ensuring we have track promotion rates for participants we also assessed whether we have the the leadership resources to achieve attending in the previous two years.
Of the best people in our most critical roles.
The executive 177 people who attended EBN in the last 9.5% of the senior leadership team are leadership and the Boards Nomination two years, 23% have been promoted during occupying developmental roles outside and Corporate Governance Committee or since participating, which is ahead of their home country 2014: 13%.
This regularly review our senior leadership the average for Experian.
Fifteen 37% of talent mobility remains a key focus, succession plans.
as building global capability is crucial The most recent review highlighted that: to our sustained success.
We are Talent and succession planning continuing to see an increase in global 95% of senior leadership roles have To ensure we have the capability we will moves at more junior levels, a number successors ready to provide emergency need in the future, we have continued of which are personally requested, cover 2014: 96% and 54% have at least our strategic workforce planning and prompted by opportunities posted on two successors who are ready now or aligned our focus on our global business our internal Experian Careers website.
For example, analytics is a massive stronger coverage in the ready in two growth area with a buoyant market, Si Ramo Prize 2014 winners As part of building a culture of innovation, standard that we eventually narrowed We were delighted with the curiosity we launched the Si Ramo Prize in down the five finalists to two winners.
and creativity shown in the applications 2014.
Doctor Simon Si Ramo is a The first winner was from our UK and and are confident about the very real celebrated American physicist, engineer Ireland region with a solution that uses possibilities these present for Experian.
He is also one of technology to transform e-quotation Experians forefathers, thanks to his insurance, by helping our clients gain a role in creating the part of TRW that better insight into their customers with became Experian.
We award the prize to a speed and accuracy that is unique in individuals who apply superior scientific the market.
The second winner came skill, which is one of Dr Ramos key from our North America region, with characteristics, to furthering Experians a solution that leverages historical commercial success in data and analytics.
transaction spend data to spot changes in buying behaviour, so consumers can In the competitions inaugural year, we be offered related recommendations received 106 entries, with representation at individual merchants.
Such was the high Strategic report Our people 51 51 Giving a helping hand.
Supporting our clients growth DECISION ANALYTICS Turkcell When a typical customer moves from a feature phone to a smartphone, their data usage increases by five to eight times.
It is crucial for us to work with the right counterparties for credit management, namely Experian.
With better credit management, you can offer more services and equipment to your customers, so you increase customer satisfaction and improve your customer management.
Murat Dogan Erden CFO, Turkcell Turkcell is Turkeys leading mobile phone operator.
It sees a major business opportunity as its customers trade up to smartphones.
Using tools provided by our Decision Analytics business, it can quickly assess peoples ability to pay for new phones and mobile data, so it can guide them to a package they can afford.
Through better credit management, we help Turkcell to manage its risk and grow its business, while keeping its customers satisfied.
