Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report continued understood and observed in the areas employees to reduce their usage of Refrigerant losses are excluded as that it operates and it supports the those resources and sets policies and they are the responsibility of either principles set out in the following procedures to assist in this so that Fidessas landlords or its data centre international standards: productivity is not adversely impacted.
UN Declaration of Human Rights: During the year Fidessa engaged an The legislation requires the statement independent consultant to facilitate of relevant intensity ratios.
This is an UN Guiding Principles on Business adherence to the requirements of expression of the quantity of and Human Rights: and the Energy Savings Opportunities emissions in relation to a quantifiable Core Conventions of the Scheme prior to its December 2015 factor of the businesses activity.
commencement date: no material Fidessa has identified six such Additionally, Fidessa believes that its improvements were recommended intensity ratios as set out in the policies relating to equality, equal by the consultant.
opportunities and anti-corruption also Fidessas website provides further Intensity ratios help avoid causing or contributing to details on its environmental policy.
tonnes of CO e per unit negative human rights impacts.
2 Ratios of carbon emissions to: Greenhouse gas emissions Environmental matters In accordance with the Large and It is important to Fidessas employees, 2015 2014 Medium-sized Companies and Groups customers and suppliers that it acts Accounts and Reports Regulations in an environmentally responsible Total revenue 0.04 0.04 2008, Fidessa is required to make manner and that Fidessa has certain disclosures concerning endeavoured to manage the effect Recurring revenue 0.04 0.04 greenhouse gas emissions relating that it has on the environment and to the current and preceding to support sustainability.
Fidessas Operating profit 0.28 0.27 financial years.
environmental policy is regularly reviewed and is published on its The quantity of Scope 2 emissions is Employees 6.04 6.10 website and intranet.
set out in the table below.
As an office-based software and Number of connections 2015 2014 services provider, Fidessa has no to the network activities that have a major negative community 1.74 1.97 Carbon emissions environmental impact.
Usage of tonnes of COe 10,520 10,187 2 energy to facilitate the computing Number of Fidessa users 0.45 0.42 requirements of its data centres and The GHG Protocol Corporate its employees, as well as international Accounting and Reporting standard travel, are considered to be the On behalf of the Board revised edition and emission factors greatest environmental impacts from the UK Governments GHG associated with its daily operations.
Andy Skelton Conversion Factors Guidance 2013 Other factors include the use of Director were used to calculate the quantity of electrical and electronic equipment, 12th February 2016 emissions.
the consumption of water, the use of paper and the disposal of waste.
Fidessa calculated the emissions from data available for its major operations Fidessa endeavours to minimise and extrapolated these results to take energy and natural resource usage, account of the smaller operations.
support the reduction and recycling of Scope 1 data has not been included as materials and ensure the legal disposal it is not considered to be material.
of waste arising from the activities of the business.
