Fidessa group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Fidessa is committed to continuing to security and IT.
Fidessa reviews its Employees, employee policies on a regular basis, testing involvement and equal be a diverse and inclusive place to them for effectiveness.
opportunities work and its employment policies, Fidessa is a service provider with its including the commitment to equal The health and safety of employees, employees as key stakeholders in the opportunity, are designed to attract, customers and visitors is of primary business.
It therefore aims to maintain retain and motivate the very best importance.
Fidessa is committed to an attractive place to work, where employees regardless of colour, maintaining a safe and healthy employees can develop successful nationality, sex, marital status, sexual working environment by managing its and rewarding careers for themselves.
orientation, age, religion, disability or activities so as to avoid unnecessary It offers customised training any other characteristic protected or unacceptable risks.
Health and programmes and career development by law.
Applications for employment safety audits and risk assessments are opportunities for employees.
by disabled persons are always fully carried out regularly.
Appropriate considered, bearing in mind the information, training and supervision Effective communication and aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
are provided in support of this policy.
openness with employees are vital Wherever possible the employment and Fidessas internal communications Corporate social responsibility of employees who become disabled and human rights policy promotes the understanding will be continued and appropriate Fidessa recognises the importance and involvement of all employees in training and career development will of meeting globally recognised its business aims and performance.
corporate responsibility standards Fidessa has a relatively flat as illustrated by it continuing to be management structure and is Achieving gender diversity in certain a constituent company in the committed to and encourages sectors, including the software and FTSE4Good Index Series.
technology sector, continues to The policy of providing employees present challenges when considering The Board believes that Fidessa has with information about new products the profile of the available talent pool a positive social impact through the and services, operations and the in those sectors.
Fidessa has active employment it creates, the payment performance and development of the female involvement at director, of local corporate, employment and overall business has continued senior management and other sales taxes, its participation in through the intranet site, product management levels.
activities with local communities and seminars and interactive Group-wide its regular support of a number of Male Female fundraising activities for employee meetings at which progress updates nominated charities.
Employees are are given by senior management.
Directors 7 1 encouraged to follow good principles Fidessa encourages employees to of social behaviour, which are Other senior managers 13 2 own shares in the Company through reflected in Fidessas internally their participation in the Share All employees 1,379 378 published corporate social Incentive Plan SIP and the Monthly responsibility policy.
Fidessa believes Share Purchase Share MSPP.
that engagement with local Fidessa has policies designed to As at 31st December 2015 92% of communities helps support the ensure that it operates in a legal and employees are eligible to participate principles set out in its social and ethical manner.
These include policies in the SIP and or MSPP.
relating to health and safety, details of the SIP and MSPP can be whistleblowing, anti-corruption, Fidessa is committed to respecting found in note 19 to the consolidated grievance, maternity, paternity, the human rights of individuals in the financial statements.
adoption and parental leave, flexible UK and internationally.
Fidessa working, learning and career recognises that it has an opportunity development, cyber and physical to ensure that human rights are
