Corporate responsibility We understand the vital role we play in creating strong, vibrant and sustainable local economies, and have continued to deliver our commitments to our people, customers and communities throughout the year.
In line with the trend for integrated reporting, in this section we highlight Valuing our people our corporate responsibility priorities and performance this year.
Further The way we work is based on our clear vision and the rm foundation information can be found in the Responsibility section of our website.
of our strong common values.
Over the last 12 months, we have continued to invest in the development of our people and reinvigorated Our approach our approach to employee engagement with an increased emphasis Our long term success is built on being a responsible partner to all of on employee development.
We are leveraging our scale and global expertise toaddress our social, economic and environmental impacts, and Employee engagement investing time, energy and capital in what matters to our stakeholders.
We recognise the value of engaging our people.
An engaged workforce We are already innovating through the use of low carbon vehicle delivers better customer experiences and higher levels of productivity.
technologies, nding new ways to meet changing customer Our 15 percentage point increase in engagement scores over the past expectations, doing more with fewer resources and investing in the four years demonstrates our determination to improve in this area.
future potential of our people and our communities.
We know we can This year we expanded the remit of our employee engagement expert only create value and deliver sustainable returns to our shareholders group, which aims to identify, share and embed best practice at every ifour services help to create strong, vibrant and sustainable local stage of an employees journey with us.
Over the last year, this group economies where we are the provider of choice for our customers has listened to the views of people from across our businesses, andthe communities we serve.
implemented best practice guides, videos and other toolkits, and We benchmark ourselves against our peers across all sectors and radically improved the way we recruit and retain the best people.
learn from best practice through expert networks and groups.
In Our year-on-year increases in employee engagement, as measured 2014 15, we were members of Business in the Community, Forum for through our Your Voice employee survey, have continued in 2014 15 the Future, the Mercer Vanguard Diversity Network, and the London with a number of divisions and functions exceeding the national norm Benchmarking Group, whose steering group we joined in April 2014. for engagement for the first time.
All divisions continue to focus on We also measure our performance annually through sustainability improving levels of employee engagement, with our Greyhound division benchmarks and indices.
We are pleased to report that our 2014 15 being listed for the first time in the Forbes magazine Americas Best FTSE Environmental, Social, and Governance ESG rating made us Employers list, at number 105. aleading scorer in the Travel and Leisure supersector, and we are We also continue to enhance employee well-being through our alongstanding constituent of the FTSE4Good Index series.
Livewell, Be well, Work well health campaigns in the UK, and In 2014 15 we maintained ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental ourRoutetoBetter Health campaigns in North America.
management across our UK operations, and ISO 50001 for energy Diversity and inclusion management in UK Rail, as well as the triple Carbon Trust Standard, We have around 110,000 employees from all over the world, with a and we are working towards embedding the principles of BS 8903 great breadth of backgrounds, ideas and talents.
It is these unique forsustainable procurement into our UK procurement practices.
skillsand experiences that make us what we are.
The more varied our This year we have focused on enhancing our non-financial reporting workforce, the broader our expertise and the greater our opportunities processes, most notably by implementing the award-winning software for innovation and success.
We are committed to equality of platform CRedit360, which will allow us to capture and analyse a wide opportunity, diversity and inclusion at every level.
range of environmental, community and other non-financial business In 2014 15, we developed a clear and concise FirstGroup policy that data across the Group from 2016 onwards.
outlines our principles and commitments for equality, diversity and inclusion, and a supporting framework which includes training content, promotional videos and a poster campaign.
Focus groups have been held to discuss the policy and these have helped us understand the Diversity snapshot at 31 March 2015: 1 challenges our people face.
Transport is not traditionally a diverse T otal employees Senior managers Boar d Directors sector, but our plans are designed to address this in a systematic way over the coming years.
Developing our people In early 2014 we launched a new Performance Management and Development framework that provides a clear line of sight to our vision, strategy and values for everyone throughout the Group.
In support ofthe framework is our Dynamic Performance and Development programme.
This is a series of face-to-face and online workshops around topics identied as important by our managers, including Great Female 39.6% Female 17.3% Female 11% feedback, Courageous conversations and Performance coaching.
Male 60.4% Male 82.7% Male 89% So far more than 10,000 delegates have attended our workshops, andnearly 90% of attendees report they will be able to apply what 1 The 283 members of our top leadership programme.
theyhave learnt and would recommend the training to others.
40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report In the UK, we have signicantly enhanced our ability to attract great people to work for us from the communities we serve, thanks to our new job applicant tracking system, which processed more than 75,000completed job applications and 3,000 successful hires in 2014 15.
The system has streamlined our processes internally, andprovides a seamless experience for job applicants and hiring managers.
Following this success, we are now introducing this systeminto our North American businesses.
Our integrated talent and succession plan identies our top talent anddetermines development opportunities.
The plan aims to make themost of our leaders and minimise continuity risks, and supports the retention and engagement of these key people.
Over the next year we will develop regional planning processes so that our people may be placed into the global roles where we believe they will have the biggest impact.
Enhancing the degree of integration and placing key talent in roles regardless of geography will help leverage our scale and expertise around the Group to support our growth over the longer term.
We provide access to a wide range of courses and accredited qualications for our employees, including adult apprenticeships.
Across our UK Bus and UK Rail divisions this year, 85 young people 16-25 year olds enrolled in our full time apprenticeships in engineering, customer service, operations and management roles.
Our graduate scheme is a two-year development programme preparing our graduate entrants to successfully step into management roles in the commercial, engineering and operations areas of our business.
Each year, we calculate the number of graduates we takeonso that we ensure a steady ow of new talent moving into management posts.
Our 2013 cohort of 14 graduates is more than halfway through its second year, and our 2014 intake of 18 follows them and will be joined by a new cohort in September 2015.
Focus on FirstGroup Dedicated to safety Always front of mind, safety is our way of life.
We continue to reinvigorate our safety programmes to build on the progress and New bus stop app for momentum of previous years, and to meet our goal of eliminating serious injuries and fatalities.
blind passengers Sadly there was one employee fatality this year in First Student, and one passenger fatality in UK Bus.
The impact of tragic incidents that occur in the course of our business, such as these, cannot be overestimated and We partnered with the Confederation of Passenger reafrms the importance we attach to our goal.
Transport and other operators to trial a new smartphone app for blind and visually impaired passengers.
The app We are never complacent and always look to improve.
In December provides users with real-time audio and visual alert 2014, colleagues from across the Group came together to share best notications, direct to their handset.
It means passengers practice and learn from leading experts at our Group Safety Conference, know exactly where they are on a journey and at which focusing on the science of behaviour change for safety.
The app was available during an eight week relaunched our Injury Prevention database this year and introduced a pilot in Leeds and offered easy-to-use route maps, as well new mobile app to help record injury prevention conversations and tours.
as next service information and a facility to save favourite Over the next year our focus will be on delivering Be Safe, the Groups and frequently used stops and bus routes.
If the results safety culture transformation programme.
Our aim is to reinforce safety ofthe trial prove successful then the app has the potential as a personal core value of each of our employees, delivering an even to revolutionise bus travel for the blind and visually stronger culture and climate of safety across all of our operations.
Leadership on safety comes from the top through our Executive Safety Maintain responsible partnerships with our Committee.
This is chaired by the Chief Executive, and meets on a customers and communities 5 monthly basis to review the Groups safety performance and practices, and to approve Group safety policies and procedures.
Our Board Safety Committee reviews the safety performance of the Group on FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 41 Corporate responsibility continued behalf ofthe Board, oversees the management of the Groups operational our 2010 11 baseline is a result of our ongoing focus on fuel efficiency.
safety risk prole and promotes a positive safety culture throughout the Our normalised emissions increased by 5.95% to 464 tonnes of CO e 2 Group.
Read more about our Committees and Groups on page 60. per 1m of revenue a 0.09% increase against our 2010 11 baseline, driven primarily by changes in our revenue gures this year.
Greener, cleaner futures for our communities We take a systematic approach to managing our impacts on the Performance against longer term carbon reduction targets for individual environment, with Group-wide policies, standards and robust targets divisions per passenger or vehicle kilometre against a 2010 11 for our most material impacts, including energy and climate change, air baseline has been mixed.
UK Rail is slightly behind target overall, with emissions, waste and water.
Notably, we generate a significant amount performance varying across the division.
First Transit is slightly behind of greenhouse gas GHG emissions a major contributor to climate target, due to changes in the eet mix requested by customers, whilst change through our operations.
More than 94% of our emissions UK Bus, First Student and Greyhound are making good progress.
come from powering our road and rail eets with the remainder Wewill set new targets within our climate change strategy in 2016. primarily from energy use in our buildings, so our climate change As part of this strategy, we have continued to introduce bio-methane, mitigation strategy is focused on innovation and investment inenergy electric, and hydrogen fuel cell powered buses to our road eets this efficiency and low carbon vehicle technology.
year, as well as highly fuel efficient StreetLite Micro Hybrid buses, which In late 2014, we successfully achieved triple certication to the Carbon hold Low Carbon Emission Bus Certication in the UK.
We have also Trust Standard for reducing carbon emissions, water use and waste invested in new vehicles that meet 2010 EPA emissions standards in across our UK operations.
The certication recognises our efforts to North America, and have retrotted technology to existing eets, such reduce our impacts year on year through greater efficiencies in energy as more fuel efficient engines, gearboxes and cooling systems.
We also and fuel use, improving waste disposal, the tting of water-saving continue to use driver advisory systems in our bus and rail eets to controls, a programme of leak repairs, and rainwater harvesting.
This optimise fuel efficiency through driving style.
year we also continued to see improvement in our Carbon Disclosure We know that local air quality is also important to our communities Project score, which has increased by 43% since 2012 and is well sowe continue to invest in cleaner eets, and are working to ensure above our industrys average, highlighting our commitment to climate that the most efficient buses are utilised the most.
For example, over change mitigation, adaptation and transparency.
80% of our annual UK Bus mileage is completed using vehicles tted Our 2015 carbon footprint with enginesat Euro 3 standard or higher.
The table below provides a summary of the emissions for which we Our performance and plans around our wider environmental impacts, areresponsible.
Our absolute carbon emissions adjusted to remove including waste, water and local air emissions will be available in the First Capital Connect, which we no longer operate increased by 0.83% Responsibility section of our website in the summer of 2015. this year to 2,675,664 tonnes of CO e. This 2.42% reduction against 2 Our reporting follows the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Greenhouse gas emissions Standard, applying the operating control approach to our organisational Tonnes of carbon dioxide reporting boundary with a materiality threshold set at 5%.
We have reported equivalent CO2 e 2015 2014 2013 allmaterial emission sources using the following emission factors: Scope 1 2,481,544 2,442,651 2,486,168 Q DEFRA DECC UK Government conversion factors for GHG Company Scope 2 172,437 188,498 212,375 Reporting 2014 Scope 3 11,076 11,319 10,859 Q World Resources Institute 2008 GHG Protocol tool for Mobile Combustion, Out of scope 10,607 11,258 11,444 Version 2.3 Q World Resources Institute 2008 GHG Protocol tool for stationary Total tonnes of CO e 2,675,664 2,653,726 2,720,845 2 combustion, Version 4.0.
The reporting period is dened as 1 April to 31 March, in line with the Groups Tonnes of CO2 e per financial year.
However, emissions from energy consumption within buildings in 1m revenue 464 438 432 our North American operations are reported by calendar year due to the current availability of consumption data.
In addition, scope 2 emissions from electricity The 2014 and 2015 scope 1 and 2 CO e data included in this table has 2 consumption in North America were calculated using CO and not CO e due been independently veried by Carbon Credentials Energy Services Ltd and 2 2 to limited conversion factors being available.
is covered by an assurance report which is available in full on our website.
Verication activities were performed in accordance with ISO 14064-3:2006.
Our carbon emissions have been recalculated back to our baseline year to reect that we no longer operate the First Capital Connect rail franchise as of Scope 1 direct emissions from vehicle fuel usage owned and leased, fugitive 14 September 2014 in line with our Base Year Recalculation Policy.
Revenue refrigerant gases and heating fuels used in buildings.
gures have also been recalculated to reect this change for the purposes of Scope 2 indirect emissions from electricity used in our buildings and to power reporting our normalised carbon footprint tonnes of CO2 e per 1m revenue.
This year we have quantied and reported fugitive refrigerant emissions from air Scope 3 indirect emissions from First Rail Support and business travel by air.
conditioning systems within our North American vehicle eets and from buildings inUK Bus.
We are taking steps to report fugitive emissions from UK Rail next year.
Out of scope emissions from burning biofuels in our vehicles in our UK Bus division, reported in line with DEFRA reporting guidelines.
The Companys baseline year is 2010 11.
The same baseline year is also used in FirstGroups climate change strategy, which contains the Groups carbon reduction strategy and targets for 2015 16.
42 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report andorientation sessions, and through cross-divisional collaboration meetings.
Wealso launched our new stakeholder survey, which will allowus to benchmark and monitor our success in engaging with our communities in a consistent way across the Group on an annual basis.
Community investment One of the ways we engage with our communities is by developing long term partnerships with charitable organisations.
Our programmes focus on those areas where we believe we can deploy our scale and expertise to achieve the greatest impact and deliver the maximum shared value to our business and local communities.
This year we contributed almost 1.7m to our communities across the UK and North America, as measured by the London Benchmarking Group model.
Our employees Focus on across the Group gave over 3,600 hours of volunteer time, and more FirstGroup than 1,500 organisations have benefited from our support.
This has included our Green Grants scheme in partnership with The Forestry Commission in First TransPennine Express, our support for National Ofcial partner Runaway Safelines Home Free Program in Greyhound, and UK Buss work with the Ahead Partnership on their Make the Grade project, of Bristol European providing coaching and support to prepare for the world of work to pupilsof Roundhay School in Leeds.
Green Capital Our UK Charity of Choice partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support drew to a close this year, with a total partnership value of 1,122m in the three years to 31 March 2015.
Our new UK Charity of Choice partnership Bristol, under Mayor George Ferguson, is the first UK city to with Prostate Cancer UK was launched in April 2015 following an be awarded European Green Capital status, which over the employee vote in late 2014.
We will continue to support our communities course of 2015 will showcase the city as a sustainable place and our employees in their charitable efforts over the coming year.
As the leading transport operator in Bristol, FirstGroup is proud to be supporting Bristol European Green Human Rights Capital 2015 as an ofcial partner.
We are investing in FirstGroup recognises all human rights as dened in the United Nations sustainable technologies at First Great Westerns St Philips Universal Declaration of Human Rights and supports the principles Marsh traindepot and using innovative driver technology setout in the International Labour Organization Declaration on and techniques to improve fuel efficiency and cut emissions, Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the Guidelines for allwith the aim of making Bristol a truly sustainable place Multinational Enterprises established by the Organisation for Economic tolive.
Over the course of the year, First West of England Cooperation and Development OECD.
Our Corporate Responsibility willbe putting 39 brand new buses into service in Bristol.
Policy available on our website is aimed at translating that support into Thesewill be the cleanest diesel vehicles yet seen in the guidelines and standards that set a common approach for the Group city, meeting the latest Euro 6 emissions specication.
and provide practical guidance for our managers and employees on the ground.
We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not Maintain responsible partnerships with our infringe human rights, in particular: customers and communities 5 Q We will conduct every aspect of our business with honesty, integrity and openness, respecting human rights and the interests of our employees, customers and third parties, as detailed in our Helping our communities to prosper Code of Business Ethics With our knowledge of local issues, strengthened by our wider expertise Q We are committed to creating and maintaining a safe and healthy and skills, our ambition is to be the preferred partner of the communities working environment for our employees, customers and the we serve.
We recognise our employees rights to freedom of Community engagement association and have a high degree of unionisation across our We believe that excellence in community engagement is critical to businesses both in the UK and North America sustaining and improving the long term partnerships we have with Q Through our procurement processes enshrined in our Supplier ourkey stakeholders, including our customers, government and Code of Conduct, and Procurement and Supplier Management , industry partners, and all those within our local Policy, we seek to ensure that goods and services are from communities.
This year we rolled out a consistent framework for sources that do not jeopardise human rights, safety or the community engagement, supported by best practice tools and case environment, and expect suppliers to adhere to business studies, to more than 2,000 managers across the Group through training principles consistent with our own.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43
