Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report 4 Letter from the Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations Committee Our commitment to create long-term value is founded on responsible mining practices.
The Health, Safety, Environment & Community Relations HSECR Committee evaluates, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of management to meet the sustainability challenge.
The Committee met during 2015 in accordance with its terms of reference to monitor the progress made towards reaching full maturity of the HSECR system.
As audited independently by PwC, maturity reached an overall level of 92.3% 2014: 84.5%.
We consider the process to be on We benchmark our success within a framework of maturing track to achieve full maturity by 2016 as sustainability practices and continuous improvement in our planned.
The Sustainability Policy was also evaluated by the HSECR Committee and safety culture.
subsequently endorsed by the Board.
Our Environment, Social and Governance ESG performance was recognised with the inclusion of Fresnillo plc in the Euronext-Vigeo EM 70 Index.
This ESG index recognises the 70 most sustainable companies operating in emerging markets.
The report that accompanies this letter summarises the most relevant aspects of the Groups HSECR record and performance for 2015.
Health Fresnillo plc is fully committed to the overall health and wellbeing of employees and contractors.
A preventive approach to health has been emphasised.
Health performance highlights include: A fruitful collaboration was established with the National Autonomous University of Mexico UNAM Foundation to provide free dental treatments and prescription eyeglasses for our neighbouring communities at each of our mines An internal assessment mechanism was introduced to evaluate the performance of our health department and regulatory compliance within our operations 66 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Safety Although mining is considered a high-risk activity, any injuries whatsoever incurred by the Companys employees or contractors are unacceptable.
We regret to report one fatality in a work-related accident during the year as well as two fatalities in early 2016.
Considering the decline in the safety record of the Company, we have instructed management to take decisive action to improve safety practices.
A comprehensive investigation has been conducted in each case and concrete measures taken in order to prevent similar accidents.
Safety performance highlights include: Operations continued to develop their competencies in emergency response.
Drills were conducted at all operations and projects The Noche Buena mine launched its Cyanide Code certification process in December 2015 Environment Good environmental performance is a fundamental condition for social acceptability of mining projects.
We continuously monitor the performance and responsiveness of management with regard to environmental challenges.
Environmental performance highlights include: Management responded well to a tailings spill at the Saucito mine and an incident with pregnant solution at the Herradura Community Relations The Committee will continue to oversee, on mine, both of which were dealt with and Social acceptance of our projects is our most behalf of the Board, the important work of investigated in a satisfactory way.
We strive to reaching our HSECR goals and objectives and completion of environmental engage communities to manage their achieving excellence on HSECR matters.
remediation, monitoring confirmed that expectations and develop relations based on sources of contamination were mutual trust.
Community relations highlights We extend our deepest condolences to successfully removed include: the bereaved families.
We will honour the memory of our employees by ensuring that Reduction of the carbon footprint Communities surrounding our operations safety is our utmost priority.
and main development projects were engaged through perception studies and Very truly yours, social risk assessments The Silver Saves Lives initiative was Rafael MacGregor launched at Cinega with a pilot project to Chairman, Health, Safety, Environment harvest rainwater and engage and Community Relations Committee communities with water awareness activities In the accompanying report, stakeholders are provided with a deeper view into the Companys overall HSECR efforts in 2015.
67 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 The case for compatible mining Mining is an essential activity that creates value at the local and global level.
We believe it can be compatible with high stakeholder expectations vis--vis social and environmental performance, and, indeed, that our social licence to operate is dependent upon our meeting those expectations.
Therefore, responsible business practices must be deeply integrated in the operations, and factors affecting stakeholders taken into consideration at every critical decision-making level.
This is reflected in our business model, wherein sustainable business practices ground our value-creation pyramid.
Furthermore, compatible mining enhances our competitive Governance advantages: engaging communities from the earliest stages of The Board of Directors, through its Health, Safety, Environment and exploration and development reduces project risk and supports asset Community Relations HSECR Committee, evaluates the effectiveness values: community support and environmental stewardship can of the Companys policies, action plans and systems regarding HSECR minimise disruptions and ensure operational continuity: and a solid matters.
The Committee meets semi-annually to review performance ESG risk profile influences the cost of capital, essential to balance and monitor managements responses to key issues.
A letter from the sheet flexibility.
Chair of the Committee precedes this report and provides information on their work in the year.
Materiality Our sustainability efforts address the issues that we consider matter The remuneration policy for our senior executives takes sustainability to our stakeholders and have a direct and indirect impact on our performance into partial consideration, specifically in the areas of business.
We identify relevant issues engaging our local stakeholders stakeholder relations, teamwork and safety see Remuneration and keeping track of global issues relevant to our industry and society Report on pages 126 to 136. at large.
Recognising the importance of local stakeholders at the mine sites, we conducted a comprehensive perception study in the Our sustainability strategy is managed through our HSECR communities where we operate.
The outcome is a Relevance matrix Management System, whose maturity is assessed semi-annually by of the issues that matter to our stakeholders in the communities.
We  PwC on the basis of its strategy, structure, intend to further refine our approach, adopting best practices in processes, people and technology.
We are on track to achieving a fully materiality assessment.
integrated HSECR system by our 2016 target.
The following are the five pillars of our sustainability strategy: Doing our part: UN Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations General Assembly adopted the 2030 Health Improve and maintain the health and wellbeing Development Agenda in September 2015, with an ensuing 17 of our people.
Pages 69 to 70 Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and 169 targets that align the interests of governments, businesses, NGOs and society.
At Fresnillo, Safety Eliminate unsafe workplace conditions and we are committed to doing our part and ensuring that our behaviours.
Pages 71 to 73 sustainability strategy aligns with and advances the goals agreed Environment Minimise the environmental impact and footprint upon by the international community.
Pages 74 to 79 Community Engage with and support the development of our Specifically, we have initiatives that align with the following SDG goals: relations communities.
Pages 80 to 83 health and wellbeing: clean water and sanitation: decent work and economic growth: industry, innovation and infrastructure: reduced Our people Secure the talent pipeline and ensure a fair and inequalities: responsible consumption and production: climate action: respectful workplace.
Awards and recognitions Along with our inclusion in the Euronext-Vigeo Emerging 70 Index, other recognitions this year include: Ethics and Values in Industry from the Mexican Confederation of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN, and the Socially Responsible Company award from the Mexican Centre for Philanthropy CEMEFI.
Industry standards certifications granted or under application in 2015 are detailed herein under their relevant categories.
68 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2015 objectives Health Enforce occupational health practices of contractors in line with our own policies Strategy and objectives Integrate contractors health business processes with our Health We strive to keep our people healthy and prevent occupational & Safety Information System diseases.
Our approach aims to pre-emptively identify and manage the health risks to which our workforce is exposed.
Seek Healthy Company and Smoke-Free Company certifications Preventive care and the promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit in all remaining units certain chronic diseases and enhance overall wellness and fitness Extend Healthy Lifestyles programme to all units for work.
While our focus is set on prevention, emergency Identify and address psychological health risks with potential preparedness is a core competence of all our health teams.
We impact on safety performance work closely with local authorities and also support health initiatives in the communities where we operate.
2015 performance Contractor adoption of our occupational health KPIs, procedures and training requirements ongoing Evaluated Health & Safety Information Systems: contractors will be considered at implementation Advanced the Healthy Company and Smoke-Free Company Occupational health certifications process Healthy Lifestyles programme now operating in all our operations Business units convening multidisciplinary team for fitness, Emergency psychological, medical, and dietary advice: programme rolled out Community preparedness at Penmont, Cinega and San Julin, where workers also surveyed to assess psychological stress levels and associated risks Health and Three new cases of occupational diseases wellbeing 2016 objectives Implement the Health & Safety Information System, including contractors Healthier Preventive Adopt ICMM standard for health KPIs lifestyles health and wellness Mature our assessment protocol for health-related risks Reinforce standardisation of health practices and policies across our operations Investment in health Certification Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont US$ OHSAS 18001 Certified In process Certified Certified Sets out criteria for international best practice in occupational health and safety management 10.46m Healthy In process In process In process Certified Company 9.64 10.34 12.68 10.46 Certification by Mexican health authorities for the implementation of best practice in occupational health and preventive care, including the promotion of healthier lifestyles Smoke-Free Certified In process Certified Certified Company A prerequisite for the Healthy Company certification 2012 2013 2014 2015 69 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Occupational health Emergency preparedness and response: a core competency We seek to prevent, detect and treat work-related illnesses amongst Our health departments treat any work-related injuries concussions, our employees and contractors.
burns, lacerations, broken limbs, dehydration, etc.
and respond to general health emergencies heart attacks, diabetic shocks, The main occupational health risks we address relate to the following: diarrhoea, etc..
In addition, our paramedics are trained on rope inhalable hazards mainly emissions and dust, noise, fatigue, rescue, confined space rescue, fire suppression, hazardous materials ergonomic stress, vibrations, light, heat stress, lead exposure, contact and cyanide emergencies.
To practice, rescue teams participate in with or exposure to chemicals, dehydration, venomous snakes and drills organised as part of the emergency response plans see Safety spiders.
In addition, our teams also participate in rescue competitions organised by the Mining Chamber of Mexico.
We monitor employee health at regular check-ups and test for occupational diseases.
We utilise Alert-On randomly or methodically, As part of responsible cyanide management at Penmont, we work based on job profile, to detect alcohol and drugs, as well as to with health authorities and civil protection organisations, including evaluate fitness for work in critical activities such as high elevations or the fire department and Red Cross, in the neighbouring municipality in mine shaft elevators by testing vital signs, vision and glucose levels of Caborca to respond effectively to any cyanide emergency.
We also monitor blood lead levels for those working in an agreement with a private hospital in Caborca to respond to areas with risk of exposure.
Regrettably, three new cases of cyanide-related medical emergencies.
occupational diseases were diagnosed by health authorities during the year: two cases of occupational hearing loss HL and one case of Communities occupational respiratory disorder ORD.
We operate in some communities where access to healthcare is a stakeholder concern.
We partner with health authorities on Our health teams are Certified Occupational Hearing Conservationists vaccination campaigns and breast and cervical cancer screenings, CAOHC, and trained in radiological protection during X-rays, image and engage communities to raise awareness of child obesity, dietary interpretation of pneumoconiosis, and spirometric interpretation habits and personal hygiene, among other topics.
We also support respiratory capacity by the American Thoracic Society ATS.
In some communities with emergency health care.
addition, our team are certified lead auditors under ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
To support access to dental and optometry care, we partner with the National Autonomous University of Mexico UNAM Foundation and Preventive health, wellness and healthier lifestyles sponsor health weeks during which Foundation doctors provide free Prevention delivers multiple social and economic benefits.
We seek to health care and we support logistics, providing complementary prevent chronic diseases such as diabetes and high blood pressure, glasses and transportation for communities.
We also engage national seasonal illnesses such as influenza, and psychosocial diseases such health authorities to complete vaccination schemes and other health as stress and burnout.
In 2015, this programme provided close to 9,000 free medical consultations to our neighbouring communities at Cinega, Thus we also screen for these during regular check-ups, particularly Fresnillo Saucito and Penmont.
diabetes, high blood pressure and obesity, which are widespread in Mexico and require monitoring and treatment in order to work safely.
Our Healthy Lifestyles programme supports good food habits and the prevention and control of obesity-related diseases.
Women receive breast and cervical cancer screening, and we launched a campaign to raise awareness of these diseases.
All employees over 50 have access New cases of occupational Disease rate expressed per to free annual health check-ups.
We provide influenza vaccinations diseases 1,000 persons at work and vision tests that include prescription safety glasses.
In 2015 we introduced a psychosocial survey as part of regular check-ups.
Our Behavioural Change workshops, facilitated by psychologists, address 3 0.199 stress and personal issues that could compromise awareness in the workplace and lead to accidents.
1 0 2 3 0.121 0.000 0.159 0.199 We continue to seek the Healthy Company and Smoke-Free Company certifications for all our units.
2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 New cases of occupational diseases: An Diseases rate: Occupational disease rates illness caused or aggravated by work are expressed per 1,000 persons at work.
The number of personnel at work is calculated based on the hours worked.
Total personnel hours worked per year 2,000.
70 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations 2015 objectives Safety Roll out SafeStart programme in all operations Analyse commercial software alternatives to the in-house Health Strategy and objectives & Safety Information System.
We seek to instill a safety culture where our workers and contractors have the knowledge, competence and desire to work safely.
This is carried out through the No More Accidents 2015 performance programme, which is based on OHSAS 18001 and complies with One fatal injury in 2015 and two fatal injuries in early 2016 the Self-Managed Safety Programme of the Mexican Labour SafeStart programme active at Cinega, Fresnillo and Saucito Ministry.
Health & Safety Information Systems evaluated, decision made We regret to report a fatal injury in 2015 and two fatal injuries in early 2016.
We are committed to comprehensively investigate 2016 objectives these accidents and implement the measures necessary to Implement Health & Safety Information System, including for reverse the negative trend in our safety record.
contractors Complete OHSAS 18001 certification process at Saucito Mature the Operational Discipline and safety assessments initiatives Manage our knowledge Engage stakeholders Safety culture Investment in safety US$ 4.18m 4.57 5.95 3.56 4.18 2012 2013 2014 2015 71 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Assessing risk to manage our knowledge Safety culture We proactively assess risks in order to design operating procedures, Our safety culture is routinely monitored to assess the attitudes, equipment and training: situational assessments and legal behaviours and disciplined elimination of unsafe conditions.
compliance audits help us identify operational non-conformities and to develop specific action plans with clear deadlines and Emergency response plans and drills accountabilities.
In 2015 we improved risk analysis of fire events and We reviewed our emergency response manuals in 2015, trained began to define the criteria to identify high-risk areas in underground senior managers to manage crises, and conducted drills across our mines.
We intend to extend the situational assessment practice to operations to evaluate performance.
Safe cyanide management Engaging our stakeholders: No More Accidents Cyanide is a chemical compound extremely effective in dissolving gold Leadership and engagement from its ore, and is widely used for that purpose in our industry in a We expect our managers, union representatives and contractors to process called cyanide leaching.
However, in high concentrations have a leadership role in our safety culture.
Once local union cyanide can be toxic to humans and many living organisms.
representatives are elected they participate in our training workshops Responsible management of cyanide is critical to ensure the safety of aimed at developing safety leadership: accountability of our our people, contractors, neighbouring communities and the managers and contractors is monitored through situational environment.
We apply strict health and safety measures to prevent spills and any Our entire workforce is represented by formal Health & Safety H&S exposure of our workforce to cyanide.
Likewise, we train our response Commissions, who play a leadership role in the field.
H&S teams to contain accidental releases and respond to any incidents of Commissions also investigate the causes of accidents occupational exposure.
The Herradura mine is certified in the Cyanide Code, which diseases, determine their preventive measures, and monitor sets out best practices for transporting, storing, using, and disposing compliance.
Management, unionised employees and contractors are of cyanide, as developed by the International Cyanide Management represented in these commissions.
Noche Buena launched its certification process in December 2015.
See also Cyanide management: environmental We support our contractors in enrolling in the Mexican Labour aspects on page 78.
Ministrys voluntary Self-Managed Safety Programme, whose main objective is to encourage a self-evaluation culture and continuous improvement mindset through the implementation of health & safety Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR management systems.
Companies participating in the programme For every 1,000,000 hours can significantly reduce the number of mandated safety inspections.
2012 2013 2014 2015 Behavioural change Human factors are involved in the majority of incidents and accidents.
Rushing, frustration, fatigue and complacency lead to unintentional errors that increase the risk of injuries on or off the job.
Fresnillo engages its workforce with three initiatives: i DuPonts SafeStart programme reinforces safety awareness and develops specific critical error reduction techniques CERTs to decrease the risk of injury: each unit has a team responsible for implementation, and the programme has been launched at Fresnillo, Saucito and Cinega: ii the STOP Stop, Think, Observe and Plan programme teaches that all accidents can be prevented and promotes risk monitoring for all processes, emphasising the responsibility of the chain of command to detect and Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Noche Buena Herradura Soledadimmediately remediate unsafe conditions: and iii Behavioural Change Dipolos workshops, facilitated by psychologists, provide guidance and counsel on handling personal issues that may cause distractions that lead to Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR accidents.
For every 1,000,000 hours Operational Discipline programme 2012 2013 2014 2015 Discipline in safety means doing the right thing all the time.
This programme includes several phases: making procedures available, assuring the quality of the procedures, training and communication, evaluation of work cycles, and continuous improvement.
Our units are reaching the fourth phase, evaluation of work cycles.
Rules that save lives We aim to embed rules that save lives those deemed safety-critical into our safety culture: we have a regular process to review these rules and propose the inclusion of new ones.
Comprehensive accident investigation Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Noche Buena Herradura SoledadRoot cause analysis, applied methodically, allows us to derive valuable Dipolos insights from accidents: outcomes are communicated to all business units in order to prevent similar accidents.
Number of fatal injuries to employees or contractors per The number of accidents divided by the total number of 1,000,000 hours worked.
Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR Lost workday rate TRIFR For every 1,000,000 hours For every 1,000,000 hours 20.98 5.87 0.81 23.29 16.09 18.84 20.98 5.93 2.16 3.30 5.87 1.64 3.11 1.48 0.58 0.62 0.81 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The number of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work The number of lost-time injuries fatalities per 1,000,000 The number of days lost to accidents divided by the total cases medical treatment first aid cases per 1,000,000 hours worked.
number of employees and contractors.
Lost work days number of lost-time injuries fatalities.
73 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 2015 objectives Environment Update contingency response plans, including simulations Set carbon emissions and water targets Strategy and objectives Mining and processing precious metals, whilst essential industries, Adapt water stewardship and biodiversity strategies consume water, disturb land and produce waste and greenhouse Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certification at Saucito gases in the ordinary course of business.
Minimising the impact of our activities and being transparent and accountable regarding our 2015 performance environmental footprint are crucial to making mining compatible and retaining our social licence to operate.
Our environmental Contingency response plans have been reviewed and practiced management system ensures effective compliance with at Penmont, Fresnillo and Saucito regulations and supports initiatives to reduce our environmental Collaborating internally to forecast future energy demands and footprint.
identify reduction opportunities Engaged NGOs as potential partners to shape biodiversity and water stewardship strategies that go beyond compliance ISO 14001 and Clean Industry certification processes advanced Management 90% at Saucito systems and Renewables were introduced to our energy portfolio certifications Responsible reactions to a tailings spill at Saucito and a pregnant solution spill at Herradura.
Additional preventative measures Climate have been put in place Communities change and energy 2016 objectives Set carbon emissions and water targets Environmental Obtain Clean Industry and ISO 14001 certification at Saucito stewardship Implement an information system Strengthen the mechanism for internal audits of environmental Land and compliance Water biodiversity Water input Waste Megalitres 2014 2015 756 664 2,142 2,638 3,310 5,971 2,244 2,350 Penmont Certification Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Herradura Noche Buena ISO 14001 Certified In Certified Certified Certified process Framework and criteria for an effective environmental management system.
Cinega Fresnillo Penmont Saucito Clean Certified In Certified Certified Certified Industry process Sources of water Certificate granted by the Mexican Environmental Authority to promote environmental audits, compliance with regulations and Water waste Bore elds adoption of best practices.
Ore entrainment Mine water International N A N A On hold Certified In process Cyanide 11% 10% Management 3% 3% Code 35% 44% Sets criteria for the global gold mining industry on cyanide management practices.
50% 43% The process will resume once the mines capacity optimisation plan is determined.
2014 2015 74 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Water Water stress considering climate change scenarios 2020 and 2030 Mining and processing ore require large volumes of water.
We operate Business as Business as Pessimistic Pessimistic in some arid regions where water is frequently a relevant issue for usual 2020 usual 2030 2020 2030 communities.
Hence, securing access and being responsible water Fresnillo Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase stewards are critical success factors.
Our water management Saucito Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase approach is based on operational excellence and cooperation with stakeholders, notably communities, authorities and NGOs.
Penmont 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase 1.4x increase Cinega Near normal 1.4x increase Near normal 1.4x increase Risk assessment Responding to the expectations of our stakeholders, we conduct our Water stress measures the ratio of total annual water withdrawal to average annual evaluation of water risk using the World Resources Institutes WRI available blue water.
This is a commonly used indicator also known as relative water Aqueduct tool, which uses a wide-ranging set of indicators demand.
aggregated using a weighting profile recommended for the mining industry by the WRI.
This tool provides an overall water risk We calculate our water inventory using the Water Accounting assessment based on the geographical location of our mining Framework for the Minerals Industry, designed by the Sustainable operations.
Minerals Institute of the University of Queensland and the Minerals Council of Australia.
This framework has been useful to standardise Water risk assessment under current conditions concepts internally and benchmark amongst our operations and with Regulatory & other mining companies.
Overall Water Physical Risk Physical Risk Reputational Risk Quality Quantity Risk Statement of Water Inputs and Outputs in megalitres Fresnillo Medium to No data High risk Low to for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 high risk medium risk Category Element Sub-element 2015 2014 Saucito Medium to No data High risk Low to Input Surface water Rivers and creeks 0 0 high risk medium risk Groundwater Mine water 4,949 4,230 Penmont Medium to Low to High risk Low to high risk medium risk medium risk Bore fields 5,163 2,995 Ore entrainment 312 269 Cinega Medium to Low to Medium to Low to high risk medium risk high risk medium risk Third party Wastewater 1,200 958 Total Water Inputs 11,624 14,098 Physical risk quality considers return flow ratio and upstream protected land: physical risk Output Surface water Discharges 130 170 quantity considers baseline water stress, inter-annual variability, seasonal variability, flood Water entrained in occurrence, drought severity, upstream storage and groundwater stress: regulatory and Other concentrates 24 19 reputational risk considers media coverage, access to water and threatened amphibians.
Total Water Outputs 154 189 Water quantity 3 1 megalitre 1,000 m Fresnillo relies primarily on groundwater mine water and wells and municipal wastewater to supply its operations.
While groundwater is Water Deviations in megalitres thought to be less vulnerable to climate change, our operations for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 nevertheless aim to improve water efficiency.
Where we operate in river basins experiencing water stress, we seek to minimise the use of Category Element Sub-element 2015 2014 freshwater.
Input Surface water Rivers and creeks 0 0 Our key efforts to reduce our water footprint include the Groundwater Aquifer implementation of closed circuits, use of wastewater, process interception improvements and reducing ore dilution.
As water stress is one of the dewatering 14,129 8,989 most important parameters in overall water risk, we explore scenarios Total Water Inputs 14,129 12,437 using Aqueduct to assess the effect of climate change on water Output Surface water Discharges 13,055 8,118 resources.
Our Fresnillo and Saucito operations build resilience using Supply to third municipal wastewater and donating cleaned mine water to the party donation 206 82 community.
Cinega, located in the mountains upstream, relies on mine water the ore is below the groundwater table and donates Loss evaporation, excess water to the communities.
Penmont, located in an arid and infiltration, etc.
868 790 low water use region, is supplied with wells.
The proximity of Penmont Total Water Outputs 14,129 12,437 to the sea offers an opportunity to explore the use of seawater.
3 1 megalitre 1,000 m 75 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Statement of Operational Efficiency Climate change and energy for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Governance The climate agreement reached in December 2015 at the 21st Unit 2015 2014 Conference of the Parties COP21 in Paris is a clear sign of the transition to a lower-carbon, more energy-efficient economy.
The Total volume to tasks megalitre 57,197 42,715 Boards HSECR Committee has incorporated a review of our Total volume of reused water megalitre 46,537 35,085 performance, risks and opportunities in this regard at their semiReuse efficiency % 81.36% 82.14% annual meetings with management, who are responsible for Total volume of recycled integrating climate change into the business and operating strategy.
water megalitre 988 1,240 Operational and energy efficiency 3 1 megalitre 1,000 m Deeper mining, increased haulage distances and lower ore qualities require greater energy to extract and process.
Leadership in energy Intensity efficiency is key to business and environmental resilience.
Our climate change and energy management approach is based on operational Intensity measurement: excellence and progressive introduction of cleaner sources of energy.
3 Water input in m per tonne of 3 3 mineral processed 0.25 m tonne 0.19 m tonne The main initiatives that have improved our energy efficiency in open 3 Fresh water input in m per tonne pit operations are the optimisation of the truck fleet, use of diesel 3 3 of mineral processed 0.22 m tonne 0.17 m tonne additives, and optimisation of waste dumps to reduce haulage distances.
In underground operations, our initiatives are related to the optimisation of ventilation and measures to reduce ore dilution.
In Water quality 2015, Saucito was supplied with wind energy, reducing our footprint Mining is less vulnerable than other industries to the quality of associated with mineral processing.
incoming water: however, discharge quality is important to downstream users.
We monitor and take action to ensure our We account for and monitor our greenhouse gas GHG emissions discharges respect water quality regulations.
Our mineral processing based on an inventory management plan IMP, a best practice facilities use closed water circuits to eliminate the need to discharge proposed by the Climate Leaders programme of the US process water into water streams: our discharges primarily consist of Environmental Protection Agency EPA.
Although our operating mines wastewater from non-industrial facilities such as camps and offices, set energy efficiency targets each year, we are also committed to and are treated prior to discharge.
evaluating the mechanisms and suitability of other science-based targets.
Most of our underground mines require fide-watering draining groundwater by pumping to allow access to the ore. Unused water is Strategy implementation, carbon cost exposure and carbon sent to settlement ponds to control suspended solids before regulation readiness discharging the now cleaned water downstream.
We pay carbon taxes indirectly, since carbon taxes are currently embedded in the price of fossil fuels and will soon be included in the Reputation and regulations price of electricity.
Mexicos carbon tax for fossil fuels, based on their We have not detected negative downstream impacts on the carbon content, is paid by producers and importers, and thus ecosystems due to our groundwater intake or surface water embedded in the fuel prices paid by consumers.
The new electricity discharge, nor have we experienced conflicts with our communities market will have tradable clean energy certificates CELs in 2018: arising from contamination or use of water resources.
energy companies participating in the electricity market will be mandated to have a clean energy portfolio equivalent to 5% of its Fresnillo supports its communities by donating water from its mine production.
A CELs market will operate to provide flexibility and dewatering operations.
We believe such community cooperation efficiency in the electricity market.
This regulation is the mechanism helps limit conflicts due to access issues.
We also work with chosen by the Mexican government to meet the decarbonisation municipalities to invest in water and wastewater infrastructure, target of 35% of its electricity market by 2024. notably with their mining tax funds see Community Relations pages 80 to 83.
The Mexican congress abandoned a project to introduce a We anticipate that the progressive deregulation of diesel prices and new federal law on water.
the expected long-term reduction of electricity prices as a result of the above-mentioned reforms will counter our exposure to carbon taxes.
Fresnillo plc engages public policymakers and other stakeholders To test the resilience of our business we are using the International through the Mexican Chapter of the World Business Council for Energy Agencys 450 Scenario, which aims to limit the concentration Sustainable Development CESPEDES and the Water Advisory Council.
of GHGs in the atmosphere to around 450 parts per million of CO in 2 These organisations support cost-effective policy measures and water order to meet the goal of limiting the global rise in temperature to 2C.
stewardship: their positions and initiatives can be consulted on their respective websites www.
The government has started operating its mandatory emissions registry.
Our rapid compliance with the regulation reflects our experience in voluntary reporting.
Preparedness for the physical impacts The most significant climate change impacts for our Company relate to water.
See page 75 for a more detailed discussion of our water usage and conservation efforts.
76 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Public policy Methodology: We have reported on all of the emission sources As with water stewardship, we engage public policymakers and other required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and stakeholders through the Mexican Chapter of the World Business Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our Council for Sustainable Development CESPEDES, whose positions and operational control.
We do not have responsibility for any emission initiatives can be consulted on their website.
sources that are not included in our Consolidated Statement.
We have used the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate The most important policies regulating GHG emissions in Mexico are: Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition.
the General Climate Change Law 2012 : National Strategy on Climate Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions.
Change, 10-20-40 years 2013 : the carbon tax 2014 : National Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased Emissions and Emissions Reductions Registry 2014 : and the Energy electricity Reform Law and Regulations 2014.
Changes to the comparison year: For the COP21 climate agreement, Mexico presented its Intended Scope 1: Emission factors of fossil fuels were updated to reflect the National Determined Contribution INDC, committing to energy contents recognised by the Mexican Energy Ministry.
unconditionally reduce 25% of its GHGs and short-lived climate Scope 2: The emission factor for the electricity supplied by pollutants emissions below BAU for the year 2030.
This commitment Thermoelectric Peoles was updated.
implies a 22% reduction of GHGs and 51% of black carbon.
The underlying target-setting hypothesis forecasts a net emissions peak Waste management starting from 2026, decoupling GHG emissions from economic Our operations produce mineral waste either mining, processing growth: emissions intensity per unit of GDP will decline by around 40% beneficiation or metallurgical and in much smaller proportion, 1 from 2013 to 2030.
These binding international commitments are non-mineral waste from operating materials such as tyres, used lube expected to translate into enhanced local regulations.
oil, materials impregnated with grease and oil, and cans, among others.
To determine appropriate waste management methods for Transparency and disclosure mineral waste, Fresnillo analyses its potential to generate acid mine We participate in the climate change programme of the Carbon drainage see below and determines its mobility and concentrations Disclosure Project CDP and the Mexican GHG disclosure programme, of metals and metalloids.
Mining waste Carbon performance Mining waste includes the overburden rock or soil overlaying a Global GHG Emissions for the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 mineral deposit of open pit operations and gangue the rock or GHG emissions mineral occurring with the metallic ore but of no commercial value tonnes of CO e Energy MWh 2 e excavated in underground works to access the ore.
It does not contain Reporting Comparison Reporting Comparison ore or the concentration is below the cut-off grade and cannot be year year year year processed economically.
Most mining waste is transported and 2015 2012 2015 2012 deposited in waste dumps for permanent storage: some waste rock is Scope 1 direct 421,409 375,121 1,645,485 1,385,448 used underground in cut and fill operations.
Most of our mineral emissions : waste is generated by the open pit operations at Penmont.
The Combustion of foundations of waste dumps and their slopes are engineered and fuel mobile monitored to provide stability over time.
and stationary sources Processing waste Processing waste refers to the portion of ore considered too poor to be Scope 2 indirect 374,391 329,245 673,339 420,615 further processed.
Tailings a fine-grained slurry are the processing emissions : waste of beneficiation.
In some of our operations, tailings are Electricity considered by-products that may serve as input for tailing processing purchased from plants for further recovery of metals.
The slurries are pumped from the Mexican the plants to sedimentation ponds, known as tailing dams, for safe National Grid storage.
The decanted water, released by the sedimentation of CFE, Wind Force tailings, is harvested and pumped back to the processing plants.
For Peoles FEISA safety reasons, we do not allow tailing ponds to be operated as water and reservoirs: therefore, our tailing ponds have channels to deviate water Thermoelectric runoff.
Embankments are periodically monitored to evaluate Peoles TEP structural integrity, including earthquake response.
Intensity 0.017 0.013 0.050 0.034 measurement: Emissions and energy reported above per tonne of mineral processed 1 http: www4.
int submissions INDC Published%20Documents Mexico 1 MEXICO%20INDC%2003.30.2015.
77 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 In December 2015, Saucito experienced a rupture in the pipeline In May 2015, Herradura experienced a partial collapse of a small connecting the processing plant to the tailings pond.
Once the failure section of the embankment of a pond containing pregnant gold was detected, the flow of tailings was immediately halted.
This failure was quickly detected and contained with cooperation with the Mexican Environmental Protection Agency a dyke, and extra pumps were set up to speed up the transfer of the 3 PROFEPA, it was determined that the burst in the pipeline released solution to the contingency pond.
The spillage totalled 70 m of 450 tonnes of tailings, covering 8,000m of industrial land and pregnant solution with 15 ppm of sodium cyanide.
Remediation 1,600m of land adjacent to the mine.
Remediation consisted of consisted of removal of the contaminated soil and reconstruction of cleaning the tailings, removing and replacing the topsoil and repairing the affected section of the embankment.
The incident was reported the pipeline.
The tailings released were considered benign as their lab to PROFEPA and environmental monitoring since the incident shows characterisation indicated that: i the concentration of heavy metals no negative environmental effects.
and metalloids were below the legal maximum levels: and ii minerals 2015 2014 in the tailings do not produce acid mine drainage.
Remediation work concluded successfully, eliminating any risk to the environment or to Sodium cyanide NaCN tonne 8,451 6,810 the health of communities.
A review of our design and operating procedures for the management of tailings facilities is underway.
Acid mine drainage Acid mine drainage AMD is a major environmental challenge for the Metallurgical waste mining industry.
Some geologic environments naturally contain Metallurgical waste refers to piles of spent ore and the tailings sulphides, especially pyrites FeS which are the most common 2 produced by heap and dynamic leaching respectively.
Mining activities may increase the exposure of sulphides to cyanide-bearing mineral waste is disposed of safely.
The use of an air and water, which initiates a complex oxidation process that may impermeable membrane in heaps and tailings prevents seepage to lead to acid mine water low pH capable of dissolving metals and groundwater.
We believe progressive rehabilitation of mineral waste metalloids.
Uncontrolled AMD represents a risk to surface and facilities is the best path for responsible mining.
Revegetation of waste groundwater resources during mine operation as well as a legacy dumps at Cinega and particularly the tailing ponds at Fresnillo are issue after closure.
valuable examples of engaging stakeholders in compatible mining practices.
Not all sulphides generate AMD, as other minerals may naturally buffer the acid.
We characterise all mineral wastes to detect their Non-mineral waste potential to generate AMD, and operations with AMD risk implement Non-mineral wastes are most commonly managed through site-specific management strategies such as dry coverage, collection recycling, off-site treatment and disposal.
Hazardous wastes are and treatment to minimise AMD risk in mineral storage.
subject to strict regulation by Mexican authorities at our own storage facilities and at hazardous waste receiving facilities.
Our management Biodiversity and land systems include policies to reduce and reuse.
We are subject to international agreements Mexico has signed to protect endangered species as well as national regulations that Unit 2015 2014 mandate relocation of vulnerable species.
Our environmental impact Mine waste Waste rock Tonne 115,302,731 127,711,136 assessments identify such species.
Processing Tailings Tonne 5,877,794 5,326,868 We partner with the Sonoran state government to protect the waste Sonoran Pronghorn near our Penmont operations, continued our Metallurgical Tailings Tonne 2,925,918 2,199,316 partnership with PROFEPA to host confiscated animals in one of our waste Heaps Tonne 37,366,591 35,699,818 community parks in the city of Fresnillo, and funded a project led by our partner Naturalia as part of our WildCorp commitment.
Cinega Cyanide management: environmental aspects has set aside a 1,000-hectare conservation area encompassing land Environmental protection measures are critical for cyanide leaching reclaimed from its operations as well as areas rehabilitated from systems: we operate in compliance with international best practices deforestation.
as put forth by the International Cyanide Management Institute ICMI and the Mexican standard  that Unit 2015 2014 establishes environmental requirements for gold and silver leaching Rehabilitated land Ha 100.00 208.21 systems.
Atmospheric emissions Groundwater sources are protected from cyanide seepage with an Our operations release gases and particulates to the atmosphere that impermeable liner for the heaps where ore is deposited, and the soil may have an effect on people and the environment.
These emissions layer foundation beneath the liner is geo-technically engineered to result from moving ore, mining waste and burning fossil fuels, provide structural stability.
Channels surrounding the heaps and especially diesel for trucks and mining equipment, and include contingency ponds are hydraulically designed to handle flood flows nitrogen oxides NOx, sulphur oxides SOx, carbon monoxide CO, caused by extreme rainfall events and monitoring up and and particulate matter PM.
downstream proactively detects changes in water quality.
Once gold and silver are extracted from the cyanide solution, process water is Emissions of CO and NOx come from burning fossil fuels.
Prolonged reused in the leaching process: water is also harvested from the exposure to CO at high concentrations in underground operations cyanide-bearing tailings and recirculation generates savings in may affect the nervous system and heart and could eventually be cyanide, reductions to the fresh water footprint and elimination of lethal.
NOx contribute to the formation of fine particulates in the discharges to water streams.
atmosphere and can cause respiratory problems: prolonged exposure to high concentrations in underground operations may cause eye, skin and respiratory irritation, bronchial spasms, lung edema, low oxygenation and can eventually be lethal.
To prevent exposure in underground operations, we rely on advanced ventilation systems, 78 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations and in addition, every miner working underground must have a Investment in environment Energy GHG profile carbon monoxide detector and a self-rescue respirator as part of their US$ mandatory personal equipment.
CO levels underground are Electricity from FEISA wind Electricity from TEP monitored regularly and internal audits verify compliance with Electricity from the National grid maximum level regulations.
1.88m Combustion of fossil fuels contractors Combustion of fossil fuels 4.37 1.26 2.09 1.88 Emissions of PM come from burning fossil fuels, windblown erosion of 0% 6% exposed areas and stockpiles, wheel-generated and blasting-related 11% 31% dust.
PM emissions smaller than ten micrometres in diameter PM10 12% can be retained in the lungs, and in high concentrations may lead to 16% 20% respiratory and cardiovascular diseases.
PM10 from fuel combustion, 15% known as diesel particulate matter DPM, is generally more harmful 51% than PM10 coming from diffuse sources such as windblown erosion or 38% wheel-generated dust.
2012 2013 2014 2015 Energy GHG NOx and PM levels depend on engine technology.
Mexico recently introduced new standards that would require new heavy-duty diesel vehicles sold after 1 January 2018 to meet emissions standards Energy Energy intensity equivalent to those in the United States EPA 2010 or the European GWhe MWhe per tonne Union Euro VI standards.
This regulation will require new vehicles to Scope 1 Scope 2 be equipped with diesel particulate filters DPFs, advanced NOx after treatment, full on-board diagnostic OBD systems, and fail safes 0.050 which ensure correct operation of emissions control systems.
The new 0.034 0.048 0.050 0.050 Mexican standard is expected to reduce PM 90%-98% and NOx from 93%-95% according to the International Council on Clean 673 577 Transportation ICCT.
433 421 1,645 1,586 1,410 1,385 SOx emissions at Fresnillo come from burning of fossil fuels.
Cleaner diesel is an important factor in reducing emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, and the aforementioned filter-based standards require ultralow-sulphur diesel with contents no more than 15 parts per 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 million ppm.
While the border region and major metropolitan areas of Mexico are all supplied with 15 ppm sulphur diesel, the rest of the country continues to be supplied with diesel containing up to 500 ppm GHG intensity sulphur: recent energy reform in Mexico will allow for fuel imports in Tonnes of CO e per tonne of 2 GHG emissions 2017. mineral processed Kt of CO e 2 Among its initiative to reduce diesel consumption and associated Scope 1 Scope 2 emissions, Herradura implemented the MineStar system, which 0.017 optimises the fleet of trucks and mining equipment in the open pit mine: in addition, the Penmont complex has been using additives to 0.013 0.018 0.019 0.017 reduce the use of diesel.
412 374 329 Environmental aspects in our value chain 325 Our key operating materials include sodium cyanide, tyres, explosives, steel for drilling, fuels diesel and gasoline, lube oil, steel balls and liner 421 413 375 363 plates for milling.
From an environmental standpoint, the most sensitive is sodium cyanide NaCN, which we procure from certified manufactures, distributors and transporters.
Corporate procurement 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 is responsible for enforcing this policy.
Separately, fuel transporters are required to be insured for environmental incidents.
Contractors must comply with Mexican regulations and the environmental procedures of our management system, which is reflected in their contracts.
Contractors with more than 100 employees are required to implement a management system.
Communities We engage our neighbouring communities to raise environmental awareness through events such as World Water Day, World Environment Day and Tree Day.
We conduct talks, contests, performances and reforestation campaigns with elementary schools and amongst our employees and contractors.
79 2 1 3 Effective Knowledge Develop Engagement Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 2015 objectives Community relations Match our units with NGOs to increase collaboration and partnerships on projects to benefit communities Strategy and objectives Launch regional and corporate social investment committees Our communities are strategic partners.
Having their trust requires effectively engaging them and being accountable for our impacts.
Enhance collaboration with the land acquisition team to bring We recognise that building trust is the only way to obtain and social expertise to the process preserve our social licence to operate.
Our corporate strategy Continue identifying and adopting best practices in stakeholder covers all phases of the mining cycle.
engagement: consolidate those adopted in 2014 Advancing our knowledge 2015 performance We build our knowledge of communities by identifying stakeholders and understanding their positions on relevant issues.
Developed a new portfolio of proposals for institutional projects With the support of the Borealis Information System we track our and alliances with NGOs stakeholder registry, informal and formal meetings, incident and Presented and analysed operating rules and framework for commitment registries and grievances.
Continuous engagement Regional Committees and comprehensive social analyses help us gain further Ongoing collaboration between the community relations and understanding of the risks and opportunities in the communities land acquisition teams, notably in San Julin and Saucito where we operate.
Focused on multiple maturity practices The Silver Saves Lives initiative was launched at Cinega with a rain harvesting project Community investment 2016 objectives US$ Review results of perception studies: leverage insights to improve social investment and engagement strategies Design and implement a protocol to conduct follow-up visits to 2.54m the operations and projects 3.14 2.14 2.21 2.54 Ongoing adoption and maturity of best practices in community relations 2012 2013 2014 2015 Exploration Project Operation Closure Stakeholder analysis Information system Media monitoring Studies baseline, perception and social risk Evaluation of partnerships with NGOs Activities with the communities Formal meetings informal meetings consultation communication Registry of incidents Registry of commitments Grievances Social investment Social investment committee Community requests Capacity building Local employment and local contractors 80 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Performance Community investment by strategic lever % Community investment by business unit % Community capacity building 9% Cinega 11% Education 34% Explorations 6% Social welfare 53% Fresnillo 66% Infrastructure 2% Penmont 11% Environmental awareness 2% Servicos Administrativos Fresnillo 3% Saucito 3% Activities by strategic lever % Exploration Activities by strategic lever % Operations Environmental awareness 32% Environmental awareness 17% Education 20% Education 28% Social welfare 47% Social welfare 44% Capacity building 1% Capacity building 11% Contributions requested by the community % Exploration Contributions requested by the community % Operations Accepted 86% Accepted 67% Rejected 14% Rejected 33% Economic value distributed % Economic value distributed by state % Zacatecas 28.27% Sonora 44.41% Durango 15.15% Chihuahua 9.15% Guanajuato 0.07% Coahuila 2.70% Mexico City 0.20% Estado fide Mexico 0.04% Perception studies In 2015 we conducted such a perception study in all our operating In addition to informal and formal meetings that help us detect units.
The pollster CINCO, specialised in social and reputational studies, relationship risks and opportunities, we periodically commission assisted us with the methodological design and field implementation.
comprehensive perception studies to deepen our insight on the issues We approached our stakeholders using different quantitative and that matter to our communities.
These aim at evaluating how we are qualitative engagement tools see below.
In addition, we performed perceived as employers, neighbours and to what extent our credibility, social risk assessments in our key advanced exploration and environmental and social commitment are recognised.
These studies adopt key social elements required by the Equator Principles, the framework by which banks look to manage environmental and social issues in project financing.
Engagement Tool Survey Focus group Interview Workshop Community Informal leaders Local authorities Contractors 81 Wages and benets of workers 8.69% Payments to suppliers contractors 69.37% Payments to local governments 0.33% Payments to federal government 21.62% Stakeholder Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Engaging effectively Dimension Description Effective engagement improves our understanding of the community Employer How the relationship between employees and the and builds mutually beneficial relationships.
We aim to engage early Company is perceived.
Elements considered include: to manage community expectations and develop trust through the pride, remuneration, work conditions, health & mining lifecycle.
Building a reservoir of stakeholder capital is key to safety, training, stability, growth opportunities, resilience when challenges arise.
The focus of our engagement efforts wellbeing changes over the lifecycle of operations, as follows: Social How our contribution to the community is commitment appreciated.
Elements considered include: Exploration Our exploration teams are the first to establish cooperation in emergencies, participation in contact with the community.
Our stakeholders are community activities, infrastructure support, identified and the engagement efforts focus on promotion of sports, health, family values, obtaining temporary land access to explore and education assessing social risks.
Environmental How our environmental stewardship is rated.
Project The identification and relation with our stakeholders commitment Elements studied include: environmental feasibility deepens in this phase of the cycle.
Local hiring, compliance, certifications, care for natural resources development contracts and social investment are part of our and biodiversity, emissions, waste management, efforts to build trust.
We conduct social risk clean technology, promotion of environmental assessments in our advanced feasibility and awareness, responsible use of water and energy development projects.
These studies facilitate the identification of the issues that matter to the Value creation How the Company is perceived, the value we create community.
and credibility and our ethical behaviour.
Elements considered include: leadership, modernity, regional value Operation We engage the communities regularly with formal creation, job creation, development of local and informal meetings to manage their suppliers, ethics and integrity, legal compliance, expectations and detect risks and opportunities.
transparency, communication, credibility, coherence Comprehensive perception studies help to monitor speech vs actions, honesty, care the perception of the benefits and the assessment of the issues that matter to the community.
Neighbour How our engagement efforts are esteemed.
Elements considered include: mitigation and avoidance of impacts, capacity building, care of the Land acquisition is a major risk due to rising expectation of communities, respect for the local customs, landowners: our land acquisition and community relations teams are cooperation to solve issues, social acceptance enhancing their collaboration to bring social expertise to this critical process, notably at San Julin and Saucito.
The outcomes of these perception studies and social risk assessments As part of the ongoing maturity process, we focused on the following will be presented to senior managers and the community relations practices: stakeholder mapping, informal and formal meetings, social teams throughout 2016 to improve our engagement and social baselines, social impact assessments, incident and commitment investment strategies.
We are committed to advancing the maturity of these practices.
Relevance matrix 9 8 10 9 Issues that matter to our stakeholders in the communities Ranging in increasing relevance from 0 to 10 5 4 5 4 Water 4 1 3 9 Security Pavement on streets and sidewalks 3 3 9 2 Electricity supply in houses Wastewater infrastructure Unemployment 5 3 1 4 Road infrastructure 4 2 4 3 4 2 Community Local Contractors Informal authorities suppliers leaders 82 Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Developing with the community Economic impact Our strategic social investments target development levers such as Our economic contribution creates value in the regions where we education, capacity building and infrastructure.
We also contribute to operate through total wages and benefits, payments to local social welfare public health, social interaction and sports and help contractors and suppliers, and municipal, state and federal taxes.
raise environmental awareness within our communities.
Mining Fund Given our knowledge of the communities and engineering expertise, The Mexican government introduced new mining rights in 2014.
The we work with local authorities on proposals for Mining Fund Tax Collection Agency will allocate 80% of this revenue to a Mining infrastructure projects in the communities where we operate see Fund for infrastructure and development projects in the municipalities below.
Our community relations teams facilitate health weeks with where mining companies operate.
The Mining Fund allocates 62.5% to the UNAM Foundations, securing community participation and the municipalities and 37.5% to state governments.
collecting feedback on health and other issues that matter to the communities.
We continue to build on our partnership with INNOVEC The Mining Fund will finance construction and refurbishment of and the government of Zacatecas state to support the teaching of infrastructure such as schools, pavement, rural roads, public lighting, science in elementary schools.
Schools in the neighbouring sewage and landfills.
The federal agency for Rural and Urban communities of Fresnillo and Saucito are in the pipeline of schools to development SEDATU is responsible for setting the operating rules of receive government funding to implement this innovative the Mining Fund and overseeing the appropriate uses of monies.
Regional committees have been created to evaluate and determine which projects will receive funding, whose members include one We continued our efforts to engage NGOs on development projects, representative each from the federal, state and municipal resulting in a new portfolio of proposals and alliances that our governments, the community and the mining industry.
Funds are business units may reference to facilitate their social investment channelled through the Mexican Development Bank.
In addition, we launched regional and corporate social investment committees.
We expect to keep maturing this governance The Mining Fund started operations in the final quarter of 2015 with mechanism of social investment.
the allocation of the taxes collected in 2014.
The Fund is expected to raise social acceptability of mining companies, although municipalities Silver Saves Lives SSL manage vast territories with communities both near and far from Access to safe drinking water is a major global challenge.
The Silver actual mining operations.
We believe that a key success factor to Saves Lives initiative, launched with the assistance of Agile raising social acceptability rests on the willingness of municipalities to Sustainability, aims to make clean water more accessible to allocate a reasonable part of their funds to those communities near vulnerable groups within society and addresses part of our mining operations.
commitment to support goal number six of the SDGs, to ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for We have begun to engage local authorities and regional mining fund all.
committees to consider funding projects in the communities where we operate.
The outcomes of the perception surveys and regular Silver Saves Lives will begin by addressing national and local health engagement were used to identify the most relevant infrastructure issues in Mexico, targeting communities where we operate and clean issues for the communities.
We supported the communities with the water access is perceived as a concern.
However, we intend for SSL to preliminary design and budgeting of project proposals for water and eventually become an international effort by pursuing partnerships wastewater projects, pavements, lighting, education infrastructure, with organisations such as UNDP, UNICEF, the Silver Institute and sanitation and landfills, among others.
SSL is designed to propose a range of solutions depending on 2015 2014 specific communities needs: we anticipate working with a variety of partners, amongst them the communities themselves.
Mining fund USD 11,365,022 6,239,305 In 2015, we partnered with Isla Urbana and ConcentrArte, both NGOs, to develop a proposal for a pilot water harvesting project at Cinega.
A workshop was organised to stimulate constructive dialogue and alignment of objectives between the mine and strategic partners.
We also introduced an innovative application of the photo voice method storytelling aided by photography aimed at bridging the divide between mine and community, particularly on the issue of water.
83 L y o t i y r a g l t e y t n I Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 2015 objectives Our people Formalise an action plan with the feedback received in the workplace survey Strategy and objectives Integrate ethics and integrity considerations in the criteria used We seek to attract, develop and retain the best people, and for key HR processes engage them over the long-term.
We work to develop an organisational culture based on trust, and to embed ethics and Advance the ethics and integrity programme by engaging union integrity into our culture in order to create a fair and respectful leaders and training unionised workers workplace.
Launch anti-bullying and harassment campaign 2015 performance Presented results of the workplace survey to senior HR managers New employee training includes ethics and integrity component Held pilot workshops with union representatives of Penmont and Cinega with positive outcomes Launched anti-bullying campaign Launched online learning tools for core competency training Trust 2016 objectives Train unionised workers in the ethics and integrity programme Enhance readiness of crisis committees at each business unit Implement information systems to manage contractor employees in our operations Ethics and culture We aspire to demonstrate a well-established ethical culture through our actions and behaviours.
Our values are the cornerstone of our Ethics and Culture programme.
Human resources We seek to strengthen the talent pipeline to satisfy our present and future business needs, ensuring we have the people with the right Secure the skills and development potential to execute our business strategy.
Talent Pipeline Embedding ethics and integrity into our organisational culture is the path we have chosen to build trust among our stakeholders.
Investment in training Talent US$m Management 2.40 1.78 1.69 2.13 2.40 Culture of Trust 2012 2013 2014 2015 84 y t i l i b i S s a n f o e p t s y e R Fresnillo Today Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Fresnillo plc Performance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Securing the talent pipeline Responsible labour policies, diversity and human rights Planning our human capital requirements is carefully aligned to our Human and labour rights operations, with frequent feedback to monitor progress.
To attract We are strongly committed to internationally recognised human and young talent in geology, metallurgy and mining engineering, we labour rights, and take necessary measures to prevent and remedy collaborate with leading educational institutions in Mexico and offer any deviations thereof.
Child labour and compulsory work are banned students internships of varying lengths.
Partner universities include from our operations.
We respect freedom of association and the National Autonomous University of Mexico UNAM, National collective bargaining.
We do not tolerate any form of harassment, Polytechnic Institute IPN, University of Guanajuato, Autonomous intimidation or discrimination.
To raise awareness, we launched the University of Zacatecas UAZ, Autonomous University of Chihuahua Aguas Watch out campaign to engage people to speak out and UACH, University of Sonora UNISON and the Autonomous denounce bullying and harassment.
University of San Luis Potos UASLP.
The Honours Commission is responsible for investigating and We recruit graduates from the pool of interns through the Engineers sanctioning unethical behaviours, including infringements to human in Training programme: these graduates are assigned a coach from and labour rights.
Our Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblowing programme the operations who supervises their development and provides allows anyone to anonymously denounce cases of unethical performance appraisals.
Engineers in training with good appraisals behaviour, including human right violations.
We also recruit experienced professionals to enhance the talent pipeline.
Interns, engineers in Women in mining training and experienced professionals participate in an ethics and Management is committed to building a cultural environment where integrity workshop, a presentation of our policies and safety training employees can flourish, irrespective of gender.
The proportion of tailored to their job profile.
women in our workforce is 8.5% 2014: 9.4%, compared to 7.2% overall in Mexicos metal and mining industry.
While slightly above the national Our Centre for Technical Studies CETEF trains mining technicians to average, we aim to reverse our downward trend and increase our cater for our specific needs.
CETEF candidates are chosen from the gender diversity.
This will take time to rectify but it has been changing, communities surrounding our operations, thus securing talent and particularly in relation to unionised workers.
The Company is committed strengthening our social licence to operate.
Training is based on a to hiring and developing women with educational training in mining German hands-on model, whereby students spend 20% of the time engineering, geology, finance and accounting.
studying theory and 80% practicing with the same equipment they would find in our operations.
To recruit maintenance technicians, we Labour practices and union engagement partner with Peoles to train our interns at their Centre for Technical We are committed to mutually respectful relations with local labour Studies at Laguna del Rey CETLAR.
unions through continuous dialogue and collaboration.
To date, Fresnillo plc has not experienced a work stoppage or industrial action Talent management as a consequence of labour disputes.
Developing and retaining our people for the long term is fundamental to executing our business strategy.
Each business unit has a union committee with elected representatives.
Once union representatives are elected, we partner Performance appraisal is key to talent management: the assessment with their national committee to engage new leaders with training cycle begins with the definition of annual objectives that align with courses that develop leadership skills and raise awareness of their business objectives, and that are then evaluated at the end of the rights and responsibilities.
Union committees have ongoing year.
Appraisals include an evaluation of skills needed for the position interactions with the Company.
The HR superintendent is responsible and any recommended training or continuing education.
To address for maintaining permanent dialogue with the commission.
The the most common skills requirements problem analysis, effective management team in each operation organises results presentations communication, negotiation and budget controls we launched a several times a year to foster common understanding of the business.
virtual campus to train our people.
Collective bargaining covers wages, recruitment and dismissals, In addition, we have begun to evaluate the leadership potential of our materials tools machinery, shifts working hours holidays vacations, people based on a Hogan assessment tool: results are cross-analysed work permits flexibility, disciplinary measures, training and with their annual performance appraisal to identify development induction, health & safety, work-related risks, accidents and opportunities.
The outcomes of this programme will also serve as a non-occupational diseases, occupational diseases, life insurance foundation for succession plans.
compensation, career echelons, seniority, etc.
restructures, savings fund and early retirement compensation.
In addition, collective We develop our high potential middle managers via the Leaders with agreements specify the commitment to manage restructuring Vision programme, in which senior executives deliver seminars responsibly.
Whenever there are redundancies in a mine or a specific throughout the year as a mechanism to engage and mobilise our department we give preference to these employees to fill open people.
The executives participate in a training programme organised positions in other mines or departments.
by the Mexico Autonomous Institute of Technology ITAM, a leading business school.
85 Fresnillo plc Strategic Report Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Social and Sustainability Report continued 4 Voluntary labour turnover Our people continued Voluntary labour turnover Total turnover Great Place to Work Trust Index As part of our employee engagement efforts we conduct the Great 3.85% 6.70% 4.69% 8.19% 5.48% 7.77% 5.39% 9.21% Place to Work perception survey to measure the level of trust, pride and camaraderie based on the quality of the workplace experience.
In 2015, Fresnillo plc was recognised as a Great Place to Work in Mexico and currently ranks 17th among companies with more than 5,000 employees.
Social aspects in our value chain Our labour clauses require contractors to comply with all legal regulations, notably enrolling their workers in the public health and 2012 2013 2014 2015 retirement system IMSS and the housing loan system INFONAVIT.
Number of permanent employee resignations as a percentage of total permanent employees We apply our own health & safety guidelines and procedures to our hours worked.
