RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES con nued People capability Risk trend Description Mitigation The Groups ability to deliver its strategic objectives is dependent Competitive reward packages together with focused training upon the recruitment and retention of suciently qualied, and development programmes.
A culture that motivates individuals to perform to the best of their abilities.
It is critical for the Group to secure and maintain the relevant Strong succession and development programmes.
capabilities in specic geographical regions and disciplines in Local initiatives designed to engage young people, promote both existing markets and to support growth markets.
science, technology, engineering and mathematics STEM subjects and encourage the next generation of young engineers.
Potential impact The failure to recruit, or the loss of, key personnel, and the failure Changes in to plan adequately for succession or develop the potential of During 2015 we reviewed the reward schemes for our senior managers employees may impact the Groups ability to deliver its strategic and introduced a medium-term incentive plan for managers below and financial objectives.
Board level to help mitigate our retention risk.
We also made some minor changes to the bonus schemes for executive Directors.
We hope to implement further changes in 2017.
The recruitment and development of young engineering talent has continued to be a priority during 2015 with the reintroduction of our Group-wide International Graduate Programme.
We also continue to develop resources and capabilities aligned to our growth markets.
Read more in our sustainability report on pages 48 to 55 Product quality Risk trend Description Mitigation The quality and safety of our products are essential.
We are High levels of quality assurance are embedded in robust exposed to warranty, product recall and liability claims in the manufacturing systems.
event that our products fail to perform as expected.
Regular reporting and monitoring of quality performance based upon customer KPIs.
In automotive, the industry in general has experienced higher levels Maintenance of critical parts lists.
of recalls in recent years and the OEMs oen seek contributions from External agency quality reviews and certications.
This risk increases where: Robust contract terms and conditions.
vehicle manufacturers oer longer warranty periods Changes in more vehicles are being built on standard platforms, so a Excellence in quality has continued to be a priority during the year with single quality issue can aect a large number of vehicles continuous improvement programmes ongoing in each of our businesses.
We continue to monitor quality and delivery performance as regulators and our customers are taking a more stringent viewed by our customers and strive to continuously improve product approach to recalling vehicles, particularly if there is a possible quality, safety and delivery key performance indicators.
During 2015, the Executive Committee and Audit & Risk Committee In aerospace, customers and regulators impose very strict reviewed the quality management system in each division and agreed product safety and quality obligations on all aircra suppliers.
A cross-divisional Quality Committee has been formed to share best Potential impact practice and co-ordinate Group-wide quality management projects.
A product failure could result in serious losses, damaging GKNs financial performance and potentially our reputation.
Read more about our continuous improvement culture on page 53 In particular, the costs associated with vehicle or aircra recalls can be signicantly higher than the cost of simply replacing defective products.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts
