42 Corporate Social Responsibility DELIVERING RESULTS RESPONSIBLY Corporate social responsibility is not optional for Food Quality Operate Genus.
It is integral to the way we run the business and Safely and to every part of our strategy.
Abundance Catherine Glickman Chair of CSR Committee and Group HR Director Environment Employees Animal Community Welfare Pioneering animal genetic improvement to help nourish The Committee meets four times a year and reports to theworld words we chose carefully to describe our GELT in May and the Board in June.
Its members include contribution to society.
We believe that our genetics our in-house experts on animal welfare, employees, support countries health, by helping to increase sustainable environment and safety, who were already leading animal protein production, for people to eat as part of a programmes within the business.
This year, the Committee has ensured the Group has Leading the CSR Agenda maintained its focus on achieving its CSR objectives and Our CSR Committee established our vision for CSR, continued to raise the profile of CSR within the business.
which is to ensure that Genus continues to act in a socially Each Committee member has personally led an initiative responsible, ethical andcompliant manner, adopting the within the CSR strategy.
We have also agreed to increase highest levels of ethicaloversight for the benefit of all the areas of activity covered by our CSR strategy, by our stakeholders.
The Committee defines our Group-wide focusing on our work to extend access to high-quality CSR strategy, reviews our policies and practices, monitors genetics under a new area Food Quality and Abundance.
external developments, and advises GELT and the Board This involves working with our customers to contribute to about CSR matters.
It recommends annual goals and producing more abundant, sustainable and affordable initiatives, and identifies the key performance indicators protein.
More details can be found on pages 44 to 47. for monitoring and reporting our performance.
We are passionate about protecting the welfare of our animals and operate a Genus plc Board GELT policy of zero tolerance of animal mistreatment.
We have an Animal Welfare Committee, reporting to the CSR Committee, chaired by Dr Bill Christianson, Chief Operating Officer of CSR Committee Genus PIC.
The Committee oversees our animal welfare policies, practices and training.
Animal Welfare Committee Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 43 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Setting Standards Our CSR Framework performance are set out on pages 44 to 47.
CSR is integral From 2015, our approach to CSR falls into six key areas, to each of the four elements of our business strategy.
which are shown in the table below.
We aim to be standard Achieving our CSR objectives therefore underpins the way in setters in each of these areas.
Our objectives and which we implement our strategy.
How our CSR strategy and business strategy are intertwined CSR objectives Strategy Increasing Targeting Key Tailoring the Strengthening Genetic Markets and Business Core Control and Segments Model Competencies Product Differentiation Operate Safely Ensuring a safe working environment for our colleagues Employees Being a good employer, providing satisfying careers, development and reward Animal Welfare Continually improving animal welfare, through proven science-based initiatives Community Being a responsible corporate citizen, within our communities Environment Reducing the environmental impact of protein production Food Quality and Abundance Providing expertise and products that increase the production of high-quality protein Greenhouse Gas GHG Reporting porcine royalty.
This has no corresponding impact on Our GHG emissions are primarily methane produced by our emissions, aswe do not own animals sold on a royalty basis.
animals and carbon dioxide CO from consuming fuel and 2 other materials, and transport.
Our primary intensity ratio is Our reporting approach based on animal weight, which is a key driver of our GHG We use operational control as our reporting approach.
Our secondary intensity ratio is based on turnover.
We have determined and reported the emissions we are responsible for within this boundary and believe Total emissions and animal weight reduced by 13,800 there are no material omissions.
GHG data is therefore tonnes of CO equivalent CO e and 1,300 tonnes reported for assets, which are mainly rented or leased, 2 2 respectively, driven by a 34,000 reduction in pig numbers, that are otherwise not referred to elsewhere in the mainly due toexiting the Gntiporc Quebec porcine financial statements.
We omitted JVs and some livestock nucleus.
Our primary and secondary ratios have decreased, held at third-parties due to our limited authority to introduce and implement operating policies.
with the decrease in the secondary ratio due to growth in GHG Emissions for 2015 2015 2014 Emissions from Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e % 2 2 Scope 1 combustion of fuel and livestock emissions 68,562 83,409 14 Scope 2 electricity, steam, heat and cooling purchased 22,569 23,449 Total scope 1 & 2 91,131 106,858 13 Scope 3 material usage and waste, third-party distribution and business travel 21,160 19,218 Total emissions 112,291 126,076 Primary intensity measure Animal weight tonne 12,723 14,030 73 Secondary intensity measure Turnover m 398.5 372.2 Intensity ratio Scope 1 & 2 tCO e tonne animal weight 7.16 7.62 2 Intensity ratio Scope 1, 2 & 3 tCO e m turnover 282 339 2 From livestock Annual emissions figures have been calculated based on actual ten-month data for July to April extrapolated to From third-party distribution full year.
and business travel From other activities Assessment methodology Emissions factor data source World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Defra DECC Conversion Factors for Company Reporting Defra Guidance on how to measure and report your greenhouse gas emissions Defra Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 44 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Corporate Social Responsibility Plans What we do Why are we doing it What we said we would do What we did What we plan to do next Case Study We have a duty to keep our Audit every Genus-owned property Audited our estate of 109 sites Ensure at least 90% of staff Operate Safely employees and animals safe.
This and complete any corrective action and completed 97% of actions complete health and safety training means ensuring we maintain our within six months.
within the six-month deadline tailored to their role.
estate, and integrate health and Ensure at least 90% of staff with the balance due to be Comprehensive reporting in safety into our daily operations, complete at least one health and completed by September 2015. every business and region, led by senior management.
97% of staff completed at least reviewed quarterly by the Reduce the number of reportable one training session on safety.
incidents on Genus-owned property Reduced the number of Maintain the reduction in incidents by 20%.
reportable incidents on Genus on owned premises and develop Ensure every manager meets their property by 29%.
ways to reduce animal-related teams once during the year, to 91% of managers led a discussion incidents on non-owned premises.
discuss how to improve safety.
with their staff during the year.
Identify opportunities for improvement, through monthly incident reviews by management.
Liquid nitrogen LN plays a key part in storing 2 bull semen.
However, LN boils at -196C, so even 2 fleeting contact can permanently damage skin and soft tissues.
In addition, one litre of LN can 2 create 700 litres of gas, posing an asphyxiation risk.
We have introduced measures to control the risks.
For example, in the UK we have worked with our transport supplier to modify its vans, keeping LN storage separate from the drivers 2 compartment.
We work to attract, retain and Carried out a global staff survey Listen to what staff think, through a Conduct the second all-staff survey, Staff survey results 2015 2014 Employees motivate highly qualified and short global survey.
Four maintaining or improving results, I understand the Genus committed staff.
We explain what Ensure that every member of staff measures improved and two with a focus on safety at work and business strategy 87% 80% we want them to deliver and has clear objectives, a career stayed flat.
I am regularly told how the regularly train them.
We listen to discussion and a personal All staff had objectives, a Continue the investment in business is performing and 81% 70% their feedback and act on it.
mid-year and full year review.
development and training: this will its future plans Continue to develop our staff, 56 managers attended the include 95% of staff completing delivering operational, Advanced Leadership Anti-bribery and Corruption training My manager sets clear expectations of what has to management, leadership, Programme: 101 attended High and knowing how to report non- 84% 79% be achieved in my job communication skills and antiPerforming Teams: 245 attended compliance.
communication skills training, Continue to provide opportunities Genus actively listens to customers so we can improve Continue to provide interesting and and 407 modules have been for those developing a career in 70% 71% our ability to meet their secure work within local completed through the PIC Sales agriculture through our internship needs communities.
See People section on programme.
I enjoy working at Genus 89% 84% Maintained stable work for staff during the year, including I feel that changes have been redeployment where business made based on my feedback 44% 42% in the last year operations changed.
We Continue with Pork Quality Completed 24 PQA sessions Continue our annual programme of Animal Welfare work to world-class, scienceAssurance PQA training in all within PIC.
based and proven standards of Genus PIC owned farms.
Developed a bespoke audit Ensure 95% of staff complete animal husbandry, and have zero Develop a questionnaire for use in framework for ABS and began Animal Welfare training.
Genus ABSs animal welfare audits.
using it in our main export Enhance the bulls well-being as Complete animal welfare audits of centres.
ruminants: ABS owned studs will ABS Genuss main export centres in Completed audits at our studs in feed a higher volume, lower energy the UK, Canada, Brazil and US.
the UK, Canada, US and Brazil.
content diet, and longer particle Expand the tree planting Planted 300 trees at Uberaba.
length to enhance cud chewing.
programme at our Uberaba stud in Continue the animal welfare audits Brazil, to provide essential shade for at our four studs and extend to our our bulls.
JV stud in India once operational.
Upgrade the Genus PIC Aurora site, We use training from Pork Quality Assurance Plus our genetic nucleus in Canada.
PQA and standards set by National Pork Board in the US as templates for our global annual swine care training programme.
In 2014 15, we delivered 24 PQA sessions globally, ensuring all our staff are trained to a consistent standard.
We train and certify new staff as they work with us, with existing staff completing refresher sessions during the year.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 45 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION What we do Why are we doing it What we said we would do What we did What we plan to do next Case Study We have a duty to keep our Audit every Genus-owned property Audited our estate of 109 sites Ensure at least 90% of staff Operate Safely employees and animals safe.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 46 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Corporate Social Responsibility Plans What we do Why are we doing it What we said we would do What we did What we plan to do next Case Study We work to share opportunities Continue to support those who Using residual funds from our Continue to respond to crises that Community with local communities to work for and with us, by providing Philippines Haiyan appeal, affect those who work with us develop agricultural careers and practical help and resources for bought equipment for a school providing practical support.
provide support to charities that people who are affected by natural on one of the remote islands.
Send a Cow continue the fund work with our species, to build or other disasters.
Offered 21 internships for raising led by the ABS EMEA team knowledge and expertise.
Support investment in agricultural undergraduates and sharing skills, fund raising and education and science, to build postgraduates in the UK, US, matching customer donations.
animal agricultural capacity within Canada and China.
Continue our programme of our industry.
In 2014 15, we will Supported Send a Cow see case recruitment into our farms from develop the approach in our US and study.
local communities providing European businesses.
Recruited and trained 151 staff in valuable jobs and training.
Support charities that sponsor our farms.
agricultural initiatives globally, to build knowledge and understanding of animal husbandry, self sufficiency through livestock and good farming practice.
Continue to recruit into our farms Send a Cow helps poor dairy farmers in Africa by from our local communities, sharing knowledge and providing practical farming advice and emotional support.
Every providing valuable jobs, training and farmer helped pledges to pass on the gift, by income for those that work with us.
donating one of the cows offspring to another family.
Research shows that for every person they help, ten more go on to benefit.
Staff in our ABS EMEA region have supported the charity by sharing their skills, fund raising and matching customer donations.
To date we have raised equivalent funds to send 41 cows to Africa.
We are committed to reducing the Continue annual independent audits Audited 83% of animals in our Continue Genus PICs external Environment environmental impact of our work.
of Genus PICs waste management owned sites.
audits, to cover at least 80% of systems, covering at least 80% of Installed an irrigation pivot animals on owned sites.
system on a 160-acre square field Improve food conversion efficiency Produce more home-grown feed for at Dekorra, enabling us to double by 0.02kg of feed per kg of pork Genus ABSs bulls, to reduce crop in 2014, with hay and late produced averaged over a rolling reliance on purchased feed, reduce season corn.
3year period: this genetic trend will emissions from transporting feed Recycled manure in exchange for be measured across the PIC pure and improve biosecurity.
straw at Whenby, UK see case populations.
Explore opportunities to recycle the study.
Upgrade the Genus ABS production manure produced by Genus ABSs estate, working with the Future bulls, both on crop land producing Farmers of America and a local our feed and by converting it to school to landscape our Dekorra We house 300 bulls at Whenby Lodge in the UK.
heat or electricity, for example by site with over 300 trees, and Since 2011, we have developed a unique using a furnace-type recycler.
reducing light impact on our agreement with neighbouring arable farmers neighbours.
In 2014 15, we exchanged 3,000 tonnes of manure for nearly 1,600 tonnes of high-quality straw for feed and bedding keeping our bulls happy and protecting us from volatility in straw prices.
Working with our customers, New for 2015.
Accelerate the rate of genetic Food Quality 150 we contribute to producing improvement, using relationshipand Abundance more abundant, sustainable, based genomic selection to safe and affordable protein, produce high productivity, high PIC genetic as part of a nutritious diet.
index Increase commercial level merit, by 100 reducing lag in the PIC supply chain.
Improve milk production and herd sustainability using genetic audits, GMS and Net Profit Genetics.
Introduce high-quality dairy genetics into India, developing a genomic market, and China, In 2012, PIC introduced relationship-based enabling access for milk producers genomic selection to help us select and breed the who want to use high-quality best animals to drive genetic improvement.
result has been a step change in performance, giving us differentiated and proprietary products which will benefit customers in the coming years.
Having implemented the technology in PIC, we are now sharing it across the Group.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 Dec-11 Jun-12 Dec-12 Jun-13 Dec-13 Jun-14 Dec-14 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 47 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION What we do Why are we doing it What we said we would do What we did What we plan to do next Case Study We work to share opportunities Continue to support those who Using residual funds from our Continue to respond to crises that Community with local communities to work for and with us, by providing Philippines Haiyan appeal, affect those who work with us develop agricultural careers and practical help and resources for bought equipment for a school providing practical support.
