40 People PROGRESS THROUGH PEOPLE ABS Chile annual sales meeting and Genuss progress is driven by the 10thanniversary celebrations in Torres delPaine, Patagonia, Chile.
dedication, determination and passion of our employees.
They are The benefits of our talent development talented professionals, committed were shown by the promotion of two to pursuing Genuss goals while scientists to lead the GSS project, and development of talented Latin developing their careers.
American PIC key account leads into new roles in Mexico, the US and Spain.
We also recruited high-calibre professionals, including Dr Dan Tucker Global Adviser on PIC Health During the year, we continued to Assurance, Dr Uislei Orlando PIC focus on performance management, Global Director of Nutrition, Mark Birri talent and succession planning, while Strategy and Business Development delivering leadership development Director and Adam Schilffarth Senior and employee engagement Engineering Director for Genus ABS.
This creates a firm foundation for further success.
Training and Developing Our People We continue to invest in developing Performance Management our people.
One initiative included Enabling our people to understand extending High Performing Teams, how they are doing is vital for our successful management their personal development development programme, with two and our business performance.
programmes in North America and All our staff had performance three in Latin America.
To complement reviews at the half and full year.
our investment in employee communication, we trained 242 We continued to improve the managers in communications skills.
quality of objective setting and This helps them to inspire, challenge development planning.
This and support their teams.
We also ran included refresher training for core training in health and safety, antiour managers and supporting bribery and corruption, and safe animal our peoples development plans handling, and added seven modules with mentoring and coaching.
to PICs Sales Academy, including PIC Product Differentiation, Farm Talent and Succession Planning Economics and Optimum Boar Life.
We completed our third annual cycle of talent management, Using Our Diversity covering all our people managers We continued to add experience and to and those with potential.
All have transfer knowledge around the Group, clear development plans.
through international appointments and recruitment.
For example, in PIC, Jrgen Kramer and Wilson Pineda moved from their roles in the US and Mexico to become Regional Director and Commercial Manager respectively for PIC Europe based in Spain.
We also recruited two PhD geneticists into our PIC China team.
In ABS, Jesus Martinez, Global Director of Business Development, supported our Asia ABS business, New recruits and international particularly China.
Pierpaolo Dordoni appointments during the year.
General Manager of ABS Italia supported our ABS Russia business and Arun Baral joined us to head up our Genus ABS Asia business.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL 41 REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Genus takes diversity seriously.
We appoint the best people to do the job, with a focus on talent right across the leadership team.
During the year, we recruited more senior women, including a senior IP counsel and a Global ABS Marketing Director.
Senior leaders at our Advanced Leadership The table below shows our gender Programmes held in Shanghai, Barcelona diversity across the business.
Engaging Our People Employee feedback showed they wanted more information about the business, so we invested in internal communications in 2014 15.
This included a quarterly staff update, manager briefing packs to support local communication, quarterly calls with GELT for senior managers, and Ask The Expert webinars for all staff, to share knowledge and experience.
We ran a short staff survey in November 2014, covering 35% of our people.
This showed a doubledigit increase to 81% in employees feeling they are regularly told about business performance and CASE STUDY plans, while the proportion of employees who understand our ADVANCED LEADERSHIP strategy rose from 80% to 87%.
PROGRAMME See page 45 for full results.
Our Advanced Leadership Programme is our first-ever programme for senior leaders.
It explores how Genus can Human Rights work profitably with customers, accelerate our strategy, We are committed to protecting enhance employee engagement and maintain a culture of the human rights of our employees innovation.
We ran three programmes during the year, in and the people who come into Nashville, Barcelona and Shanghai, with 56 attendees.
During the year, we continued to comply with our human rights policy.
Our Plans for FY16 In the coming year we will continue our leadership education, running our Advanced Leadership Programme and three High Performing Teams programmes, including our first in Asia.
We are planning a further seven modules for the PIC Sales Academy and will develop an ABS Sales Academy, to provide training in areas such as sales and genetics.
We will enhance our recruitment processes, introducing a new website and online recruitment, and continue to run our intern programme in Europe, the US and China.
Engagement remains high on the agenda: a Global Leaders Conference was held in July 2015, a full staff survey Members of the ABS and PIC Russian team.
is due to be carried out in November 2015, and an update for all our staff three years on from introducing our strategy will take place.
We will also upgrade our intranet, to further improve communication.
Number of employees at 30 June 2015 Work levels Male Female Total % Female Board Directors 7 0 7 GELT 6 2 8 25 Other employees 1,885 775 2,660 29 Genus plcAnnual Report 2015
