SUSTAINABILITY REPORT continued Our people Providing a safe working environment 2015 performance 2016 priorities Reduction of accident frequency rate Strengthening and further developing 13% AFR and accident severity rate ASR our thinkSAFE!
programme, including 1 to 1.2 and 39 respectively, and an a focused campaign aimed at reducing Reduction in AFR to 1.2 2014: 1.38 increase in near-miss reporting.
Further deployment of hazard Full integration of Fokker into GKN identification and catastrophic risk health, safety and environment systems.
modelling programmes to identify Preparing to transition to the new ISO and prevent potential safety risks.
45001 international standard for 15% 59 health, safety and environment occupational health and safety audits carried out globally.
1 Reduction in ASR to 39 2014: 46 Further deployment of our global personal Continued focus on catastrophic risk safety programme thinkSAFE!.
18 health and safety enforcement actions, resulting in penalties of $26,000.
6,500 Respecting the rights of others Additional near misses reported 2015 performance 2016 priorities 100% of leaders completed our Extension of our D&I leadership training Leadership Assurance process.
to the next level of management with Divisional diversity and integration D&I awareness sessions rolled out to 100% D&I action plans were created to all employees across the Group.
focus on improvement, and D&I New flexible working guidance leadership training sessions were to be piloted at some locations.
of employees made 2 aware of our Code rolled out to all senior leaders.
Continue to find ways to develop high-potential employees, particularly those from under-represented groups.
1 2014 figures restated to include contractors.
2 Excludes Fokker employees, who will be briefed on the Code in 2016.
Developing our people 2015 performance 2016 priorities Reintroduction of Group-wide Roll out updated Company values and International Graduate Programme IGP.
Launch of upgraded HR system and Integration of our existing online employee career management tool, Learning Management System Academy MyGKN.
Implementation of our updated Positive Climate Index PCI process across all sites.
Roll out an improved biennial Global Employee Survey.
Speaking up when we see behaviour which is wrong 2015 performance 2016 priorities The new GKN Code was communicated Continued focus on promoting speaking across the business, making clear what up throughout GKN.
behaviours are expected of employees.
GKN plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 In 2015 we launched an upgraded HR Providing a safe Respecting the rights of others system, MyGKN, which brings together The GKN Code requires all Group working environment our HR and employment data with personal companies to treat employees fairly and The health and safety of our people is our development management tools.
In 2015, with respect, recognising their abilities, number one priority.
more than 20,000 online courses were differences and achievements.
Each year, completed by GKN employees.
In 2016, our all GKN leaders are required to confirm We are pleased with our progress this year online learning tool will be upgraded and that they understand the values and in reducing the overall accident frequency integrated into the new MyGKN system.
behaviours expected of them as leaders rate AFR, by 13% compared with 2014, in promoting the right behaviours within and our accident severity rate ASR by The Group has an organisation-wide GKN.
In 2015 they were also asked to 15%.
We achieved this through general succession planning and development confirm that they had received, read and improvements in occupational health programme to help our people develop understood the new GKN Code.
All our management and Group safety standards.
the capabilities required to deliver the leaders certified that they had done so.
In 2015, the Group internal We continued to focus on near-miss recruitment rate for management roles was incident reporting, with a further 6,500 Diversity and inclusion 78% 2014: 70%.
Voluntary turnover of near misses being reported this year Our aim is to ensure that the workforce management employees, which excludes 2014: 2,000.
Near misses are a key is representative of the countries and compulsory redundancies, terminations leading indicator of potential incidents, markets in which we operate and the and retirements, was 4.1% 2014: 4.5%, and reporting is vital in allowing us to learn communities in which we are located, in line with our target range of less than 5%.
from them to avoid future accidents.
including an appropriate mix of gender and other under-represented groups.
Employee engagement We help employees with their personal On a rolling basis, all GKN employees are safety through our global programme, In 2015, we set a goal for 2020 that 20% invited to take part in Positive Climate thinkSAFE!.
The programme covers of GKNs leadership should be women and, Index PCI sessions, which enable us key health and safety topics in 26 in time, 20% be from under-represented to measure their satisfaction with GKN.
languages and in 2015 we developed ethnic groups.
As of 31 December 2015, HR teams and Site Steering Committees new e-brochures to raise awareness women made up 12.6% of leaders and respond to the issues raised in the of: slips, trips and falls: near misses: 10% of all other employees.
sessions, and drive cultural improvements manual handling: and wellbeing.
PCI performance is This year, we established a Group-wide now an essential measure of business Auditing is key to maintaining safety project team with each division creating its performance and is a key element of all standards.
In 2015, we carried out 59 own tailored diversity and inclusion D&I monthly divisional operational reviews.
health and safety audits, with support action plan.
All senior leaders attended The Groups average PCI data has been from external experts where necessary.
D&I awareness training sessions and the consistent for the past four years.
We shared the key learnings and best GKN leadership bonus scheme STVRS practice from these audits across was linked to the implementation of our In January 2016 we updated the PCI the Group.
We also launched an questions to enable us to benchmark intranet section for all GKN employees ourselves better against other Part of managing our health and safety to raise awareness of the importance of companies.
The next Global Employee risks at our plants is a total plant risk D&I, answer FAQs and share information.
Survey will be held later in 2016, using management programme TPRM and As at 31 December 2015 Men Women a similar updated set of questions.
a catastrophic risk management CRM GKN plc Board 6 1 programme for the most potentially 1 Senior managers 380 34 serious risks.
In 2015 we strengthened Speaking up 2 Total employees 42,789 7,933 TPRM by adding further modules, and We continue to actively promote the 1 Comprises GKN senior executives and, as required introduced new software allowing importance of our confidential employee by S414C of the Companies Act 2006, GKN detailed modelling and analysis of disclosure hotline, available to all subsidiary company directors, which include potentially catastrophic environments.
employees who can raise concerns in directors of Fokkers subsidiaries.
their own language, anonymously if 2 Includes Fokker employees: excludes joint The vast majority of our manufacturing ventures.
It is hosted by an external, sites continue to be certified to the independent company and is available health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
In Developing our people or equivalent, while a small number 2015 there were 158 calls to the hotline, We aim to support all our employees are working towards certification.
Matters through training, development reported are investigated and feedback opportunities and regular feedback.
is always provided to the caller.
We chart progress through managerial and technical career paths, supported by focused assessment and training.
GKN plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
