Strategic report Sustainable development Our activities and presence deliver lasting benefits to our stakeholders and to society, creating value both locally and globally.
The commodities that we produce and market have an essential role ineveryday life andsupport the development of emerging economies.
Working with our host communities, wesupport their socio-economic development through our investment ininfrastructure, procurement and health and education projects.
Our Values and Code of Conductset out our commitment Our public sustainability reporting provides an annual tooperating in a transparent and responsible manner.
update on our progress against our sustainability ambitions, We expect all our employees, contractors andsuppliers in accordance with the requirements of the Global tointegrate this commitment into their working practices.
Each report gives considerable detail of our approach and performance across our We strive to adopt safe and sustainable business practices,  topics.
Our sustainability reports and to contribute to thesocio-economic growth of the areavailableat: www.
communities in which we operate.
Our policies and procedures help our people to uphold goodbusiness HSEC strategic framework practices: we expect our operations tomeet or exceed any During 2015, we formalised a HSEC strategic framework, applicable laws and to apply other relevant which: external requirements.
addresses the topics identified as material byinternal Our corporate responsibility management system, Glencore andexternal stakeholders: Corporate Practice GCP, provides aframework for the defines strategic objectives, priorities, targets and integration of oursustainability principles, guidance responsibilities: and andpolicies throughout our business.
GCP provides clear supports the continued integration of GCP into our guidance on the standards we expect of our operations.
Through the reporting function within GCP, our Board The framework has four pillars Health, Safety, Environment receives regular updates and has detailed oversight ofhow and Community & Human Rights, which are underpinned our business is performing across all our internally defined bygovernance systems that include communication,  areas.
reporting, catastrophic hazards and assurance.
Our robust risk management framework allows us toidentify and manage risks.
The framework identifies Assurance material matters and supports ourongoing assessment of Our assurance programme focuses on HSEC-related what matters most to our business and to our stakeholders.
catastrophic hazards that have been identified via our catastrophic hazard management process.
Our annual We are in the process of further developing our systematic assurance plan is reviewed and approved by the Board.
management system for catastrophic hazards in line with Assurance involves assessments against pre-defined criteria the International Council on Mining and Metals guidelines.
that have been aligned to international best practice.
Each of our commodity departments has identified the These assessments are carried out by subject matter experts, catastrophic hazards relevant to its operations and created a who are mainly internal but independent from the asset and hazard register, as well as reviewing the relevant critical department under review.
Progress is regularly reported to controls.
The Board HSEC Committee has setrequirements the Board.
When appropriate, corrective actions are tracked and will continue to review progress on critical control and followed up.
18 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Performance during 2015 Our priorities going forward Continue to implement SafeWork, build a strong culture Key performance indicators 2015 2014 2013 of safety and eliminate fatalities across the Group Fatalities at managed operations 10 16 26 Progress our targeted 50% reduction of LTIFR and TRIFR Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR by 2020, based on our 2015 and 2014 baselines respectively per million hours worked 1.32 1.58 1.88 Total recordable injury frequency rate Roll out the revised health strategy and supporting TRIFR per million hours worked 5.06 5.82 n a materials to assets during 2016 CO2e Scope 1 million tonnes 23.4 22.3 23.2 Implement the water management framework across the CO Scope 2 million tonnes 13.7 13.6 13.9 2 Group and assess operations that have been identified as Total energy use petajoules 242 242 238 being high-risk sites related to water 3 Water withdrawn million m 952 996 965 Undertake a feasibility study to develop a meaningful Community investment spend $ million 94 114 168 target for carbon, continue to develop our position in the Number of employees and contractors 156,468 181,349 203,637 debate on climate change and the role of fossil fuels inthe future global energy mix Proportion of female employees % 16 16 17 Prior to 2014, the combined figure for Glencore and Xstrata LTIs is not based on a Continue to strengthen relationships with our consistent definition.
From 2014, LTIs are recorded for lost days beginning on the first communities and other stakeholders to maintain our rostered day that the worker is absent after the day of the injury.
The day of the injury licence to operate is not included.
TRIFR baseline set in 2014, definitions aligned post-merger with Xstrata.
Develop a strategic framework to enhance our Restated primarily due to improved estimation methods for water withdrawn at 3sites and change in unit of measurement for energy at one site.
contribution to socio-economic development and roll out associated metrics to all operations Progress against our key priorities 2015 priorities Progress Eliminate fatalities, paying particular attention to our focusassets A continued reduction in fatalities: ten fatalities from seven fatal as detailed on following page and underground operations where incidents in 2015 2014: 16 fatalities from 15 fatal incidents.
the majority of fatalities have historically occurred.
Continued focus on reducing our lost time injury frequencyrate We have achieved our LTIFR target to reduce therate by 50% LTIFR to our 2016 target, and reducing our totalrecordable injury against our 2010 baseline one year early and established a new frequency rate TRIFR by 50% by 2020. target to reduce LTIFR by 50% compared to 2015 figures by 2020.
Our 2015 LTIFR is 1.32, exceeding the 2015 target of a 15% improvement over our 2014LTIFR 1.58.
In total, wehavereduced our LTIFR by52%since 2010.
Our TRIFR for 2015 is 5.06, which is a 13% reduction on 5.82 achieved in 2014.
Our current TRIFR is ahead of the progressive improvement required to meet the 2020 target ofa50%TRIFR reduction against our 2014 baseline.
Complete our occupational disease prevention framework inthe We have developed a health strategy, which has been agreed by first half of the year and roll it out across all our assets bythe end alldepartments.
A working group of internal specialists is defining of 2015. leading practices, developing tools and establishing indicators to be shared across the business as part of the ongoing roll-out strategy.
The working group will establish broad milestones for implementation during 2016.
Continue to improve engagement activities with all stakeholders Significant progress achieved in our engagement with all our and identify further opportunities for interaction.
stakeholders, including NGOs and civil society groups.
Continued development and strengthening of our Our ongoing approach continues to provide individual employeesskills.
development and training: we also continue to work on astandardised approach.
Review the societal strategies at our operations and, where We have drawn on internal and external expertise to develop necessary, revise to optimise our contribution to local socioperformance metrics for measuring our socio-economic economic development.
These metrics have been piloted in several locations, for roll-out across alloperations in 2016.
Complete our water management framework by the end of 2015.
We have completed the strategic water management framework, This framework includes consistent definitions and metrics, the defining Glencores strategic objectives, priority areas and the introduction of a water accounting tool and a consistent water associated timelines.
We have harmonised and aligned our balance, water management requirements andreporting systems.
watermetrics to theWater Accounting Framework of the Minerals Council ofAustralia.
We have identified our high-risk sites, which will be assessed to identify and implement improvements.
Review training on the Voluntary Principles on Security & Human We have formalised our relationships with public security forces in Rights to ensure a consistent approach across all our assets.
regions with the highest risk of human rights abuses.
This includes signing memoranda of understanding and reviewing andstrengthening human rights training at operations.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 19 Strategic report Sustainable development The Board HSEC Committee has reviewed and approved Materiality theresults of the materiality assessment.
As part of the preparation for compiling our annual sustainability report, we undertake a Group-wide review of The safety of our people thematerial topics that have affected and continue to affect Our number one priority is the health and safety of our our business, globally and locally, and our actions to address people.
We are committed to achieving strong health and them.
This process focuses our reporting onthe sustainability safety performances at all of our assets through resolving topics of most interest to our keystakeholders, which local challenges and transforming behaviour at all levels include national and regional governments, community ofour organisation.
members, our workforce, businesspartners, union representatives and civil society.
Strategy and approach Our process reflects the GRIs guidance onmateriality We take a proactive, preventative approach towards health andcompleteness.
This guidance requires reporting and safety.
Our aim is to establish a safety culture in which tocovertopics and indicators thatreflectthe organisations our employees and contractors feelempowered to stop work significant economic, environmental and social impacts if theyconsider a workplace or situation unsafe.
We believe and or that substantively influence the assessments and that all occupational fatalities, diseases and injuries are decisions of stakeholders.
We are working towards achieving this The process involves: identifying the topics raised during ambition through SafeWork, a Group-wide initiative.
engagement activities with a broad range of stakeholders, SafeWork focuses oneliminating fatalities and serious both internal and external: considering the issues that affect injuries through encouraging life-saving behaviours and our peers and the extractive sector as a whole: assessing developing abetter understanding of the consequences of media coverage of Glencore: and considering feedback from unsafe actions.
local communities and civil society groups.
An important tool in improving safety at our operations has A matter is considered to be material if, in the view of been the recording of high potential risk incidents HPRIs.
seniormanagement, the Board and key stakeholder groups, Reporting on HPRIs trends and making corrective actions itisof suchimportance that itwill, or potentially could, in immediately is helping us to systematically eliminate the the short, medium or long term: cause of fatalities.
have a significant influence on, orisof particular interest Fatalities to, ourstakeholders: or It is with deep regret that we report we have not met substantively impact our ability tomeet our strategic objectives.
During 2015, ten people lost Once identified, each material issue isgiven a priority level theirlives at our operations, compared to 16 during 2014. based on the level of concern shown by stakeholders, as well All ten fatalities occurred inunderground working as its actual and or potential impact on the business.
All loss of life is unacceptable and we are that are ofinterestglobally, that will have an impact on more determined to eliminate fatalities across our Group.
than one region, and that are assessed to be of medium to Fatalities at managed operations high importance, are reported in detail inour sustainability number report and summarised in this report.
Topics that have a 30 26 more local focus are covered in regional and local reports.
25 The issues identified as being material are, in no order 20 16 of priority: 15 10 10 The safety of our people 5 Promotion of health and wellbeing in our workforce 0 andlocal communities 2013 2014 2015 Developing and supporting our workforce Target: 0 fatalities Respecting fundamental human rights Working in partnership with local communities Addressing the impact of climate change Management of our water footprint Responsible waste management Minimising air emissions Managing the closure of operations Engaging with all of our stakeholders 20 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information In 2015, our LTIFR was 1.32 per million hours worked, Fatalities per region 2013 2015 a16%improvement against2014.
Our LTIFR has improved 9 88 8 8 by 52% since 2010, exceeding ourlong-term goal of a 77 7 50%reduction against our 2010 baseline of 2.74 by 2016.
6 5 5 Lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR 4 3 per million hours worked 2 2 1.88 2 2.0 1 11 1 1 1 1.58 0 0 000 0 1.32 1.5 Africa Asia Australia Europe North South America America 1.0 2013 2014 2015 0.5 0.0 The 2016 HSEC assurance schedule includes an internal 2013 2014 2015 audit programme that will continue over the next threetofour years, covering all underground operations.
Target: LTIFR reduction by 50% by 2020 The audit will assess major catastrophic and fatal hazards: using 2015 as the baseline strata failure, shafts and winders, fire, explosion, Lost time incidents are recorded when an employee or contractor is unable to work and inrush.
following an incident: days recorded begin on the first rostered shift that the worker is absent after the day of the injury.
All our assets are implementing our SafeWork programme.
In 2014, we identified a small number of our operations The total recordable injury frequency rate TRIFR is the asfocus assets.
These assets are located in challenging sum of fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted work injuries geographies and have legacy issues that have historically and medical treatment injuries per million hours worked.
resulted in them having a lowersafety performance than The metric represents all injuries that require medical the rest of the business.
Each focus assethas completed agap analysis against our During 2015, we set a long-term goal of achieving a fatal hazard protocols requirements.
This included 50%reduction in TRIFR by the end of 2020, using our identifying andimplementing critical controls, and 2014TRIFR of5.82asthe baseline.
Following the merger producing detailed action plans to close out any identified with Xstrata in 2013, 2014 was the first year all our assets gaps.
SafeWork also requires training in hazard awareness, had harmonised their TRIFR reporting definitions.
Our 2015 risk assessment, life-saving behaviours and TRIFR of5.06 is a 13% improvement against the 2014 TRIFR safety leadership.
Our current TRIFR is ahead of theprogressive improvement required to meet our long-term goal.
We are beginning to realise positive results at these assets.
At the end of 2015, our Kazzinc complex in Kazakhstan Total recordable injury frequency rate achieved 15 months without a fatality, our agricultural per million hours worked products assets in the former Soviet Union region achieved 10.0 8.05 13 months, and the Katanga and Mutanda copper mines 8.0 5.82 inthe Democratic Republic of Congo achieved 14 months 6.0 5.06 and 39 months respectively without a fatality.
In 2015, 4.0 Mopani Copper Mines inZambia experienced three fatal 2.0 incidents resulting in six fatalities, while the Sinchi Wayra 0 zinc mine in Bolivia had one fatality.
Although, we have 2013 2014 2015 seen a reduction infatalities at our focus assets, we recognise that more workneeds to bedone to strengthen No harmonised data available for time before 2014. each assets capabilities around sustaining the prevention of fatalities.
A high potential risk incident HPRI is an incident thatcould have caused a catastrophic or major incident.
Reducing injury frequency rates During 2015, 338 HPRIs were reported, compared to 278 Our long-term goal of reducing employee and contractor for2014.
HPRI reporting represents a positive part of our injuries continues to deliver year-on-year reductions in our strategy to reduce fatalities and, as such, we do not target lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR.
Our LTIFR reflects areduction in this metric.
We are encouraging our the total number of LTIs per million hours worked and does workforce to recognise the need to record HPRIs through not include restricted work injuries or fatalities.
the promotion of a risk-based safety culture.
Glencore Annual Report 2015 21 Strategic report Sustainable development Over the last year, the impact of slowing economic growth Promotion of health and wellbeing in our workforce was enhanced in commodity producing and consuming and local communities countries, such as China, Brazil and Russia, has resulted in a We believe that all occupational diseases can be prevented.
In turn, this has led to a We are working to address risks to the health of our people, number ofassets no longer operating profitably.
In response both from exposure to hazards in the workplace, and from to such operating conditions, we placed a number of our broader lifestyle challenges.
The most common health assets on care and maintenance or significantly reduced hazards in our workplaces continue to be heavy loads, production levels in 2015.
At these sites, we have engaged noise, silica, lead, diesel exhaust particles, acid mist and extensively with our employees, unions, government particulate matter dust containing heavy metals.
representatives and local community members to ensure all The challenges of eliminating occupational diseases vary our stakeholders are fully aware of the actions being taken.
with each sites operational processes and procedures.
Employees being made redundant receive packages We have developed three key objectives to meet our significantly in excess of local requirements and we will strategic intent in occupational disease management: continue to support ongoing community initiatives.
Healthy workplaces: controlling exposures to hazards Regardless of the economic backdrop, we remain committed atthe source to operating in a manner that fully incorporates our Fit for work: ensuring the capabilities of employees are sustainability standards, programmes and initiatives and to appropriate for the tasks being undertaken delivering benefits to our stakeholders.
Integrating sustainability across all our business processes remains Fit for life: delivering wellbeing initiatives that reflect the acore strategic priority.
health needs of individuals in the workplace and those ofthe local community Diversity We have finalised the framework and key objectives for our We believe that a diverse workforce is essential to a health strategy.
A working group of internal specialists is successful business and seek to ensure that our workforce now consolidating our leading practices, developing tools reflects the diversity of the communities in which we tosupport implementation of the strategy and establishing operate.
We value diversity and treat employees and indicators to measure performance.
These resources will be contractors fairly, providing equal opportunities shared throughout Glencore during 2016. throughoutthe organisation.
During 2015, our workforce The regions in which we operate have a diverse range of was made upof 16,382 16% female employees compared community health problems, including HIV AIDS and to17,093 16% in 2014. malaria in Africa, malnutrition in South America, and diabetes and obesity inCanada and Australia.
We work Protecting labour rights totackle these problems, both to help our people and to We are committed to upholding the International Labour encourage community development.
Organizations ILO Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and their Core Labour Standards.
Reducing occupational disease We prohibit any form of child, forced or bonded labour In 2015, 94% of our sites reported no new cases of atany of our operations and do not tolerate discrimination occupational disease, compared to 91% of sites in 2014. or harassment.
We endeavour to have a positive and constructive relationship with the unions in the locations Developing and supporting our workforce where we operate.
Our people are fundamental to our success, underpinning our ability to succeed and grow.
We aim to provide clear, Industrial relations attractive career paths and safe, healthy workplaces, free Around 70% of our employees are represented by from discrimination and harassment.
anindependent trade union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
We uphold the rights of our Our success relies strongly on our ability to attract, employees tofreedom of association, to unionise and developand retain the best talent at every level.
We choose tocollective representation, regardless of their location the bestpeople for each position and reward them orfunction.
We are committed to working honestly competitively, in line with market conditions and their andtransparently with labour unions and we undertake contribution to our overall business success.
We provide negotiations in good faith.
ourpeople with the opportunity to develop and increase theirskills, expertise and experience and the confidence toimprove their careers.
22 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Respecting fundamental human rights Local procurement Our operations have many contacts with the communities We use local suppliers wherever possible, as this is costinwhich we work.
It is vital that we respect the human effective and helps communities to reduce their reliance rights of our people and our local communities, including onour operations for direct employment.
It is also an vulnerable people such as women, indigenous people and important building block for the development of local victims of conflict.
This is particularly relevant in regions economies: insome countries, national development where our assets require additional security.
objectives determine procurement requirements for each region.
Our approach to respecting fundamental human rights is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Local infrastructure the Human Rights Protect, Respect and Remedy Framework, Our operations are often in remote areas in need aswell as the ILO Core Conventions.
Each of our operations ofdevelopment, where it is helpful to share infrastructure is required to identify human rights risks as part of the risk such asroads, water and electricity with our host assessment processes undertaken at key lifecycle phases.
This infrastructure will last long after our All our operations are required to have grievance activities in those regions end, notonly boosting current mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, economic growth butcontributing to a sustainable future.
andthat enable our stakeholders to raise concerns without fear of recrimination.
Environment Our operations have direct and indirect impact on the In March 2015, we were successful in our application environment in regions where we operate.
We work to tojointhe Voluntary Principles Initiative.
We are now minimise and mitigate any negative impact from our workingwith the Initiatives member governments, activities and are always looking for ways to improve companies and NGOs to further develop our approach ourperformance.
We are committed to reducing our towards security and human rights.
environmental impact, including our use of resources, Working in partnership with local communities suchas energy and water, wherever possible.
The communities surrounding our operations are our We are committed to eliminating material environmental neighbours, employees, business partners and future incidents and incurring zero fines, penalties or prosecutions.
Through our commitment to fully engage with Any material environmental incidents are reported to the our local communities we aim to secure a broad base of Board HSEC committee and, in particularly severe cases, support for our activities.
presentations are made by operational management teams.
During 2015, our operations did not record any We foster sustainable growth where we operate.
environmental incidents that were classed as major We contribute to society throughout our value chain, or catastrophic.
viaemployment, procurement, enterprise development, infrastructure and social investment programmes.
Addressing the impact of climate change During the year, we continued to target contributions The need for secure, affordable energy is universal: it is a toinitiatives that benefit our host communities.
In 2015, this pivotal factor for nations to achieve their socio-economic contribution totalled $94 million, meeting our target of at goals.
In the developing world, access to energy is essential least 1% of PBT.
Our community development projects for improving living conditions, education, healthcare address three focus areas: capacity building including provisions and economic development.
education, enterprise development and economic We are aware of the increasing regulatory pressure and diversification : health: and environment.
societal demand for a low-emission economy to address theglobal climate change situation.
We play an active Local employment roleinengaging with governments and other interested Our most significant impact on our host regions is stakeholders to develop strategies for reducing the impact throughemployment, both directly and via contractors.
We actively support the development Local employment is particularly significant indeveloping oflow emission technologies and renewable energy sources.
countries, where our local employees can support as many as nine people each.
Improving the prosperity of our We are working to mitigate the physical impacts of climate workforce also funds a general uplift inlocal economies, change where we can and take resource efficiency into resulting in further job creation.
account when making operational decisions.
Wherever we operate, we seek to optimise our energy and carbon footprint.
We divide CO emissions reporting into three different 2 scopes, in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard 2004.
We monitor and report on both the direct Glencore Annual Report 2015 23 Strategic report Sustainable development scope 1 in tCO e and indirect scope 2 in tCO emissions 2 2 Management of our water footprint generated by the operational activities, entities and facilities Water is an essential input for our business activities, while in which we have a controlling stake.
Scope 3 emissions are more than half of our operations are located in water-stressed all indirect emissions not included in scope 2 that occur in areas.
We are committed to managing our impact on water the value chain of the reporting company, including both resources responsibly.
We are implementing new technologies upstream and downstream emissions.
to help minimise or eliminate water discharge.
During 2015, we emitted 23.4 million tonnes of Scope 1 CO e 2 Wherever we can, we prioritise efficient water use, water emissions, mainly from the fuel we used.
This figure includes reuse recycling, responsible waste water disposal and emissions from reductants used in ourmetallurgical maintenance of any equipment that might pose a hazard to smelters and from the incineration ofbiomass.
We engage with local water users to avoid includes methane emissions fromour operations, which material adverse impacts on the quality and quantity of make up more than 30% ofourScope 1 emissions.
local water sources or compromising their access to water.
CO emissions arising from our use of purchased electricity, 2 During 2015, we completed a strategic water management steam or heat, Scope 2 emissions, totalled 13.7 million framework, which defines Glencores strategic objectives, tonnes.
Our Scope 3 emissions include emissions from priority areas and associated timelines for the realisation of sources, including shipping, land transportation by third our defined goals parties and the use of our energy products.
The metrics weuse to measure our water performance have For our business, reporting a normalised CO emissions 2 been harmonised and aligned with the Water Accounting figure or reporting ratios of CO to production, financial 2 Framework WAF of the Minerals Council of Australia.
results or employee headcount does not meaningfully Going forward, operations that have been identified as contribute to any understanding of our performance.
high-risk sites will be assessed to identify areas Thisisdue to the diversity of our business.
andrange of our products make it impossible to calculate 3 asingle production figure and our financial results are In 2015, we withdrew 952 million m of water, compared 3 affected by commodity prices and foreign exchange rates, with 996 million m in 2014. which are outside our control.
As a result of the nature Water withdrawn oftheexploration, development and production cycle, 3 million 996 965 ourCO emissions do not necessarily correlate to our 952 2 1,000 employee headcount.
800 We publicly report to CDPs Carbon Disclosure Programme.
600 Our 2015 score was 99C and our submission is available on 400 the CDP website: www.
net 200 Greenhouse gas emissions 0 million tonnes CO 2013 2014 2015 2 40 Restated primarily due to improved estimation methods at three sites.
30 We publicly report to the CDPs water 20 disclosure programme.
10 0 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 1 emissions are measured in CO e 2 24 Glencore Annual Report 2015 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Responsible waste management Minimising air emissions Most of the waste that we generate from our extraction Wherever we operate, we comply with relevant regulatory andprocessing operations is mineral: this includes tailings, limits and international standards for air emissions.
Our operations have rigorous waste Our open cut operations emit dust from excavation and management systems to dispose of waste while preventing movement of material.
We monitor dust levels at affected environmental contamination.
We reuse as much waste as communities and minimise dust in a number of ways.
possible, including using waste rock to backfill our mines.
Our SO emissions in 2015totalled 366,000tonnes, 2 compared to 431,000 in 2014.
The decrease isprimarily due Our metal and coal assets generate tailings, which to operational changes at Mopani and Mount Isa Mines.
arestored in purpose-built tailings storage facilities.
The tailings are placed in specially designed ponds Managing the closure of operations filledwith tailings and water: over time, the water We require each operation to continuously maintain a evaporates while the tailings settle, eventually filling closure plan throughout its lifecycle, including appropriate thedam.
At this point, the dam is capped, sealed and financial provisions.
As some of our operations enter rehabilitated.
Our tailings facilities are monitored suspension or closure, we are aware of the importance continuously to ensure integrity and structural stability.
ofmanaging our environmental impacts throughout.
Flooding and seismic activity are the main natural We work closely with our host communities tomanage the phenomena that may affect them.
transition and identify opportunities for delivering positive, We operate a number of tailings dams and waste-containing lasting change.
These facilities are at different Further information on our approach towards sustainability lifecycle stages: under construction, operational and is available in our annual sustainability report and on our post-rehabilitation.
com sustainability In 2014, we conducted a survey of all Group tailings dams, supervised by the Boards HSEC Committee.
The key findings were presented to the HSEC Committee.
As a result of the survey, the HSEC Committee required all surface tailings facilities to have an independent inspection report that isnomore than three years old.
Following the devastating tailings dam failure in Brazil during 2015, we re-examined our most recent review of ourtailings dams.
During 2016, a special review will be undertaken for the dams identified as being the most at risk.
During 2015, our hazardous and non-hazardous mineral waste totalled 2,084 million tonnes, a slight decrease on 2014.
