Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Membership Corporate Responsibility Committee Report The membership of the Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below: Attendance at full meetings Members Committee member since during 2015 Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 3 3 Chairman from 8 May 2015 Lynn Elsenhans Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 3 3 Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 3 3 Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 3 3 Dear Shareholder Sir Christopher Gent 9 December 2004 1 1 I would like to thank my predecessor, Sir Christopher Gent, for Sir Christopher Gent who served as Committee Chairman to 7 May 2015 his strong leadership of the Committee over the last 10 years, retired from the Board on 7 May 2015. which under his stewardship has overseen the development and Professor Sir Roy Anderson and Dr Jesse Goodman have been renement of GSKs CR Principles into our current Responsible appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 May 2016. Business Commitments.
In addition, the Committee has acted as custodian of the policies and practices that define and safeguard The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee and the reputation of the company.
As the new Chair of the Committee attends all meetings.
Other attendees at Committee meetings I will seek to build on his legacy as the Committee continues to may include: challenge and shape the companys responsible business agenda.
Regular Attends The Committee members bring a wide range of experience and Attendee attendee as required insight from across different sectors to provide oversight of the Chief Executive officer companys responsible business opportunities and risks.
This has been invaluable in relation to the Committees assessment of the Company Chairman corporate responsibility challenges of integrating the Novartis Chairman, Global Vaccines assets the company acquired during a year of substantial change.
General Counsel I have been particularly pleased that the work of the Committee Head of Communications & Government Affairs this year has focused on issues that are material to GSKs mission, Head of Pharmaceuticals strategy and values.
Much of our discussions have focused on how the company seeks to balance the need for a return on investment Head of Pharmaceuticals R&D for innovation with the need to price its products appropriately to Head of Human Resources drive access for a broad range of patients.
In addition, we have Head of External & Market Communication considered the ways in which GSK continues to build its Head of Global Corporate Responsibility commitment to operating transparently and with integrity through its commercial model transformation.
Other Executives I am also pleased that we continue to enjoy positive engagement Independent external corporate with investors on our Responsible Business Commitments which responsibility adviser have included, in particular, a focus on our approach to addressing Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABAC issues from a reputational Independent External Corporate Responsibility Adviser perspective, the changes to how we sell and market our medicines To augment our engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May 2013, to healthcare professionals, access and innovation, and clinical Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external adviser to trials transparency disclosures.
the Committee, a position that she had previously held from March 2009 to July 2011.
Ms Tickell has extensive experience in the pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems productivity, sustainability in energy supply and distribution, climate change Lynn Elsenhans policy and short-termism in financial markets.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 16 March 2016 She is the co-founder and Director of Meteos, from where she directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal and shareholder value.
She holds a number of other board and advisory roles.
Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided independent advice and guidance on corporate and social responsibility matters to both the Chairman and the CEO.
98 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Main responsibilities Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out on page 82. as individuals to deliver our mission The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from Our planet: growing our business while reducing our members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress environmental impact across the value chain.
in meeting our Responsible Business Commitments within four In addition, at each meeting the Committee considers possible areas of focus is reviewed on an annual basis as follows: emerging issues that may have a bearing on the Companys Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health reputation of interaction with its stakeholders.
The Committee needs: improving access to our products, irrespective of where also reviews and approves the Responsible Business Supplement people live or their ability to pay: and controlling or eliminating which is available for reference on www.
diseases affecting the worlds most vulnerable people.
Our behaviour: putting the interests of patients and consumers first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by robust policies and strong compliance processes.
Work of the Committee during 2015 During 2015, the Committee focused its core remit on the matters set out below, and in doing so, the reports it received highlighted the evolving challenges in these areas including, in particular, the impact of the Novartis transaction.
CR Focus area Committees area of focus during 2015 Health for all Flexible and open R&D approach for diseases of the developing world and other areas of great medical need, such as antibiotics and dementia.
GSKs approach to pricing, in particular how to balance returns for investment in innovation alongside the need to support access to medicines.
Vaccines strategy to support global public health priorities, including pricing models, Malaria vaccine and Ebola response.
Our behaviour Global incentive compensation program and selling competency model.
Changes to how GSK engages with healthcare professionals.
Further embedding values-based decision making in the organisation, including training and compliance.
Progress on work to align Third Parties with GSKs standards and expectations Conduct and public disclosure of clinical research, transparency of detailed data behind trial results and patient safety Replacement, renement and reduction in use of animals in research and development Our people Organisational change and employee relations Inclusion and diversity Leadership, development and approach to performance management Employee health, safety and wellbeing Insights from the staff survey Employee health, safety and wellbeing Our planet Environmental performance across carbon, water and waste impacts Committee evaluation The Committees annual evaluation was internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, and supplemented by a questionnaire circulated to Committee members on behalf of the Committee Chairman.
It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
In terms of enhancements to the Committees deliberations it was agreed that the Committee would on a regular basis look to take a more advanced long-term perspective on how the company may be impacted by the external environment.
