Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our people GSKs people are essential to our success Our approach Following a steady reduction over 10 years, We need a talented, motivated and resilient our reportable injury and illness rate In 2015, we welcomed workforce if we are to deliver against increased slightly due to a large number our strategy and tackle global health of semicircular lipoatrophy cases in Brazil.
To achieve this, This is a treatable condition associated to GSK.
Clear, regular we aim to create a working environment with localised pressure from ofce where employees feel valued, respected, furniture, and we took steps to support communication was crucial empowered and inspired.
In 2015, as our those affected and prevent recurrence.
when introducing our new business experienced significant change, As a global business operating in more it was particularly important for us to listen colleagues to our values than 150 markets, serious incidents do to and support our people.
In August 2015, an employee and expectations Performance and engagement tragically died in a boiler explosion at Our global performance system is our site in Rixensart, Belgium.
We are underpinned by a set of clear expectations supporting the Belgian authorities with We put particular emphasis on leadership that emphasise not just results, but also their investigations and checking every development.
In 2015, more than 3,300 how they are achieved in line with our boiler across GSK.
In October, a sales line leaders completed programmes to values.
employee in India, who was travelling on help them become managers.
We also business, sadly died after their motorcycle We provide regular updates on our launched the Enterprise Talent initiative, collided with another vehicle.
mission, strategy and progress through which develops leaders with the potential live broadcasts and messages from our Our Energy & Resilience programmes and aspiration to become executives.
CEO and Corporate Executive Team.
continued to help employees balance Since 2010, we have trained more than Listening is also critical: in 2015 over personal and professional responsibilities.
1,000 employees as coaches to help 76,000 employees, 78% of our people, 70% of those who took part in our others full their leadership potential.
took part in our employee survey providing employee survey agreed that they have Health and wellbeing valuable feedback.
This was up from sufficient energy to invest in the things We take a progressive approach to 72% in the last survey in 2012. that matter most at work and in life.
employee health, and protecting our Supporting our people through Providing preventive healthcare workforce is a business priority.
In 2015 restructuring To complement the employee healthcare we refreshed and simplied our health and In 2015 we welcomed 12,000 Novartis benets in our established markets, safety standards, and reviewed our global employees to GSK.
Clear, regular our Partnership for Prevention P4P health and well being strategy, setting out communication was crucial when programme aims to provide all our our plan that every GSK employee has introducing our new colleagues to employees and their families with access to a consistent and comprehensive our values, expectations, performance unprecedented access to preventive health service.
system and local employee practices and healthcare services at little or no cost.
We continue to be recognised as a leader programmes.
With the major reshaping Implementation is being prioritised in in health and wellbeing, and in May 2015 of our global pharmaceuticals business regions where access to preventive GSK won the Multinational Healthy occurring at the same time, we placed services is unavailable or limited, Workplace Award from the Global Centre an equal focus on supporting employees particularly in developing markets.
We consult The services, including immunisations employees and their representatives on Road safety is a significant risk for our and cancer screenings, are recommended business changes that might affect them.
employees and we launched a driver safety by the World Health Organization and are programme in India that we plan to roll out Talent and leadership now available to over 38,000 employees more widely in our emerging markets.
The number of graduates and and family members in 52 countries.
postgraduates joining our programmes This places us halfway towards our target is increasing.
In 2015, we recruited to implement P4P globally by 2018.
470 graduates and postgraduates onto our Future Leaders and Esprit programmes globally, exceeding our target of 450.
We also welcomed 74 apprentices in the UK, 34% of which are women, across Volunteering to a number of disciplines and locations.
We are looking to expand our create change apprenticeship programme into other geographies in 2016.
Through our PULSE Volunteer Partnership, our employees use their professional skills to create sustainable change for our non-profit partners and the communities they serve.
Since its launch in 2009, PULSE has enabled 560 employees to work with 103 non-profit partners in 62 countries, providing nearly 19 million worth of skilled services.
46 GSK Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Diversity and inclusion We value diversity.
The diverse knowledge, perspectives, experiences and working styles of our global workforce strengthens our business and helps us meet the needs of our patients and consumers.
We aim to improve gender balance at all levels.
As at 31 December 2015, women represented 52% of recruits to our Future Leaders programme, 42% of management, 17% of our Corporate Executive Team and 29% of our Board.
In 2015, 118 more female managers began Our Accelerating Difference programme for high performing women leaders.
We strive to make GSK more accessible to people with disabilities.
In December 2015 we partnered with the UK Governments Disability confident campaign to raise disability awareness across our business, remove barriers, increase understanding and ensure that those with disabilities have the right opportunities.
Inspiring the next generation of scientists We are a global organisation serving diverse markets.
Six nationalities are By 2020, the UK alone will need one When I was young I was told by one represented on our Corporate Executive million new scientists and engineers of my teachers to study drama, but I Team and Board, and our employees in to solve future challenges, including always enjoyed sciences and maths and emerging markets, Asia Pacic and Japan some of the biggest health challenges ended up completing a PhD in virology represent 43% of our workforce.
As a research led and immunology, part-time, whilst at GSK, We aim to attract and develop local talent healthcare company, GSK is playing she said.
by partnering with universities and offering a leading role in inspiring young In 2016, we aim to build on our business opportunities.
This is a particular people to get into science, technology, experience in the UK by creating global focus of our Africa strategy, while our new engineering and maths STEM as STEM education programmes to give our regional headquarters in Singapore is well as providing a range of career employees the tools they need to inspire helping to attract and develop local people opportunities.
and foster the next generation of in emerging markets.
In 2015, we recruited Our Science Education and Early scientists and engineers worldwide.
444 people from 53 countries for our Talent team, along with our 362 STEM Future Leaders graduate programme.
GSK oers a range of career opportunities ambassadors across the UK, engage young in the STEM areas: ranging from summer people by demonstrating real-world internships, to apprenticeships, graduate science and engineering in schools, and Women in management positions % and postgraduate programmes.
Our manage our graduate and apprenticeship apprenticeship programme oers school 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 programmes.
and college leavers the opportunity to join SVP VP 26 27 28 29 29 Rhiannon Lowe heads up a team of 150 the company in a variety of roles from Director 38 39 40 40 40 ambassadors, all volunteer GSK employees finance and IT to laboratory science and Manager 42 43 44 45 45 from our site in Ware, Hertfordshire.
Apprentices learn on-the-job Total 39 40 41 42 42 has been part of the programme since it and become valued members of the team began in 1999 alongside her job as an as they progress, working towards Employees by gender number investigator in investigative preclinical nationally recognised qualications toxicology, where she focuses on diseases and ultimately transition into a Male Female Total of the developing world and gene therapy.
Board 10 4 14 a Management 9,378 6,799 16,177 She and her team put their expertise into The scheme has grown steadily in the UK, practice to inspire people of all ages.
They and our ambition is to continually expand Total 57,715 43,540 101,255 go into schools to demonstrate scientific the programme into new geographies, % Total 57 43 experiments and host visits to GSK labs helping nurture this new generation a Management: senior managers as dened in where students are given an opportunity of talent, and adding to the diversity the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report to get involved in science that connects of our business.
and Directors Report Regulations 2013, directly to our work and the real world.
which includes persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities Rhiannon encourages girls, in particular, of the company, or a strategically significant to pursue these subjects from a young age part of the company, other than the Board, as women represent only 14% of all STEM including directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
