24 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Our people and our customers In addition to being a property business, we are also strongly committed to being a people focussed business.
We believe strength comes from the relationships that we have with each person with whom we work.
Our peOple To fully leverage the skills and expertise we This year we delivered more than 100 Employee profile have, our people need to have a strong training events covering technical, professional, 2015 figures positive connection to the Company, our management and personal development Role Male Female Total strategy, values and brand.
For our staff this competencies.
27 members of staff have Non-Executive means having fulfilling and rewarding work been supported in studying for a professional Directors 4 2 6 as well as career opportunities.
qualification with five successfully gaining a Grainger Trust We place a high priority on communicating post graduate qualification.
Non-Executive our business focus, objectives and current We have provided work experience for Directors 1 2 3 projects through presentations and 12 young people, which constitutes a conferences, breakfast meetings, monthly future investment in attracting talent into Executive Directors 3 0 3 updates and via our intranet.
We celebrate a residential property career.
Senior Managers 31 11 42 success and bring together staff for office Sharing knowledge and experience is an Managers 53 49 102 social events and support charity fundraising important part of our development activities.
Many of our training programmes are Support 9 61 70 Team meetings give everyone the designed and delivered by our own staff forum to discuss their teams work and through our Lunch and Learn workshops.
Spending time in This year we introduced new selection Off site 4 2 6 communicating a clear and consistent and induction processes to support 122 170 292 narrative and sharing experiences not only our PRS strategy as well as providing provides an understanding of our business extensive training in customer service and Age No.
Employees direction, but the importance of our complaints handling.
values and ethics in everything we do.
Having an agile workforce has enabled us 1825 22 To be best in class in the residential property to establish a multi-disciplinary team to lead 2633 86 sector we need to continually develop our PRS business with talent from across 3441 77 the expertise we have in the Company and our office network.
4249 47 ensure that our people understand how Our graduate scheme attracted 250 they can contribute to its success.
We have applicants this year and continues to provide 5057 42 always placed great importance on a pipeline of residential property specialists.
5865 16 investing in our people and retaining them Career development is underpinned by 65 2 by providing opportunities for a long-term personal development plans for all our 292 career with Grainger.
staff with access to first class management and business school institutions through our Emerging Leaders and Leadership Programmes.
Strategic report Governance Financials 25 Our cusTOmers To achieve our objective of being the UKs At the same time as looking to the future leading PRS landlord we must have an we continue to invest in the communities in-depth understanding of our customers, in which we operate.
Highlights of the of their aspirations and concerns and the past year include the sale and transfer factors that affect their choice of landlord.
of a number of community assets at We must also know where we need to our Moor Pool Estate to the Moor Pool improve and take on board the feedback Heritage Trust, a local residents group.
Staff from Graingers London Bridge We continue to build on the research office volunteered a days work to help work done in previous years and this clean up a neglected park in Waterloo, year we have looked more into customer near one of Graingers housing estates, expectations and social trends with the along with a local residents group, Friends Tomorrows Home research.
We have also of Hatfields Green.
The clean-up is part sought to improve our understanding of of a long-running project by the Group how we are perceived through increasingly to bring Londons green spaces back sophisticated customer satisfaction into use.
In Wellesley, our large housing measurement processes.
We look forward development in Aldershot, in addition to the introduction of benchmarking to sponsoring the local football club, we studies across the PRS, a development we provide rent-free space to the local charity, have supported for several years.
This year The Source, for their BikeStart initiative a has also seen the improvement of the programme for 16 to 25-year-olds to get complaints handling processes across them used to the work environment and Grainger: we welcome feedback from our provide a stepping stone into employment customers to help us get better and the or education.
Lastly, we continue to be opportunity to make things right when we big supporters of Land Aid, the property make a mistake.
In addition to being a longWe must design our PRS business with standing, active Foundation Partner of Land the customer at the heart of what we do Aid, our very own Land Aid Ambassador and how we operate.
During this year we organised a hugely successful industryhave worked on improving key processes wide Quiz Night along with Capita and such as gas servicing.
We have sought Pinsent Masons with over 200 people in to improve their efficiency and where attendance and raised over 5,000. relevant, to ensure their compliance but We are proud of our heritage as a most importantly to understand how our responsible landlord and the values that customers interact with us through these underpin this heritage will be carried processes.
Process and service improvement forward in our future PRS business.
also forms the heart of our continuing Tenant satisfaction ratings for partnership with Kier in the provision repairs and maintenance services are of repairs and maintenance services.
currently lower than we would expect.
Customer satisfaction and efficiency of Service improvement programmes are now operation form central elements of the underway to raise these levels and ensure measures of success for the partnership.
that performance is rigorously measured This work will continue as we develop and analysed.
our operating model for the PRS business to enable us to grow whilst striving to meet individual customers expectations.
