Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPOR ATE RESPONSIBILITY As a leading UK pub hospitality company, we understand the importance ofoperating a sustainable and responsible business.
We are committed to being a good corporate citizen and delivering an effective social responsibility programme.
Our ambition is to offer our customers time, well spent, either in our pubs, restaurants or hotels or by enjoying our beers.
We recognise we have an important role to play in being a responsible corporate citizen and have continued todevelop our corporate social responsibility CSR with a focus on four key stakeholders: our customers, our people, our communities and our environment.
If you would like to find out more about our CSR policies, please visit  section of our website: www.
Following our recent acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, we are now looking forward to reporting  the combined business next year.
Mainstream High Street menu We have raised 1.6m has10under 500 calories dishes forMacmillanCancer Support OUR CUSTOMERS OUR COMMUNITIES PAGE 32 PAGE 33 We will again recruit 60% of our Retail sites have  convertedtoLED lighting OUR PEOPLE OUR ENVIRONMENT PAGE 34 PAGE 35 Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 31 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR CUSTOMERS We want to deliver the best experience possible for our customers audits covering our entire Pub Partners and Inns estates.
Asa result, when they visit us.
Our pubs have animportant role to play in providing we have improved the quality standards in our cellars and dispense a safe, affordable and convenient experience for our customers, equipment which has led to improved standards in Pub Partners as families and communities across the country.
the pass rate rose from 65% to 88%.
We are now progressing with the auditing of the rest of our Retail estate.
To support our customers wishing to make healthier lifestyle decisions, we are committed to providing great quality and choice.
We continue This year, eight of our beers won awards at the Monde Selection, to focus on delivering industry-leading value, service and quality anindependent stamp of approval for quality.
The results included toour customers.
agrand gold and five gold awards, including Belhaven Scottish Ale receiving the highest honour and Greene King IPA, Old Hoppy Hen and East Coast IPA also receiving awards.
Healthy eating This year, we have developed one of the industrys leading menus Responsible retailing with under 500 calories options.
Our Mainstream High Street menu now offers a selection of ten under 500 calories dishes.
Tackling under-age sales We train all new bar staff on our central online training tool, which Our nutritional manager continues to support the development provides learning on obligations and responsibilities of the employee ofhealthier menu options for our customers and manages our to materials highlighting the impact of alcohol on children.
The training continued commitment to the Governments Public Health course must be completed and passed before our staff can serve alcohol.
All of our Retail premises operate the Challenge 21 or We have also implemented a food management system, which will Challenge25 programmes.
enable us to have greater visibility of the nutritional content of our products and dishes.
We also support the principles laid out in the Portman Code of Practice on responsible retailing of alcohol.
Not only are all retail managers and bar staff trained when they join us, we ensure this Allergens training is ongoing so they understand their role in promoting In line with the allergen legislation that came into effect in December last theresponsible consumption of alcohol by our customers.
year, we have increased awareness on the importance of allergens both internally and externally.
We have developed and rolled out an allergen Best Bar None and Pub Watch schemes training module which gives our staff an understanding of allergens, and we now provide full allergen information across our retail estate to We support National Best Bar None and, importantly, at a local level we work with a number of regions to promote and roll out the scheme.
help customers make more informed decisions when dining with us.
For example, Nottinghamshire County Council has opened up a Best Bar None scheme and all available Greene King venues are participating.
Gluten This year, we have continued to expand our range of non-gluten We are proud that a significant number of our Belhaven pubs containing menu choices for our customers wishing to avoid gluten.
achieved Best Bar None accreditations this year, including 36 golds, 41 silvers and 13 bronze awards.
Our continued focus for the future is to expand our nutritional expertise along with developing our menus with lower calorie In England, our Retail pubs belong to Pub Watch and Best Bar None andhealthier options for our customers.
where access to these schemes is available.
Limit awareness Awards We continue to support the Governments anti-drink drive Christmas We have won a number of awards this year, demonstrating our hard campaign.
For the sixth year running, we supported the Designated work and commitment to providing great value and choice to our Driver Christmas Campaign in conjunction with Coca-Cola Enterprises customers, including: Limited in the majority of our pub estate, where designated drivers were offered free soft drinks at Christmas.
Flame Grill won the 2015 National Fish and Chips Awards forfood quality, marketing activity, customer service andcommercial awareness.
Minimum unit pricing for alcohol Premium Locals won the Best Pub Menu award at Restaurant Greene King has long advocated the need for a minimum unit price MUP magazines Development Chef Awards.
for alcohol in the UK in order to tackle the misuse of alcohol, which causes ill health and can lead to anti-social behaviour within communities.
Food standards We remain committed to the introduction of minimum unit pricing.
We are committed to delivering and actively promoting excellent food and kitchen standards.
In our Retail business, we set to do this by training, external audits, open dialogue with local authorities Public Health Responsibility Deal and operational incentive schemes.
We are currently signed up to eight pledges in the Governments Public Health Responsibility Deal PHRD to make improvements which affect our customers, people and environment.
We have again Quality standards for our beers progressed with these during the last year.
The PHRD aims to tap Once again, the Westgate Brewery in Bury St Edmunds and the into our potential to make a significant contribution to improving Belhaven Brewery in Dunbar both maintained an A grade rating public health by taking a joint approach to tackling the challenges with the British Retail Consortium.
These awards confirm that our caused by lifestyle changes.
By signing up to these pledges we are beer is produced to the highest quality and food safety standards.
committed to taking voluntarily action to improve public health.
For details of our signed pledges and our progress visit the Department Since launching the quality and dispense services department in our of Health PHRD website www.
Brewing & Brands division, we have completed over 1,000 trade quality 32 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR COMMUNITIES Pubs have always played an important role in the community and Focus 12 they continue to do so.
They provide a place where everyone can We continue to support the charity Focus 12, based close to our come together to relax or put the world to rights, to enjoy time with head office and brewery in Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk.
Focus 12 provides family or celebrate with friends.
We understand that maintaining treatment for clients with drug and alcohol dependency, as well as the presence of a pub in a community is essential and therefore we guidance and counselling for affected family members.
have developed a programme to support key organisations that address inequalities in our society.
We once again championed the annual charity ball this year, which took place in St Edmundsbury Cathedral, close to our brewery.
Theevent and online auction raised more than 25,000, and we Pub is the Hub have now raised more than 80,000 for the charity.
Once again, we have supported Pub is the Hub by providing 15,000 of central funding.
This is the second year we have donated to this not-for-profit organisation that is dedicated to offering advice and ITVs Text Santa support to licensees, rural pubs and community services.
More than 600 of our pubs took part in ITVs Text Santa fundraising appeal by hosting pub quizzes across the country in the lead up to Our funding supported the Community Services Fund, which aims Christmas.
The money raised was split between the chosen charities to provide funds to licensees who are looking to broaden their services Teenage Cancer Trust, Guide Dogs, WellChild, Marie Curie Cancer to the wider community and cannot find suitable funding from other Care, Alzheimers Society and Together for Short Lives.
The fund has benefited over 40,000 people, supported 38projects in England and helped offer more than 47 types Dementia Friends ofadditional services, such as libraries or butchers.
This year, more than 1,000 of our employees got behind the Alzheimers Societys initiative and signed up to become a Dementia Friend.
As a pub, Macmillan Cancer Support restaurant and hotel operator, our employees have the opportunity Three years ago, we embarked on our first Greene King national to make a difference to the lives of our customers with dementia charity partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support.
Through the and by learning more about the condition will be able to give greater hard work, commitment, creativity and passion of our employees understanding and support to those that live with the disease.
and the generosity and support of our customers, we were delighted to announce that we have raised 1.6m in those three years.
CASE STUDY The partnership has brought unity to our business and generated positive local and trade press, and goodwill within our local communities.
Reaching 1.6m We are proud that our pubs and employees have made our We were delighted to be shortlisted for the Employee Engagement partnership with Macmillan such a success.
To raise 1.6m, category of the Third Sector Business Charity Awards 2014, recognising theyhave engaged our customers, communities, shareholders our investment and commitment in launching our first charity and suppliers.
They have been creative with fundraising, partnership and the incredible success in engaging our employees.
butmost of all they have pushed themselves and each other.
Somehighlights from our partnership include: In May 2014, over 160 employees came together from across the whole business to take on the Yorkshire Three Peaks Challenge, raising over 80,000.
We are one of the largest corporate supporters of Macmillans Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning, raising over342,000 in the past three years.
The partnership has delivered a number of highly successful commercially focused activities, including promotions on selected desserts, which has raised over 150,000.
A central donation to the Woolverstone fundraising appeal tobuild a cancer treatment centre in Ipswich, which will support people from our local community around our head office in Suffolk.
We have seen some inspired divisional fundraising events: Local Pubs Macmillan May fundraising during the whole month of May : Hungry Horse Tour fide Horse a bespoke cycle challenge that followed the route of the Tour fide France in the UK : Belhavens month of fundraising: and the individuals who continue to challenge themselves toraise money by hiking through foreign countries, running marathons, climbing mountains, swimming lakes, and organising quizzes, cake sales andfun days.
Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 33 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED OUR PEOPLE Our people are our lifeblood and our greatest asset.
With around Where we create new jobs when acquiring, refurbishing or building 40,000 employees in total following the Spirit acquisition, attracting new businesses, we work closely with Job Centre Plus to provide and retaining the best people and developing and nurturing talent is opportunities through pre-employment training for young people essential to our continued success and the future growth ofourbusiness.
Employee engagement Creating jobs This year we have enhanced our employee engagement questionnaire Through the opening of new sites for Hungry Horse and Farmhouse in order to identify areas that are most important to our employees Inns, we created 1,328 new jobs across the country in the last 12 months.
at work, as well as their experiences.
This has given us greater insight into four key indicators: clarity, confidence, enablement and impact Diversity all of which create a high performance environment.
Change can We operate an equal opportunities policy to ensure that employees be unsettling but we were pleased that our employee engagement are recruited, developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of remained level versus last year at 70%.
We were also able to evaluate their skills and suitability for the work performed.
We are committed our Net Promoter Score NPS which resulted in 89% of employees to making full use of the talents and resources of all our employees saying they would recommend Greene King as a place to work.
and to ensuring that no employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of their colour, nationality, race, religion belief, ethnic The results are currently being cascaded throughout the business or national origin, sex, marital or civil partnership status, gender and detailed action plans for areas of improvement will be implemented.
reassignment whether proposed, started or completed and under or not under medical supervision, disability or past disability, part-time Developing our talent or fixed-term status, pregnancy or maternity, parental responsibilities, At Greene King, we recognise the wider benefits of developing sexual orientation or age a protected characteristic.
internal talent and career paths that support increased employee retention and productivity, employee engagement and provide Gender diversity Percentage long-term career opportunities.
Male Female Total female Apprenticeships Directors 6 1 7 14% We believe in the value of apprenticeships and continue to invest in Senior managers our employees but also to support young people to get that all-important excluding directors 129 34 163 21% first step on the career ladder.
We signed up to the Governments All employees 12,107 12,890 24,997 52% apprenticeship scheme in February 2011 and, so far, more than 3,000 employees have achieved a qualification.
For the second year running, we have committed to recruiting another 2,000 Zero hours apprenticeships this year.
It is company policy not to operate zero hours contracts.
Our apprenticeship scheme has supported our ambition to combat the industry shortage of chefs and since last summer, more than Workplace pensions 75% of all recruited apprentices have been for back of house roles, We are fully compliant with Workplace Pensions Reform Regulations and including in the kitchen.
enrol our employees automatically into a qualifying workplace pension.
Support for our tenants CASE STUDY Greene King Pub Partners has been successfully providing opportunities Apprenticeships Mark Robinson, Masons Arms for self-employed entrepreneurs for over 200 years and continues Mark Robinson, 25, is a duty manager at one of our busiest pubs, toprovide a variety of different agreement options for a high quality the Masons Arms in Wickersley.
He can see the career potential estate of pubs, ranging from Michelin-starred premium food pubs in hospitality and is using apprenticeships to get there.
tothe village local at the heart of the community.
Our pubs are as individual as the people who run them, and often thrive on offering With the goal of becoming a general manager, Mark is now working genuine local provenance and community activity.
The level of support towards his fourth apprenticeship since he started working at that we provide to our tenants and lessees is central to us being Greene King seven years ago.
He has completed Hospitality apreferred partner for the best licensees in the country.
Services Level 2, Team Leading Level 2 and Customer Services Level 3 and has recently started ILM Institute of Leadership Our support is tailored to meet the individual needs of our licensee andManagement Level 4 qualification.
partners and includes industry-leading training for them and their staff, Mark said: They were right when they said the Level 4 leadership expert business advice, and effective marketing support.
In addition and management qualification would require a lot of effort but it to this we have this year introduced a new range of initiatives, led is worth it as I know there will be so many benefits from completing by our Brewing & Brands dispense team, to enable our tenants and the course.
So far weve looked at management theories and learning lessees to maintain consistently outstanding cellar quality ensuring styles.
It is fascinating stuff and I hope this will stand me in good that our beer brands are consistently being offered at their best.
stead to become a strong general manager.
Meeting and networking with managers from other brands has been eye opening too and This is all underpinned by our professionally qualified BDMs has given me a fresh perspective on management.
whoare trained to the highest levels in the industry and who are dedicated to supporting all our licensee partners in making the most of their business opportunities.
34 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information OUR ENVIRONMENT Our aim is to reduce the environmental impact of our business wherever Waste we can.
Particular areas of focus for us are reducing our energy and As a HaFSA signatory, we continue to work with WRAP to increase water consumption and reducing waste across on the business.
the overall rate of food and packaging waste being recycled, sent to anaerobic digestion AD or composted to at least 70% by the end of 2015.
Energy Recycling over the past year has increased by over 6% as a result We have continued to convert the lighting in our pubs, restaurants ofbin optimisation, resulting in less waste going to landfill.
We are and hotels to the latest low energy LED light bulbs, converting currently exploring opportunities to further increase recycling another 260 sites during the year.
We now have 60% of our retail byexpanding our food collections throughout the estate.
business converted to LED lighting.
Over 570 of retail sites divert more than 80% of their waste from landfill.
A further 36 sites have been fitted with voltage optimisers which reduce the electricity used and prolong the life of electrical equipment in the premises.
Mandatory greenhouse gas reporting The table below, which has been produced in compliance with the Further gas efficiencies have been achieved by upgrading requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors theboilers and heating control systems in another 55 sites.
Report Regulations 2013, shows the main greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes of CO equivalent CO e for our scope 1 direct and scope 2 2 2 indirect CO emissions.
2 Water We have continued to observe water usage in the 200 sites with Scope 1 relates to the direct emissions from the fuels we use in our water monitors and have used this information to set benchmarks breweries, pubs, restaurants, hotels and offices such as natural gas for thedifferent types of outlets.
Pubs selling mainly drinks, smaller and liquid petroleum gas.
It also includes emissions from owned restaurants, Hungry Horse, Farmhouse Inns, Loch Fyne restaurants vehicles including company cars but excludes logistics where we and hotels now all have their own targets that allow usto spot outsource this to third parties.
Refrigerant gas and F-gas emissions significant usage variances and instigate remedies.
in respect of our breweries, pubs and restaurants are also included.
We continue to work with the 20 water companies that supply us We have used the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for nationally to ensure more frequent and accurate meter readings and Company Reporting for all scope 1 emissions 2013 for 2013 14 and 2014 to use their local teams to help us investigate leaks and implement for 2014 15.
GHG emissions from refrigeration and air conditioning best practice to make further savings.
units for 2014 15 have been determined using the simplified material balance method which is a more accurate method of calculating In 980 comparable sites, we have used marginally less water than emissions as described in the Environmental Reporting Guidelines the previous year and helped offset the additional water use in 2013, whereas the emissions for 2013 14 were calculated using the kitchens as food sales grow.
The amount of water required to make a barrel of beer reduced at Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions associated with the generation our Belhaven brewery last year.
However, at our Bury St Edmunds of electricity consumed in our sites.
Emissions have been calculated brewery, this increased, largely as a result of the success of our using the Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency take-home operations.
The change in mix from cask and keg to Scheme factor 2013 for 2013 14 and 2014 for 2014 15. bottle and can incorporates more processing and, therefore, more water is required.
We are planning water saving projects during Electricity and gas figures in the table below cover the CRC reporting thenext year to counterbalance this trend.
period from 1 April to 31 March each year, whilst all other figures cover our respective financial years.
The intensity ratio refers to turnover in our Retail and Brewing & Brands businesses as the vast majority of our CO emissions relate to those businesses.
2 Source of emissions 2014 15 tonnes of CO e 2013 14 tonnes of CO e 2 2 Direct emissions scope 1 Natural gas 41,741 41,414 Gas oil 806 603 Kerosene 197 2,052 LPG 2,624 2,380 Red diesel 81 277 Refrigerants 3,196 1,634 Owned vehicles 7,486 6,829 Total direct emissions scope 1 56,131 55,189 Indirect emissions scope 2 Electricity 111,240 109,292 Gross emissions 167,371 164,481 Turnover in Retail and Brewing & Brands 000 11,934 11,519 Tonnes CO e per 100k turnover 14.025 14.28 2 Annual report 2015 GREENE KING PLC 35 CORPOR ATE GOVERNANCE 37 Board of directors 38 Corporate governance statement 42 Report of the nomination committee 43 Report of the audit committee 46 Directors remuneration report 58 Directors report and disclosures 61 Directors responsibilities statements 36 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2015
