Sector Review Environmental & Analysis Products and technologies for analysis in safety, life sciences and environmental markets.
Market-leading opto-electronic technology and gas conditioning products.
Products to monitor water networks, UV technology fordisinfecting water, and water quality testing products.
Chuck Dubois Performance Sector Chief Executive, Environmental& Analysis Group This was a year of significant change for the Environmental & KPIs target Analysis sector with several restructuring projects completed.
1 Revenue growth 1.3 % Facilities were combined and businesses rationalised to focus 1 onthose areas of the market that are best poised for growth in Organic revenue growth constant currency 0.4% 5% 1 thecoming years.
In addition, we established a stand-alone Profit growth 13.7 % business inChina to better pursue that geographic market.
While 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 12.1 % 5% the markets were stable or growing for the most part, we did have 2 Return on Sales 16.7% 18% some headwind in the UK water market, as well as being impacted 3 R&D % of Revenue 6.3% 4% by some of the turmoil in the Middle East.
We achieved strong growth in Asia.
Contribution to Group With the restructuring largely behind us, as evidenced by the m 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 improvements in the second half of the year, we are in a strong Revenue 164 167 152 154 136 position forgrowth in FY16.
Profit 27 32 30 32 26 1 4 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior year figures.
2 4 Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 S ector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
23% 16% 4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see Note 1 to the Accounts.
According to the UN, by 2025 two thirds of the worlds population Market trends and growth drivers could live under water stress conditions as demands are placed on Our products monitor and treat water, air and food.
They enable water usage by agriculture, manufacturing, energy production and thedevelopment and manufacture of new products that improve domestic usage.
By 2050 global water withdrawals are expected ourhealth.
We operate in sustained growth markets that are toincrease by 55%.
underpinned by four key drivers: These trends and forecasts continue to drive regulation and rising demand for basic resources such as energy and water enforcement.
Some of the greatest improvements have been increasing environmental monitoring and regulation madeinwater quality and environmental monitoring in China growing demand for healthcare andother developing countries.
Here we see increasing demand scientific advances transferring into new industries forour pollution monitoring equipment and we have developed products to meet the specific needs of these markets.
Today, 1.8 billion people drink faecally contaminated water and an even greater number drink water that is unsanitary.
Approximately There are also significant opportunities in new markets as our 3.5million people die each year due to inadequate water supply, technologies developed for scientific applications are used in sanitation and hygiene.
industrial settings for product improvement and quality control.
Increasing demand for improved food safety has brought use ofourspectroscopy products into food processing and even cropmanagement.
38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The shipping industry is undergoing changes to its monitoring and Performance 1 treatment practices.
Ship stack emissions monitoring has begun.
Revenue declined by 1% to 164m 2014: 167m and profit fell by Pollution and concerns over invasive species are key drivers behind 14% to 27m 2014: 32m.
At constant currency, organic revenue the International Maritime Organizations IMO Ballast Water was marginally positive and profit was down 12%.
Return on Sales Management initiative.
Manufacture of new technologies, such as LED lighting, requires The downturn was partly due to business restructuring.
The cost newlevels of quality control, which can be met by our products.
ofconsolidation of our optical coatings businesses were roughly within Ourtechnology is also used to ensure the quality of pharmaceuticals, budget less than 1m, but ramp-up and customer qualifications took particularly as manufacturing is increasingly outsourced.
longer and were much more expensive than anticipated.
We saw improvement in the second half of the year and, having further Advances in communication technologies which allow remote strengthened the management team, we have positioned this monitoring data collection are creating new markets for our sensors business for further progress in 2015 16. and data-loggers used to monitor water distribution networks.
The establishment of Ocean Optics Asia was an important step Geographic trends inouroverall strategy, and met performance expectations.
However, in This sector sells into a significant number of market niches.
While our other spectroscopy businesses, some significant OEM customers growth rates in the western economies are modest, our niche had over-purchased in 2013, resulting in diminished orders this year.
markets are expected to expand at rates between 4% and 7%.
We These customers are now back on track and should drive growth in see opportunities for US market growth and improved market share the coming year.
In particular, the deregulation of the UK water We restructured our UV water treatment businesses and rationalised market is beginning to provide new opportunities.
We are putting some product lines.
Sensing products developed by this group have resources in place to take advantage of opportunities in Europe for been moved to other group companies with greater market potential our products that support manufacturing.
China offers the greatest growth opportunity for our Environmental Our water quality testing business continued to grow.
We continue to invest in China ourproducts in emerging markets was brisk and should remain and now have over 80employees there.
We expect continued growth thatway through the coming year.
Overall, we enter 2015 16 with inthecoming year as we take full advantage of our expanded amuch stronger and focused approach, and anticipate greater R&Dand production capabilities.
We have revamped some product lines that assist water quality Our gas conditioning businesses performed well due to the testing by NGOs, particularly in Africa and South America, and introduction of new products designed for emerging markets and weareseeing increased demand for these products.
continuing penetration of our existing markets.
We expect these Strategy businesses to continue to grow based on these initiatives in the Our organic profit growth strategy centres on R&D investment in medium term.
newproduct development, geographic expansion with a strong Outlook focus on Asia and diversification of existing technologies into 2015 16 should deliver solid growth as we capitalise on the business adjacent and growing regulated markets.
restructuring changes made over the last two years.
The improved R&D is focused on applications that have long-term drivers and sector performance in the second half of 2014 15 bears this out.
More new products are the result products introduced towards the end of last year are having a positive ofcollaboration between companies, and one company now impact and we expect to see markets with difficult trading conditions hasestablished development projects withsix other companies return to growth.
These include the UK water utilities, which started inthesector.
anew five-year investment cycle in 2015.
We expect this to have a positive impact on our water monitoring business in the second An increasing number of our companies manufacture in China.
OurChinese markets continue to improve as regulations enacted inthe past few years are increasingly enforced.
Chinas advance Many new products have been launched in this sector in the last year.
intomore technological manufacturing also benefits our quality The proportion of sector revenue due to sales of products introduced andassurance products.
in the last three years improved significantly in 2014 15 and we expect this to increase again in the coming year.
Our strategy within core geographies, such as the USA and Europe, isto grow by finding new applications for our existing technologies.
For example, our spectrometers are being used on drones to monitorcrop development, enabling farmers to optimise fertilisationand irrigation.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
