Corporate Responsibility The Environment Commitment to We have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and Corporate Responsibility fordeveloping products that protect the environment and improve Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide safety at work and in public places.
rangeof products that protect and improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
This report focuses on areas of progress and Our products our performance for all areas of corporate responsibility which Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring areconsidered to be material by our stakeholders and are also and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead the world in important to the success of our business.
Halma has developed anumber of technologies which help to minimise environmental meaningful key performance indicators KPIs that reflect the damage.
Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage importance the Group places on corporate responsibility and detection and wireless monitoring, gas emissions monitoring, water enable the Board to monitor the Groups progress in meeting its and effluent analysis, UV water treatment and optical sensing.
We objectives and responsibilities in these areas.
Further details are promote the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need to given on pages 25 and 43. use dangerous chemicals, as well as making products that minimise the waste of clean water.
These areas of emphasis include health and safety, employee engagement and development, human rights and ethics, corporate Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring responsibility and sustainability.
Safety is critical to the Group and is and monitoring environmental changes and controlling the damaging a major priority.
We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the impact of industrial activities is long term.
We are the major world health and safety of our own employees while at work and operate supplier in several of these areas.
so as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
Our policy is to manage our Our impact activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks The environmental effect of our operations is relatively low compared to health and safety and the environment.
Halma has an excellent to manufacturers in other sectors.
Our manufacturing model is health and safety record and a culture of safety is deeply decentralised permitting our operations to be located close to their embedded within the Group.
Manufacturing operations are established across the world for this very reason rather than to save labour costs.
The ethos Our core values are Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment of being close to our customers reflects the importance we place on andCustomer Satisfaction.
These core values have been the quality of our products and the service levels we provide to our selectedfollowing extensive surveying of employees across the customers.
It also makes our operations more flexible and responsive Group.
Ourculture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
to their markets and customers.
With operations spread around the Weencourage our employees to act fairly in their dealings with globe, our supplier base is understandably fragmented.
Therefore, fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
responsibility for vetting and managing suppliers is devolved to local We recognise that our employees determine our success management while meeting the Groups ethical standards.
andtherefore continue to invest in and encourage their Environmental Management System EMS development more and more each year, not only with a suite We are committed to developing and implementing an EMS ofHalma development programmes, but also through clear throughout the Group to measure, control and reduce our leadership and decisive action.
By appointing our Group Talent environmental impacts.
We have developed performance indicators Director last year, we are focusing on our teams and ensuring that assist local management in implementing the policy and wehave the approach and skills required to succeed so that ultimately developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and the theGroup is better placed to meet the challenges of the future.
related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, which We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in represent approximately 37% of Group production facilities in terms common with all businesses, our activities have an environmental ofexternal turnover.
Our strategy is not to have capital-intensive manufacturing All Group companies are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the processes and to operate close to our end markets in terms of international environmental accreditation, where warranted.
The geography, so the environmental impact of our operations is requirement to implement an EMS will be extended to the rest of relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
We also theGroup in the medium term.
In terms of revenue, currently 25% recognise that we can improve our own environmental performance 2014: 18% of the Group has ISO 14001 approval.
and so resources are deployed to actively reduce our own carbon footprint.
Halma has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index Group companies are also encouraged to improve energy efficiency, since its establishment in July 2001. to reduce waste and emissions and reduce the use of materials in order to minimise their environmental impact.
The Group has identified its key environmental impacts as emissionstoair and water, water and energy consumption, and wasteproduction.
We established baseline data for these impacts in 2004 05 and set targets for reductions against the baseline on a rolling three year cycle.
We support innovation and investment that drives environmental performance.
This is illustrated by the solar panel installations undertaken at our subsidiaries Apollo and Elfab.
Apollo undertook a 250,000 solar panel installation in 2013 14 which has reduced their environmental impact, with an expected total saving of 3,000 tonnes of carbon over a 25-year period.
In addition, Elfab have increased the amount of renewable energy generated on site with the introduction of a second solar panel installation and also have an active rain harvesting programme on site which is reducing consumption of mains water.
42 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Carbon Footprint The Groups policy on carbon is published on our website and has CO e emissions reduction 2 been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
A senior executive in each of our higher impact business units is responsible 14% 10% for implementing the carbon policy at local level.
Our Finance Director, Performance Target Kevin Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and reduction over 2 years to 2015 reduction over 3years to 2016 monitoring the policy.
We are committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
Reduction of the CO e emissions tonnes m of revenue 2 Groups carbon footprint has received increased attention since 2007 with the initial objective of a 10% reduction in the Groups total carbon emissions relative to revenues over three years to March 2010.
We have worked hard to reduce the energy impact of our facilities and achieved that target for the last period from 2010 to 2013.
Whilst we 51 recognise that reduction by another 10% would be challenging for the 48 third period, we have set ourselves the same target to March 2016 and are working hard to achieve this.
We are pleased to report that 46 we are still on course to meet our three-year target.
43 42 39 36 From April 2010, we have worked with providers of energy efficiency and carbon reduction solutions to ensure compliance with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC which is the UKs mandatory energy saving scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
We are in full compliance with the CRC 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 requirements.
All major UK sites have received an energy survey and Due to changes in Defra reporting guidance, the 2013 14 figure has set an action plan for improved energy usage.
We are well positioned been restated to include Well to Tank WTT emissions and Radiative to comply with the new Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS Forcing on air travel.
It is not required to restate years prior to 2013 14 regulations ahead of the December 2015 compliance deadline.
The due to the methodological changes.
Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported both The 2014 15 figure has also been calculated on the same basis as prior in the Annual Report and Accounts and on our website.
years excluding Well to Tank WTT emissions and Radiative Forcing The Group does not operate a fleet of distribution vehicles although onair travel to allow for a direct comparison over the longer time scale.
we do own a number of company cars.
From May 2007, we implemented a cap on permissible CO emissions of all UK company Halmas carbon policy was first approved by the Board in 2007.
In 2013 2 vehicles and have extended an equivalent requirement to the USA the policy target was reviewed and continues to call for a 10% reduction and Europe.
Limits are usually lowered each year so as to reduce inthe carbon footprint every three years.
We have taken the decision to We have made good progress this year towards achieving 10% relative maintain the same limits for company vehicles as last year.
We will reduction in emissions over the three years to 2016 and the Group keep this under review for future years.
CarbonPolicy reinforces the focus on our CO2 emissions.
There is good We have stepped up our activities internationally to comply with the accountability for monitoring and control of CO2 emissions at local level.
new mandatory carbon reporting requirements which UK public listedcompanies are subject to under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 asamended in August 2013.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG Reporting We continue to work with our consultants to better monitor our environmental performance and future external .
TheGroup is committed to examining the establishment of green procurement policies and increasing ouruseofrecycled materials.
GHG Emissions data for the period 29 March 2014 to 28 March 2015 2014 15 2013 14 CO e emission CO e emission 2 2 global tonnes global tonnes Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,348 4,199 Scope 2: Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 16,247 15,960 Scope 3: Business air travel, WTT Well to Tank 14,022 14,567 Total gross emissions 34,617 34,726 Intensity measure of tonnes of CO e gross emissions per m revenue 47.7 51.3 2 Note D ue to changes in Defra reporting guidance, the 2013 14 figure has been restated to include Well to Tank WTT emissions and Radiative Forcing on air travel.
It is not required to restate years prior to2013 14 due to the methodological changes.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 43 Corporate Responsibility continued We have reported on all of the emission sources required Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational undertheCompanies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors responsibility for compliance with relevant local Health and Safety Reports Regulations for the reporting period 29 March 2014 to regulations is delegated to the directors of each operating company.
We believe Health and Safety training is important and it is carried out within companies as appropriate.
Last year and this year an additional We have employed the Operation Control definition to outline head office driven initiative to provide and co-ordinate further IOSH ourcarbon footprint boundary: included within that boundary are Managing Safely training was organised for our UK companies.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions from manufacturing sites and offices Adequate internal reporting exists in order that the Groups Finance whichwe own and operate.
Excluded from our footprint boundary Director can monitor each companys compliance with this policy.
are emissions from manufacturing sites and offices which we do notown and control, and emissions considered non-material by The Group collects details of its worldwide reported Health thebusiness.
We have reported on emissions from Scope 1 and 2 andSafety incidents, and these are available on our website emissions sources with some Scope 3 emissions sources included at www.
We are also pleased to report that there business air travel for all years, and Well to Tank emissions for werenowork-related fatalities in 2014 15 or prior years.
Injuries recorded We have also used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and 2015 2014 2013 2012 Reporting Standard revised edition and guidance provided by UKs Days lost due to reportable Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs Defra on voluntary work-related injuries 546 118 382 301 and mandatory carbon reporting.
Emission factors were used from Total recorded injuries to all UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting employees 298 323 320 362 2013 and 2014.
S pecified major injury incidents and reportable incidents which result in more than three working days lost.
Health and Safety Halma companies are involved in the manufacture of a wide range Our People ofproducts that protect and improve the quality of life for people Leadership in the global marketplace requires a group culture and worldwide.
Therefore, safety is critical to the Group and is a major aninclusive business environment where the best and brightest priority for management and to demonstrate the Groups added diverse minds, employees with varied perspectives, skills, and emphasis on health and safety, the Board has endorsed the inclusion experiences, work together to meet customer demands.
We believe of the Groups Accident Frequency Rate AFR as one of our nonthat employing the top talent from all groups within our communities, financial KPIs on page 25. from many backgrounds and with varied experiences, helps us to better serve our customers and gives us a competitive advantage The Group manages its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary inthe global marketplace.
To achieve this, we seek to hire, inspire, or unacceptable risks to health and safety to our employees in the develop and empower top talent from around the globe.
workplace or to the public as a result of our activities.
The policy is understood by all Group companies and was reinforced in 2010 11 Periodically we complete a survey of employees to determine through improved guidance and reporting following a comprehensive whetherour core values are authentic in our organisation.
The review led by an external expert.
surveyestablishes the values individual employees wish to see in our operating culture and to what extent they exist in our current culture.
Halma has an excellent health and safety record and a culture of safety is deeply embedded within the Group.
To ensure each Group In 2006, our survey of senior managers showed that five 50% of company has appropriately embedded the updated Health and thevalues they wanted to see in our business were actually present.
Safety procedures in their business, independent Health and Safety Since then, we have improved the accessibility of the survey by reviews were performed in each operating company in 2012 13. making it available in paper format as well as online, and by offering These reviews were conducted with a view to ensuring a consistent itin four languages.
In the last year alone, participation grew by over approach in quality of reporting, internal processes, integration in athird to more than half of all Group employees and the number operations, appropriateness of company policies, culture of Health ofmatching values increased to six 60%.
This indicates that the and Safety and also as a means of identifying any patterns or alignment between the values that employees want to see in their underlying causes of reported incidents.
We have continued to business and the values that are actually present is very good actively promote our safety culture throughout the year using the andincreasing.
As a result, reporting of Health and No survey is capable of capturing all the appropriate sentiments, but Safety incidents and corrective action where needed has been our executives, who regularly visit all Group companies, agree that givenan even higher profile.
These were all contributory factors in observable and valuable improvements in the Group culture have thegroup-wide reduction in the number of days lost due to specified occurred over recent years.
The Group will continue to monitor the major injury accidents and reportable work-related injuries in 2013 14. survey results to enable us to better support our people in bringing Unfortunately the Health and Safety performance this year reversed these values and strengths to work so that they and we may derive the position achieved last year and we have reviewed the incidents further benefit from them.
contributing to this but there are no specific underlying trends or causes which should cause concern or require special attention.
Halma commences another cycle of independent Health and Safety reviews in mid-2015 as a continuation of the good practice and improvements driven by the 2012 13 reviews.
44 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma Diversity and Inclusion Policy By increasing the diversity and At Halma we recognise that the diversity of the people in ourbusiness and the inclusion of all enriches our products, performance and the lives of our employees.
We believe that inclusion of our workforce and thediversity of our workforce contributes significantly to our aim toprotect and improve the quality of life for people worldwide.
leveraging the insights of our We are building a culture that encourages talented people of all diverse talent through an inclusive backgrounds, beliefs or any form of personal identity to be involved, respected and inspired to develop to their full potential.
environment, we enhance our Our intention is to create effective team environments that enhance decision-making processes.
We achieve this by ability to compete inthe worlds encouraging the contribution of unique perspectives and capabilities to achieve superior business results through increasingly diverse marketplace.
trust, collaboration and innovation of new ideas.
Jennifer Ward, Group Talent Director By ensuring fairness and equality of opportunity in recruitment, training, development, career progression and reward, Halma is committed to ensuring diversity and inclusion in the workplace Diversity and all areas of our business.
We see diversity and inclusiveness as an essential part of our Halma believes that the diversity of our staff is a significant productivity, creativity, innovation and competitive advantage.
contributor to our success and has identified two specific It is the foundation of a performance culture that promotes respect, areasforimprovement in Halmas organisation, particularly understanding and appreciation of different perspectives, backgrounds atmanagerial levels: and experiences.
1 G eographic diversity to have at least 20% of our executives Developing regions, including China, Brazil, India and Africa make geographically based outside Europe and the USA to better upan increasing share of the world population.
They will account for reflect the proportion of our revenue generated within those approximately 88% of the global population by 2050.
Economically, markets: and diverse markets represent a growing source of consumption and buying power, and we must be prepared to serve the needs of the 2 Gender diversity to increase the overall proportion of female changing marketplace.
executives on operating company boards in each of the next five years.
Because our customer base is constantly changing and growing, weneed to be prepared in the following ways: diverse and inclusive enough to recognise the needs of customers A Diversity and Inclusion Committee was formed this year, with in our current and new markets: representatives from across Halma, reflecting each sector, market aware enough to anticipate, respond to, and serve the needs of and function.
This committee was co-chaired by Jennifer Ward thechanging marketplace: and andChuck Dubois and one of the significant contributions was a engaged enough to contribute at the highest levels to deliver revitalisation of our Diversity Policy with a new Halma Diversity and superior performance.
Inclusion Policy which was issued in March 2015 and is also available on our website.
By increasing the diversity and inclusion of our workforce and leveraging the insights of our diverse talent through an inclusive The focus of our biennial Halma Innovation and Technology environment, we enhance our ability to compete in the worlds Exposition HITE in April 2015 was expanded to celebrate and increasingly diverse marketplace.
We regularly monitor our progress encourage greater innovation, collaboration and diversity.
Prior to toward these aims through executive site visits and annual values HITE, focus groups were held across the Group to provide a forum surveys, which indicate how strongly our desired culture is for employees and our partner, Global Diversity Practice GDP to demonstrated in our businesses.
discuss the current environment, challenges and desires.
The output from this fed into a half-day seminar at HITE 2015, led by GDP, in Our efforts are directed towards increasing the proportion of which the Halma Executive Board and our operating subsidiaries individuals with experience in the business and geographic markets board members all participated.
inwhich we see our operations growing.
Our strong preference is to develop policies and actions which Geographic diversity support our long-term aims as well as establishing appropriate As our businesses continue to expand globally, it is imperative that measurable targets.
Webelieve the former evolves into being the insights and perspectives of local markets be represented on our embedded into corporate culture morereadily.
Several Group initiatives have been implemented tosupport and encourage our operating companies to put leaders Each year our Board of Directors reviews these policies and their onthe ground in key markets.
We have well-established Halma implementation to ensure that they create and maintain a diverse and HubsinChina and India and have expanded into Brazil as well.
To the same end, the Halma Executive Board Chinahub has introduced innovative R&D programmes to incentivise has been investigating our KPIs on diversity and ensuring that the localproduct development for local markets.
We continue to seek leadership of our companies reflects the diversity of the markets waystoensure that local leadership is contributing to the global weserve.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 45 Corporate Responsibility continued Gender diversity Disabled employees The Board of Directors responded to the consultation document Applications for employment by disabled people are always fully thatthe UKs Financial Reporting Council issued in respect of considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
We are proactively identifying talented In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is women internally and externally who could join our leadership teams.
made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and We appreciate the scale of the task ahead of us insectors where that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that relevant graduates are more than 85% male, so part of our strategy the training, career development and promotion of disabled people will involve ensuring that Halma has a culture andworking practices should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
that make itmore attractive to women.
Employee consultation The 2014 15 year intake for the Halma Graduate Development The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its Programme HGDP included graduates from four different countries.
employees and has continued to keep them informed on matters Since the programmes inception, on average 35% of recruits have affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting beenfemale.
The HGDP is already demonstrating our success in theperformance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and attracting women andindividuals of diverse backgrounds to Halma.
informal meetings, the Group collaboration platform and the annual We must now ensure that they continue to thrive and grow their financial statements.
Employee representatives are consulted routinely on a wide range 1 2 ofmatters affecting their current and future interests.
Halma plc Board Directors Other senior managers 10 209 191 People development is 8 a key part of our organic growthstrategy.
2 18 People development People development is a key part of our organic growth strategy.
M F Total M F Total We run a number of people development programmes.
Our trainingprogrammes are constantly reviewed to reflect changing Other employees Total training needs amongst our companies.
The Halma Executive Development Programme HEDP, which is based on our recognition 5,192 5,411 of the fundamental part our people play in the success of the Group, continued to strengthen in recent years.
HEDP is an integrated development plan for our senior people including the next generation of Managing Directors, Sector Vice Presidents and 3,197 2,998 Sector Chief Executives.
Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and training they need to achieve more in their existing 2,194 2,214 role and potentially to advance through the organisation if their achievements merit it.
HEDP is aimed at employees already serving on subsidiary boards but we also encourage applications from senior functional managers M F Total M F Total who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities and will benefit from the programme.
% of Total There are approximately 280 such eligible employees in total.
The programme has been developed from a proven course structure Male 59% and is specifically and continuously tailored to suit Halmas needs, Female 41% aligning the content to the Groups four core values of Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment and Customer Satisfaction.
It focuses strongly on strategic and leadership capabilities and developing personal attributes commitment, determination and resilience.
There is an emphasis on performance management and team development.
It includes skill based elements such as sales and marketing management, project leadership, corporate governance, finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
18 programmes have been successfully completed.
Male 59% Once a significant proportion of executives had completed HEDP, Female 41% afollow up programme, HEDP, was introduced to provide Notes updatedtraining and to reinforce the original course contents.
1 Includes non-executive Directors of the Company.
2 For Halma senior managers is defined as subsidiary company officers andabove.
46 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Complementing the HEDP is a programme for subsidiary managers Compliance with, and respect for, these core requirements are and supervisors the Halma Management Development Programme integrated within our organisation.
Everyone in Halma is responsible HMDP.
During the year, four HMDP and two HMDP programmes for having due regard for human rights.
Managers and supervisors were completed.
Programmes were held in the USA, Europe and Asia.
must provide leadership that promotes human rights as an equal priority to other business issues.
All employees are responsible for The Halma Graduate Development Programme HGDP was ensuring that their own actions do not impair the human rights of introduced during 2011 12 and the first participants started working others, and are encouraged to bring forward, in confidence, any with us in mid-2012.
HGDP is targeted at engineering, science and concerns they may have about human rights.
Our Chief Executive, technical graduates with the potential to become future leaders of Andrew Williams, has overall responsibility for ensuring that human ourcompanies, or next generation specialists driving our technology.
rights considerations are integral to the way in which existing operations and new opportunities are developed and managed.
The programme lasts 18 to 24 months and is based on placements in our various operating companies.
Through project work, participants Ethics quickly assume responsibility and learn in detail how businesses The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
We support participants through residential training modules Halma requires its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow to help develop communication and teamwork skills alongside a employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
Halma mentoring programme for personal development.
Our intake from introduced a Code of Conduct during 2011 12 which applies to all 2011 12 is now assuming permanent positions within the Group.
Group employees and our external business relationships.
We require Training suppliers to be of high quality and to operate to accepted international Cumulative number of candidates that have completed: standards.
Halma operates a confidential whistleblowing policy, which was refreshed and republicised in 2015, with an external call HEDP HMDP centre enabling all Group employees to raise any concerns they mayhave.
263 578 Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which 539 235 extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are 221 471 involved.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, 194 392 offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments 319 toinfluence the outcome of business dealings.
Our robust policy 166 andguidance in this area are routinely reviewed.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Responsible investment Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, customers, business partners and shareholders.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
Human Rights Halmas Human Rights and Labour Conditions Policy reflects thecore requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rightsandthe ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rightsat Work, including the conventions relating to forced labour, child labour, non-discrimination, freedom of association and right to collective bargaining.
We do not tolerate practices which contravene these international standards.
Regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with legislative and regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor their approach to their particular needs.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47
