STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ENGAGED & DIVERSE The very nature of our business is based on and economies means that we can also At Hays we view one of the most fundamental and core needs help candidates and businesses to prepare in society, the importance of an individuals for the future world of work and sustain our corporate social career and their work.
It gives people the future generations.
In this way, we responsibility as an means to earn a financial income, allows them contribute to the wider growth and success to be self-sufficient, gain self-respect and of the economies and communities in which integral part of the dignity, support their loved ones and, in turn, we operate.
We call it Powering the world to make their own contribution to society.
of work and its why we exist as a business.
Equally, helping businesses around the world to source the talented people they need is Looking forward, we need a businessessential to help economies and businesses friendly legal framework that encourages grow and succeed.
the development of a highly skilled and flexible labour force, helping companies to In the last 12 months alone, Hays has helped provide incentives and appropriate training 63,000 people around the world to find their to boost skills among all employees.
next permanent job and 200,000 people to Vocational education, skilled migration WORLDWIDE IN 2015 WE FILLED OVER find their next contract or temporary role.
and training are all central to the future Finding the right role for our candidates and of the global economy.
the right person for our clients can transform 1,000 an individuals life and enhance a business.
ALISTAIR COX CHIEF EXECUTIVE JOBS EVERY WORKING DAY In addition, having a global footprint and a 27 August 2015 profound understanding of many industries 36|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION HELPING TO FIND JOBS FOR THE WORKFORCE OF TODAY PREPARING THE WORKFORCE FOR THE JOBS OF TOMORROW THE UK JAPAN Operating across 33 countries and employing Hays has voiced a Our seminars help to a diverse workforce of over 9,000 employees, Hays is uniquely positioned to understand blueprint for jobs growth make the future workforce the world of work: both the current recruiting challenges faced by clients within a wide in the UK that includes: more employable.
spectrum of specialised industries and economies, and the importance to candidates Encouraging greater collaboration In partnership with local universities, Hays of securing a role that suits their skills between education and business to is running Gaishikei job hunting seminars and offers them the opportunity to reach identify future skills needs and create to advise students who want to work for their potential.
appropriate courses: a foreign affiliated company gaishikei Working with employers to retrain older and help them understand how However, not only do we share the depth and workers in order to plug gaps in skillsforeign companies are breadth of our expertise in order to place the short areas: different from domestic right person in the right position today, but Providing employers with fiscal nikkei companies.
we also aim to help influence the future shape incentives to take on apprentices: and of work and prepare both candidates and Identifying skilled roles that cannot be clients for the challenges ahead.
In this way, filled by local workers and fast-track we can play an important role in society both visa applications for these positions.
now and in the future and ensure that we have a sustainable business model that can survive changing economies, technologies, demographics and business cycles.
THE NETHERLANDS CANADA Hays has signed up to Networking is key when support the governmentpeople move location.
initiated project called Linking with the Newcomer Centre of Peel, Hays ran a networking event to Werkakkoord which aims advise newcomers to Canada on how to to help tackle youth join the job market including advice on application processes and job search.
Hays helps young people to prepare for work offering interview techniques and CV writing.
Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|37 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED TURNING THE CHALLENGES OF TODAY INTO OPPORTUNITIES FOR TOMORROW The world of work is changing and is being influenced by a number of trends in particular the state of the global economy, changing demographics, the focus on diversity, key skills shortages, global migration and the impact of evolving technologies.
OUR PRINCIPLES BEGIN AT HOME How we demonstrate our values with Hays own employees Hays believes in taking positive action to tackle these issues in a practical way to We have high employee Learning and help the communities in which we operate.
engagement development In addition, Hays strongly believes that we should also demonstrate our values Each year we conduct TALKback, our Employees at all levels of our business and beliefs within our own Company and global employee engagement survey.
are supported by structured, tailored amongst our own employees.
It is key to For 2015, we had an 80% participation learning and development programmes.
our success that Hays is a company that rate and an employee engagement level This starts with a comprehensive people want to work for as well as do of 84%.
The key drivers of employee induction programme and then at business with.
engagement in Hays during 2015 were each level as our employees progress leadership and direction, along with through the organisation.
In fulfilling our aim to be the world leader learning and development.
in specialist recruitment, highly responsive Strong leadership and management to the evolving needs of our clients, we Year 2015 2014 2013 2012 are essential to our business.
Executives need to recruit the best people in the are supported in their career at Hays sector and ensure we are both efficient % employee through our Fast Forward and Advanced and operationally effective.
Our global engagement 84% 85% 84% 83% Management Programmes which deliver presence and in-depth knowledge of a broad executive curriculum.
diverse industries allows us to have global thought-leadership on the world of work across the geographical areas in which we operate.
Global mobility Employee welfare Our employees are actively encouraged We strive to safeguard the health and to develop their careers by moving safety of our employees and visiting internationally.
We specifically advertise clients and candidates.
A health and many key roles outside their country safety programme covers the full of location and support the movement range of workplace issues from of our employees to share skills and accident reporting to home working.
During 2015, over 70 employees relocated to a Hays Our people are key to our success office overseas.
and their welfare is important to us.
All employees have access to a free and confidential employee assistance programme.
38|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Included in our Code of Conduct is an Equal Hays recognises changing Opportunity Policy.
We make every effort We were named as to ensure that no discrimination arises during demographics and diversity one of the Best Places the recruitment, employment and period after employment of any employee for Hays believes that corporate social to Work in the UK reasons of gender, sexual orientation, marital responsibility is an integral and natural way status, creed, colour, race, nationality, ethnic of doing responsible and ethical business.
In the 2015 Glassdoor Employees or national origin, religious or other belief, Choice Award we were named as political opinion, spent convictions, disability As the ultimate people business, it is vital that one of the top 25 Best Places to or age, and all employees are expected to we make a positive impact on our candidates, Work, the only recruiter listed to receive deal with all persons with the same attention, our clients, our shareholders, our employees this award.
The Employees Choice courtesy and consideration.
This support and the communities in which we operate, Awards programme relies solely of equal opportunities applies not only both now and in the future.
Our responsibility on the input of employees, who as a direct employer but also in our embraces the concepts of human rights, provide feedback on their jobs, work introduction of candidates to clients.
diversity, ethical conduct, good corporate environments and companies via governance, giving back to society and Glassdoors anonymous online SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT minimising environmental impact.
We expect our suppliers to operate in an ethical, legally compliant and HUMAN RIGHTS professional manner.
At Hays we are committed to our Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy which reflects The standards we expect are detailed in our the way we operate including in relation to Supplier Code of Conduct, a copy of which human rights.
All staff within Hays are can be found on our website, haysplc.
expected to act with integrity and honesty and behave in a way that is above reproach, as well as treat people fairly, with courtesy and respect, be responsible, respect diversity and communicate openly.
Gender diversity within Hays Role 2015 2014 Female plc Board directors 2 out of 9 22% 2 out of 9 22% Female senior leadership and management 10 out of 51 20% 12 out of 59 20% Female employees 5,589 out of 9,023 62% 5,025 out of 8,237 61% Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|39 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED OUR DEMOGRAPHICS ARE CHANGING BELGIUM People will be expected to work for longer Young employees of the future are likely and may need to learn new skills as they to change jobs several times during their get older.
working lifetime or have a portfolio career.
Hays can help identify transferable skills.
The focus on diversity in the workforce is therefore key this is not only about gender diversity and advancing the careers of women Every Hays office in Belgium has a local partnership with a but recognising the value of a truly diverse working population.
Hays offers students support in how to apply for jobs, CV writing and enhancing their social media profiles, Hays actively supports young people by helping them prepare for for example on LinkedIn.
working life and champions diversity issues in our global locations.
THE UK SPAIN There is an under-representation of women Hays believes in helping young people in science and engineering, making up just to reach their potential.
Hays worked with the Fundacion Tomillo which aims to increase the employability of children from disadvantaged backgrounds.
With 2.74 million job opportunities predicted in engineering This included giving English lessons to a group of students, companies by 2020, there are many opportunities for careers two of whom are now going to have a two-month internship in this sector.
Hays linked with the Institution of Civil Engineers in the UK.
Having never travelled outside of Spain to help 50 female schoolchildren from year nine to build a giant before, this support included advising tetrahedron and learn about life as an engineer.
on the working environment and cultural differences.
JOB OPPORTUNITIES PREDICTED IN ENGINEERING COMPANIES BY 2020 2.74m COLOMBIA POLAND Hays feels that education should Hays Poland took part in the New Energy be available to everyone and is key Forum Conference, organised by the to ensuring future employment.
Together with a foundation called Vision Mundial, Hays has The conference was aimed at young people who wished sponsored the education of a local girl, including tuition fees to develop a career in the energy industry.
In addition, and study books.
Hays has participated in lectures at the University of Gdansk discussing labour market requirements in the life-sciences field.
40|Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION THE ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH WE WORK Hays employs over 9,000 people and operates in 33 countries and therefore we are very aware of our local communities and responsibilities to our employees, our neighbours and the environment.
WE TRY TO MINIMISE IMPACT ON THE WE HAVE RIGOROUS PROCEDURES with our activities.
Our reporting year for GEOGRAPHIES IN WHICH WE WORK TO REVIEW OUR CARBON EMISSIONS GHG emissions is 1 April to 31 March and this Hays is a services-based business and In order to assess our carbon footprint, year our employee intensity per tonne CO e 2 therefore our impact on the environment is Hays gathers data from every office around was 1.98 against 2.22 last year.
However, our strategy is to do the world, including information on more each year to use fewer natural resources operational and vehicle use, electricity COMMUNITY SUPPORT and limit any impact on the geographical consumption, refrigerant, other Transport Our passion for people goes beyond areas in which we operate.
We want to: and Distribution T&D loss calculations recruitment to help support various local and business travel in order to calculate charities and causes that are important to our greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Reduce carbon dioxide emissions: our communities and to our employees.
We encourage our employees to take part Reduce waste: Our data is independently verified by in volunteering, fundraising activities and Carbon Smart who conduct the verification to donate funds to charities nominated at Reduce paper consumption: and engagement in accordance with country and local levels.
ISO 14064-3:2006 E specification with guidance for the validation and verification During 2015, among many activities, We recycle paper, have a Switch-it-Off of greenhouse gas assertions.
The Hays employees have supported the Movember campaign around the Group with particular global carbon footprint, including the process campaign to raise awareness of mens health focus on turning off office lighting, air for arriving at this carbon footprint, was issues, abseiled buildings to support young conditioning and IT equipment when not in prepared in accordance with the WRI people in crisis regain their health, raised use, and encourage teleconferencing to Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
money for cerebral palsy, run for breast reduce travel-related emissions.
cancer, organised Christmas toy giving WE MEASURE HOW WELL WE ARE DOING events, funded a kindergarten in Nepal and Hays in the UK has ISO 14001 We measure our annual emissions in raised money for the Brain Tumour Charity.
environmental management certification, relation to employees our intensity ratio.
which demonstrates our commitment to As a people-based business, number of environmental management.
employees is a quantifiable factor associated 2015 2014 Total GHGs % contribution Total GHGs % contribution 1 1 Impact Scope Resource tonnes CO e to total tonnes CO e to total 2 2 Direct Scope 1 Operational fuel 199 1 136 1 Vehicle fuel 4,201 24 4,962 28 Refrigerant 264 2 59 0 2 Indirect Scope 2 Electricity 6,546 37 5,937 33 District heating 370 2 263 1 Scope 3 Air travel 4,569 26 5,341 30 Rail travel 611 3 687 4 Electricity T&D losses 602 3 481 3 Private cars business use 377 2 0 0 Total direct and indirect 17,739 100 17,866 100 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are stated in tonnes of CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, comprising carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide for the 12-month 2 period ended 31 March 2015.
Out of scope Indirect emissions, which were the biogenic part of vehicle fuels, totalled 106 tonnes of CO e 38 tonnes in FY14.
2 2 All international electricity-related emissions were calculated based on a CO conversion factor.
CO e conversion factors are not currently available for 2 2 international electricity.
By order of the Board DOUG EVANS COMPANY SECRETARY 27 August 2015 Hays plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015|41
