HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Our approach to sustainability Our primary objective is to provide patients with high-quality, affordable medicines tailored to their needs.
We aim to do this in a sustainable way, working to ensure our products deliver the maximum benefit to patients, while managing the impact of our operations.
Our engagement process Through regular contact with our stakeholders, we are able to understand and cater for their needs, while improving how we operate our business.
Recognising our stakeholders How we engage We engage with our patients through marketing Patients and communications campaigns, focus groups The sustainability of our business relies on and multiple customer feedback channels which, meeting the needs of our patients, both along with our practitioner advocates, ensures now and in the future.
that we understand their personal and collective healthcare needs.
Our marketing and sales teams have close Practioners relationships with our practitioners, to understand Doctors and other medical practitioners are their own needs and those of their patients.
both a crucial route to market and, when supported, true advocates of Hikma.
At Hikma we have shared values and a People distinct ethos, developed for and by our people.
The lifeblood of our Group, its imperative We hold regular Company forums and internal that our people are motivated to drive communications campaigns to ensure we Hikma forward to achieve our continue this alignment.
Our investor relations and executive teams Shareholders hold monthly meetings with our shareholders We rely on the support and engagement of to explain Hikmas corporate story and future our shareholders, in order to deliver upon investment case.
We engage with our communities at all levels of Communities the business through volunteering and Group The success and wellbeing of the sponsored activities.
communities in which we are present, are vital to maintaining our business.
38 STRATEGIC REPORT Our focused approach We have prioritised the sustainability issues of greatest significance and relevance to our business and stakeholders.
This sustainability report focuses on these key areas, providing examples of initiatives we have undertaken across the Group.
Additional information can be found on our website.
Our focus areas Material issues Meeting healthcare needs Our patients are at the heart of Treating major health issues everything we do.
We are focused Delivering high-quality, affordable products on meeting patient needs and Enhancing doctor and patient awareness improving the quality of healthcare and education across our markets.
Promoting good business ethics Through stringent internal controls Transparency in corporate governance and a healthy ethical culture, we Ensuring an ethical approach runs across the Group ensure the future prosperity of our business and stakeholders.
Supporting our communities We have built strong local Delivering a local economic impact businesses, which sustainably Investing in healthcare markets support and contribute to the local Engaging our employees to give back communities in which we operate.
Enabling our people Investing in the development Training and development and wellbeing of our employees Promoting equal opportunities is key to building a successful and Ensuring health and safety sustainable business.
Minimising our environmental impact We aim to limit our environmental Reducing our energy and water consumption impact by closely monitoring, reporting Minimising waste on and improving our operations.
39 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Continued Meeting healthcare needs Our patients are at the heart of everything we do.
We ensure their Ensuring medicine supply In 2015, we successfully launched needs are met through supplying high-quality, affordable medicines.
Thiotepa in the US market: an This underpins our strategy on both a global and local scale.
Our injectables drug for the treatment of commitment to providing the right education to doctors and patients a variety of cancers whichhas been is enabling them to lead and promote a healthier lifestyle.
on the US FDA Drug Shortages list.
Our teams in the US and Europe have worked closely together to prioritise bringing back products that prevent and cope with hypertension.
Enhancing doctor and patient are inshort supply to patients in need.
Over 50 individuals from the local awareness and education community, including physicians In order to meet the healthcare Treating major health issues and employees, took part.
needs of today, we believewe must We focus on the major health first raise awareness and educate issues faced by our patients in our partners and patients in order Helping our employees quit smoking order to deliver maximum impact Wecollaborated with theKing to sustain their own wellbeing.
Hussein Cancer Center on funding a Smoking Cessation Programme Promoting healthier lifestyles Reaching our patients foremployees, resulting in a We care deeply about the health Hikma provides continuous support 75% success rate.
A pilot sample and wellbeing of our employees to its local communities through ofemployees interested in quitting and community members.
During in-kind donations with the help smoking was chosen.
Counselling the year, we sponsored activities of various aid organisations.
In sessions were held, and medications across the Group aimed at providing 2015, Promopharm, our business were prescribed in accordance with education on disease prevention in Morocco, donated a wide variety patients needs.
Depending on the and encouraging a healthy lifestyle of medications to African countries responsiveness of the patient, the through physical activity and to help fight the Ebola disease.
duration of therapy spanned three healthy nutrition.
Hikma donated anti-infectives and to eight months, and the treatment gastrointestinal medicines to Guinea, In Jordan, for example, we fees per patient varied from through the Moroccan Ministry organised a Ramadan Walk against $220-$1,200.
Hypertension: an event aimed at In Jordan, Hikma sponsored a total educating the public about the Delivering high-quality, of 20 medical days and provided dangers ofhavinghypertension affordable products free medications worth over andimportance of following a $47,190.
Hikma also donated Quality and pricing are not healthy lifestyle.
Free blood-pressure medications worth $93,000 to conflicting elements for Hikma and screenings were offered, along with nor should they be for our patients: Syrian and Palestinian refugee specialists insights on how to our strategy is to deliver both.
40 STRATEGIC REPORT Royal Health Awareness Society Health community clinic success story Samar is a 27-year-old female with type II diabetes.
In 2015, Samar heard about the Health Community Clinics project established by the Royal Health Awareness Society RHAS in collaboration with Hikma, and was keen to join their treatment programme.
At the time, her cumulative blood sugar level was 9.8 mmol L, potentially leadingto internal organ and eye damage.
Samar was unable to join the programme as she suffered from cerebral palsy and faced difficulties attending the sessions as well as being active.
The doctors at the clinic successfully reached out to her and through monitoring her progress by phone, managed to persuade her to start treatment including exercising and following an appropriate meal plan.
Samar was able to lose 10 kilograms and decreased her cumulative blood sugar level to a healthy 5.2 mmol L. She also participated in a shot put tournament held in Jordan in which she ranked second place.
41 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Continued Promoting good business ethics Through our partnership with the Practitioners entrust us with their reputation, patients with their health World Economic Forum WEF, Hikma and communities with their future.
This is the basis upon which we participated in the New Vision for have earned our licence to operate, and built our focus on long-term Arab Employment initiative.
Through stringent internal controls and a healthy as a WEF Regional Associate for the ethicalculture, we ensure the future prosperity of our business second consecutive year, Hikma was one of 2,500 business, government, and stakeholders.
academic and civil society leaders to convene this year to explore solutions for pressing international, regional Transparency in corporate Ensuring an ethical approach and industry issues.
governance runs across the Group Good business ethics begin in Whilst good business ethics begin the boardroom.
This is where the in the boardroom, they are brought benchmark for integrity and honesty to life through day-to-day behaviours is set, ensuringperformance of the of all of our people across the Group.
highest standard is delivered from We are also very active in the our leadership to our stakeholders.
Taking action in global welfare fight against corruption.
As a global Hikma is an active player in pharmaceutical leader, we have a Compliance, Responsibility and the international arena of global responsibility to be a role model in welfare and ethics.
We believe that Ethics Committee transparency.
As a founding member public-private and international Corporate Responsibility CR of the Partnering Against Corruption co-operation is key to ensuring the at Hikma is governed by the Initiative PACI, an off-shoot of the sustainable growth of worldwide Compliance, Responsibility WEF, Hikma renewed its commitment healthcare economies.
in 2015 for its zero tolerance of The Vice President of Corporate Hikma is committed to helping corruption across its operations.
By Communication is responsible for communities through providing committing to the PACI principles, we CR at an operational level.
The CR internships and jobs, especially join forces with other organisations Committee oversees Hikmas CR in the MENA where the youth worldwide to raise work standards activities and reports directly to the demographic 15 29 years and build a competitive, transparent, CREC.
Further details are available is estimated at around30%.
Our in the CREC report on pages commitment to business ethics is 96 to 101.
42 STRATEGIC REPORT reflected in our Code of Conduct, projects tailored to assist companies We consistently uphold these values which sets the tone at the top and improve their ethical conduct.
across our operations: performing ensures every employee abides by Hikma was actively involved in the with integrity, a drive for excellence, these ethical values, building an procurement work stream that aimed and a high standard of quality and internal culture of transparency and to promote ethical practices across respect towards our people, the accountability.
The PACI also dictates governmental and private sectors.
that we conduct our operations We continue tomaintain our In addition, by the end of the ethically with all of our stakeholders transparency and implement year, the B20 ACWG launched an and across our supply chain, requiring accountability measures across Anti-corruption Toolkit for Small and that our suppliers are also intolerant the Group.
Medium Sized Enterprises SMEs, to corruption.
designed for such establishments Our corporate strategy centres Hikma continues working to promote with limited time and resource, to around two themes wellbeing and responsible business through help manage one of the biggest education.
We have a Continuous collective action, co-operating with challenges companies face all over Education Scheme Programme other organisations and companies the world: corruption.
In 2015, the which offers employees the chance to take action towards improving B20 was hosted by Turkey and will to pursue a higher education, as well business environments.
Hikma joined move on to China in 2016, where as internal company programmes the B20 Business 20 Anti-corruption we plan to continue our involvement.
such as management rotation plans Working Group ACWG, which aimed to strengthen our employees operates under the umbrella of skills and enhance their exposure Preserving our Founders ethics the G20 international forum of to different parts of the business.
Since its establishment in 1978 by governments.
The ACWG focused Dr Samih Darwazah, Hikma has been ondifferent work streams related to built on strong ethical foundations.
UN Global Compact membership renewal by submitting annual communication on progress Hikma has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2007.
In 2015, we renewed our UNGC membership by submitting a Communication on Progress report COP.
Every year Hikma is required to demonstrate how it aligns its company operations with the ten principles of the UNGC across the key areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption.
This year we focused on demonstrating how Hikma globally supports its policies, procedures, actions and performance in line with the ten principles.
Throughout the COP, we clearly demonstrate our commitment to employees, patients, the community, the environment and global welfare.
Hikma will continue to actively support the UNGC and integrate its principles across the business.
43 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Continued Supporting our communities We cannot achieve our mission of improving peoples lives in a longImproving health through nutrition In 2015, Hikma continued to term, sustainable manner without the backing of our stakeholders.
implement initiatives to help In turn, we endeavour to earn this support wherever possible, eradicate hunger and provide food through focusing on making a difference in the communities.
and nutrition aid to those in need.
For example, Hikma employees Hikmas continuous participation Delivering a local economic impact in Jordan supported a nonin numeroussocial responsibility Our ongoing business success governmental organisation, Tkiyet activities has positioned us in a depends on the sustainable success Um Ali TUA, to alleviate hunger unique place among partners of the local communities within among underprivileged families.
Being a leading which we are embedded.
This is More than 40 employees joined company in this field has helped why we focus on enriching the local TUA in preparing food parcels, Hikma achieve its remarkable economies and creating sustainable distributing goodwill packages and success.
Our focus on educating value in our different locations.
serving meals to underprivileged the future generation ensures the families residing in Amman, Qastal development of the communities Fostering childrens growth and Salt.
Hikma Algeria organised a we exist in.
One of the several Hikma continuously contributes campaign in the month of Ramadan, initiativesHikma undertook in to the social development of the where food and monetary donations 2015 was a large donation of community, including helping were collected and given out to 30 school supplies, textbooks and children in need.
Through the help of woollen blankets to a number of renewed its partnership with SOS the authorities responsible for the underprivileged children in boarding Childrens Villages Jordan to sponsor region, Sidi Thabet in Tunisia, food schools in the North-West region of a home in Irbid, Jordan.
Hikma packages were also distributed Tunisia.
Similarly, Hikma Farmaceutica covered the expenses of the home, to underprivileged families.
in Portugal raised monetary which houses seven orphans and donations to provide school supplies During our annual summer social their SOS mother.
Hikma, through for the children of the Santa Casa responsibility event in Portugal, its various locations, has been Misericrdia organisation.
Hikma Farmaceutica successfully supporting the SOS Childrens raised the required amount of funds Villages worldwide by taking part needed to purchase an industrial Investing in healthcare markets in refurbishing and repainting homes fridge for the charity Santa Casa Our skills and expertise equip us to as well as accompanying the children Misericrdia.
The charity utilises this make a significant difference to the on various educational tours.
fridge for food conservation which healthcare markets which support is then distributed to over 2,400 the wellbeing of our communities.
people in our local community in the Sintra region.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT In the US, Hikmas West-Ward Hikma supported the fundraising Engaging our employees to Pharmaceuticals held a Valentine event of the United Nations World give back fundraiser for its employees.
The Food Programme WFP held in July Community support is part of our monetary donation enabled 12 boxes 2015.
Through this sponsorship, DNA, making it an area of focus and four bags of groceries to be we sought to aid needy families shared by Hikmas dedicated and delivered to the local food pantry in Jordans poverty pockets that diverse team of talented people.
at the Cherry Hill Food and Outreach were affected by the economic Throughout the year, our employees Council.
This was supplemented and Syrian crisis.
by our employees in Cherry Hill and Bedford volunteering at the local food pantry.
Hikmas volunteers plant trees at a public school that we adopted in Sweimeh, Jordan Enhancing the education and wellbeing of our communities is key to improving the quality of peoples lives.
One of the many successful projects in 2015 was volunteering to plant trees and renovating parts of the Sweimeh School for Girls.
Sweimeh is an extremely impoverished area in the South of Jordan.
Hikma supplied all of the materials needed for planting the trees and the renovation.
Hikma also donated tables, chairs and toys for the school.
Our volunteers painted the outside walls of the nurseries and planted 250 trees on the school grounds.
Hikma also refurbished parts of the school including hazardous areas that were considered dangerous for the students.
45 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Continued Enabling our people Without the knowledge, commitment and drive of our people, we would Developing our people As we continue to grow, we ensure not be the business we are today.
We begin by ensuring that they are that our most important resource, treated with the utmost respect and equality.
From here, we focus on our people, continues to advance training our people to constantly develop their skills and expertise.
In 2015, a total of a virtuous circle from which our organisation significantly benefits, 4,998 employees across the Group were placed in 765 different training putting empowered and evolved employees at the heart of our long-term programmes tailored to enhance business success.
We also ensure new employees are Ensuring health and safety Training and development properly integrated through tailorNowhere is our duty to At Hikma we empower our people made induction sessions conducted employees more prevalent than to develop the skills and expertise across all our sites.
This orientation in our responsibility for protecting required to achieve their professional programme covers the history of their health and safety.
We are confident in the Hikmapolicies and procedures, a stringent safety policy throughout knowledge that the investment employees benefits, employees every workspace we occupy, across in their training is an investment rights, confidentiality, conflicts of our operations, from R&D centres in our future.
interest, values, competencies, career to the sales offices.
As part of our ongoing efforts in the field of corporate responsibility, Hikma in Jordan partnered with Orient Spirit, a vocational training centre for people with disabilities and special needs such as Down Syndrome and autism.
The centre offers training programmes in academic skills, life skills, soft skills, locomotor skills, job coaching and counselling.
Students of both genders train in different fields such as embroidery, woodwork, mosaics and drama, providing a stronger sense of independence to help the students assimilate in society.
Through this partnership, Hikma has provided ten partial scholarships for the children of our employees who Cherry Hill, USA meet the criteria set out by the centre.
46 STRATEGIC REPORT Creative team building legal topics.
Further training sessions the unique contribution of each focused on antitrust investigations in person on our team.
Thats why we At Hikma, we continuously focus on the pharmaceutical industry and joint actively promote an environment developing our employees through ventures.
These activities enhanced in which opportunities are equally various formal and informal training media.
In 2015, Hikmas global legal the team members work abilities, available to everyone.
team of 19 employees attended a listening skills, creativity, as well as opening more channels amongst training workshop in London.
two-day workshop included a To find out more about series of talks and team building diversity across the Group, activitieswhich encompassed Promoting equal opportunities see page 92 numerous sessions by different Our business relies on a diverse mix speakers covering fundamental of skills and expertise that requires Women Empowerment and Motivation Programme Hikma has initiated motivational and empowerment sessions for women across its businesses, starting with Jordan.
This is in line with the 2015 objectives set for the Advancement of Women across the Hikma Group.
The aim of these monthly sessions is to further support the women at Hikma to achieve both their personal and professional goals and give them the needed guidance for career advancement.
In each session, a chosen Champion discussed her career path and how she managed to overcome different challenges faced in the corporate world.
Champions were from within Hikma and the local community.
The programme was held in Jordan, Portugal and the US with plans to expand to other sites.
The final session in 2015 honoured our women who have worked at Hikma for 20 years and above by the Companys CEO.
47 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Continued Minimising our environmental impact Sustainability at Hikma is about building a better business with a brighter tomorrow.
As a global pharmaceutical manufacturer, environmental issues are among our priorities.
Our holistic approach ranges from committing to minimising energy consumption to raising awareness of our most pressing ecological challenges.
This drives our commitment to both contributing to a cleaner world and building a more efficient operating model.
Minimising our environmental impact 2015 emissions by GHG source This section has been prepared in accordance with our regulatory obligation to report greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to Section 7 of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
During the 2015 financial year, Hikma Pharmaceuticals emitted 26,479 tCO e from the combustion of fuel Scope 1 direct and 2 83,520 tCO from electricity purchased for our own use Scope 2 2 indirect.
This is equal to 4.30 tCO e Scope 1 emissions per full time 2 equivalent FTE employee and 13.55 tCO Scope 2 emissions per 2 FTE employee respectively.
The table below shows our emissions performance for the years ended Purchased electricity 76% 31 December 2013, 2014 and 2015. for own consumption Category 2015 2014 2013 Natural gas 12% Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and 26,479 20,491 20,831 combustion operation of facilities tCO e 2 Diesel combustion 7% tCO e per FTE employee 4.30 3.69 3.70 2 Scope 2 Electricity purchased for 83,520 57,459 51,424 Refrigerants 2% our own use tCO 2 Vehicle emissions 2% tCO per FTE employee 13.55 10.35 9.14 2 Petrol combustion Emissions from the consumption of electricity are reported in tCO rather than tCO e 1% 2 2 since the UK Government emission factors for overseas electricity currently account for carbon dioxide emissions only.
LPG Propane 1% combustion The FTE employee figures used to calculate the reported intensity metric cover the sites for which emissions data was provided rather than the total FTE figure for the organisation as a whole.
48 STRATEGIC REPORT Sintra, Portugal facilities assets.
Joint ventures with availability of additional data, we Reducing our energy and less than 50% holding have been have decided to restate the 2014 water consumption excluded from our GHG disclosure emissions figures.
This allows us to Heavy resource consumption is a as it is considered that we do not make a more accurate performance burden on both our communities have operational control over these comparison between 2014 and our expenses.
In addition, and 2015. the environmental areas of most non-manufacturing facilities with vulnerability in our industry and fewer than 100 staff at the end of work effectively to minimise our Intensity ratio the reporting period are not included impact.
Our approach is driven by In order to express our reported within our emissions disclosure emissions in relation to a quantifiable staff education, emission analysis on the grounds of materiality.
factor that will act as a useful and transparent reporting.
comparator for performance analysis The GHG sources that constitute our over time, we have chosen to adopt Methodology operational boundary for the 2015 full time employee equivalent FTE We have quantified and reported reporting period are as follows: as our chosen metric as it is our organisational greenhouse gas Scope 1: Facility diesel combustion, considered that this factor both emissions according to the Defra facility natural gas combustion, influences our overall energy Environmental Reporting Guidelines facility LPG combustion, fugitive consumption and is reflective 2013 and have utilised the 2015 UK refrigerants from air-conditioning of business growth decline.
Government Conversion Factors equipment and vehicle for Company Reporting in order fuel combustion.
Performance to calculate emissions from corresponding activity data.
Between 2014 and 2015 we have Scope 2: Purchased electricity seen a 29% increase in Scope 1 consumption for our own use.
emissions and a 48% increase Reporting boundaries in Scope 2 emissions.
There are a We consolidate our organisational Assumptions, estimations number of reasons for this increase: boundary according to the and exclusions most significantly, we have expanded operational control approach and In some cases, missing information the scope of our reporting and for have adopted a materiality threshold has been estimated using data from the first time we have reported on of 10% for GHG reporting purposes.
the nearest reporting period as a emissions from AMC, Morocco, This approach includes all Hikma proxy.
Furthermore, due to the Sudan PharmaLand and Sudan subsidiaries and corresponding 49 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Sustainability Continued Savanna, which has resulted in a in everything they do.
According to Minimising waste 6% increase in Scope 1 emissions the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP Our response to resource reliance and 17% in Scope 2 emissions.
Global Climate Change Report 2015, is simple: we work to maximise If these sites are excluded from Hikma has scored 90 B in the rating efficiency and implement controls the year on year comparison of of healthcare sector responding and solutions to minimise waste.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Scope 1 companies, registering a significant Beyond this, we merge employee emissions, on a like-for-like basis, improvement during the reporting and community engagement have increased by 21% and Scope 2 year of 2014 compared to previous programmes to encourage the emissions have increased by 23% years.
In light of Hikmas efforts efforts of our stakeholders to since 2014.
Another important factor towards minimising its environmental spread positive environmental was that emissions from our site in impact and global carbon footprint, impacts beyond our initial reach.
Bedford, USA, went up significantly the Company has been actively in 2015 since this was the first full committed to reporting to the Recycling and reuse year of operation, which has resulted CDP, which expertly scrutinises For Earth Day this year, West-Ward, in a 7% increase in overall emissions a companys carbon emissions our business in the US, undertook in 2015. and provides analysis for better a number of activities that focused operational functions.
The company companies were scored against Investing in environmentally distributed Colorado blue spruce trees two parallel assessment schemes: friendly technology to all its employees.
By planting these performance and disclosure.
Behaving in a sustainable manner is trees, 57,600 lbs.
of carbon dioxide embedded in all the aspects of our could be reduced annually.
It also Engaging our people operations.
Hikma underwent an partnered with Terracycle and Recork, We consider our employees to be evaluation exercise regarding its cars two prominent recycling agencies, to our greatest, most valuable asset.
and replaced some of the biggest toxic set up specialised bins to collect pens, Since their knowledge, skills and gas emission engines with ten Hybrid highlighters, sharpies and corks.
teamwork are key to our success, cars.
The Hybrid System is a much Hikma in Jordan has partnered with we continuously strive to bring the more efficient system with minimum a recycling company called Al Ajyal, whole team together and engage energy expenditure operating to a certified company that works with with them on issues related to maximise fuel efficiency and minimise the Ministry of Health, for recycling health, workplace safety and CO emissions.
This resulted in 2 our paper and plastic waste in most supporting the environment.
reducing the cars emissions by of our Jordan locations.
One of the Through our annual You Are Hikma 50% and the fuel bill by 60%.
terms for this partnership includes campaign, we arranged several a social responsibility segment where activities aimed at raising health, Disclosing our carbon emissions Al Ajyal is responsible for providing safety and environmental awareness.
As a global manufacturer, we a certain number of corporate These included medical testing for are highly aware of our impact on responsibility activities per year, which the employees and a blood drive.
the environment, which is why we include environmental awareness Awareness lectures were also constantly seek methods to minimise sessions, sponsorships, free medical organised to educate our people waste, analyse carbon emissions, days, educational school trips for on the safe handling of mechanical promote the responsible usage of local schools, orphans and NGOs.
equipment, first aid administration, energy and electricity consumption, and recycling benefits.
Furthermore, In Bedford, a project was initiated and reduce demands for water we participated in the Clean Up where large donations of computer consumption.
As part of our the World campaign, which was equipment including desktops, adherence to sustainability, we held in Dibeen Forest in Jordan.
laptops, printers and monitors were report climate change data to the Our employees and their families given to the Bedford City Schools.
This CDP so as to increase transparency participated in cleaning tasks geared amounted to over 20 pallets 10,000 to our stakeholders and manage towards raising public awareness on lbs of electronics reused and recycled both risks and opportunities arising the importance of preserving natural back to the community.
This puts our from climate change.
We are also parks and refraining from littering.
Bedford site recycling rate at over keen on educating our staff and 35%, which indicates the percentage raising their awareness about the of waste that this site recycles.
effects they have on the environment 50 STRATEGIC REPORT Total emissions and segmental reporting Scope 1 Scope 2 Total emissions Total emissions 26,479 tC0 e 83,520 tC0 2 2 2014: 20,491 tC0 e 2014: 57,459 tC0 2 2 Scope 1 tC0 e Scope 2 tC0 2 2 Europe 4,399 USA 9,667 MENA 12,413 Europe 5,908 USA 22,903 MENA 54,709 Emissions by location Scope 1 tCO e Scope 2 tCO 2 2 51 Algeria DAA Algeria HPA Jordan AMC Jordan APM USA Bedford USA Cherry Hill USA Eatontown Egypt Italy Saudi Arabia JPI USA Memphis Morocco Promapharm Portugal Sudan PharmaLand Sudan Savanna Germany Thymoorgan Tunisia IAB Pharma Tunisia Medicef 1,301 5.536 1,708 1,046 225 3,505 1,414 5,205 1,215 5,639 6,345 11,680 1,992 4,388 1,303 3,149 1,012 1,309 1,598 11,180 115 1,195 730 9,982 3,026 3,728 683 857 0 49 360 872 50 1,085 670 1,749
