HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Letter from the Chair Commitment to integrity and human dignity Samih Darwazah fundamentally wanted to make the world a better place through the advancement of people.
The CREC has a long established relationship with Dear Shareholder the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee, I am pleased to report that the Compliance, which oversees the Companys work on charitable Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC has and humanitarian issues, environmental initiatives, continued to drive the Companys commitment to community involvement and societal development.
business integrity and human dignity and that Hikmas We take significant pride in putting back into the people remain steadfast in their adherence to those communities in which we operate and building on ideals.
We are delivering on the vision of the late Samih Samihs commitment to the advancement of people.
Darwazah, the founder of Hikma, who fundamentally The programmecontinues to perform excellently and wanted to make the world a better place through the we are very proud of our achievements in this regard.
The CREC fully supports the initiativesto preventhuman Corruption is a worldwide issue that negatively impacts trafficking and anti-slavery, acts which are an antithesis many for the benefit of a few.
It is extremelyimportant to our desire to promote the advancement of people to the Committee and the Company that we take the and respect for human dignity.
Over the course of the necessary steps to prevent corruption in our business next year the CREC will be focusing on furthering the and curtail it in the societies in which we operate.
human dignityprogramme both in and outside Hikma.
In support of this objective, I am pleased to report that the Anti-Bribery and anti-Corruption ABC As an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and compliance programme has gone from strength to open communication.
I remain open to discussion with strength.
Waleed Hamam, our Chief Compliance Officer, shareholders should there be any concerns that they has quickly settled into the role, taken the reigns and wish to raise directly.
The CREC has been particularly impressed with thecompliance departments involvement in international ABC initiatives and significant progress made in implementing ABC policies, which was evidenced by an independent re-assessment of Ronald Goode our ABC programme.
Chair of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee 96 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015 Overview 2015 Highlights Membership and attendance Enhanced our UN Global Compact commitment The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee through participation in theiranti-corruption CREC consists of six members.
Five are Independent programme Non-Executive Directors: Ronald Goode Committee Chair, Breffni Byrne, Pat Butler, Dr Pamela Kirby and Continued to promotebusiness integrity John Castellani.
The sixth member is the Executive internationally through the Partnering Against Vice Chairman, Mazen Darwazah.
The CREC met Corruption Initiative five times during the year, and full attendance was Completed and tested theimplementation of achieved.
As the CREC is not a committee mandated ABC procedures in all MENA countries by the Code, its membership is not subject to Undertook an independent re-assessment of published requirements.
However, Hikma believes that ABC risk and verified procedural implementation the requisite challenge to operational effectiveness is achieved by having an Independent Non-Executive Further increased ABC resource and enhanced Director membership majority.
The Chairmanship of the departmental structure the CREC is held by an Independent Non-Executive Completed ABC, Code of Conduct and legal Director, Ronald Goode, and the Chair of the Audit and regulatory environment training for the Committee is a standing member.
Within the entire US sales team Company, the Executive Vice Chairman champions Initiated a human dignity programme Hikmas anti-bribery and corruption ABC, corporate Continued support for the CR programme responsibility CR and human dignityprogrammes.
Member Meeting Calendar of events Members since Attended Potential attendance Ronald Goode Chair 1 Nov 2010 5 5 100% Q1 Q2 Breffni Byrne 1 Nov 2010 5 5 100% Pat Butler 1 Apr 2014 5 5 100% ABC & CR update Instructed risk Dr Pamela Kirby 1 Dec 2014 5 5 100% re-assessment Shareholder report Mazen Darwazah 1 Nov 2010 5 5 100% ABC update John Castellani 1 Mar 2016 Total meetings 5 100% Q3 Q4 Allocation of time ABC risk reRe-assessment report assessment progress Human dignity review ABC & CR update ABC Operations 40% Risk Assessment 31% Advisers CR 19% Internal External Corporate 10% Chief Compliance Officer Good Corporation governance VP for Corporate E&Y Communication Company Secretary General Counsel 97 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Continued Responsibilities The CREC sets the overall strategy for the Groups Board response to bribery and corruption risks and is responsible for approving the contents of all of CREC Hikmas policies in areas where ethical judgements are important.
The CREC oversees the Groups ABC compliance programme, policies on ethics and business Chief Compliance Officer conduct and the development of the Code of Conduct the Code.
The CREC also oversees Hikmas speak-up Branded Injectables US & Generics Group Division Division Division Compliance process for employees to raise ethical concerns, and, Champion Champion Champion Officer where relevant, oversees their investigation.
The CREC Divisional Divisional Divisional Group reviews and monitors policy in the area of CR at Board Officers Officers Officers Officers level.
The CRECs terms of reference are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis, are published on the Hikma website and are available for inspection Strategy and resources at the registered office at 13 Hanover Square, London, During the year, the compliance department continued W1S 1HW or by contacting cosec@hikma.
to implement themedium-term global strategy for the delivery of the commitment to business integrity and Anti-Bribery and anti-Corruption ABC ABC which was approved in 2014.
Hikma has a framework that sets out the structure of leadership, Top level commitment, from the beginning delegated authority and ownership for the ABC Since its foundation Hikma has and continues to compliance programme.
Operational responsibility be committed to the highest standards of integrity and oversight for ABC is assigned by the Board to and ethics in the conduct of its business.
Hikma the Executive Vice Chairman, who then delegates has communicated its zero tolerance of bribery and responsibility to his management team.
The Chief corruption to its employees and made sure that they Compliance Officer CCO reports directly to the CREC are aware that Hikma will not penalise any individual on ABC matters.
The CCOs leadership of ABC issues for complying with the principles enshrined in the is overseen by the CREC Chair and the Executive Vice Code or in the ABC policies, even at the cost of forgoing Chairman.
The head of each business division has a business opportunity, losing revenue or profit or taken responsibility to be the compliance champion disobeying a superiors instructions.
Hikma disciplines for their division: staff for any ethical breaches of its standards of integrity.
Mazen Darwazah Branded Hikma is a founding member of the World Riad Mechlaoui Injectables Economic Forums Partnering Against Corruption Initiative PACI, the leading business driven global Michael Raya US and Generics anti-corruption initiative which wasformed in 2004 The CCO is supported by Group and regional compliance by a group of Chief Executives from different industries.
officers at the operational level.
The legal, financial and PACI is one of the Forums strongest cross-industry company secretarial departments also advise and provide collaborative efforts and is creating a highly visible, implementation support to the compliance department.
agenda-setting platform by working with business During 2015, the compliance department continued to leaders, international organisations and governments expand regional resource.
to address corruption, transparency and emergingmarket risks.
Under the leadership of PACI Vanguard Chief Executives, the community is expanding rapidly and now focuses on implementing a global anticorruption agenda.
98 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Case study ABC risk re-assessment As the CREC started its fifth year, it wanted to assess progress with the prime driver for the founding of the Committee, Anti-Bribery and anti-Corruption ABC.
This is the story... and supporting information:meetings with the Rationale entire senior management team and all functional The CREC started a formal ABC compliance areas: anda random sample of employees, third programme from the ground upwards in 2010. parties and suppliers.
Three Good Corporation Since then, the Committee has instructed a full personnel made a four day assessment of each assessment of ABC risk, created thepolicies site.
At the conclusion of each assessment a and procedures and compliance department and presentation was made tothe senior team, promoted the Companys founding commitment Chief Compliance Officer and regional officer, to business integrity.
The Committee wanted to highlighting the areas where significant progress measure the progress made and consider where had been made and establishing a road map for to go next on its journey.
During the process the Chairman of the CREC received regular updates both from Independence the Company Secretary and Good Corporation.
The CREC requested that the Company Secretary lead the re-assessment exercise.
Additionally, the Results Committee appointed Good Corporation because At the conclusion of the Jordan, Egypt and of their commitment to eradicating corruption, KSA assessments, Good Corporation moderated high standards of integrityand to ensure that the results across each site in order to ensure there was an accurate measure of progress by consistency of measurement.
Good Corporation using the same supplier.
Good Corporation presented a composite analysis to the Committee reported to the Company Secretary on an Chairman and compliance function over a one operational basis and directly to the CREC day session.
The overall results were presented to for reporting.
the CREC and demonstrated that: Considerable progress has been made in establishing and Site selection embedding anti-bribery and corruption safeguards The CREC reviewed the previous assessment since Good Corporations previous assessment results and considered the relative size and risk in 2011. of each major site in order to ascertain where to focus the attention of the exercise.
The conclusion Next steps from this process was that the assessment should The compliance department are integrating the include the Companys corporate centre and results of the exercise and areas for improvement facilities in Jordan, operations in Egypt and the into their medium-term strategy, which will be Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA and the entire presented to the CREC during 2016.
significant increase in scale and complexity of the USbusiness following theRoxane acquisition Process that closed in the first quarter of 2016, the CREC The regional compliance officer for each site considered it would be appropriate to undertake wasresponsible for delivering the requirements of the US assessment following closing.
Good Corporation in terms of:procedures, reports 99 HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee reports: Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Continued Policies and procedures Human dignity Hikma undertook a full ABCrisk assessment during The Board of Hikma has resolved that it will not accept 2011, which led to the development of a full set of ABC anyinvolvement of its people, suppliers or business policies during 2012.
During 2013, these policies were partners in any practices that constitutea breach of fully reviewed and developed by external advisers and , including human trafficking, internal management.
The final policies were approved child labour and slavery.
Hikma was founded on the by the CREC in late 2013.
During 2014, the compliance principle of promoting the advancement of people strategy established the plan for the implementation and has been a member of the UN Global Compact of those policies and work commenced on local since 2007.
The Compact embraces, supports and enacts implementation in the MENA, EU and US.
The CREC is universally accepted principles in the areas of human pleased to confirm that last years target was met, and rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
the implementation of the ABC policies was substantially Over the course of 2016 the CREC will be overseeing complete by the end of 2015. the development of Hikmas initiatives which support this commitment.
Training Hikmas policies have been developed in conjunction with its ongoing focus on education and dissemination of ABC compliance information across the business.
Hikmas employee induction programmes ensure that each new employee can clearly understand the Groups ethical expectations.
In addition, increasing awareness has been built within the business for the processes and issues of ABC compliance, with awareness sessions given to functional and geographical teams across the Group.
Responsibility and ethics Speak-up Hikma has an open-door policy regarding communication Code of Conduct so that it can hear from those who have any questions or The CREC is responsible for the Group Code of concerns about the ethics and integrity of the business.
Conduct, which is reviewed and compared to Where employees believe that it is not possible or comparable international companies regularly.
The Code appropriate to report to line management, they may has been translated into the major functional languages make reports confidentially to any senior manager of Hikma: Arabic, English, French, German, Portuguese, within the business.
Additionally, Hikma has anonymous Italian and Russian.
Each year all Hikma employees are web and telephone reporting lines in place across all required to confirm that they have read the Code, have operations, which report directly to the compliance understood it and will abide by its terms.
The training department and the CREC.
As part of their commitment plan for the Code includes face-to-face training for top to the Code, employees understand that they have a managers, and training and discussion sessions at duty to report any suspected violations.
The Company department level for employees and lower management.
remains satisfied that the policy and procedures enable The Code is available on our website: www.
com proportionate and independent investigation of matters en  code-of-conduct.
raised including non-compliance and that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
100 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate responsibility The Executive Vice Chairman is the champion of Hikmas CR programme within the Company and is Chairman of Hikmas CR Committee.
The VP of Corporate Communication is responsible for CR at an operational level.
The CR Committee reviews, supports and promotes Hikmas CR activities and reports directly to the VP of Corporate Communication.
The CR team, led by the VP of Corporate Communication, regularly presents developments to the CREC which, during the year under review, included: Achieving ISO 50001 certification for environmental practices and energy management Fully implementing our GHG Greenhouse Gas emissions disclosure Completing phase two of roll out of sustainability software Successfully passing third party inspection of our CDP Carbon Disclosure Project Benchmarking Hikmas CR activities against those of comparable companies Further details are available in the Sustainability report on pages 38to 51.
For and on behalf of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee Ronald Goode CREC Chair 15 March 2016 101
