Corporate responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility We are committed to developing and implementing a successful corporate responsibility These corporate responsibility principles are part of the way we operate on a daily basis and programme that benefits key stakeholders and utilises our core skills to make a sustainable reflect in the way we deal with customers, employees, partners and the community.
difference to the communities we operate in.
We believe that a successful business must also be a responsible business.
Customers We continue to reinforce a customer-focused culture in all of our businesses.
Customer Charters, We aim to: or Promises, are now in place in each territory which outline our commitment to our customers: Achieve sustainable profits for our shareholders well make things easy for customers and treat customers fairly, every step of the way.
The charters Build enduring relationships with key stakeholders, including our customers, partners and have been committed to by all of our colleagues, from the management teams to those on the the community front line.
Value our employees Respect the environment We undertake ongoing customer satisfaction surveys and actively monitor customer satisfaction, Use our core skills to give something back to our local communities.
net promoter scores and customer effort.
Customer satisfaction has increased in all of our businesses during the year.
Our corporate responsibility objectives support our vision and values, with our key focus being on the following four areas: Employees Our values and behavioural characteristics continue to underpin our focus on delivering 1.
Customers consistently good customer service and are embedded in our recruitment, selection, development Implement and maintain ethical, sustainable and responsible principles throughout the and reward arrangements across the Group.
Our effective use of our behavioural characteristics supply chain ensured that individuals hired or promoted possess the right attitude and core behaviours, as well Ensure that the customer remains at the heart of everything we do as the necessary commercial and technical skills.
We continue to review both performance and Treat customers fairly throughout the customer experience.
potential against these characteristics as a key part of our annual performance management, career development and succession planning processes.
Employees Embed customer-focused values and behaviours During the year, People Charters have been developed and rolled-out in the UK and the USA, Hire, develop and retain talented people to ensure that our customers enjoy a and the values espoused in them will be adopted as an integral part of our recruitment, selection consistently good experience and development programmes.
These complement our Customer Charters, or Promises, whose Provide a safe, healthy and inclusive environment for our people.
roll-out was completed during the year, and seek to further align our employees interests to the delivery of excellent customer service.
Community Use our core skills to give something back to the community We have also implemented enhancements to our talent assessment and succession planning Support more vulnerable members of the community by helping them in their homes processes, adopting the nine-box matrix model, which has helped us better to identify leadership Develop partnerships with charitable and other organisations which are closely aligned development opportunities for our employees.
Using this information, we have been able to to our business activities and therefore maximise our contribution develop co-ordinated talent and leadership programmes across the business, from front-line Support and encourage employee involvement in charitable giving and volunteering, developing leaders to senior executives.
using relevant employee skills to support the community.
We attach considerable importance to ensuring that all our employees benefit from effective 4.
Environment communications and engagement, using regular business updates, senior management Reduce our carbon emissions per employee briefing sessions and surgeries, question and answer opportunities and constructive Use resources efficiently relationships with employee representatives across the Group.
We also encourage our Support and educate customers and employees to reduce emissions, specifically in management teams to hold regular informal update meetings and social events to keep our their homes.
38 | HomeServe HomeServe | 39 Corporate responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility A Group-wide employee engagement survey is run each year, with results reported to the Board The UK business has also further extended its local community reach, engaging with Customers, and action plans devised, implemented and tracked locally.
During the year, we also initiated the charity initiatives and stakeholders, directly in Walsall where the head office is based.
This work roll-out of interim Pulse surveys in some of our businesses in order to better track the progress of has included leveraging the UKs sponsorship of Walsall FC through an innovative community our employee engagement initiatives.
Results from the most recent survey show that engagement campaign to support the clubs success in reaching the final of the Johnstones Paint Trophy.
levels in each of our businesses are higher than the country average but we aim for continuous improvement.
Employees are actively involved in the creation and delivery of plans, and best Employees also donated their time and skills into the refurbishment of the Walsall FC Community practice for the promotion of employee engagement is shared across the Group.
Room in March 2015 after the UK business donated 15,000 for its renovation.
Used by local schools and community groups, the refurbishment included installing new radiators, replacing and It is our policy that all people be considered for employment, training, career development and refitting the kitchen and decorating the room.
HomeServe freed a team of 30 employees to help, promotion on the basis of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless of physical ability, age, gender, as well as providing tools and equipment.
sexual orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
Other community initiatives supported by the UK business include the donation of a HomeServe We apply employment policies that are fair and equitable for all employees and these ensure van to local charity, the Midland Langar Seva Society.
This is used to distribute food donations to that entry into, and progression within, the Group are determined solely by the fair application of those who really need it in the Midlands region.
relevant job criteria and by personal ability and competence.
We actively promote the international transfer of our employees where this is likely to assist the development of both the employee and In March 2015, the UK business once again supported the Red Nose Day appeal for the 11th year, the business, and our senior HR managers meet regularly to share best practice and identify by taking calls in our Walsall call centre with hundreds of volunteers answering over 3,500 calls opportunities to develop our employees careers.
while the live show was broadcast by the BBC.
Full and fair consideration having regard to the persons particular aptitudes and abilities is given In the US, we have continued to work with Habitat for Humanity, which seeks to eliminate poverty to applications for employment and the career development of disabled persons.
Our training and housing and homelessness by building houses in partnership with families in need.
In addition, development policies also make it clear that we will take all practicable steps to ensure that if an employees have raised $18,000 for the American Cancer Society and supported a number of local employee becomes disabled during the time they are employed, their employment can continue.
Charity In France and Spain, the focus has been on supporting local charities both by fundraising and The UK business has partnered with Marie Curie as its national charity since 2010.
Activities have included decorating, electrical repairs and toy and food collections.
teams across the UK have been highly engaged with the partnership, with fundraising and volunteering activities leading to a milestone achievement in August 2014 when donations Our programme to help disadvantaged homeowners who are faced with a home emergency has reached over 1.5 million.
The programme was inspired by an initiative introduced in the USA and has now been established in the UK, France, Spain and Italy.
A special celebration of this achievement was held in September 2014 with an event at local football club, Walsall FC, which the UK business sponsors.
It involved fans donating via bucket The programme leverages our existing service infrastructure and financial resources to help collections, text messages and a charity auction for unique signed football shirts in Marie Curies homeowners in need.
It is managed locally and is used in a number of different ways to help signature yellow, which helped raise almost 2,000. homeowners in need.
Examples include low income households facing an emergency situation but who do not have a policy and existing policyholders whose policy might not cover the work Other Marie Curie fundraising events have included a team of employees participating in required.
Swimathon, the worlds biggest annual fundraising swim and also as part of ITVs Text Santa annual Christmas appeal raising money for six UK charities which included Marie Curie.
Around 15,000 was raised by the two events.
40 | HomeServe HomeServe | 41 Corporate responsibility Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility Environment, Health & Safety Environmental improvements have also been evident in the UK, with the 700 person call centre, We continue to drive health and safety improvements across all of our businesses.
We require restaurant and reception meeting room suite in Walsall converting to LED lighting.
In the UK compliance to ten guiding principles for occupational health and safety and another ten for our carbon reduction commitment continues to be so strong that we leave the UK Government environmental management.
The launch of SHARP the Safety and Health Assessment and monitoring scheme at the end of phase one in 2015. Review Programme this year has increased the level of assurance in respect of H&S performance and facilitated cross-business learning and programme sharing.
Each business generated an Our French business Domo has been at the forefront of the Groups psychological risk improvement plan for all our people, contractors and the communities in which we operate.
We assessment and intervention for stress risk reduction in its two call centres.
Our Italian business continue to strive for zero work related illness and injury.
Assistenza Casa, being safety incident free for another consecutive year, conducted a gap analysis of their environmental management against the ISO14001 specification.
Each business has reviewed its Occupational Safety and Health Management System and these have been subject to third party review within Europe and intra-business review between the USA There have been no prosecutions or other enforcement actions taken in respect of our businesses and the UK.
The aim of this activity is both to permit intra-company safety benchmarking and to by any of the national health and safety or environmental regulators.
prepare for the new ISO45001 specification due in 2016.
The formal disclosure in respect of our carbon footprint is included in the Directors Report.
We Corporate leadership of health and safety is strong with Johnathan Ford, Group Chief Financial have had our global direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions externally audited, using Defra Officer, as Board Champion for environmental, health and safety matters.
The HR Director in each emission factors.
It should be noted that fugitive emissions from office air-conditioning are not business is the respective business champion.
For the sixth year running, the UK business was included.
This makes up a very small proportion of our data but work is underway to include this in delighted to receive a Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Occupational Safety Award: future reporting.
testimony to our continued success in driving down safety risk.
2 Physical risk continues to be well controlled with a UK Accident Frequency Rate of 0.3.
HomeServe USA has embedded a personal carbon monoxide monitoring programme for all service technicians, who now wear personal detection and alarm equipment on every service call.
The health and safety relationship with the union is strong and together they are continuing to see incident reduction.
There has been a focus on occupational road risk, principally in the Tri-State area and in Massachusetts: the company promotes the States environmental improvement programme MassSave encouraging house insulation and energy assessment.
42 | HomeServe HomeServe | 43 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 44 | HomeServe HomeServe | 45
