Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate social responsibility OUR APPROACH TO DOING BUSINESS 23 A typical Howdens depot employs about a dozen people and brings economic and social benefits to many times that number.
Each depot runs an average of around 500 customer accounts, so it directly supports the activity of 500 local small businesses.
They depend on Howdens not only for products but also for trade terms, margin opportunity and business planning tools.
The depots and their customers, together with Howdens manufacturing and distribution sites, also generate employment for other local tradespeople and service providers, including plumbers, electricians, drivers, stationery suppliers, caterers, cleaners and childminders.
The builders reputation, as well as his livelihood, depends on Howdens.
Our product looks good, is easy to fit, does not break and meets constantly evolving standards.
Kitchen users expect us to source raw materials in a way that is sustainable, to treat our environment with care and to make sure our appliances are not only safe but energy-efficient.
As a trade business with local accounts, Howdens employees see the same customers, day in, day out.
Those customers expect to see familiar faces in their depot too.
At Howdens, the job is to try to solve problems for others whether small builders, kitchen users, suppliers, staff, neighbours or young people seeking skills, apprenticeships and training opportunities.
In short, an enormous number of people have come to rely on Howdens in a huge variety of ways.
Each of these people has a local and personal relationship with Howdens, not a corporate one.
That means a lot, especially in uncertain times.
They trust Howdens not to let them down.
Howdens is committed to repaying their trust with demonstrable good service, fair dealing and opportunities for all involved.
Because real success, for Howdens, is about growing a great business that can create wealth, as well as profit.
Worthwhile for all concerned Corporate social responsibility continued RAW MATERIALS AND BOUGHT-IN PRODUCT 24 We employ processes for continuous monitoring, regular Overview assessment and audit to ensure that suppliers share our In this section we discuss the importance of the quality, own business values and ethics.
environmental, Health & Safety and ethical standards of our suppliers, as well as our work to reduce the energy and water Responsible use of timber consumption of our own-brand appliances.
Over 75% of the products we supply to the builder are timber or timber-based products.
It is our responsibility to make Approximately one-third of the costs of goods sold by Howdens sure that the timber used has come from legally harvested is accounted for by products we manufacture ourselves and sustainable sources, whether in the raw materials used within our two UK factories.
These are items such as kitchen in our manufacturing processes or contained within our cabinets, worktops and skirting boards.
thirds are the products which are bought in from our national and international supply base.
These products include items The introduction of the European Timber Regulations in 2013 such as internal and external joinery doors, hardware, cabinet has raised the profile of the global issue of illegal logging doors, sinks and taps, flooring, lighting and, of course, a wide and deforestation and provided the industry with very clear range of kitchen appliances.
guidelines for due diligence during the procurement process.
We constantly review our due diligence system in line with Our suppliers evolving standards and stakeholder expectations.
Howdens We work closely with our suppliers to ensure that not only has been approved by the Timber Trade Federation as having do they meet our specifications in terms of quality, volume, an environmental due diligence system in place which is availability and cost but also that the manner in which they equivalent to their Responsible Purchasing Policy.
operate and produce these goods is ethical and sustainable.
We strive to source our timber-based products from either It is important to Howdens that our suppliers respect their FSC the UK Forestry Stewardship Council or PEFC employees health, safety and welfare in terms of working Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification conditions and rights.
We also expect them to care for the certified sources.
All of the kitchen ranges which are environment by sourcing and using their raw materials manufactured in our own factories are FSC certified.
in a responsible manner and encourage them to look for This is in line with our rolling KPI: opportunities to improve the safety and energy efficiency of the products or materials that they provide to us.
To ensure that 100% of the wood-based material used in our manufacturing processes comes from FSC We have built strong relationships with our suppliers, which certified sources.
creates an environment conducive to positive change.
We work closely with them to identify improvement opportunities within their operation which will bring benefits to all concerned, for example in operational efficiencies, waste reduction and quality improvements.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 25 In 2015, we used 220,000 cubic metres of chipboard and energy efficiency, the dishwasher also offered customers 30,000 cubic metres of MDF in our manufacturing process.
a reduction in water consumption of 25% compared to our As has been the case since 2006, all of this material came previous best performer.
All of our manufactured products hold the FSC chain of custody certification.
We also made improvements to our extractors in 2015 in line with evolving eco-design legislation, and we are undertaking We aim to source our bought-in products to the same a number of projects through 2016 and 2017 that will deliver standard.
One of the metrics we use to monitor our progress further improvements in the energy efficiency performance of in this area is the percentage of kitchen ranges which we this range.
can market as being collectively FSC compliant.
A typical kitchen range will consist of a combination of items which We continue to introduce new, more energy-efficient products we have manufactured ourselves and other items which we in our own-brand Lamona range.
For instance, in 2014 we have bought in.
We only market a range as FSC compliant if introduced a pyrolytic, self-cleaning oven with increased all individual product parts in that range are certified.
At the insulation that makes it more efficient in operation.
Pyrolytic end of 2015, 72% of our kitchen ranges met this standard ovens also remove the need to use chemicals to clean the compared to 68% in 2014 and 64% in 2013. oven.
We have continued with development work in 2015 to further increase the efficiency of this product, and we expect to introduce the first A rated model in our cooking range in 2016.
Eco-Design within our appliances As part of our ongoing programme of energy and water use reduction, we introduced a KPI in 2013 in relation to our Road to rail transport initiative bestselling cooling products: During 2015 we have taken a proactive approach to reducing our carbon footprint on the majority of our freight routes from To reduce the energy consumption on our bestselling Europe.
Prior to 2015, the majority of our European freight Lamona fridge freezers by 5% over the three years 2014 was transported by road and delivered directly to us by our 2016 on a kWh basis.
In 2015 we took control of the freight from these suppliers and transferred a substantial proportion of the We have made a cumulative reduction of 2% since 2013, freight to rail transport.
and we continue to work towards achieving this KPI by the end of 2016.
In 2015 we devoted significant effort to the introduction of other branded appliances into our product portfolio.
This included the introduction of three products with an A energy efficiency rating: a fridge freezer, an integrated washing machine, and a dishwasher.
In addition to the increased Corporate social responsibility continued MANUFACTURING AND LOGISTICS OPERATIONS 26 2008.
Extraction, lighting and compressed air optimisation Overview have been the largest contributors to this energy reduction Our manufacturing and logistics operations account for but we have also gained benefits from soft controls such as approximately two thirds of total Group CO emissions.
2 reporting leaks, energy awareness training, and the initiatives Our main areas of focus are operating in a responsible of our Energy Action Team who have been instrumental in manner, managing our energy usage, managing waste workforce engagement and behavioural improvements.
Given and packaging and the health, safety, and development the progress made over the last few years, our target for 2016 of our 1,350 employees.
is to at least maintain the consumption per cabinet level achieved in 2015.
In 2015, our factories manufactured approximately 4.1 million cabinets, 0.9 million worktops and breakfast bars, Waste 1.4 million frontals and 2.3 million painted skirting boards.
Our employees are encouraged to consider how we can Within our logistics operation, our truck fleet made over improve our environmental performance in all areas by 90,000 deliveries to our depots, equating to approximately reducing consumption, reusing materials and recycling 14.5 million road miles.
This ethos is at the centre of our culture, and links to our strategic objective of lowest-cost supply.
Responsible operations All of our manufacturing, warehousing and transport activities We have a rolling KPI for waste, which is: are certified to the ISO 14001 standard for Environmental Management.
This not only gives us some assurance that we To reuse or recycle more than 95% of all manufacturing have good environmental management processes in place, but waste produced.
it also supports our drive for continuous improvement in areas such as sustainable energy, waste and material management.
In 2015, we reused or recycled 98% of our manufacturing waste 2014: 97%.
This includes the factory sawdust waste Energy usage which was burnt in our biomass heating system and which is One of our key metrics for energy usage in the factories is discussed below.
the electricity we consume per cabinet produced kWh per cabinet.
We started measuring this in 2008 and we are We continue with the initiative started in 2007 to recover and pleased that this figure has significantly decreased during this repair pallets which would otherwise have been scrapped.
During 2015, we continued to make improvements in our Last year we recovered or repaired 136,000 pallets, which energy management through the efforts of our employees and is slightly fewer than the 2014 figure of 143,000.
However, the application of new technology.
Our achievements in 2015 this is because we have begun to introduce the use of a more resulted in the usage dropping from 2.49kWh per cabinet in robust design of pallet, which lasts longer and requires less 2014 to 2.41kWh per cabinet in 2015, a 3% reduction from repair work.
the previous year and a 33% reduction since our baseline year, Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 27 Biomass Factory Heating System Truck fleet In 2014, we invested 5m and replaced ageing boilers at During 2015, despite handling an 11% increase in product our Howden factory with state of the art biomass boiler volume delivered, we kept the increase in number of miles and heating systems, which are fully compliant with the UK driven by our trucks to 9%.
Our programme to replace the Governments Renewable Heat Incentive scheme.
The system existing tractor fleet was completed in January 2015, and utilises the waste sawdust produced from our manufacturing all our core fleet is now Euro 6 compliant.
We have also processes on site and therefore has a positive effect on begun trialling the use of tall boy taller trailers for cabinet our waste management activities whilst also reducing CO distribution from our Runcorn factory, resulting in an annual 2 emissions and saving us the cost of the equivalent bought-in reduction in trailer loads equivalent to 784 standard trailers.
In 2015, we converted over 12,000 tonnes of sawdust into energy at our Howden and Runcorn sites which equates to Responsible behaviour, in terms of both fuel usage and safety, approximately 34,000 MWh of energy generated from sawdust is a main area of focus for our truck fleet.
We make use of during the year, enough energy to provide heat and hot water advanced in-cab telemetry to measure and benchmark driver for around 1,900 average households for a year.
We debrief our drivers at regular intervals, and work with any drivers who are not driving to the highest Packaging efficiency and safety benchmarks in order to improve their Our challenge with packaging the products that we performance.
This has delivered a 6% improvement in mpg in manufacture ourselves is to select environmentally appropriate 2015 compared to last year.
packaging, to reduce the amount of packaging used, wherever possible, and at the same time to protect our products so that Where possible our trucks try to avoid returning to base empty, they reach our customers undamaged and in line with the and so we will contract to carry loads for other companies premise of no-call-back quality which is central to our mission.
where this suits our schedule.
In this way we contribute to a reduction in the total number of lorries on the road and the We have a KPI as follows: associated emissions.
All cardboard packaging for our manufactured products Sadly, one of our trucks was involved in a fatal road traffic should be sourced from recycled or certified sources.
Investigations into the incident are in progress at the time of writing this report and therefore it is In 2015 we used 2,227 tonnes of cardboard packaging, all inappropriate to comment further.
of which came from recycled sources.
Corporate social responsibility continued MANUFACTURING AND LOGISTICS OPERATIONS CONTINUED 28 As well as supporting staff to gain  Health & safety qualifications, our staff have also benefitted from our All of our manufacturing, warehousing and transport activities investment in a range of development, with over 14,000 are certified to the OHSAS BS18001 standard for Health and training hours completed during the year, an increase of Safety Management.
We also invite the British Safety Council 30% over 2014.
Formal training courses are offered in a to audit our operations to 5 Star Best Practice criteria.
range of subjects from compliance and Health and Safety For the last five years, since we first invited this scrutiny and to Management and Leadership skills.
We plan to continue assessment, we have continued to achieve the maximum to invest in learning and development throughout 2016, rating of 5 stars, demonstrating our commitment to providing maintaining a strong in-house delivery capability balanced a safe and healthy working environment and culture.
In addition, all of our sites have once again been awarded the Developing apprenticeships in-house prestigious International Safety Award given by the British During 2015, we continued to further promote the use of Safety Council.
All three sites achieved Distinctions.
It is worth apprenticeships within the workplace.
We currently employ noting that world-wide there were only 29 Distinctions awarded 29 modern apprentices in our supply division, whose from 545 applicants, with Howdens receiving three of them.
apprenticeship disciplines are in various areas of our business.
During 2015 we introduced a Manufacturing Operations The legislation called the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and apprenticeship programme in order to develop multi-skilled Dangerous Occurrences Regulations is known as RIDDOR.
machine operators with the potential to be promoted into During 2015, there was one RIDDOR-reportable injury future leadership roles.
A further 6 apprentices are currently accident, which represents a reduction from the six reported being recruited.
in 2014, and a reduction of 83% over the last five years.
The average time lost for all incidents has fallen by 71% over We have also started work on a project to develop new drivers the same five-year period to 16.9 hours per 100,000 hours for our truck fleet.
Recognising the shortage of suitably worked in 2015. qualified drivers, and the benefits of being able to train our own drivers to our own high standards, our objective is to Employee development support drivers to become qualified so that they can go on Our supply division has held Accredited Centre status with to enjoy rewarding careers with Howdens.
the Institute of Leadership Management since 2012.
We also deliver management and leadership development to support the future growth of the business.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 IN THE DEPOTS 29 at rehabilitating our people back into the workplace.
We have Overview seen a positive trend this year, with hours lost reducing from Our trade division operates from a network of 623 UK depots, 7,619 to 4,270. plus central offices which provide support services such as marketing, HR and finance.
The trade division employs around Additional Health & Safety information and training initiatives 6,800 people, which represents around 80% of the total have been implemented throughout the year as part of a Group workforce.
In particular, in 2015 we launched several initiatives designed to make our policies Our aim is to deliver the best possible standards of customer and procedures more engaging and accessible, including the service, and to create the best possible working environments development of the Your Safety, Your Depot initiative, in which for our employees.
We place great importance on Health & we extracted key Safe Systems Of Work into pictorial form, Safety, the professional development of our employees, and and supported them with a film and a questionnaire-style test.
the management of our resources, including energy usage and recycling to minimise waste.
The division is responsible for Other developments are the commissioning of a around a third of the Groups total CO emissions.
2 cloud-based system to simplify our existing safetymanagement system, providing an improved management Health & Safety dashboard and online audit and incident-tracking capability, Safety in our depot network is of prime importance to us.
and the commissioning of a bespoke 1m failsafe alert system To that end, we have a KPI as follows: to provide an additional aid to our network of forklift truck drivers in supporting their safe decisions.
KPI: RIDDOR Accidents per 100,000 hours worked is 0.09% this year compared to 0.13% in 2014.
To encourage and maintain a strong Health & Safety culture, we ran numerous training and refresher courses during the The number of RIDDOR-reportable accidents in our depots and year.
534 depot managers and assistant managers, together offices in 2015 has reduced to 14 compared to 18 in 2014. with other staff at all levels, attended these courses, covering This improvement is against a background of an additional a range of topics, including Managing Safety for Executives, 30 depots, increased average headcount across all of our defensive driving, fire safety training, manual handling and our depots, and increased turnover across the whole business.
This handyman safety and tool training course.
reduction is a result of: increased focus on accident awareness, further training initiatives, better information and feedback on The Health & Safety team within the trade division has been the causes of any accidents that have occurred, and analysis of further strengthened in 2015 to support the Groups growth trends in both reportable accidents and near misses.
agenda and to ensure more locally delivered training and advisor visits.
This has resulted in a 56% increase in advisor Another way of monitoring safety performance is to track the visits to individual depots, to reinforce the culture of Health & total hours lost across all accidents.
This gives us an indication Safety and to assist local depot managers and their teams.
of the severity of accidents, coupled with how effective we are Corporate social responsibility continued IN THE DEPOTS CONTINUED 30 roles.
The Howdens Academy will operate as a new brand Employee training, development and retention for the division, through which all learning and development In addition to the Health & Safety training referred to previously, programmes will be designed and delivered.
our divisional training team continue to deliver personal and professional training to staff across the entire division in Developing worthwhile careers and retaining skilled staff is order to ensure that they are able to provide the best possible very important to us, and we are delighted that 1,800 of them standards of service to our customers, and to have fulfilling and were promoted into new roles during the course of the year.
The team delivered over 175,000 training hours during the year.
Courses are offered in many subjects Developing apprenticeships including: kitchen design, sales and product training, EPOS Our successful partnership with The Real Apprenticeship system training, fork-lift-truck driving, leading people, recruiting Company to promote the use of apprenticeships within the and selection, diversity and inclusion, and training sessions workplace continued throughout 2015.
By the end of the which reinforce the Howdens culture and business model.
We year, we employed 296 modern apprentices within the depot plan to continue to invest in learning and development in 2016 network who are practising a broad range of skills.
A further in line with our strategic business objectives.
63 apprentices are currently being recruited.
In 2015 we also continued to deliver the BTEC Level 2 Award During the year, the business saw 234 apprentices gain their in Trade Business Services through internal job-related apprenticeship qualification, and 201 apprentices became training.
This course is unique to Howdens.
During the year, full-time employees, some of whom achieved this status prior 712 employees were successful in gaining certificates to the completion of their qualification.
We have recently embarked on two further apprenticeship In order to support the future growth of the business and initiatives on which we plan to report more fully once they our strategic objectives, we have increased our focus on are up and running.
In 2015 we started to build on the range of existing training programmes First, we are working on the design of a specific in-house that we offer at all levels of the business so that these include three year apprenticeship programme which will see an additional focus on the development of our current and apprentices gain a  qualification in their future leaders.
first year, before continuing their development in the second and third years through Howdens-specific courses which We have laid the foundations of the Howdens Academy which will support and develop them into specific roles within will focus on ensuring that our staff have the skills to perform the business.
to the highest standards in their current role and can take opportunities for further development in readiness for future Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 IN THE WIDER COMMUNITY 31 Second, as part of the ongoing government reform of the Overview apprenticeship framework in England, we have been accepted Each Howdens depot, manufacturing site, distribution and to chair the Trailblazer group for Trade Business Services, support centre, fulfils an important role in the life of the through which we are working with a group of other businessimmediate area in which it is located.
Each of our sites to-business employers and the Department of Business, depends on its local community for its success and growth.
Innovation and Skills to develop a specific apprenticeship Howdens culture places great importance on personal programme for our sector.
relationships and individual accountability, and we encourage staff at each of our sites to support and engage with local Energy usage community activities and charitable initiatives.
Car Fleet Rolling replacement of depot manager and sales Howdens also has a long-standing partnership with Leonard representatives vehicles with cleaner and more Cheshire Disability, with whom we share many values and energy-efficient models has continued as planned.
especially our belief in the importance of the individual and At the end of 2015, 82% of our core fleet has CO of a society where every person is equally valued.
We are also active in sponsoring apprentice joiners in Waste the community.
The depot recycling programme was introduced in 2012 and continues to be implemented in new depots Local community charitable initiatives as they open.
We are working with our waste contractor We continue to help and encourage each of our operating to identify further recycling opportunities in the depots.
and support sites to contribute to local good causes.
This year our staff were responsible for over 3,600 cash and stock donations to local good causes amounting to 1.9m across the Group.
These donations typically supported a broad cross-section of local causes including schools, colleges, sports clubs, care homes, hospices, scouts, guides and youth groups, village halls, and many other community activities and projects.
For example, this year we supplied and fitted 75 complete kitchens in response to requests from local good causes.
Corporate social responsibility continued IN THE WIDER COMMUNITY CONTINUED 32 During 2014 we extended our charitable support to supporting In its first few years of operation Can Do expanded into four homeless charities.
We have continued this work in 2015 regions covering approximately a third of the country.
In 2014 and the generosity of our employees across the business, we doubled the level of our support for this project, which augmented by contributions from customers and the together with matched funding from the National Lottery, Company, meant that we were able to raise over 30,000 has meant that Can Do the project now covers the entire with donations from staff, customers and the Company for UK mainland with huge potential for expansion, particularly 36 homeless charities located across the whole of the UK.
We continued our funding for the project in 2015 at the same level.
In 2015 the project gave More details about our charitable activities, together with direct assistance to over 1,000 young disabled adults, examples of some of the individual efforts that our employees finding over 3,500 volunteering opportunities for them, have made to support both local and national charities which in turn generated over 10,000 hours of volunteering can be found online at www.
com about-us a-trulyby these individuals.
local-business Many Can Do participants continue to benefit from the facilities and healthy eating courses at the joint Howdens-LCD Leonard Cheshire Disability training kitchen project at LCD Bells Piece, Farnham, Surrey.
Over ten years ago we formed a corporate charity partnership Carers and support workers from across the country also with Leonard Cheshire Disability LCD.
Like Howdens, they attend courses at the centre, learning how they can better put local communities at the heart of their work.
Founded in support their clients and residents in the preparation of food 1948, with over 200 services across the UK, this outstanding and the development of general cooking skills.
Due to the and inspirational charity supports thousands of disabled success of this training kitchen, we are planning to install people every year, both in the UK and through an international another similar kitchen for LCD in Inverness in the next network covering over 50 countries worldwide.
of our involvement with LCD are available online at www.
com about-us  We are committed to the installation of activity and training and more information about LCD can be found at kitchens in other LCD homes across the country.
projects as prioritised by LCD and when convenient for each home.
This year we have completed 11 installations.
Volunteers play a vital role in helping LCD to provide their We have also agreed to step up our involvement in future services to over 6,500 people across the UK.
Over the years years, and have pledged to supply and fit kitchens from our Howdens have helped to fund many areas of volunteer range wherever they are needed in any of LCDs homes and training and recruitment.
Just over three years ago we kitchen training facilities across the country.
began to support an innovative LCD project called Can Do.
This project gives young disabled adults the chance to find long-term employment or volunteering positions within their own communities as well as providing them with individual mentoring, group support, a social network and accredited vocational courses.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 Over the past few years we have shared our accumulated At the end of 2015, Howdens had provided funding for experience and learning in the field of inclusive kitchens 40 apprenticeship placements.
We are pleased with the with other related charities, both with regard to design feedback from the scheme to date, not only from the newly understanding and kitchen installations.
Two inclusive qualified joiners themselves but also from the companies kitchens were donated this year.
We also make our innovative who now see the value of apprentices and are committed inclusive kitchen design features and solutions available to to employing more of them in the future.
Out of the 40 our own kitchen designers in the form of in-depth case studies employers who have participated in the project, 18 have which are made available to them on the Company intranet.
Inspired by working with LCD residents and carers, our Queen Elizabeth Scholarship Trust QEST inclusive kitchen research continues to enable us to offer 2015 saw Howdens first donation to QEST, the charitable affordable kitchen solutions to people of all abilities.
This arm of the Royal Warrant Holders Association.
Our donation year, we exhibited in partnership with LCD at NAIDEX, the UKs will be used to support QESTs scholarship and apprentice largest disability, rehabilitation and homecare event.
Howdens programmes in traditional and contemporary crafts, and designs and makes kitchens which are available to users of all thereby make a vital contribution to the British craft industry.
abilities, and exhibiting at this event allows us to demonstrate More information about QEST can be found at www.
our commitment to a wider audience.
uk about-qest Pioneering bursary scheme for E-ACT apprentice joiners In May, Howdens also engaged with E-ACT, a leading As well as helping promote the value of apprenticeships independent academy sponsor, responsible for managing, in-house, we also continue to help the next generation of maintaining and developing academies, to fund three students builders and joiners by supporting apprentices in the wider to complete a three-year full-time apprenticeship programme.
Since 2010 we have worked in partnership with In addition, Howdens committed to 20,000 per year CITB the Sector Skills Council and Industry Training Board funding for three years to assist with developing community for the construction industry to provide the Howden Joinery engagement, which will include both the apprenticeship Bursary for new apprentice joiners.
The scheme was the first programme and wider enrichment work.
of its kind in the country, its aim being to fund first year wages for apprentice joiners in companies which would otherwise feel unable to afford to fund an apprentice.
Other than stipulating that the money be used specifically to fund apprentice joiners, Howdens has no involvement in choosing either the apprentices or the companies involved.
Corporate social responsibility continued GREENHOUSE GAS AND EMISSIONS 34 Total CO Emissions Tonnes Total CO Emissions Tonnes 2 2 2015 2014 Scope 1 Direct: Gas 2,544 1,836 Scope 1 Direct: Diesel 25,427 25,522 Scope 1 Direct: Other fuels 1,516 1,158 SCOPE 1 DIRECT: TOTAL 29,487 28,516 Scope 2 Indirect: Electricity 29,578 26,999 SCOPE 2 INDIRECT: TOTAL 29,578 26,999 TOTAL Scope 1 and 2 59,065 55,515 Turnover m 1,220.2 1,090.8 Turnover ratio tCO e per m 48.4 50.9 2 Inflation adjusted turnover ratio tCO e per m 51.8 54.4 2 80 We are pleased to report that our turnover ratio tonnes of Total Carbon usage 000s tCO e 2 CO per m continued its downward trend, both in absolute 2 Turnover ratio tCO e per m 2 terms and when adjusted for inflation.
Both of these measures Inflation adjusted turnover ratio tCO e per m 2 70 reduced by 5% between 2014 and 2015, despite a 12% increase in turnover.
60 We will continue to adopt measures aimed at reducing both total CO outputs and as a percentage of turnover.
2 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 EXTERNAL ACCREDITATION HUMAN RIGHTS AND MODERN SLAVERY 35 RELATING TO THE WHOLE BUSINESS Carbon Trust Human rights In 2015 the Group retained its accreditation under the Carbon Howdens promotes the observance of internationally Trust Standard, which requires a reduction in total energy recognised labour standards, with particular regard to human use across the whole business over a three-year period.
Our employment contracts and policies provide that the This reduction was particularly pleasing given the 28% Company will promote these standards, and all our employees increase in turnover between 2013 and 2015. must adhere to a code of ethics in order to achieve the highest possible standard of integrity in our business relationships.
The Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme ESOS Given the number of international suppliers with which we do ESOS is a Government-regulated scheme which requires large business, the Group also considers the impact of its activities companies to complete an energy audit every four years.
on human rights throughout its supply chain.
All suppliers are Companies have to calculate their total energy consumption subject to rigorous audits prior to commencing business with us.
and identify their areas of significant energy consumption.
Independent external assessors then verify the work that The Board will keep the need for a specific human rights policy the Company has done, carry out an audit of these areas under review.
and come up with suggestions for possible energy-reduction initiatives.
The assessors carried out work at our factories and Modern slavery with our logistics team, as well as at a sample of depots.
The Modern Slavery Act 2015 requires larger companies to produce a slavery and human trafficking statement, setting The ESOS audit requirements applied to Howdens for the first out the steps that they have taken to ensure that there is time in 2015.
We have worked with our external assessors no modern slavery within their business and in their supply to complete our audit in advance of the December 2015 chains.
This will be applicable to Howdens for the first time deadline, and we are currently reviewing the findings in in our 2016 Annual Report & Accounts.
order to determine which of the suggested possible energy-reduction initiatives is likely to yield the best returns.
We have begun our assessment of the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act and are developing a workplan to ensure that we are in a position to report the relevant information.
We look forward to sharing this information with you in our 2016 Annual Report.
