Corporate and social responsibility report Corporate and social responsibility The Group recognizes that it has responsibilities to all stakeholders, including the interests of employees and their families, the need to foster the Groups business relationships with partners, customers, suppliers and others: and the impact of the Groups operations on the local communities and surrounding environment where it operates.
Our employees are highly regarded and valued, and their employment and rights are respected.
All employees are required to act honestly, fairly and with integrity.
The Group is committed to the important principle of equal opportunity which is reflected in the Groups recruitment, graduate recruitment, disciplinary and grievance policies.
The Group is dedicated to supplying products of the highest quality to meet its customers requirements in a manner that is consistent with high environmental and ethical standards.
The Group makes a contribution to local charities and communities in areas where it operates its business.
Environmental impact and energy use As a Group we feel our environmental impact on the whole is low, with our main business being the development of intellectual property which helps customers develop the most power efficient products possible.
Our emissions come mainly from the use of electricity in our offices and business travel.
In the UK we currently have eight offices, four at the Group headquarters in Kings Langley, one datacentre and three offices at other locations in the UK.
We also have a number of overseas sites.
The Group continues to review the supplies of its electricity and tariffs and the number of sites with a green renewable energy tariff continues to increase with four moving in the financial year.
Further buildings will move over to this tariff as current contracts expire.
The intention is that all electricity used is from renewable tariffs by the end of 2015.
Redevelopment of site and environmental impact The Group began redeveloping its headquarters site in Kings Langley in 2011.
Two of the three buildings are now complete.
Construction of the third building will be complete at the end of 2015.
All of the buildings are designed along the principles of sustainable design and will exceed the building regulations requirements for buildings of this nature: the first building has achieved a BREEAM rating of Excellent and the intention is that the remaining new buildings will too.
In addition to reducing each buildings energy consumption, a sustainable approach has been adopted when handling other issues which will contribute towards a truly sustainable building.
Such issues include the selection of materials: construction technologies: and the operation, management and maintenance of the completed building.
The main methods by which a fully sustainable building with the aspired BREEAM rating of Excellent will be achieved are: Introducing the sustainable aspects of the construction process at an early stage of the design and collaborating as a team to achieve the sustainability goals: Considered and intelligent design of fenestration.
The main emphasis in the design and specification of the glazing and solar shading devices will be to reduce operational energy usage in terms of heat loss and solar gain whilst maximizing levels of daylight within the office space, thus reducing reliance on artificial lighting: The provision of facilities such as secure bicycle storage and changing facilities to encourage staff to use sustainable modes of transport: Water saving technologies such as flow restrictors, low flow rate water fittings, etc.
will be applied to the building to minimize portable water demand and to achieve further CO2 emissions reductions while saving a precious natural resource: Selection of construction materials and technologies that minimize site wastage, using locally sourced materials where possible: Strategic report 45 | Responsibly sourcing materials used in structural and non-structural elements.
Third-party certification will be required to show that the timber has come from a sustainability managed source, for example, Forest Stewardship Council FSC : Using the Green Guide to Specification to ensure that where possible materials have A rating: Recycling construction waste using off-site sorting including a dedicated space for recyclable materials on site: The provision of dedicated recyclable waste storage facilities: and Incorporating SUDS Sustainable Urban Drainage such as permeable paving on the surface car parks and water attenuation to control surface water run-off and minimize watercourse pollution.
As part of the redevelopment of the headquarters the Company focused on the core functions required of a high quality office development whilst being conscious of its environmental responsibilities, in this vein we are promoting the ecology of the area by introducing a native boundary structure and new habitats within the canal race area.
Where applicable, native tree shrub and herbaceous plants have been introduced to encourage indigenous species in the more decorative areas of the scheme.
New datacentre To meet the Groups considerable IT requirements, a dedicated datacentre was constructed and became operational in 2014.
It contains two highly efficient data halls, the first of which is in current use and the second hall will come online in the future to meet business needs as the Group grows.
The data halls are supported by a highly efficient electrical distribution system that utilizes state of the art static UPS systems that have multiple modes of operation to maximize energy efficiency.
A low energy cooling solution has also been adopted that provides both a water and air cooled solution that makes use of free cooling when ambient conditions allow.
Pure division Our Pure division has spent considerable time looking into ways to reduce its environmental impact and it remains committed to ethical and environmentally sustainable design and manufacture.
Pure recognizes that its main environmental impact comes through the products themselves in manufacture, transport and predominantly in use by consumers, and so it continues to reduce the power consumption of its products, with a programme in place to exceed the requirements of the tightened EnergyUsing Products EuP Directive which came into force in January 2013.
The Pure division also ensures through its own due diligence programme that all third-party factories comply with the following health, environmental and ethical requirements: EC Regulation on chemicals and their safe use EC 1907 2006, known as Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances REACH : Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical Equipment Regulations 2005 RoHS : Batteries & Accumulators directives: and SEDEX or SA8000 Pure is committed to the ethical treatment of its staff and contractors, and to that end all third-party factories are audited via the SEDEX or SA8000 programmes to ensure compliance with local and national laws, particularly on: working hours and conditions, health and safety, rates of pay, terms of employment and minimum age of employment.
The Pure division through their own functions ensures compliance with the following: The EC Directive on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE through the producer compliance scheme REPIC this is aimed at minimizing the impact of electrical and electronic goods on the environment: and 46 Strategic report | The EC Directive on Packaging and Packing Waste 94 62 EC obligations through their membership of the compliance scheme Biffpack.
The Pure division use a compliance solutions company to meet their obligations under the Packaging Waste Regulation obligations.
Recycling We encourage our employees to recycle their day to day waste.
We do this by ensuring there are recycling bins for cardboard and non-confidential materials and separate confidential bags in every office, all of which are recycled.
There are also recycling bins in each kitchen area.
Energy saving measures are also in place for recycling components, such as printed circuit boards, toner cartridges, surplus packaging and paper.
Imagination House, the headquarters at Kings Langley has an on-site restaurant and we work to ensure that as much waste as possible is recycled.
All cardboard, wooden boxes, drink cans and plastic bottles are currently recycled.
Greenhouse gas emissions Imagination is required to report the quantity of greenhouse gas GHG emissions from activities from which the Group is responsible, in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting requirements of The Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 for GHG emissions.
We have adopted a financial control approach to defining our organizational boundary and therefore the data used reflects our material global operations.
The methodology used to compile this data is in accordance with the requirements of the following standards: DEFRAs Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance June 2013.
Our reporting period for GHG emissions is in line with our financial reporting year to 30 April 2015.
This marks our baseline year and will be used for comparative purposes in the future.
Our gross carbon emissions have decreased by 786 t CO2e from 2014, due to a more efficient use of energy.
Our material GHG emissions from our business activities in FY15 amounts to 6,033 tonnes of CO e, consisting of: 2 2014 2015 Carbon emissions Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 Scope 1: CO e from the Combustion of fuel and the operation 2 of any facilities 304 305 Scope 2: CO e from the purchase of electricity, heat, steam or 2 cooling by the Company for its own use 6,515 5,728 Total 6,819 6,033 Strategic report 47 | 2014 2015 Our Group chosen intensity measurement is square foot Emissions intensity Emissions intensity Scope 1: Tonnes of CO e per Sq.
ft. 0.02 0.01 2 Where data was incomplete GHG emissions were extrapolated from the available information.
The Groups employees Our people are our most valuable asset and the Group recognizes that its reputation and success depends upon their efforts, integrity and commitment.
Across the Group there is considerable value placed on the involvement of employees in the decision making process.
To this end regular departmental meetings are held to discuss strategy and future developments and any significant outputs are then communicated to senior management.
This helps the flow of ideas through the Group and allows employees to see their contributions are valued.
Employee engagement with the whole Group is highly prioritized and there are a number of communication channels in place to help employees develop their knowledge of the business.
These channels include regular presentations by the CEO and CFO to staff covering the Groups performance, strategy, vision and operational developments.
There is a quarterly Group magazine Imagineer which is used to report events and activities to all employees worldwide covering the opening of new offices around the globe, different departments explaining their specific functions, introducing new starters to the Group, recreation activity of employees, the arrival of children of employees and retirement tributes to employees.
Furthermore, employee ownership is encouraged across the Group to align the interests of our employees and our shareholders and to enable our employees to share in the success of the Company.
The Group runs an employee share plan under which all employees globally receive share awards on a bi-annual basis.
There is no qualifying period and no performance conditions on share awards below the Executive Management Board EMB and Board.
The Company continues to develop its employee share schemes and launched a Share Incentive Plan SIP in 2014 offering Free shares, Partnership and Matching to our UK employees.
Graduate recruitment and internship programme We remain focused on bringing young people into engineering, the Group runs a graduate recruitment and internship programme with universities and colleges throughout the UK.
We have developed strong relationships with a number of universities including the University of Southampton, Imperial College of London, the University of Bristol and the University of Manchester.
As a direct result of our programme we have welcomed around 40 undergraduates on internship each year, most of whom convert into permanent graduate hires.
Academic outreach and sponsorship We have linked up with universities which reflect our technical skill set and are supporting and developing these into centres of excellence for students in line with our intellectual property activities around the Group.
We currently sponsor five PhDs at key universities in areas of technical relevance to the Groups activities.
In 2013 we began sponsoring labs and providing development kits to universities for teaching purposes and we and pleased to continue this programme through 2015.
48 Strategic report | The Group offers a wide range of other incentives to young people varying from the sponsorship of electronic courses at local schools: giving scholarship awards to students at University to promote opportunities at the Group and financial awards to exceptional successful interns with the intention that the students come to work for the Group in the future.
The Group invites young people from the local community annually for structured work experience to learn more about and experience some of the careers available in our sector.
We regularly attend and sponsor events focused on promoting Science and Engineering with our university partners.
The Group has committed to donating 25,000 per year for the next 2 years to sponsor a mathematics physics Chair as a part of the Governments Your Life Campaign to improve the quality of teaching of numerate subjects in schools in the UK.
Diversity The Group acknowledges the importance and contribution of its employees and as a global business, values people from all cultures, nationalities, religion and ethnicities irrespective of characteristics such as age, gender, disability or sexual orientation.
The Group is committed to building a diverse organization to maximize the skills available to us in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We ensure that we follow best practice and have adopted employment policies across the jurisdictions, based on equal opportunities for all employees these are implemented from the point of recruitment and continue throughout the employees career with Imagination.
The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and disability is not seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
The Group considers diversity as an important issue across the Group, not just at Board level.
We have marginally increased the percentage of senior females in the Group and recognize that we must continue to work to increase the proportion of female staff within the Group.
Board of directors Senior managers Employees Male 7 94 1,316 Female 1 12 214 8 106 1,530 Healthy living The Group promotes healthy living to its employees.
For the second year running year we held a Healthy Living week at the headquarters in Kings Langley to raise awareness on nutrition, exercise, mental health and changing habits.
The Group also provides a range of healthy living benefits to its employees in their respective locations and the Healthy Living week and the programme will be extended more globally across the Group in the coming years, with a focus on empowering employees to access programmes and information available to them to lead a healthy lifestyle.
In the UK the Group actively encourages recreation to assist employees to stay fit and healthy by providing 50% of the annual fee for fitness centres and 38% of the UK staff are members of fitness clubs sponsored by the Company.
The Group also supports the Governments Ride2Work schemewhich was launched in 2010 where the Company works in partnership with a national cycle retailer to promote sustainable transport and health of employees.
The schemeallows the Company tooffer bicycle and relatedsafety equipment to employeesto beusedtocommute towork which provide considerable tax savings for the employee as well as health benefits.
Currently 20% of UK employees participate in the Ride2Work scheme.
Strategic report 49 | Healthier staff restaurants Our headquarters provides superior catering facilities and employees have been overwhelmingly positive with people enthusiastic about the quality, freshness and variety of produce.
The catering firm operating the restaurant also ensures they use only sustainable fish and farm assured meats as standard which is in line with the Groups principles.
In the past year we have improved the cuisine and regularly have featured days celebrating food from various countries around the world and commemorating special dates during the year.
Local community and environmental sustainability As part of its commitment to the community and environment the Group is engaging with a charity in the local community to help the Group develop multiple areas of owned green amenity space into well maintained landscaped areas.
Charitable work in the community The Group gives charitable donations both locally and nationally.
Every year employees are consulted to ensure that the donations given by the Group represent all the interests and locations where employees are based.
Employees get the opportunity to vote on which charities receive the money raised.
If employees raise money for a charity on the Group selected charity list the Group will double the amount of money raised by the employee.
This year the Group has given donations to the nominated charities, and also recycled old PCs in return for donations towards these charities.
Sports and Social club Our Sports and Social club was set up in 2000 with the aim of bringing together employees to participate in a variety of activities.
For a nominal contribution employees can gain membership which provides discounts on all events supported by the club.
We continue to see considerable uptake with 80% of UK employees members.
In the financial year there has been a wide range of events, such as visits to the theatre, an event at the Olympic Velodome, opera and many movie nights hosted in the employee restaurant.
There are also many sporting activities organized by employees and subsidized by the Sports and Social club including badminton, basketball, cricket, fitness and martial arts, football, meditation and yoga.
