26 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our approach Our ambition is for IMI to become a world-class business, a genuine leader in all the areas in which we operate.
We will do this by harnessing our engineering heritage and building IMI into a truly great company - one that thinks long-term, delivers profitable sustainable growth, invests in its future, is preferred by all stakeholders including employees, customers and investors and at all times conducts itself in an ethical and responsible manner.
At the heart of building IMI into a truly great company is The IMI Way which sets out our values excellence, innovation, integrity and collaboration and embraces our commitment to continually improve through the sharing of best practice and the on-going collaboration and development of our people.
It also addresses all aspects of the way we conduct our business and the high standards of ethics and integrity we expect of our employees, including the impact we have on the environment and the communities we operate in.
Mark Selway Chief Executive Through the year we continued to build on the Health & Safety already strong safety culture in the Group and The health and safety of our employees is in 2015 we delivered over 95,000 hours of paramount.
We also have a duty to protect HS&E training in addition to the 300,000 hours those who work with us, including our delivered in the previous three years.
customers, suppliers, contractors and visitors Across the Group, our divisional HSE teams who may be affected by what we do and the continued to focus on rigorous root-cause environment in which we operate.
investigations of lost time accidents, including Our ambition is to achieve world-class health where appropriate safety alerts being issued and safety performance in all of our operations across the Group to highlight the incident, and in 2015 we made good progress towards identify the causal factors and instruct IMI employees are at the centre of our ambition to achieving this goal.
During the year we mitigating actions to reduce the likelihood of become world-class significantly improved the predictive elements reoccurrence.
This sharing of best practice of our safety programme.
However this overall remains a fundamental component of our good performance was overshadowed to safety performance.
some degree by the integration of Bopp & During the year we also improved our incident Reuther which resulted in a slight deterioration reporting and communication tools to improve in the number of lost time accidents when sharing and escalation to senior management compared to the excellent results achieved in a more robust and real time way.
Recognising the challenges of integrating newly acquired businesses into the IMI safety culture, we have taken action to improve our health and safety awareness and levels of management oversight across the entire Group.
Dovetailing into our lean benchmarking and operational improvements initiative, we have introduced twice-yearly Lean-HSE assessments for all manufacturing sites which have resulted in significant improvements in the elimination of hazards and the visual safety of our facilities.
Specifically at Bopp & Reuther we are making excellent progress in our work with the local Bopp & Reuther team to ensure we bring their performance up to IMI standards.
Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The application of lean creates HSE discipline Visual management is a key component in A formalised approach to problem solving HSE improvements Environment Business integrity & ethics Community Our technologies continue to help our The IMI Code of Conduct the Code sets We have a significant presence around the customers respond to a variety of global out the standards we expect everyone world and in addition to benefits from creating environmental challenges, including climate in the Group to comply with and covers jobs and investment we believe we should change, resource scarcity and urbanisation.
those areas of good governance that we directly contribute through relevant charitable consider essential to operating an ethical and educational community programmes.
In our day-to-day business operations, business with the highest levels of integrity.
In addition to the Group charitable donations we remain committed to minimising the It includes workplace conduct, anti-bribery, policy, where we support a range of national environmental impact of our business anti-corruption and fair market competition.
and international causes, some of our operations and continuously improving The Code was reviewed in 2014 to bring it business units have relationships with our energy efficiency.
in line with the Groups purpose and values charities that are local to their operating sites.
and all employees participated in face-toThe recent European Union Energy Efficiency In 2015, Precision Engineerings business face refresher training on the Code and the Directive EED included a requirement for UK at Vimercate, Italy identified that the local importance of ethical behaviour at this years businesses to undertake independent energy schools fencing was in urgent need of annual IMI Way Day.
The Code was further surveys in its major European operations.
Small teams from all across the reinforced at the 2015 divisional and Group This initiative supports what IMI has been business both senior and junior employees senior leadership conferences with case doing voluntarily for a number of years and repaired and painted the fencing over the study workshops and specific policy training provides a useful addition to our internal course of a long, hard but very rewarding undertaken throughout the Group.
The surveys were carried out at day.
Their efforts attracted the appreciation representative sites from each of our divisions IMI has a long standing, well-developed of local residents and its newspaper, with a across several European countries and were whistleblowing policy that encourages recognition letter of thanks received from the coordinated centrally to maximise efficiency.
employees to speak up when they see Mayor of Vimercate.
conduct that does not accord with the We have reviewed all of the recommendations The IMI Hydronic team in Slovenia got stuck Code.
Where normal channels may not be from the individual site surveys and in 2016 in to provide a fresh new look and much appropriate we provide an easily accessible, will roll out a programme of improvements to needed handicraft supplies for Ozara - a confidential and independently operated leverage the benefits across all relevant IMI local organisation for the disabled.
The team reporting hotline in more than 20 languages sites.
Due to the surveys being carried out at worked on renovating the organisation which enables employees to raise issues a variety of sites in several countries, they will premises, where up to 30 disabled members anonymously.
A key foundation of the policy provide a good cross section of opportunities.
of the community have a workshop and make is that employees making reports through a variety of hand crafted products to sell.
Our 2015 gross CO e emissions have reduced 2 any channel and in good faith should have no Ozara provides the mentally and physically by 2% to 61,250 tonnes compared with fear of retaliation.
Our Ethics and Compliance handicapped with a meeting and creative the previous year 2014: 62,500 tonnes.
Committee meets monthly to review hotline space to re-integrate into the community.
There has been a slight deterioration in our reports and is chaired by Geoff Tranfield, The renovation of the premises provided a normalised total CO e intensity metric from 2 Group Human Resources Director.
During much needed facelift and a brighter working 37.4 tonnes per million sales in 2014 to 2015, 97 cases were reported which was environment much to the delight of 39.5 in 2015. lower than the previous year 2014: 103 cases.
In 2013 we targeted to reduce our emissions by We operate a supplier evaluation process A combined team of around 200 staff from 7.5% over a three year period, from the baseline which assesses our suppliers to provide IMI headquarters and IMI Critical Engineering set in 2012, both in terms of gross emissions assurance that they comply with the and Group, attended a project at Newlands and emissions intensity.
In 2015 we achieved provisions contained within the Code Bishop Farm, a facility that helps young this ambitious target.
Overall, we have reduced and our Supply Chain Policy.
people and adults with mental health issues, both gross CO e emissions and normalised 2 learning disabilities, brain injuries and physical CO e emissions intensity by 13.7% and 2 disabilities to learn work based skills in a real 13.8% respectively.
The IMI team spent an Our target for 2016 is to embed these afternoon helping to create a beach garden, efficiency gains and make our 2015 emissions develop an outdoor play space and decking the minimum baseline performance.
In for their outdoor caf along with general addition, we will look to make continuous maintenance such as painting and repairing improvements in all of our businesses as we different areas around the site.
implement the improvements identified in our EED energy audits and share those learnings across our non-European sites.
For further information please refer to page 134 of the Directors Report.
com  28 IMI plc Corporate Responsibility Our people Geoff Tranfield Group Human Resources Director The steady progress we made during the year on our strategic plan is primarily down to the hard work and dedication of our employees around the world.
To ensure that this progress is maintained and to position IMI for accelerated sustainable growth, we recognise the need to continue to attract good people, strengthen our talent pipeline and ensure that we have the relevant skills and experiences to serve our customers well.
We continue to focus on ensuring that we provide a working environment within which our people can develop, understand the contribution they make and be fully engaged.
I joined IMI in February 2009 and Attracting good people and strengthening attended my first IMI Leadership our talent pipeline programme in 2010.
This year I was one of the first people to During 2015 we launched a number of new and updated development participate in Leading the Way to programmes across the Group.
Engineering Great our new leadership Following a detailed review in 2014, which was undertaken by a diverse crossprogramme.
This new programme, divisional team which took account of feedback from past and present recruits, which is more closely aligned to our we launched an updated graduate programme.
The main changes were two-fold: growth plan, links our role and firstly the programme, which was previously focused on developing leadership objectives as leaders to the Groups five and managerial skills, was realigned to support our strategy and, in particular, year strategy and there is a particular recruit and develop the best engineering talent capable of delivering new products focus on better understanding our and world-class customer service, both of which are key elements of our organic customers and markets.
Secondly, to replace the former Group-wide single scheme and small groups, with excellent coaching increase our international mix and level of hiring, our three divisions have each support and the expectation of teach developed their own programme tailored to meet their specific needs.
In an back to our teams, really helped increasingly competitive environment this bespoke approach ensures that our us embed our learning from the graduate recruits quickly gain a deep understanding of our customers, their needs programme back into our businesses and the markets in which they operate.
Equipped with this in-depth knowledge and our day-to-day managerial roles.
and benefitting from at least one placement outside their home country, our CM Merrimon graduates will be better able to contribute to their businesses from an early President, stage in their career.
IMI CCI Americas During the year we introduced a new leadership development programme which is also aligned to IMIs strategy and its objective is to develop relevant skills and leadership capabilities to support the Groups growth plan.
Senior managers from Seeing how passionate the senior around the Group participated in the inaugural programme which was launched executives are about the business was in July 2015. inspiring.
I learned how important Being a GREAT IMI Manager, our new management and supervisory programme it is for me to communicate clearly was also launched in November and will be rolled out globally in 2016 to over and how to develop my team through 200 of our supervisors and managers.
The programmes objectives are to equip coaching and feedback.
managers and supervisors with the skills to manage their people and their part Qamar Hashmi of the business.
Quality Manager, Watson Smith, Precision Engineering Graduate induction 2015 Introduction Strategic Review Strategic Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 them against benefits available in Serving our increasingly Engaging effectively with our sector globally to ensure that our diverse customer base employees offering is in line with market best practice.
Our audit revealed that we We are a global business.
To ensure In response to employee requests for operated a large number of varied that we deliver competitive products improved communication, we have schemes around the world including and solutions to our increasingly further invested in our Group intranet over 84 pension plans, 90 car policies diverse customer base we must and to date we have had over four and 89 health plans.
Administration employ and retain people who have million hits from employees who use of these arrangements absorbed a the best relevant skills, experience the tool on a daily basis to facilitate significant amount of time and added and ideas.
We have a diverse Board collaboration with other parts of the an unnecessary layer of complexity in terms of gender and nationality and Group and share best practice.
During in the day-to-day running of our in our businesses we always seek to the year each division also introduced HR operations.
appoint and promote local talent.
their own divisional intranet platforms to improve the flow of communication In 2014 we formally articulated our between the businesses in each approach to diversity through the division.
In addition our newsletter introduction of a revised diversity and the IMI Eye, which covers news inclusion policy.
In 2015 and following stories and updates about all our the introduction of the revised policy, businesses, is produced twice a year each of our divisions embedded in and is distributed to employees and their businesses specific and relevant stakeholders across and outside diversity objectives including setting the Group.
recruitment targets for apprenticeships Our new diversity policy and graduate recruitment plans and graduate programmes.
This Building on the work undertaken in will deliver benefits work is progressing well and already 2014 in relation to communicating IMIs delivering results.
By way of example values to all our employees, in 2015 During the year the number of schemes in 2015, through our graduate we launched our IMI Way Behaviours have been reduced significantly.
For programme, we hired 28 new recruits, which are below: example, the 500 bonus schemes a third of which are female, from that previously operated have been 13 nationalities.
rationalised and now only 15 incentive Our mindset schemes exist across the whole of Operating more efficiently the Group, all of which are directly and transparently in our linked to IMIs strategic growth plan.
We have also standardised a number reward processes Engineering GREAT together of procedures, including annual pay Improving performance across all reviews, which are now harmonised, areas of our business by operating wherever practical, to take place on more efficiently is a key priority and a 1 January every year.
Connect driver of our growth plan.
Running our Deliver As we have reduced the number of HR, finance and other functions across Lead Learn schemes and simplified operating the Group in an efficient way is as Improve procedures administration has important as operating our production become easier and more efficient.
These core IMI Behaviours have been Furthermore this rationalisation During 2015 we made good progress communicated to all employees as process will enable us to leverage part of the IMI Way Day held in June towards simplifying and harmonising the purchasing power of the Group to 2015 and are embedded in all our the employee benefit schemes that achieve the most competitive pricing.
HR processes including performance operate across the Group.
Working Already across the Group, through management, recruitment, talent with Mercer, a specialist consultancy the rationalisation and simplification focused on employee rewards, we development and reward.
We continue of pension plans, we have achieved to hold the IMI Way Day annually and to undertook a detailed internal audit of savings and reduced our liability in seek feedback from employees through existing benefits and benchmarked this area.
this and local pulse survey data.
