OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Marketing Products Responsibly Operating responsibly is integral to the way Legislation that governs the way tobacco should be advertised and we do business.
marketed to the public exists in most markets.
We also have our own stringent International Marketing Standards IMS, which we updated How we behave today impacts our business tomorrow.
It supports during the year and published in full on our corporate website.
our sales growth strategy and is vital for our long-term success.
All Imperial Tobacco Group companies and employees, and the We measure our performance against the progress we make in four agencies we work with around the world, must adhere to our IMS key areas: being responsible with products, having a rewarding and local legislation at all times.
To support IMS awareness and workplace, respecting natural resources and reinvesting in society.
understanding we have developed an e-learning module that has These form the basis of our responsibility framework: they are the been translated into 12 languages.
responsible focus for our business, our people and our stakeholders.
Fighting Illicit Trade Our values and Code of Conduct are embedded in the business The illegal market in tobacco undermines societys efforts to ensure and drive our responsible approach.
We also have policies, internal that tobacco products are marketed responsibly.
controls and risk management processes that underpin our sales growth strategy.
We advocate a partnership approach to fighting illicit trade and seek to work with governments and customs and law enforcement agencies The following pages provide an overview of our Corporate to combat the problem of tobacco smuggling and counterfeiting.
We have not included any performance data for our USA acquisition, which was completed We have 24 Memoranda of Understanding MoU with authorities on 12 June 2015.
This data will be included in next years report.
around the world and continue to invest in our long-term anti-illicit trade partnership agreement with the European Commission and More detailed information on our performance can be found in Member States.
During the year, we renewed our MoU with the responsibility section of our corporate website authorities in Vietnam and signed a new MoU agreement with Latvia.
com cr You can also read our new stakeholder panel report online.
This Working with Retailers captures views on our approach to CR from a broad range of We continue to build strong relationships with retailers around the stakeholders, including leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers, world and actively encourage them to sell responsibly.
Tobacco investors, employees, consumers, non-governmental organisations, products are for adults and should never be sold to children.
We environment specialists, and independent consultants.
The panel reinforce this through our support for initiatives aimed at preventing highlighted many positive aspects of our CR approach and gave tobacco sales to children, including schemes that highlight the constructive feedback on areas where we can drive improvement.
minimum age at the point of sale.
Our thanks to all participants for their time and comments.
During the year we commissioned an independent report to analyse Were proud of the contribution our people make to our responsibility smoking trends in 20 of our key markets and the findings are helping agenda and continue to be encouraged by the positive feedback us to further develop initiatives to prevent children from gaining we receive externally.
We scored 98 per cent in the Business in the access to tobacco products.
Community BiTC Corporate Responsibility Index and 76 per cent in the RobecoSAM assessment for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Rewarding Workplace We strive to provide a safe and pleasant working environment Responsible with Products that inspires employees to do their best.
We want to see skills and Millions of people around the world choose to enjoy our products talent flourish and are proud of the diversity and collaborative spirit every day.
We recognise there are societal concerns about the health of our workforce.
risks of smoking and acknowledge that smoking is a cause of serious A Diverse Workforce diseases in smokers.
We ensure our products are manufactured, Following the acquisition of a number of assets in the USA in the marketed and sold responsibly.
year, we now employ around 36,400 people.
Our employees come High Product Standards from many different backgrounds and cultures, enriching the vibrancy Consumers and other stakeholders rightly expect us to adhere to of our business.
We rigorously test and analyse our products Around 40 per cent of our workforce is female, with some 14,000 to ensure we continue to build our knowledge and understanding.
At a senior leadership level, 22 per cent of the This enables us to fulfil our duty of care to consumers and meet Operating Executive and 22 per cent of the Board are female, as legal requirements for scientific disclosures and submissions.
We have continued our focus on the testing and scientific analysis The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination is of e-vapour products.
Our research shows that the vast majority highlighted in our Code of Conduct and underpinned by our values.
of tobacco smoke constituents are not present in e-vapour products, This is reinforced through offering equal opportunities and giving fair whereas they are still generated by heated tobacco products.
consideration to applications for employment, career development E-vapour products therefore have potential as a reduced risk product and promotion, irrespective of an employees gender, race, religion, relative to tobacco products and we have shared our findings with age or disability.
regulators and other key stakeholders.
Our values capture the essence of what its like to be part of Imperial Clear and consistent e-vapour regulation is critical for consumer Tobacco: the combination of the We values and the I values reflect understanding and the long-term development of the category.
We the collective and individual behaviours we expect from our people.
support regulation that has high consumer safety and product quality Our efforts to provide the best possible working environment and standards and believe that e-vapour products that make smoking opportunities for our people have been recognised with a number cessation claims should be covered by pharmaceutical legislation.
of Best Employer awards in the year in markets such as the USA, Unlike e-vapour products, heated tobacco products contain UK, Spain, Italy, Slovenia and Poland.
tobacco and should therefore be regulated in line with conventional tobacco products.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY continued Engaging with our People Our leaf and non-tobacco material suppliers must adhere to our We are committed to employee engagement throughout the Code of Conduct.
All our leaf suppliers are required to participate in business.
Employees are kept informed of our strategic priorities our SRiTP programme, which encourages continual performance and performance through communication channels, including improvement in areas such as employment, health and safety, meetings, emails, videos, the intranet, webinars, conferences environmental management and good agricultural practices.
were pleased to see our overall leaf supplier performance against the SRiTP criteria increase from 75 per cent to 79 per cent in the year.
Our global engagement survey is carried out every 18 months.
The survey gives employees the opportunity to have their say and We have a Supplier Qualification Programme for non-tobacco provides us with valuable feedback that is used to develop local material NTM suppliers.
This is a self-assessment questionnaire that and global action plans.
The 2015 survey generated an excellent covers business conduct, environmental management, health and 83 per cent response rate and again showed a slight increase in safety and employment practices.
We conduct periodic onsite audits overall engagement levels.
This is encouraging, given the ongoing to confirm these assessments.
change that is taking place in the business.
Farmer Livelihoods and Child Labour Workplace Health and Safety Child labour is a risk in agricultural supply chains and we continue to The health and safety of people who work for us is of paramount support the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco ECLT Foundation importance and we have reduced Lost Time Accidents by 67 in tackling this problem.
Working with the Foundation, we help per cent over the last six years.
We were saddened that a sales communities understand child labour issues and seek better access employee in Ukraine and a contractor in Vietnam were fatally injured to education and health services for children.
This has further strengthened our resolve to Our Leaf Partnership Committee continues to supports projects address occupational road risk management and other critical safety aimed at enhancing the livelihoods of farmers by improving their areas, such as working from heights.
overall labour and fuel efficiency in Malawi, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, We commissioned an independent health and safety capability Madagascar and Mozambique.
and culture review to learn more about how we can improve our Supporting Communities performance.
We developed an action plan based on the review We fund projects that are connected to the communities in recommendations and this is now being implemented across which we operate.
We particularly focus on supporting the most the business.
disadvantaged communities around our factories, offices and We made further progress in installing world-class management tobacco sourcing activities.
systems aligned to the international occupational health and safety Our Altadis Foundation supports initiatives to improve livelihoods management standard OHSAS 18001 across our operations.
Five in areas where we have operational sites.
During the year the additional sites in Senegal, Congo, the UK, Germany and France were Foundation commissioned an independent report to evaluate certified as having reached this standard during the year.
In total, 76 partnership projects aimed at supporting disadvantaged people in per cent of our sites have achieved the OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
countries such as Vietnam, Chad and Kyrgyzstan.
The report found that in total, these projects had benefited around 31,000 people directly and 60,000 people indirectly.
Reinvesting in Society We also commissioned an independent socio-economic impact We are proud to be part of many different communities around the study on our operations in West Africa, which highlighted that in world and have developed strong partnerships with a wide range 2012-13 we created more than 50 million in terms of wealth of stakeholders in the communities we serve.
generated, benefiting employees and their communities, Human Rights governments and local shareholders, and paid around 95 million in We have a role to play in addressing human rights issues, including direct and indirect taxes.
The full study is available on our website.
This respect for human rights is We continue to be encouraged by the growing number of employees reflected in our Code of Conduct, which is published on our website, who volunteer to get involved in projects linked to our responsibility our responsible sourcing programme SRiTP Social Responsibility in framework.
This year we launched our first global volunteering drive, Tobacco Production and our Supplier Standards which we use to entitled Mobilise for May, which involved employees supporting over exert influence in our business and supply chain.
We have a focus 140 projects in 56 countries worldwide, exceeding our global target on anti-discrimination and harassment, a healthy and safe working of 50,000 hours volunteered.
environment, responsible procurement, supplier partnerships and environmental responsibilities.
All employees and business partners must comply with the Code Respecting Natural Resources of Conduct, now available in 29 languages.
We provide Code of We respect natural resources and are committed to further Conduct training for all employees and all suppliers are required to reducing our environmental impact, minimising waste and improving complete detailed self-assessment questionnaires.
periodically subject to onsite audits against these self-assessments.
More information on Supplier Standards and our responsible We have set long-term targets for our key environmental sourcing programme is available on our website.
performance indicators, energy, waste and water use.
Changing our factory footprint to align with market demands will always mean that The governance of companies may vary but our respect for human our year-on-year environmental data trends are unlikely to be linear, rights extends throughout our operations.
It is implicit in our so we track our progress against our 2009 baseline year.
In line with employment practices and within the high standards we expect other major companies, we measure our performance against the from suppliers and other business partners.
amount of net revenue we generate.
Lower net revenue in 2015, To ensure we continue to adequately address our responsibilities driven by foreign exchange movements and conditions in the Near in relation to human rights, we plan to conduct an independent East, adversely affected CO emissions, energy consumption and 2 Human Rights Impact Assessment across our value chain in 2016. waste.
This was the main driver of the slight increases shown for A full statement on human rights is available on our website.
all three measures in our Responsibility Performance Indicators.
Our environmental data is independently verified one year in arrears.
Supplier Standards Working with supply chain stakeholders to address important issues such as leaf sustainability and child labour is a priority.
22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Climate Change and Energy This year we have changed the way we calculate emissions data and We are well on track to reduce our carbon footprint and energy now apply the CO factors and calculation methodology for fossil fuels 2 usage by 20 per cent by 2020, having already reduced our energy and electricity set out in the UK Department for Environment, Food consumption by 14 per cent over the last six years.
and Rural Affairs DEFRA document 2014 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
This method splits Were original members of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, scope 1 and 2 emissions into scope 1, 2 and 3 to more explicitly which works with organisations to measure and reduce their account for the transmission and distribution of electricity and fuel.
emissions and climate change impacts.
We continue to make This decreases our scope 1 and 2 emissions as scope 3 emissions improvements in this area, achieving a 98 per cent score from are not reported.
To improve transparency we have used the new the CDP in 2015. methodology to recalculate historic data since our 2009 baseline year and this is shown in the graphs overleaf.
We have also modified our Resource Efficiency calculation of CO and energy from our sales fleet cars to increase the Getting the most out of the materials and natural resources we use 2 amount of emissions which are captured to 97 per cent the remaining is good for our business and good for the environment.
Our mantra 3 per cent being beyond our current reporting capabilities.
is: reduce, re-use and recycle.
Our reported emissions include all main sources from our We have steadily reduced waste and waste to landfill in recent years manufacturing sites over which we have operational control, our and continue working with suppliers to help them reduce their expansion plants in Cadiz and Reidsville, and our main offices Bristol, environmental impact.
Since the 2009 baseline year our Hamburg, Paris, Madrid and Casablanca.
Operations not included, as environmental waste has reduced by 8 per cent and the amount deemed immaterial or beyond our current reporting capabilities, relate of waste to landfill has reduced by 25 per cent.
to greenhouse gases other than the seven greenhouse gases, the In manufacturing we are increasing the use of environmental JR 800 Cigar retail outlets in the USA, small sales offices being those management systems that are independently certified to the offices not listed above which contribute less than 0.05 per cent of environmental management standard ISO 14001.
Ninety per cent our total scope 1 and 2 emissions, our Habanos joint venture and of our factories are now certified to this standard.
Reforestation Programmes Scope 1 emissions arising from mobile fuel combustion in our fleet In Africa, where wood is the primary fuel source and the majority of company vehicles are specified and for the latest financial year are of tobacco farmers are smallholders, we are actively involved in unverified estimates based on data from the previous financial year.
protecting natural forests and reducing wood consumption.
All other emissions for the latest financial year are unverified estimated data based on the first six months of the latest financial year and the We have continued to work with our African tobacco suppliers final six months of the previous financial year.
Verified data is reported on a major tree planting programme that aims to achieve wood 12 months in arrears to allow for internal checking, validation and sustainability in Africa by 2020.
We also scaled up our support for external assurance.
more efficient tobacco curing barns, providing funding for 1,270 rocket barns.
These barns run a faster curing process that uses We continue to work on improving our Group reporting boundaries significantly less wood than conventional barns.
and the timeliness of data.
More information on our environmental reporting approach can be found in the Responsibility section of Water Management our website.
Water security is a key environmental issue that continues to rise in importance.
Our operations and supply chain are both reliant on In addition to our reported emissions we also report information the secure supply of water.
provided by Logista, which is managed remotely due to commercial sensitivities and does not report wholly into Group data.
This year We have a strong track record of effectively managing water use Logista has provided verified data for absolute emissions within and have reduced water consumption by 22 per cent since the 2009 scope 1, 2 and 3 for FY14 and we anticipate reporting on verified baseline year.
In our factories we apply environmental management FY15 data in next years report.
Logista has also voluntarily extended systems under the international standard ISO 14001 to reduce water its carbon footprint verification to include waste generated in use and manage waste water, and each location has its own local operations, franchises, purchased goods and services of 14 water management targets.
We have also started to focus some of our Leaf Partnership projects Logista Data FY14 towards water security, particularly in Africa.
Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Environmental Reporting CO2 equivalent emissions We report on greenhouse gas emissions resulting from our tobacco Tonnes 35,731 4,455 213,081 operations which fall within our consolidated financial statements using the operational control reporting method.
We report scope 1 Logistas scope 1 emissions relate to refrigerant gas emissions and direct and scope 2 indirect emissions for which we are responsible the stationary and mobile fuel combustion, including emissions from using a methodology based on the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol transport operations for which Logista has operational control.
Scope Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
2 emissions include the indirect emissions resulting from the use of Any deviations from this standard are described below.
We have purchased electricity at Logistas sites.
Scope 3 emissions considered the seven main greenhouse gases and report in CO 2 correspond to transport activities for which Logista has no equivalent.
Our relative emissions are expressed against net tobacco operational control.
revenue, which is consistent with the standardised CDP reporting Logistas verified relative CO2 equivalent emissions within scopes 1 format and facilitates meaningful comparison with other businesses and 2 amount to 47.4 tonnes per million pounds of FY14 distribution that report both their emissions and financial fundamentals.
fees our non-GAAP revenue measure for Logista.
More detail is Our scope 1 emissions include: emissions from stationary fuel available at www.
com combustion at our sites: emissions from mobile fuel combustion in our fleet of company vehicles: leakage of refrigerant gases: and process emissions from the Dry Ice Expanded Tobacco process at our expansion plants.
Our scope 2 emissions include the indirect emissions resulting from the use of purchased electricity, heat and steam at our sites.
The monetary value million is for tobacco net revenue or logistics distribution fees, where appropriate.
FY14 data has been assured by PwC: see website for more information.
Unverified FY15 data is estimated based on data from the last six months of FY14 and the first six months of FY15.
Verified data for FY15 will be published next year.
2 Verified accident and absence data is reported 12 months in arrears to allow for data collection and verification.
Sickness absence includes non-work related and work related absence.
Provisional unverified FY15 data is provided.
3 All our tobacco suppliers participated in the SRiTP programme in 2014, which provides specific guidance for improvement against a variety of criteria.
See our website for more information.
Data for 2014 has been verified.
We report 12 months in arrears to allow for the reporting and analysis of data.
Key data reported in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year to 30 September 2015 has been independently assured under the limited assurance requirements of the ISAE3000 standard by PwC.
They have also been engaged to look at our description of alignment with AA1000APS 2008 principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness.
Some of the selected information covered by this assurance is clearly highlighted within the Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report and all of the selected information is included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the website www.
com cr where their limited assurance report can be found.
PwC has provided Imperial Tobacco with CR assurance services from FY10.
Earlier data was assured by another provider.
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 172,227 167,938 163,287 154,650 145,699 147,284 148,433
