MAKING A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Developing our PEOPLE Inchcapes employees are its most valuable asset: it is the talent and dedication of our people that delivers the Groups results, year after year.
The four pillars of our people engagement strategy, Right People, Right Learning, Right Reward and Right Culture, have been developed to ensure that as a company we value and nurture this most important resource.
The Right People recruiting and retaining talented people, who understand their role in delivering outstanding results.
Talent planning and performance management sit at the heart of our people strategy, as we look to ensure that we have the Right People in every role.
Whilst there are continuous processes in place, we also have a more detailed review and planning session in each market and At Inchcape we take our Corporate Responsibility CR very head ofce, at least once a year.
seriously: acting responsibly towards the communities and Our employee base is diverse and reects the different environments in which we work, and towards individuals and cultures and markets in which we operate.
As a global society in general.
For more than 170 years we have believed business we are able to provide our people with the that our business is about more than just the bottom line.
opportunity to gain experience in different countries, We are now evolving our CR strategy and aligning it with encouraging personal development and growth for our strategic objectives, focusing on where we can make many of our colleagues.
We recognise that the growth the most positive impact for our stakeholders and society.
and development of our people directly affects the growth This will build on the progress we made in 2015 across the and success of our Company.
By actively encouraging this five CR metrics through which we monitor our activity: level of engagement across all markets, we not only attract, developing our People: improving Customer experiences: but also retain the best talent.
working with innovative OEM Partners: supporting local The Right Learning enabling our people to deliver Communities: and managing our impact on the Environment.
the Companys objectives by providing the right training CR is governed through the Corporate Responsibility and development.
Committee, which meets twice yearly and is served by a As an example, Inchcape Hong Kong has introduced central CR operational team and a network of CR Champions a new training scheme to encourage young people across our 26 markets.
The CR Committee is attended by Ken to embark upon a career in Aftersales.
This professional Hanna, Chairman, Coline McConville, Non-Executive Director, development scheme provides soft skills training, career Stefan Bomhard, Group Chief Executive officer, and Alison advice and mentoring.
New recruits are attracted through Clarke, Chief Human Resources officer, reecting its targeted digital platforms, such as YouTube and Facebook, importance to the business.
with successful apprentices being recognised for their As we focus on growing the business over the coming years, achievements at the end of their placement.
the contribution of CR will become increasingly important: We are passionate about sharing our expertise with fellow we will strive to be at the forefront of progress, innovation colleagues, and with the wider communities in which we and stewardship in corporate responsibility it is an integral work.
Our Hong Kong operation has also worked with the part of Inchcape.
Toyota Technical Education Program T-TEP in partnership with selected secondary schools in Hong Kong since 1995, offering subsidies, teaching facilities, modern teaching equipment and tools to improve routes to employment TILL VESTRING in the auto industry for young people.
Chair of the CR Committee 44 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Right Reward celebrating success and the contribution We receive hundreds of complimentary letters, emails and of our people, at every level, in every market, and ensuring calls from customers each year and feature one every week that they are rewarded for their commitment and expertise.
in our Voice of the Customer email which is received by all our employees, across all 26 markets every Monday morning.
We recognise, celebrate and reward the contribution We were also delighted to receive several awards in 2015 for our people and teams make to deliver our challenging our Customer focus and very proud that Inchcape Fleet business ambitions.
Solutions IFS was awarded the ServiceMark Accreditation Our rewards policy recognises excellent personal from the Institute of Customer Service, the UKs professional performance and the special contribution that employees body for customer service.
IFS was awarded in recognition of all levels make to the business.
Recognition programmes, of the work their customer service teams do every day to such as Leading Lights in our UK Retail business, make it ensure all customers receive the highest level of customer easy to identify and reward precisely those contributions service: from the moment of enquiry, right through to the that we, our partners and customers all value so highly.
delivery of products services, the provision of Aftersales care and support together with the successful resolution In addition to market-competitive salaries, we also provide a of any issues raised.
suite of employee advantages, from discounted car purchase and services, to medical cover and volunteer days.
This In 2015, we carried out over 5,000 mystery shop exercises contributes towards making Inchcape a Right Reward culture.
and conducted over 16,000 customer interviews.
This helps us gauge their satisfaction and needs, report on our current The Right Culture creating an exciting and engaging place performance and pick out examples of extraordinary to work, where people are treated with respect and look commitment.
Further insights are sourced by tracking data, forward to making a difference each day.
efficiency and customer trends across our 140 websites.
Communication with our colleagues is maintained through Around the world, good service is no longer considered a regular multi-channel dialogue, enabling a ow of information differentiator.
Our ability to impress via a number of channels, disseminated through town hall customers extends beyond the sale.
Wherever they are in meetings, line manager briengs, newsletters, our intranet the ownership lifecycle, car owners demand constant care.
Thats why, in 2015 we kicked off the Connected Customer 1st In our China business, for example, town hall meetings are CC1 programme which has since become the foundation held to enable all staff to contribute ideas and feedback.
of our Leading in Customer Experience driver.
We developed Allied to family days, community activities and sports days, the programme to build on our insights into the customer this has contributed to 100% participation in staff surveys journey and create stand-out experiences for our customers and constant year-on-year rises in staff engagement.
In all in an ever moving omnichannel world.
Customer research we do, we ensure that Inchcape remains a great place to began in 2015 in several of our markets and will continue work, with zero tolerance of anti-social activities and bullying.
in 2016, leveraging our global scale and presence across To support the four pillars of our people strategy, we use the globe.
individual development plans, talent reviews and succession Working with innovative PARTNERS planning, ensuring that managers are equipped to build, As a Retailer and Distributor, we form successful relationships maintain and develop expert teams of professionals in every with the best car brands in the world.
We have run engagement surveys known as Heartbeat practice, learning from our OEM partners whilst passing on every year since 2007, which give every employee the our own experience and expertise.
This example of good opportunity to feed back on their experience as an Inchcape corporate responsibility is often measured through the colleague.
Line managers use the results of the survey to accolades passed on to us by the manufacturers.
Sometimes create action plans that respond to challenges and improve it is the superb example set by an individual that makes all employee engagement.
We are very proud that Inchcape UK has been named In 2015, we were delighted to receive several awards from one of The Sunday Times Top 25 Best Companies to Work our OEM partners testament to the passion our colleagues for for three consecutive years and in Hong Kong, we across the world have for the brands they represent.
A few have won awards for both Employer of Choice and of those awards are listed below.
Further details of these Employee Engagement.
and many other accolades, can be found on the Inchcape Human rights News section of our website.
We embrace, support and respect the human rights of Crown Motors Limited, Inchcapes subsidiary business in everyone we work with and we comply fully with appropriate Hong Kong, was awarded the prestigious Outstanding human rights legislation in the countries in which we operate.
Customer Service Award by the Toyota Motor Corporation We dont use or accept forced, bonded or involuntary prison for the eighth consecutive year and won the Toyota Triple or child labour.
We only employ people who choose to work Crown Award for the 24th consecutive year.
freely and respect their rights to equal opportunities and NBT Brunei also won the Toyota Triple Crown Award Customer freedom of association.
Service Excellence Award for the 7th consecutive year.
Improving CUSTOMER experiences For the second year running, Inchcape Volvo Musa Motors in Moscow was awarded the title of Best Volvo Dealer.
Across all our markets, we set out to build long-term Our Lexus Guildford site won Centre of the Year Award relationships with our customers and we encourage their for the third time and Porsche Bournemouth won the Total feedback in order to continually improve on the experiences 911 magazine award, having been shortlisted in the they have with us, online, over the phone or in person.
category by the publications readers.
com 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED At the 2015 Annual BMW MINI awards gala, Inchcape CASE STUDY Motors Poland was recognised in three categories: F&I Dealer of the Year, BMW Dealer of the Year and MINI Dealer of the Year.
Working with innovative and supportive brand partners allows us to also focus our corporate responsibility on our immediate environment.
In September 2015, BMW MINI in Reading ofcially unveiled its new centre at a special customer launch event which featured over 400 guests and a host of activities, from driving simulators to a win a car competition.
Now the biggest BMW MINI retail centre in the UK, the innovative new site is spread over three storeys and delivers exceptional levels of customer service and includes a wealth of environmentally friendly features.
The building, amongst many other elements, Mother and Child Rehabilitation Centre includes: water recycling, solar panels, waste recycling, cycle in Ethiopia parking, Bat and Bird boxes, Green Guide rated nishes and energy efficient ttings.
BREEAM, the worlds longest Inchcape has supported the Mother and Child established method of assessing and certifying the Rehabilitation Centre MCRC in Ethiopia since 2002. sustainability of buildings, has given the state-of-the This amazing charity, run by Jutta fide Muynck, the wife art retail centre a rating of very good.
of Chris fide Muynck, Managing Director of our Ethiopian business, takes in disadvantaged children from Addis Success is not just about working well with our OEM partners.
Ababa and beyond, providing food, shelter, education, We have been equally proud of partnerships with regulatory medical care and therapy for the children and their bodies.
The Ethiopian Revenues & Customs Authority, for parents.
MCRC aims to help them recover from past example, made a special award to our MOENCO business traumas and equip them through employment and for its exemplary Tax and Duty compliance.
personal training with the means to be independent Supporting local COMMUNITIES and successful in the future.
Support for local communities is where we can most clearly demonstrate our positive impact on society.
Across 26 markets CASE STUDY we aim to think globally but integrate locally, participating actively in the communities in which we operate.
Our approach has always been to encourage our people to support their local communities in the most appropriate way.
This employee centric approach ensures that the people with the best local insight can direct how the Company makes its contribution and we have highlighted some of the work that we have been undertaking in our communities in this report.
CASE STUDY Rock climbing with the Singapore Childrens Society In December 2015, colleagues from Inchcape Atkins Kroll, Care Saipan Fund Singapore embarked on an activity to add a little The island of Saipan in the Northern Pacic was badly joy to the lives of under-privileged children from the hit by Typhoon Soudelour in August 2015, damaging Singapore Childrens Society.
homes and businesses and leaving the island without water or electricity.
An Atkins Kroll AK Care Saipan fund Inchcape Singapore have supported the Singapore was immediately set up with the Inchcape Group Childrens Society over many years and last year donating US$20,000 to kick off the fundraising efforts, decided to full the childrens Christmas wish with a rock-climbing activity.
To kick start the event, Mr. Victor AK employees and volunteers worked together to Tan, Director of Infrastructure Development and collect, wrap and pack relief supplies for 62 fellow Facilities, welcomed the children and presented a colleagues and their families.
Food, cooking fuel, cheque of SIN$1,000 to the Singapore Childrens mosquito coils, ashlights, candles, household goods, Society.
The rock climbing activity was a memorable personal care products, gas containers as well as event and a wonderful day for everyone present.
linens and hand towels were sorted and packed into a 24-foot container.
AK Saipan also provided the charity and the military with additional vehicles and set up a shelter and provided hardship payments for colleagues affected.
They provided emergency transport for customers, who also received discounts on car repair bills and advantageous prices on damaged stock.
46 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Data is collected for three key performance indicators: CASE STUDY Energy our global electricity and gas usage.
Transport Movement of cars and parts from the point of ownership which means legal and contractual ownership to the point we cease to have legal ownership.
This includes customer test drives.
Business travel the movement of our people.
Methodology The methodology used to calculate the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is based on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines, including mandatory guidance June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and includes DEFRAs 2015 conversion factors.
Data collection and reporting period Data has been collected for all markets from 1 January 2015 Inchcape Australia The Big Issue and the to 31 December 2015. power of passion The level at which we report is by business unit for each In April 2015, over 40 of Inchcape Australias IAL Senior market.
This covers our retail operations, distribution operations Leaders gathered in ofces in Sydney to hear of one and business service operations.
organisations vision to help homeless, marginalised and disadvantaged people positively change their We have reported on all material emissions for which we lives.
The Big Issue magazine is found in a number of deem ourselves to be responsible and which fall within our countries but in Sydney, IAL leaders heard how being operational and control boundaries.
clear on why you exist and the vision which drives you Scope Description can help you achieve amazing things.
Scope 1 direct emissions Transport of vehicles and parts IAL leaders took on the Big Issue Challenge to including test drives sell magazines on the street in downtown Sydney, Scope 2 energy indirect Electricity and gas used by the applying their sales and networking skills to raise Groups operations money.
Over four hours, through sales on the street Scope 3 other indirect Employees business travel by air, and networking online, the IAL team managed to car or train raise nearly AUS$10,000!
Intensity ratio The Groups intensity ratio is revenue per tonne of CO.
This 2 CASE STUDY allows for a fair comparison over time of CO emissions, given 2 the growth trajectory envisaged by the Company and cyclical variations in business activity.
Technician from Inchcape UK puts his volunteer days to good use.
Total greenhouse gas emissions 2015 Andy Smith from Audi Maccleseld has a passion for Our growth in revenue at constant currency exceeded martial arts and decided to put his volunteer day to that in emissions and the Groups intensity ratio improved by good use by teaching self defence to young adults 2.4%.
However, the Groups CO emissions increased by 5.2%, 2 with learning disabilities.
Andy has been training in primarily driven by New vehicle sales growth which resulted in martial arts for 33 years and teaching for over 10. higher emissions from transportation of vehicles.
In our largest Thanks to the Inchcape in the Community scheme market for New vehicle orders, Australia, we were required to and his bosses at Maccleseld Audi, Andy was given source some vehicles from alternative ports, contributing to two half days off to be able to deliver two self defence the increase in CO emissions.
This was offset, however, by 2 sessions to young adults with learning disabilities.
improved control of electricity consumption, despite The Looking Forward Activities Group provides fun increased business activity, and a reduction in business travel.
activities and life skills for young adults with a wide Tonnes of CO e 2 range of learning disabilities.
Andy held two sessions Emissions from: FY 2015 FY 2014 and both groups were very enthusiastic and had Combustion of fuel and great fun learning a wide range of simple self operation of facilities 73,107 66,713 defence techniques.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 74,832 73,855 Total footprint 147,939 140,568 Managing our impact on the ENVIRONMENT Intensity ratio: k per tonne of CO 46 45 2 As a Retailer and Distributor, Inchcape has no manufacturing footprint to minimise, however we collect data for all material Intensity ratio is calculated using revenue at constant currency as in the 2014 Annual Report.
emissions for which we deem ourselves to be responsible and The 2014 gure has been adjusted following the receipt of final year look to seek ways in which to minimise our footprint.
emissions gures from selected markets, that were received after publication of the 2014 Annual Report.
The revised 2014 gure is approx.
