03 CSR Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Our people Aims and values nurturing our Communication with our people Where circumstances change, for winning culture Our staff communications were example, with regard to disability, We believe that we have a unique augmented in 2014 by our all efforts will be made to continue to winning company culture that employee Company Conference, identify suitable alternative roles for encourages employees to develop held in October at Whittlebury Hall in our people wherever possible.
and thrive in an environment Northamptonshire.
This was the first all Substantial efforts have been made where excellence is recognised and employee event since the Companys initially in gender diversity, but we are rewarded.
Our people show great listing.
We took this opportunity to keen to promote our inclusive passion and enthusiasm in their remind employees of the key strategic approach to all sectors of society, and roles and enjoy the opportunities aims of the organisation, share broader base each and every recruitment that come from our entrepreneurial organisational performance highlights decision solely on talent and ability.
Amongst and encourage interaction between In 2014 we undertook an innovative the features that demonstrate the the Board and employees at the training initiative for over 40 managers values of the Company are: ground level.
In addition there was a from all functions in the Company, well received external speaker from f Employees regularly go the extra where we engaged with an external the high octane world of Formula 1, an mile for their team, or the Company partner to deliver diversity training via interactive quiz and a much anticipated generally, at times when that bit of theatre based techniques, with trained chance to meet up with colleagues, discretionary effort is needed: actors reinforcing key messages.
f Frequent communication, whether In Operations, our endeavours to From delegate feedback, some of the it be our daily morning operations raise the profile of the Company as most well received elements were a conference calls, monthly team a diversity-friendly employer have presentation to our Company charity meetings or quarterly roadshows, started to bear fruit during the year, of the year, the Birmingham Childrens ensure our people are in the know with a number of women promoted Hospital, and the continuation of and sufficiently well informed to to Engineer level positions and female our well established Star Performer succeed in their jobs: external hires made to technician scheme, where peer-nominated and trainee level positions.
individuals are publicly recognised f Our determination to set people and rewarded for their achievements up for success by providing the One of our female Engineers was in living the Company values.
support, training and development featured nationally in the media needed for employees to be on National Women in Engineering Diversity raising the bar quickly up to speed and effective Day, and we have actively worked As with many companies working in their roles: with WISE Women in Science in the engineering sector, we face and Engineering to advertise substantial challenges in attracting f The flexibility regularly shown new positions.
We recognise by employees, when the scope this challenge and, while actively breadth of their role expands, Employee benefits looking to ensure we have the reflecting the high growth The period saw the launch of our highest quality workforce, we seek environment in which we work.
Employees to do so irrespective of background.
were given the opportunity to invest We give full and fair consideration We believe Infinis is a great place in Infinis Energy plc shares from to all job applicants irrespective of to work for those with a can-do their monthly pre-tax pay, with the disability, marital status, sex, sexual attitude and a tenacious desire to Company providing Matching shares.
orientation, race or religion and belief.
succeed, safe in the knowledge that Over the plan period of five years, Opportunities for promotion and rewards and recognition follow for the individual scheme member career development are managed proven performers.
has the opportunity to share in the on a similarly meritocratic basis.
After the plan period, they also realise DIVERSITY: Management Team significant NIC and tax benefits.
98 individuals signed up at launch in November 2014, 28% of eligible staff, i.
Employees comparing favourably with levels expected in schemes of this nature, which are typically around 22%.
8 1 In line with legislative requirements, 334 our pension auto-enrolment project 40 was also successfully concluded ii.
Senior managers other than above this year.
140 employees were autoenrolled, with very few individuals Male 5 0 exercising their right to opt out.
The Female level of membership of the Scheme is now at 95%.
Figures represent employee numbers at end of financial year 2014 15 35 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Our people continued Consistent with our renewable Nonetheless, we continue to seek Our Lancaster Centre of Excellence energy strategy we continue to offer improvement to ensure that Infinis see the featured case study for more a unique range of special benefits remains a great place to work.
detail provides us with a superb geared to supporting our employees platform for training.
During the year Training and development in reducing their own carbon we launched a new technical training At Infinis we seek to provide training footprint, via our SmallSteps green programme for technicians working opportunities across our workforce, benefits programme.
These engines from finance to engineers.
represent 20% of our fleet, and this Effective two-way communication recognises the importance we place We cannot over-emphasise the December 2014 saw the fourth annual on having on-the-ground expertise importance of keeping our workforce Airtime Survey, where all employees across our entire engine portfolio.
This is at the heart of our have a completely confidential Companys strategy.
Consequently, opportunity to feed back to the Management development also health and safety training remains business on their thoughts about continues to be a focus with the key foundation of our training how we operate as an employer.
The executive coaching, leadership strategy, with Safety Passport a response rate of 85% was a record training programmes and college cornerstone of our Company-wide for this exercise.
further education courses attracting early induction training.
Company support during the year.
Employees responded anonymously The success of this training, and other to a series of more than 60 questions Our diversity policy and training are early exposure to our overarching by allocating a satisfaction score to designed to ensure that we recruit, safety culture, contributes to our each, and the positivity of the survey develop and promote employees award-winning Company health and ratings showed that engagement based on performance regardless of safety approach.
levels are high amongst employees.
race, gender, religion or belief, age, culture, sexual orientation, disability or background.
DIVERSITY: Gender % 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 Employees 89 11 Employees 89 11 Employees 89 11 Senior Management 91 9 Senior Management 86 14 Senior Management 86 14 DIVERSITY: Age % 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 Under 30 13 Under 30 14 Under 30 15 30-39 30 30-39 29 30-39 31 40-49 32 40-49 34 40-49 34 Over 50 25 Over 50 23 Over 50 20 36 03 CSR Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 DIVERSITY: Ethnicity % 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 White UK 90 White UK 89 White UK 90 White other 5 White other 6 White other 5 Black African 1 Black African 1 Black African 1 Black Caribbean 1 Black Caribbean 1 Black Caribbean 1 Other Mixed background 3 Other Mixed background 3 Other Mixed background 3 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER % 15.1 13.5 13.4 10.4 9.7 9.4 2012 13 2014 15 2013 14 Total Voluntary Total Voluntary Total Voluntary SICKNESS ABSENCE RATE average working days lost per year and per employee These figures are substantially lower than the private sector average of 6.6 working days lost per annum per employee.
3.3 2014 15 2013 14 2012 13 f Climate change statement: Further information f Corporate responsibility statement: Further information relating to f Environment policy: our CSR policies is available on f Health and safety policy: and our website www.
com and includes: f Equal opportunities policy.
