CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Overview: corporate and social responsibility Sustainability at Infinis To further embed our HS&E Looking after our people, Sustainability is at the core of our commitments, we created an neighbours and the wider business strategy.
Our business is Employee HS&E Committee which environment is central to all about operating on the front line considers relevant issues and provides what we do at Infinis and we in response to the challenge posed feedback to managers.
The sectors are always looking to do this by climate change by generating in which we operate are highly electricity from renewable sources.
Consequently each of our even better.
Our work is at the heart of a lowsites requires at least one, and usually carbon future and our operations, both more, consents or permits to operate.
now and as we grow, will continue to Our processes are designed to meet contribute to a sustainable future.
all of the requirements of these consents and permits and, with Oversight of corporate diligence and tenacity, we have built responsibility at Infinis a strong compliance track record.
Ultimate accountability for corporate responsibility at Infinis lies with Health, safety and environmental the Board.
The Board and senior enforcement notices and management review all areas of warning letters corporate responsibility monthly, Over the last seven years Infinis including key performance indicators has received no health, safety and and progress against targets, with environmental enforcement notices a detailed management review and just one warning letter from the undertaken quarterly.
The Head of Environment Agency EA, in March Health and Safety, Quality and 2013.
This breach related to the Environment has responsibility for removal of one of two engines on driving forward our sustainability the site prior to seeking permission performance, and reports, through from the EA, was the result of an the Chief Executive, to the Board.
administrative oversight and had no environmental impact whatsoever.
We believe that corporate Going forward, we continue to responsibility achieves its maximum strive to maintain our strong record.
potential when it is fully embedded within day-to-day business operations.
Health, safety and environmental Number of health, safety issues are the first item on meeting and environmental agendas, from the Board down to site enforcement notices team meetings.
We work with our teams across the business, continually 2008 2015 encouraging contributions to improve the responsible performance of the Number of health, safety Company from all employees.
All and environmental employees are incentivised to focus warning letters on these issues as bonuses are only paid if the business meets an 2008 2015 ambitious set of health, safety and environmental HS&E standards.
Think Safe Campaign We work with our staff and visitors to ensure that the safety of our employees, contractors and neighbours remains at the top of everyones mind.
The Think Safe message is designed to provide a uniform message via a series of poster and screen saver campaigns.
Read more about our Health & Safety P30 28 03 CSR Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Integration and performance We are continually learning from be impacted by our activity, is a top Working with our neighbours these interactions.
Our consultations, priority for our business, we hold We believe that central to our success exchanges and collaborations partners and suppliers to the same is the building and maintenance help define our approach to, and ambitious standards of HS&E as of strong and mutually beneficial development of, technology.
We recognise that brings a different range of questions We also aim to reduce our indirect working with neighbours, organisations compared to LFG but whatever impact, and have evaluated the level and others who may be impacted the situation, our commitment to of risk across our value chain.
All of by our activities is the right thing to addressing stakeholder concerns our primary generating equipment do, helps us remain focused on our does not falter.
e. g. engines, turbines and alternators corporate responsibilities and Working with partners and suppliers is imported from the developed ultimately benefits our performance.
Working closely with our suppliers, economies of Europe or North America Our main stakeholders and the issues contractors and business partners, and little of our supply chain spend that are most material to them are we aim to establish long-term is outside of these economies, provided in the table below.
As the health and safety representing minimal levels of social of our colleagues, and those who may or environmental supply chain risk.
Identifying our key issues 1 Customers Shareholders Employees Suppliers Communities Regulators NGOs Health and safety Environment including climate change and biodiversity Employee welfare Being a good neighbour Responsible supply chain 1 Non-governmental organisations 29
