P I H H T S C N R Y A E E E M T N R E I T G R R A N U G A O R U N P G U E L N M E U O I E G F Y M A G O R N L O E I P V N M C E E A L E R M E S P W E O A N N E G S S N V L T I E O I B E R B L R G A O R E Y O reports to the Director of Investor STRATEGIC REPORT Relations, Corporate Communications SUSTAINABILITY AT INFORMA and Brand.
Informa tracks and reports its progress on sustainability based on these four priorities.
More information on this and sustainability at Informa can be found in the fullInforma Sustainability Report and at www.
INFORMAS CONTENT: MAINTAINING QUALITY AND TRUST GROWTH AND Creating and providing content is common to all of Informas Divisions.
SUSTAINABILITY The quality of that content is fundamental: its integrity, reliability and trustworthiness attract and retain customers and ultimately create value for Shareholders.
Informa has editorial codes in place where data, insight and content are Informas principal sustainability issues relate produced or edited, and is involved in to providing trustworthy content and insight, initiatives that promote best practice across the industry.
and delivering it in an accessible way.
The Academic Publishing Division provides resources on publication ethics and peer review standards.
In 2015 it undertook a comprehensive study into nforma is committed to whichInforma has been a constituent peer review, surveying more than 7,000 pursuing its growth strategy, forover 10 years.
people to explore best practice in as depicted on page 19, Informas principal sustainability issues academic peer review.
It works with the I inasustainable manner, relate to providing trustworthy content industry bodies Sense About Science and minimising any detrimental and insight and delivering it in an the Committee on Publication Ethics to business impacts and generating accessible way.
This sets the Group apart raise research and publication standards.
The other strands Academic Publishing also employs approach is embedded within the of the Groups sustainability priorities are fraud screening and peer review to Groups core values, in the belief that common with other businesses and ensure content it receives from third over the long term it can yield benefits include minimising the environmental parties is original.
for Shareholders and other impact of operations, the office estate and Business Intelligence has stakeholders alike.
technology, attracting and developing its aneditorial and content code to which In 2015, this commitment was people and managing the impact the all its journalists and editorial employees recognised through Informas inclusion business has on society and specific must adhere.
inthe FTSE4Good index of companies communities.
Several major events within Global demonstrating strong environmental, Sustainability at Informa is developed Exhibitions and Knowledge & social and governance practices, of and delivered by a dedicated team that Networking employ independent advisory boards to ensure only original content is presented.
IMPROVING CONTENT ACCESSIBILITY The accessibility of Informas content is also a factor in maintaining its integrity andvalue.
The vast majority of Informas information products are available in digital format.
In Business Intelligence over 95% of the Divisions revenues come from digital subscription products.
In OUR Academic Publishing all journals and CONTENT new book titles are available in a digital format, as is over 60% or 75,000 titles on the books backlist.
Steps to improve digital accessibility in 2015 included investing in enhanced data tools in Lloyds List Intelligence and undertaking accessibility audits across Informas full web estate.
This has led to the introduction of minimum standards and best practice guidelines for all Informa 28 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.
com L E U S I B D N M U U R U P P Y M A P C - I C L T E N T Y I N O C N H T A I N D E E C N E G C O N U L I I S T R E P I O N U B O T G L O O L M E C E O E P W D R E E R F STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS GENDER RATIOS average over 2015 average over 2014 F 3,856 F 59% F 3,798 F 57% Employees M 2,714 M 41% M 2,829 M 43% F 17 F 25% F 17 F 30% Senior Managers M 51 M 75% M 39 M 70% F 2 F 20% F 2 F 22% Directors M 8 M 80% M 7 M 78% GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS Absolute Intensity achievement 2015 intensity achievement 2015 tonnes 2014 tonnes 2013 tonnes to date figure tonnes to date CO e CO e CO e 2015 vs 2013 CO e employee 2015 vs 2013 2 2 2 2 Scope 1 Gas, fuel and car mileage 886 1,116 1,188 302 0.15 0.05 Scope 2 Electricity and steam 7,373 7,190 7,823 451 1.25 0.05 Total Scope 1 and 2 8,258 8,305 9,011 753 1.40 0.09 2015 absolute data is an estimate based on actual data coverage for 90% of office based staff.
2013 & 2014 absolute data has been restated from the 2014 report using an estimate for office based staff as per the methodology for 2015 data.
sites, including a target to conform to Greenbuild, one of the Global Fellowship Scheme to bring skilled AAaccessibility criteria.
Exhibitions Divisions largest US graduates into the business, and the The availability and accessibility of Exhibitions, the worlds leading event second intake of the scheme will join academic content is a critical factor in for green building and sustainable in2016.
More information can be found stimulating the development of the global development and a leader in the onpage 52. academic community.
The Academic movetowards zero waste events.
The The Group strongly believes in the Publishing Divisions activities in this Sustainable Exhibitions Ladder assesses value of diversity.
It takes a broad and area include: the environmental performance of deep approach, according to factors Informas other major Exhibitions against including but not limited to gender, Offering open access options on virtually five sustainability pillars, highlighting ethnicity, professional experience, all its journals.
The number of articles it strengths and areas for improvements.
educational background, nationality and published in 2015 under open access Itis being piloted with 10 events in 2016 age.
In 2016, Informa is heightening its schemes increased by over 85%.
before being rolled out more widely.
focus on diversity and inclusion, and will Providing free and low-cost access be concentrating on gathering greater to its publications for individuals and At a Company level, Informas most data, implementing mentoring and not-for-profit institutions in resourcesignificant environmental impact is the coaching schemes and conducting constrained developing markets.
It greenhouse gas GHG emissions arising policyreviews overseen by the Boards operates STAR, Special Terms for from its office estate.
The Company aims ofeach Operating Division.
Authors and Researchers, to make to reduce emissions from its larger offices Informa continues to support the scholarly content more accessible where it controls the energy bill for the principles laid out in the Universal to individual academic authors.
building, setting a target to decrease Declaration of Human Rights.
The GHG emissions from its 10 largest Companys major human rights impacts REDUCING INFORMAS officesby 10% compared with 2013. relate to employees and contractors, OPERATIONAL IMPACTS This target was not met, with a product supply chain and the products Informa seeks to mitigate the physical reduction of 8.2% achieved between 2013 themselves.
The Academic Publishing andenvironmental impacts of Exhibitions and 2015.
Informas total GHG emissions Division has a global print supply chain, and conferences run by the Global decreased by 8.4%.
The Sustainability and potential impacts around labour Exhibitions and Knowledge & Team runs an annual programme of standards in print factories.
events each September that educates its membership of the publishing supply employees on environmentally friendly chain initiative PRELIMS to communicate its expectations to suppliers and assess A new global health and safety work practices and lifestyles.
programme, Operating Safely, was In 2016, as part of the Groups launched in 2015 to ensure the PEOPLE, TALENT AND activities in relation to the UK Modern application of consistently high health SUSTAINABILITY Slavery Act 2015, it will be reviewing and safety standards for visitors, Ensuring the Company operates the Companys risks around modern exhibitors, employees and business successfully and grows sustainably relies slaveryand the mechanisms in place partners attending large Informa events.
on attracting new talent and developing tomanage them.
Informa developed a Sustainable the skills of existing colleagues.
In 2015, Exhibitions Ladder in association with Informa launched its first Graduate 29 www.
com INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
