CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The environment Generating renewable electricity, with its positive environmental impacts, is our core business.
Managing our wind farms over the last seven years, expressing Landfill gas predominantly consists environmental impact our carbon emissions per kWh of of methane 60% and carbon dioxide We have a rigorous and electricity generated in each year, 35%.
Methane is 21 times more comprehensive approach to assessing are detailed below.
harmful than carbon dioxide CO the potential impact of our onshore 2 f Positive climate impact as a greenhouse gas.
We generate wind farms, both on communities and as explained above our LFG electricity by converting methane the environment.
Through thorough operations prevented releases and atmospheric oxygen into stakeholder engagement we are able into the atmosphere equivalent carbon dioxide and water through to make responsible decisions about to 9 million tonnes of CO.
This combustion, thereby preventing site locations and environmental 2 number is reduced from the methane generated from landfill impacts.
For both our existing sites previous year as the UK is sending waste from entering the atmosphere.
and new developments, we work less waste to landfill and therefore Through this we avoid the annual with partners and experts to ensure the amount of methane requiring release of half a million tonnes of that we do not have unacceptable capture and destruction is falling.
methane, which in terms of global negative impacts on wildlife e. g. warming potential is equivalent to fish, birds, reptiles, and bats or other 1 Our wind operation prevented 9 million tonnes of CO.
This number mammals or on other aspects of 2 the release of the equivalent of has reduced from previous years as the environment.
310,000 tonnes of CO. the UK is sending less waste to landfill 2 Infinis role in climate and therefore the amount of methane Using only relatively small amounts of change mitigation captured and destroyed has fallen.
On energy ourselves, we estimate the net We are proud to be one of the few UK a few sites where electricity generation climate impact from our business was companies with a net positive impact is not viable, we carry out flaring, positive by over 9 million tonnes of against the causes of climate change.
which also transforms methane into CO equivalent in FY15.
Our contribution to the reduction in 2 less harmful carbon dioxide.
UK greenhouse gas emissions has Since 2008 09 we have progressively Approximately 5% of the electricity two main components: driven down the carbon intensity we generate is used to power our of our operations and we intend to f Operational carbon footprint engines and related facilities.
continue to do this through expansion in the year ended 31 March 2015 of our generating capacity and We use fossil fuel diesel and petrol our gross operational carbon improved operational efficiency.
Over in the vehicles we use to travel to footprint was 6,769 tonnes of CO 2 2 the next five years we have targeted and from our sites.
reducing the carbon intensity of our The components of this footprint for operations by a further 25%.
Wind the year, and our relative performance Our wind turbines use a system of Operational carbon footprint rotor blades facing into the wind.
4 3 Scope Type tonnes of CO equivalent When wind is blowing at location- 2 specific thresholds, the spinning 2014 15 2013 14 blades drive a shaft and activate an 1 Road mileage for our company vehicles 1,974 1,625 electrical generator.
Our 16 wind farms include 140 turbines, produced 2 Electricity we purchase to run our 4,432 4,952 business offices and sites enough electricity to power over 120,000 homes annually and saved the 3 Road mileage in employee owned cars 326 377 equivalent of 310,000 tonnes of CO 2. on company business 3 Business travel e. g. flights 37 53 a.
Carbon footprint Harnessing the power of wind to Total 6,769 7,007 create energy is one of the cleanest Carbon intensity of operations and most sustainable methods of electricity generation.
Very minor grams CO equivalent emission per kWh generated 2 greenhouse gas emissions are 6 associated with servicing and 5.0 maintenance requirements rather 5 4.3 than the energy production itself.
The only significant carbon impact 4 3.2 3.1 3.1 comes from the construction and 2.6 2.7 3 transportation of turbines, which we call embedded energy.
This 2 embedded energy in a wind farm 1 may typically be paid back in CO 2 savings within the first year of its 0 20 year design lifespan.
2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 32 03 CSR Infinis Energy plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Waste Managing our environmental impact Our operations generate relatively In addition to our efforts to reduce oil little waste.
Nevertheless we continue waste, we have undertaken a number to work to reduce, reuse or recycle of initiatives, which save on the the key waste streams we do energy we consume, including: generate, such as lubricating oil, 1.
Company cars with the lowest engine parts and general office waste.
Vehicle Excise Duty bands which are Our most significant category of determined by CO emissions, which 2 waste, and our main focus in we started providing in 2007: responsibly reducing waste, is 2.
On-site campaigns to promote lubricating oil.
We do what we can energy savings throughout the to reduce the use of this oil.
Over a business, which have helped reduce number of years we have worked our energy consumption by 10% closely with oil suppliers to develop since 2009: optimum oil blends for the harsh conditions within an LFG engine.
Computerised vehicle tracking As a result, our oil use efficiency which has optimised the efficiency of and engine reliability have improved.
fleet journeys and ensured the nearest We also piloted and adopted a system available technicians are sent to to clean and reuse the oil in our remote jobs: transformers when it does not meet our required technical specifications 4.
Meeting rooms with telephone for our engines, rather than dispose conference and internet meeting of it.
Consequently our levels of oil equipment as an alternative to consumption have fallen from 3.2 business travel.
Video conferencing million litres in 2011 12 to 2.8 million is increasingly used for hosting litres in 2014 15.
Innovations like this meetings between our offices in are essential to reducing our overall Northampton, London and environmental impact and benefit our Edinburgh: and operating and financial performance.
Recycling and shredding facilities Notwithstanding these initiatives, have been installed in our a minimum level of lubricating oil is Northampton and Edinburgh offices, required to ensure the performance along with employee-awareness and efficiency of our LFG engines.
campaigns to promote the facilities.
After use, we sell our lubricating oil to a specialist company which, after processing, sells the majority of it as a lower grade lubricating oil.
The rest is used for fuel by a third party.
1 Calculated by Infinis on the amount of methane captured then destroyed and the amount of renewable electricity generated assuming that it displaces generation of average carbon intensity from the electricity grid 2 We offset much of our operational impact by not claiming ROCs equivalent to the amount of electricity imported.
This results in a net operational carbon footprint of 2,338 tonnes of CO equivalent in FY15 FY14: 2,054 tonnes 2 3 We have reported on emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from UK governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
Our calculations reflect all our business operations except that emissions associated with three offices, where services are provided by others, are regarded as fide minimis and have not been included 4 Scope 1, 2 and 3 are as defined in the international accepted Greenhouse Gas Protocol www.
org 33 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Wider community engagement In addition to conducting consultations Since its inception the Charity At Infinis, we see our with the local communities where we Challenge has supported over 90 neighbours as key partners are developing and operating Infinis charities across the UK with a total in ensuring sustainable sites, we go beyond this in our efforts sum raised of over 70,000.
We are to make a positive impact, through employee nominated charities have committed to making a regular charity contributions.
included the Roy Castle Lung Cancer Foundation, British Heart Foundation, positive contribution to our Our charity contributions programme Misterton and West Stockwith local communities, to building is the Infinis Charity Challenge.
Defibrillator Fund and Beds & strong relationships and Running since 2008, this provides Northants MS Centre.
being a good neighbour support for charities and good causes nominated by employees.
As In October 2014 we presented a wherever we operate.
mentioned in our health and safety cheque for 15,000, raised through section, for each health, safety or near-miss reporting, to Birmingham environmental near-miss reported, Childrens Hospital BCH.
BCH is one the Company makes a 25 donation of only four specialist childrens to the challenge fund.
hospitals in the UK, cares for 140,000 children every year, and is a centre of The Charity Challenge is an excellence for children requiring innovative programme in three ways: cardiac surgery, neurosurgery, trauma surgery and epilepsy surgery.
I t embeds our community investment strategy into our Annie Ransome, Community wider sustainability and Fundraising Consultant at BCH, business objectives: was delighted to receive the cheque, commenting that donations and 2.
It sends a clear message on the public support like that shown by importance of near-miss reporting, Infinis enables the hospital to do successfully increasing the number much more than would otherwise of reports from employees: and be possible.
Thank you to Infinis for supporting our children they 3.
It creates a sense of employee deserve the best and together ownership and engagement with we can give it to them.
community programmes which is why we focus our charity support We are very proud of our Charity on employee nominations.
Challenge scheme and the contributions it has made to charitable causes so far.
Total charity sum raised by the Infinis Charity Challenge 70,000 34
