Corporate Governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee Report Targets and core programmes The Committee continually monitors its progress against IHGs five-year targets 2013-2017 see pages 30 and 31 and www.
Its activities included receiving progress updates on the key achievements in 2015 across the core corporate responsibility programmes: the IHG Green Engage system, IHG Academy and the Groups disaster relief and preparedness programme.
The Committee also considered a detailed review of the progress and implementation of the core programmes in the Greater China and AMEA regions.
Other key issues reviewed by the Committee The Committee also undertook a review of IHGs approach to The Corporate Responsibility responsible procurement and human rights, and reviewed the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act.
Committee is focused on delivering Finally, the Committee considered the establishment of the IHG positive change in the communities Foundation, an independent charitable trust founded to help local in which we operate.
communities address the key social, economic and environmental challenges affecting them.
The IHG Foundation was launched on The Committee advises the Board on the Groups corporate 3 February 2016, and it is anticipated that it will be the focus of the responsibility objectives and strategy and its approach to sustainable Groups employee and community fundraising efforts going forward.
development, and ensures that IHGs corporate responsibility priorities deliver against our core purpose: Great Hotels Guests Love.
Communication and awareness In 2015, the Committee evaluated the Corporate Responsibility Governance Communication Plan and the results of the Employee Engagement Details of our role and responsibilities are set out in our terms of survey.
Responsible business activities continue to drive very high reference ToR which are reviewed annually and updated accordingly.
levels of pride in our employees: over 93 per cent of respondents In 2015, they were updated to include accountability to review and said they felt more positive about IHG as a result of our corporate advise the Board on the Groups approach to social and human rights responsibility programmes.
More information on our responsible issues and the annual Slavery and Human Trafcking Statement.
business programmes is on page 24.
The ToR are available on the Companys website at www.
com We continue to receive good feedback from our investor and media investors under corporate governance committees.
breakfast, which we held again in 2015.
Its an opportunity for us to On 1 March 2015, Anne Busquet was appointed to the Committee and, discuss our approach to corporate responsibility as part of our wider on 19 March 2015, we welcomed Jill McDonald to the Committee, as responsible business agenda in detail, and to answer questions.
Dale Morrison stood down to take up a new role on the Remuneration The Committee also spent time providing feedback on the Committee.
I will be stepping down as Chairman of the Committee 2015 Responsible Business Report, visit www.
com on 6 May 2016, and Jill McDonald will take over as Chair with effect responsiblebusiness to view the report.
Our priorities for 2016 During 2016, our priorities will be to: i continue to drive meaningful progress on our five-year corporate responsibility targets, and consider and determine targets for the period beyond 2017: ii further enhance our efforts to reduce water use in our operations through developing our water stewardship strategy: iii accelerate the roll-out of IHG Academy across our global hotel estate and to deliver a positive impact on participants and our hotels: iv continue to enhance disaster preparedness efforts in IHG hotels and local communities to deliver greater community resilience: v continue to increase awareness of human rights, embed the human rights standard and leverage e-learning courses and other training: and vi continue to deliver the stakeholder engagement plan, with a focus on guest engagement.
I am incredibly proud of the progress we have already made, and I know the Committee will remain focused on delivering positive change in the communities in which we operate, and will continue to seek opportunities to make these communities better places to be for all.
Jennifer Laing Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Our corporate responsibility strategy in action The Committee, along with our Corporate 22 February 2016 Responsibility team and the rest of the Board, took part in a walk to raise awareness of our disaster relief programme.
64 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2015
