Strategic report Sustainability and CSR Intertek has a rich heritage upon which IN THIS SECTION a successful organisation has been built, 47 Our business How we are making a positive contribution to society with a reputation for having strong ethical and the planet through our work for clients.
Doing business the 48 Our people right way is at the very heart of who we Our commitment to the development and well-being of our people.
50 Our environment I am delighted that in 2015 Intertek joined the Sustainable Understanding our impact on the environment Apparel Coalition SAC to support the Higg Index and help and taking action.
improve supply chain sustainability across the global apparel and footwear industries.
Intertek also became a certified 51 Our communities assessor of the Business Environmental Performance Initiative Engaging and partnering with local communities.
BEPI to support brands and retailers aiming to improve supply chain environmental performance.
More about these can be read on page 47.
Our talented people are passionate about their work and provide assurance to clients across the world in almost every market.
Making sure that our culture recognises our people for their contribution and creates opportunities for personal growth is very important to me and we regularly review our personal development and recognition programmes.
Our employees are also encouraged to email me directly with their views through our internal communications channels.
The health and safety of all those who conduct work for, or on behalf of, Intertek and those who visit our premises is of course our priority.
And, while we have reported an increase in lost time and medical treatment injuries overall for 2015, this is largely due to improvements in our global reporting processes more details on page 50.
This report describes Interteks sustainability performance for O ur employees are helping companies 2015 and highlights some of the work we are doing to help our customers manage their operations and produce products and around the world to develop products services in a sustainable and ethical manner.
that are used safely by millions of We remain committed to reducing our own ecological footprint people every day.
and will continue to drive environmental initiatives throughout our operations.
ANDRE LACROIX Chief Executive Officer ANDRE LACROIX Chief Executive Officer 46 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONDING TO DEVELOPMENTS IN VEHICLE Our business EMISSIONS LEGISLATION Intertek is the trusted quality partner of many of the worlds Intertek has been swift to respond to recent changes in panleading brands and companies.
We help our clients to ensure European regulations for light duty vehicle exhaust emissions.
the quality and safety of their products, assets and processes to The legislation mandates for manufacturers to report exhaust protect their brands and gain competitive advantage.
emissions and fuel consumption figures from real-world driving in a variety of road and traffic conditions.
This legislative We enable our clients to improve their performance, gain change comes in part as a response to public disquiet about the efficiencies in manufacturing and logistics, overcome market disparity between officially published laboratory test data and constraints and reduce risk.
Our services span almost every real world figures on fuel consumption and exhaust emissions.
industry, from textiles, toys and electronics, to building, heating, pharmaceuticals, petroleum, food, and cargo Intertek can now offer real world driving analysis of vehicle inspection.
Through our services, we help our clients to improve tailpipe emissions using its new Portable Emissions the social, ethical, safety and environmental impact of their Measurement System.
This new equipment is vehicle mounted, services, supply chains and products that are used by millions thereby allowing manufacturers to report real world driving of people around the world.
emissions on public roads rather than in a laboratory on a wide variety of cars and light commercial vehicles, see page 27.
SUSTAINABLE COALITIONS Intertek has joined the SAC and will use their sustainability INNOVATING AND SUPPORTING RENEWABLE measurement tool, the Higg Index, to drive environmental ENERGY DEVELOPMENT responsibility.
Membership to SAC means that Intertek joins During 2015, Intertek partnered with the Center for the more than 160 global brands, retailers and manufacturers, Evaluation of Clean Energy Technology to offer a first in as well as government, non-profit environmental organisations the renewable energy industry in North America a mobile and academic institutions that are collectively committed to platform for testing photovoltaic PV modules.
This mobile improving supply chain sustainability in the apparel and testing laboratory complements Interteks wide range of quality footwear industries.
assurance services for solar products and installations at fixed laboratory locations.
The Mobile PV Test center can quickly Intertek will contribute both data and resources to support verify PV product quality and efficacy in the field to identify the Higg Index, which gauges environmental sustainability and find solutions for underperforming modules.
and drives supply chain decision-making to improve efficiency and sustainability impacts.
The Higg Index is an open source, STEWARDSHIP AND GOVERNANCE indicator-based tool that allows suppliers, manufacturers, Interteks Board of Directors oversees and has the responsibility brands and retailers to evaluate materials, products, facilities for setting the Groups strategy and performance and risk and processes based on environmental and product management see pages 52 to 62 and 78 to 82.
acknowledges the importance of diversity in the boardroom as a key component of good governance.
As at 31 December In 2015, Intertek was approved as an assessor by the Business 2015, the Boards composition was 30% female and 70% male Environmental Performance Initiative.
Under the BEPI, Intertek and for the senior leadership group 339 people at the end of certifies that an organisations standards and principles show 2015, 22% female and 78% male.
To read more about our commitment to improving environmental impact, while Board Diversity, see page 84. reducing business risks and costs associated with enhanced environmental processes.
Interteks onsite environmental Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through assessments are conducted for brands and retailers aiming policy distribution.
Our operations and support functions are to improve supply chain environmental performance as a responsible for identifying and evaluating risks applicable to result of applying more efficient processes and best in class their areas of the business and the design and operation of environmental systems at the production level.
suitable internal controls see Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 39 to 45.
The Board has overall accountability for BEPI is a voluntary environmental initiative by the Foreign Interteks sustainability and CSR, and the Group-wide strategy Trade Association FTA, which focuses on trade policy and and implementation are the responsibility of the Senior Vice global supply chain compliance to an existing social compliance President of ATIC Customer Service and Operational Excellence.
programme, Business Social Compliance Initiative, which has been in place for 12 years.
The FTA has more than 1,000 members including retailers, importers and brands committed to improving supply chain corporate social responsibility performance.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 47 Strategic report Sustainability and CSR continued Our people Female:Male by region Intertek is a people business, and it is important that our Americas 11,438 41,400 people working globally for customers are engaged in 8,588 what we do and continue to add value in their roles.
To achieve this it is important to consider how we give people 2,850 opportunities, how we integrate people into our mission and values, engaging and inspiring our people to deliver our mission Asia 19,557 and live our lives across our global business in a way that our 11,276 stakeholders expect.
8,281 ENGAGING AND RETAINING TALENTED PEOPLE Our aim is to engage and retain the best available people who EMEA inc Central 10,439 share the mission and values of Intertek.
Prospective employees 7,115 are sourced through a variety of channels, depending on the location and role, in compliance with local regulations for fair 3,324 recruitment practices and equal opportunities.
Jobs at Intertek are posted via our website www.
com careers, Male Female recruitment agencies, social media, print advertisements, Interteks gender diversity reflects the industries and professional bodies and associations, and schools, colleges qualification profiles typical of individuals working in the and universities.
Where possible, we fill vacancies from within countries and business lines in which we operate.
the Company first, in order to offer people career growth and progress within the Group.
Intertek is an Equal Intertek total workforce by gender Opportunities Employer and all qualified applicants are considered for employment regardless of gender, race, Male religion or national origin.
65% 35% Female AN EMPLOYER OF CHOICE In China, where Intertek employs around 9,600 people, the business has been recognised for the eighth time consecutively as one of the top 100 companies in human resource management in 2015.
This year, our Employee Care Plan was recognised as one of the best, together with 11 other world-renowned companies.
com, the award recognises the HR practices which have made a significant contribution to the employee experience and At 31 December 2015 Intertek employed 41,434 people, an their personal development.
increase of 7.9% over the previous year.
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Revenue and headcount Our goal is to hire, engage and retain the best people and provide potential leaders of Intertek with the skills sets needed 2,166 2015 to grow our business.
We want our people to grow by learning 41,434 new skills to help them advance their careers and deliver the 2,093 2014 38,407 best possible service to our customers.
Our talent mapping process is critical to the future success of our organisation 2,184 2013 36,864 to meet business strategy and growth needs.
2,054 2012 34,882 During the year, nearly 100 Intertek managers have participated in our UK Management Development Programme.
1,750 2011 31,739 The 10-month course developed peoples competencies, Revenue m Headcount seeking to bring improvements to customer service and higher confidence levels.
Going forward into 2016, 60 more Intertek Total number of Intertek employees over the past five years in people will take part in the programme.
relation to revenue shows continuing growth in employment Intertek continued its scholarship programme in the USA to and careers.
support the development of students in science, technology, engineering and maths STEM related education to the amount of $50,000 each year.
48 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY HEALTH & SAFETY We apply all employment policies and practices, including The health, safety and welfare of our people, clients and third recruitment, promotion, reward, working conditions and parties connected with the business, are very important.
performance management related policies, in a way that is Our aim is to achieve zero lost time accidents and Intertek is informed, fair and objective.
As such, our inclusion and diversity committed to the continuous review and improvement of its policy acts to eliminate discrimination so that our employees health and safety performance.
All employees are given training are treated fairly and feel respected and included in our on health and safety matters, including emergency response workplaces.
We are committed to maintaining high standards procedures and intervention and reporting of accidents, of fairness, respect and safety and adhere to the principles of incidents and near misses, during on boarding.
Where relevant, the UN Convention on Human Rights and the International all employees and contractors are provided with personal Labour Organizations core conventions.
protection equipment when performing work for the Company.
PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT Lines of communication for health and safety matters exist Intertek strives to help customers meet quality standards.
at every Intertek location globally.
This includes a dedicated This work takes place in many markets in the world and fire warden, first-aider and health and safety representative.
protects them against risk by ensuring compliance with local, These representatives enable us to not only investigate incidents national and international laws.
The validity and accuracy of and implement preventive and corrective actions but also reports and certificates that we provide to our customers and disseminate safety information through toolbox talks and maintaining the trust and confidence of our customers, their continual improvement programmes to target areas of concern.
customers and others impacted by our work, are therefore of During 2015, we improved the process for reporting and utmost importance to us.
managing incidents through the development and All those working for or on behalf of Intertek are required to implementation of a global online incident reporting tool.
sign our Code of Ethics upon joining the Company or before Access to the tool has now been improved to enable employees commencing work on our behalf, confirming acceptance of the to report via the intranet or mobile devices.
high standards expected of them in all business dealings.
The As a result, Intertek has achieved an increase in near-miss Code sets expectations that employees act with integrity and reporting enabling us to proactively manage health and safety.
in an open, honest, ethical and socially responsible manner.
During 2015, there was an 11.9% increase in the rate of lost Intertek employees or people acting on Interteks behalf are time injuries and medical treatment injuries due to increased responsible for applying the Intertek Code of Ethics in their reporting across Intertek.
Also, zero occupational fatalities own job role, their part of the business and location.
their continual understanding, they are required to complete our Code of Ethics training course annually.
2015 2014 2013 Intertek is committed to maintaining a culture where issues Occupational fatalities 0 1 2 of integrity and professional ethics can be raised and discussed Lost time injuries rate 0.18 0.25 0.34 openly and has a strict policy of zero-tolerance regarding Medical treatment 0.48 0.34 0.36 breaches of compliance policy.
We have a well-publicised injuries rate hotline for all employees, contractors and others representing R ates refer to the number of lost-time injuries and medical treatment injuries occurring per Intertek, to enable confidential reporting of suspected 200,000 hours worked.
misconduct or breaches of the Code.
In January 2015, our Asset Integrity Management AIM During 2015 there were 51 reports of non-compliance which In-Service Inspection group surpassed four million work hours were substantiated claims requiring remedial action.
Reports without a lost-time accident or injury.
of non-compliance are closely monitored and the Audit & Risk In addition, on 9 April 2015 the AIM group reached the one Committee reviews the outcomes of the hotline and million hour mark since the last recordable injury.
compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 49 Strategic report Sustainability and CSR continued In relation to Interteks Scope 3 emissions indirect GHG Our environment emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by We aim to minimise the impact of our operations on the Intertek but which relate to the business activities, there are environment through reducing energy consumption in our a number of programmes in place which focus on waste buildings and facilities, utilising renewable sources of energy, management, water management and business travel.
These implementing green waste management practices, minimising programmes seek to reduce GHG emissions in our supply chain.
business travel, carbon offsetting and operating quality BETTER INFORMATION management systems.
To support this effort, our environmental Better data collection has permitted the identification of and climate change policy is implemented through country opportunities within Intertek sites to increase internal management to ensure compliance with local guidelines efficiencies.
A good example of this approach is the collection and regulations.
of granular electricity data in our biggest spending and biggest For 2015, Interteks electricity consumption was reported to be user of electricity, our US business.
This has permitted more 235,873 MWh 5.69 MWh per employee and gas consumption accurate GHG emissions reporting and the more cost-effective was reported to be 83,172 MWh 2.00 MWh per employee.
In 2013, Intertek developed its Greenhouse Gas GHG Our Transportation Technologies business has implemented emissions accounting to include all Intertek operations several  dynamometers in its Milton worldwide.
Since then, the focus has been on increasing Keynes facility in the UK.
In 2015, the energy savings have the quality of information captured and seeking out how the been significant resulting in a reduction of 74 tonnes of CO e. 2 better data collected can add value to the business.
The levels Going forward, this facility expects to self-generate a significant of GHG emissions have been calculated using the guidelines amount of its total electricity demand resulting in further of the GHG protocol and DEFRA and relate to the reporting CO e reductions and significant operating cost reductions.
2 period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.
As the process for accounting for GHG emissions matures more 1 CO e emissions from activities for which Intertek is 2 accurate data will support a targeted approach of allocating responsible include: carbon budgets, absolute emissions reduction targets and or intensity ratio reduction improvement targets to sites to further GHG Emissions implement Interteks commitment to tackling climate change.
1 tonnes of CO2e Scope 1 the combustion of fuel 52,145 STANDARDS Many Intertek sites have environmental management systems operation of facilities 11,583 which are certified to ISO 14001.
Environmental management Scope 2 purchase of electricity, systems support the continuous improvement of energy heat or steam 137,024 consumption and waste and water management, helping to Outside of scope 714 reduce the impact of risk to the environment, control costs and Total emissions 201,466 improve environmental performance.
To this end, in 2015, all of the Cargo & Analytical Assessment laboratories in the UK have Intensity ratios achieved joint ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
2015 CO e per employee 4.86 2 As part of Interteks environmental management system, there 2014 CO e per employee 5.29 2 are strict controls in place to manage the handling, storage and 2013 CO e per employee 5.75 2 disposal of harmful and hazardous substances to minimise the 1.
risk of their release into the environment.
Intertek employees are fully trained in the safe handling of such substances and are It is important to ensure full completeness of the businesss provided with appropriate equipment and clothing to protect GHG emissions globally.
To achieve this actual data were themselves and reduce the risk to the environment.
A critical compiled for all the major operating countries and, where element of permitting continuous improvement is the reporting necessary, to cover some sites that were not able to provide of all incidents which all employees are required to do.
data some figures were extrapolated.
Extrapolation was based on equivalent activity data figures, i. e. electricity and gas consumption, of one employee and then multiplied by the actual amount people at sites.
This was not the case for minor contributions such as fugitive emissions.
Where sites provided data covering only part of the year where, figures were extrapolated linearly to cover the full year.
50 STRATEGIC REPORT INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT In 2015, Intertek China received the Responsibility Case Award Our communities with its public welfare programme Yangtze River Programme.
Our employees cultural values and relationships within the This involved enlisting nearly 100 volunteers to carry out water communities in which they live and work is important to them, quality testing the river which is 4,000 miles long.
Working to our business and to our clients.
Here are some examples of with media and other organisations the profile of clean rivers how our people helped their local communities during 2015. was raised reaching many local communities.
EMEA In the UK, Interteks Exploration and Production business continued to inspire youngsters to embark on careers in the STEM industries through organising school careers events.
An Intertek employee led a campaign to raise awareness of, and action against, water pollution in her local community in KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
The campaign supported an Intertek employees personal development of working towards an environmental management degree and Intertek South Africas social development policy.
Intertek employees in Stuttgart, Germany took time away from their desks to support their local community by attending the annual summer party of Deacon Stetten, a state-owned organisation for assisted-living and permanent care of mentally and physically disabled people.
Volunteers on the Yangtze River Programme receiving certificates of achievement.
Intertek Sweden employees together spent a total of 12 hours on exercise bikes in a relay of spinning classes to raise Intertek Bangladesh took the initiative in helping homeless awareness and money for the Swedish Childhood Cancer people during this years cold winter.
Our volunteers helped to Foundation.
The event, called Spin of Hope, was run procure 200 blankets, 70 of which were distributed in Dhaka simultaneously at some 30 fitness centres across Sweden.
city areas and the rest sent to various other parts of the country APAC such as North Bengal where the winter was particularly harsh.
Intertek India organised the inauguration of Swachh Bharat AMERICAS Abhiyan Initiative, a hygiene and sanitation improvement Intertek volunteers in the US spent a day building roof trusses project driving the development of the Mohan cooperative for a local home, and constructing a playhouse to be raffled off Industrial Estate in New Delhi.
Only 500 metres from Intertek in the community.
Together, Intertek and its employees raised India headquarters, the initiative will focus on ensuring the around $1,000 for Habitat for Humanity of Tompkins and cleanliness and upkeep of the area for the local community.
The initiative, entirely funded by Intertek India to the amount of 170 Lakhs around $250,000 invested over the next few In Mexico, Intertek arranges monthly school visits to its sites years, will help improve the hygiene and sanitation of the area.
each year to support students education in STEM subjects.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2016.
By order of the Board ANDRE LACROIX Chief Executive Officer The unveiling of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan Initiative, New Delhi, India.
Sustainability and CSR Intertek Indonesia has extended its social responsibility This report contains Standard Disclosures from the Global Reporting Initiative GRI programme by participating in the communitys health Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
The programme aims for A table outlining the GRI standard and specific disclosures is provided at the end of this a healthier community by promoting healthy and hygienic document on pages 142 and 143. practices and by providing basic medical and health monitoring services.
INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 51
