Directors Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee As Chairman of the Boards Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee, I oversee the governance of our corporate responsibility activities and the sustainability targets set out in our 20x20Sustainability Plan.
Jean Tomlin Sainsburys is proud to have a Board level corporate responsibility committee, Chairman, Corporate which has been in place since 2007, overseeing our five corporate values: Responsibility and Bestfor food andhealth, Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment, Sustainability Committee Making a positive difference to our community and A great place to work.
Aswe approach the half-way point ofour 20x20 Sustainability Plan, workis underway to review these commitments to ensure they remain aligned to our new strategy.
Since 2007, Sainsburys has continued to innovate in the delivery of our corporate responsibility and sustainability activities.
During 2014 15 our store in Cannock became the first retail outlet in the UK to be solely powered byfood waste, coming off the National Grid.
In another first for the business, our store in Portishead runs fridges powered by green gas, created using waste from sugar beet suppliers.
Success in a number of industry benchmarks has added credibility to our wide range of corporate responsibility activities.
During the year, Sainsburys Dear Shareholder, was the only UK company to be ranked as a Sustainability Leader in the Food and Staples Retailing category of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI.
The DJSI is the leading global sustainability benchmark and Sainsburys is Throughout its 146-year history, one of the few companies that has been a member of the DJSI since its Sainsburyshas looked to lead the way inception in 1999.
This year we outperformed 92 per cent of our industry incorporate responsibility.
Our values category and obtained the highest score for environmental performance worldwide.
Sainsburys also received our highest ever performance score in are embedded in our new strategy and the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP annual survey.
For the first time we are integral to our vision to be the were awarded a position in the CDPs Climate Performance Leadership Index for ouractions to reduce carbon emissions and mitigate thebusiness risks of mosttrusted retailer where people love climate change.
These achievements have been delivered by experts working throughout thebusiness, supported by strong governance.
The Committee is supported by a Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Steering Group, chaired by Mike Coupe, as well as five Value Steering Groups, chaired by members of theOperating Board.
These Value Steering Groups provide updates to the Committee at each of our meetings, with one value area providing an in-depth review of its activities.
In the year, I have also hosted three events for external stakeholders covering pertinent topics within Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our environment and Making a positive difference to our community.
Further information about our approach can be found at www.
Jean Tomlin Chairman, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee 51 Directors Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee continued With our 20x20 Sustainability Plan, we formalised our activities around our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee values in light of the new and changing issues which todays world faces.
Our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee is chaired by JeanTomlin, Mary Harris is a member of the Committee and during the year In developing the plan, we undertook a detailed auditing and materiality Mike Coupe replaced Justin King as a Committee member.
Since its launch in 2011, we have continued to listen to our attends each meeting.
It met twice during the year to oversee the governance customers, suppliers and opinion formers to make sure we have the most of each of our five values as well as our 20x20 Sustainability Plan.
relevant and effective agenda, leverage the knowledge and experience ofexperts and remain at the forefront of sustainability between now These formal Committee meetings are supported by Corporate Responsibility and2020.
The 2015 16 financial year marks the half-way point of our and Sustainability CR&S stakeholder meetings that are hosted by Jean 20x20Sustainability Plan and we are currently reviewing our commitments Tomlin and Mike Coupe.
Each meeting is based around one of our five values to ensure they remain aligned with our new business strategy.
With the and key external stakeholders are invited to attend including representatives clarity of purpose that the 20x20 Sustainability Plan brings, we are focused from Government, industry, non-governmental organisations and key on its delivery, while also ensuring we continue to look beyond 2020. suppliers to our business.
During the year three such meetings were held, relating to the value areas of Sourcing with integrity, Respect for our Further information about our approach can be found at environment and Making a positive difference to our community.
co. uk responsibility, with quarterly updates also given as for our Best for food and health and A great place towork value areas are part of our regular trading statements.
already scheduled for the 2015 16 financial year.
Greenhouse gas emissions We have measured our greenhouse gas GHG footprint since 2005 and set J Sainsbury ourselves a challenging target to reduce our emissions by 30 per cent by 2020, plc Board compared with our 2005 baseline and 65 per cent relative to our sales floor Corporate David Tyler area.
Information on our initiatives to reduce our GHG footprint can be found at Chairman Responsibility www.
and Sustainability Committee GHG emissions tCO e 2 Established January 2007, meets twice annually Emission source 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Jean Tomlin, Chairman Combustion of fuel and operation Non-Executive Director CR&S Steering Group of facilities Scope 1 722,835 635,191 571,673 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling Established 2001, meets twice annually purchased for own use Scope 2 771,380 737,075 794,429 Mike Coupe Total 1,494,215 1,372,266 1,366,102 Chairman, Chief Executive Intensity measurement tCO e 000 sq ft 70.27 61.93 59.87 2 Best for food Health and health Steering The GHG emissions reported for 2013 14 differ from those reported in the 2014 Annual Report Group Sarah Warby because they have been adjusted to correct for previously estimated data.
Due to the short time Marketing Director between financial year-end and Annual Report publication, it was necessary to estimate some gas and electricity consumption data.
Sourcing with integrity Product In 2014 15, our total emissions decreased by almost half a per cent.
This was Paul Mills-Hicks Forum Food Commercial Director in part driven by installing natural refrigerant gases in 31 stores during the year.
Respect for our Emissions from electricity use Scope 2 reported for 2014 15 increased by environment nearly eight per cent, affected by a change in the National Grid average Environment John Rogers Steering carbon conversion factor set by the Department for Environment, Food & Chief Financial Officer Group Rural Affairs.
However, in 2014 15 our electricity consumption actually reduced by three per cent year-on-year as a result of our investment in Making a positive energy reduction initiatives, such as the installation of LED lighting.
Overall, difference to our community Community our energy reduction activities have decreased electricity use by nearly Steering Roger Burnley eightper cent since 2005 06 despite a 50 per cent increase in sales area.
Group Retail and Operations Director Intensity ratio A great place to work In order to express our annual emissions in relation to the growth of our A Great Angie Risley Place To Work business, we report an emissions intensity measurement, calculated using Group HR Director Steering sales area 000 sq ft.
Using this measure, our emissions intensity decreased Group by three per cent in 2014 15 to just under 60 tCO e 000 sq ft. 2 Methodology The terms of reference of the Committee are available at We have reported for the 2014 15 financial year on all of the emission sources www.
required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We have calculated and reported our emissions in This years 20x20 Sustainability Plan update will be published in line with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard December2015.
revised edition and emission factors from the Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The boundaries of the GHG inventory Our 20x20 Sustainability Plan are defined using the operational control approach.
In general, the emissions We have sought throughout our 146-year history to lead the way in corporate reported are the same as those which would be reported based on a financial responsibility and sustainability.
Examples of our contribution over the past control boundary.
Due to the short time between financial year-end and decade include supporting British farming: transforming the market for fairly report publication, it was necessary to estimate some gas and electricity traded products and sustainable seafood: improving animal welfare: and consumption data.
Gas and electricity emission calculations could be subject championing food donation partnerships.
