Strategic Report We know our customers better than anyone else Knowing our customers better helps us serve them better.
By anticipating their needs and surpassing their expectations, we earn their trust and loyalty Customers are at the heart of our business and for our future success we need to understand what they want.
We talk to customers regularly to get a detailed picture of how they shop with us across all our channels and to find out what they value, how their needs are changing and how we can serve them better.
This insight, combined with great products, a brand that people trust, the right retail space in good locations and technology that helps us deliver what our customers want, gives us a competitive advantage, now and in the future.
We take every opportunity to talk to our customers through face-to-face, telephone and online conversations.
Focus groups and accompanied shopping with customers in our stores help us understand what people want when it comes to products, service and values.
Trolley Talk, 15.5m our new online customer panel launched in September, enables us to reach around 4,000 people online every week.
The insight we gain helps us identify what is important and we can Nearly 15.5 million action change quickly and effectively.
For example, Trolley Talk highlighted that the price dairy of our customers farmers are paid for their milk was a concern to many people.
As a result, we took the initiative regularly use to advertise that we pay our farmers a higher price for milk than many of our peers.
We also a Nectar card get valuable feedback from store colleagues and through our customer Careline.
20 21 Strategic Report To make the most of our opportunities for growth, over time we are investing in ways to become increasingly effective in our customer interactions, giving a smoother shopping experience such asthrough mobile scan and go.
Our Nectar loyalty scheme is the source of much of our insight and gives us an important competitive advantage.
Nearly 15.5 million Nectar card holders shopped with us during the year 21,500 in-store, online and through Sainsburys Bank giving us valuable information that increases our knowledge of how our customers are shopping and interacting with us.
Over 21,500 customers have With Nectar and coupon-at-till technology, we are able to reward customers in a targeted way, and this increases loyalty to Sainsburys.
Customers who shop all our channels spend more than participated twice as much as those who only shop for food in our stores.
During the year we sent 35 million in our Trolley Talk personalised mailings to Nectar card holders, using their shopping preferences to offer vouchers feedback since it andother special offers for the products they want to buy.
launched in In October, we announced changes to the way customers earn Nectar points with customers September accruing one instead of two points per 1 spend from April 2015.
As part of this we are re-investing in the scheme by launching a programme of high-value bonus events, like 10x points on fuel, that will help customers points go further.
35m This year we sent 35million personalised mailings to Nectar cardholders for the products they want to buy Personalised Nectar mailout 20 21
