Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate and Social Responsibility The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to ensure its Equality and Diversity business is carried out in a way that ensures high standards The Group is committed to promoting policies which are of environmental and human behaviour.
With the help and designed to ensure that employees and those who seek to work co-operation of all employees, the Group endeavours to comply for the Group are treated equally regardless of sex, marital with all relevant laws in order to meet that duty and responsibility status, creed, colour, race, religion or ethnic origin.
The major contributions of the Group in The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for this respect are detailed below.
employment by people who are disabled, to continue whenever possible the development of staff who become disabled and Our Employees to provide equal opportunities for the career development of The Group is a large equal opportunities employer and a large disabled employees.
It is also Group policy to provide training organisation with the Groups retail businesses providing opportunities for the large number of people seeking flexible direct employment and career development to thousands of or part time hours.
people, both in the UK and internationally.
The Group employs A breakdown by gender of the number of employees who large numbers of school leavers and university graduates and were Directors of the Company, Senior Managers and other participates regularly in work experience schemes with schools employees as at 31 January 2015, is set out below.
Retail personnel across all levels within the Groups core UK, % % Republic of Ireland and JD France, Spain, The Netherlands and Male Female Total Male Female Germany fascias are encouraged to take ownership of their PLC Board 4 - 4 100% - own careers and to actively seek development and progression.
Senior Managers 91 36 127 72% 28% Training All Employees 8,274 7,551 15,825 52% 48% The Group recognises that Training and Development for all levels of personnel is vital in maximising performance levels Senior Managers is defined as - and also provides a useful mechanism for increasing morale 1 persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling and retention.
This ensures that knowledge of our differentiated the activities of the Company, or a strategically significant product offering remains in our stores, thereby enhancing part of the Company, other than Company Directors and: customer service.
2 any other Directors of subsidiary undertakings Training for the UK, Republic of Ireland and International stores is provided by the Groups long-established training function.
Communication The Training team now includes a fascia-specific Training The number and geographic dispersion of the Groups operating Manager for Size?
along with training support for Head Office locations make it difficult, but essential, to communicate including extended support for the Multichannel and IT effectively with employees.
departments and the Kingsway Distribution Centre.
Communication with retail staff is primarily achieved through the The training function produces, designs and delivers various management in the regional and area operational structures.
programmes for all fascias and territories in order to ensure In addition, formal communications informing all employees operational consistency throughout the Group.
of the financial performance of the Group are issued on a Training received by all retail personnel is quality-controlled and regular basis by the Groups Human Resources Department measured via the use of electronic assessments.
There are 36 in the form of Team Briefs.
This department also produces a types of electronic assessments across all retail fascias, covering booklet four times a year for distribution within the Groups all progression levels within the business.
Head Office and Warehouse called People 1st.
Training and development is provided across a number of areas: Health and Safety Average We are committed to ensuring a safe environment for all of our No.
of Number of employees and customers and actively encourage a positive courses in Length attendees on health and safety culture throughout the organisation.
The Group a year of course each course recognises its responsibility for health and safety and there is New Retail Management Induction 23 5 days 16 accountability throughout the various management levels within Retail Training Academy 3 12 weeks 20 the business.
Our commitment to Health and Safety is best evidenced as follows: Junior Retail Management Development 60 4 hours 10 The Health and Safety team has been further strengthened in the year to provide direct support for our main distribution Miscellaneous Management Development centre in Rochdale.
including Retail & Head Office 40 0.5 day 10 We have continued to develop a comprehensive induction Head Office Induction 24 0.5 day 10 and training programme which is regarded as an essential part of our commitment to health and safety.
Our monthly Chausport and Sprinter operate their own training programmes newsletter ensures that the safety message is communicated which are more suited to those particular fascias.
56 Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility Continued Our Health and Safety Committee meets four times a year allowing every employee the opportunity to raise any safety concerns through their nominated representative.
The Health and Safety team has input into all our new and refitted stores from the initial design through to opening.
The team conducts its own audit programme to ensure the highest safety standards during the construction phase of all our shop-fit projects.
The Health and Safety team regularly review the management processes we have in place, with the aim of maintaining our high standards, whilst adapting to business and legislative changes.
A report is produced on a monthly basis to ensure that the Board is kept regularly informed on the Groups health and safety performance.
Targets are set to enable measurement of performance.
During the year we have seen positive improvements in these areas demonstrating the further development of a positive safety culture within the organisation including: - Reportable employee accident numbers remained constant following a reduction of 15% in the prior year.
- Local authority inspection numbers decreased by 33%.
- Fire officer inspections numbers decreased by 9%.
- Area Manager health and safety performance remained constant.
Environment The Group recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact that its businesses have on the environment and are committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration for the potential environmental impact both now and in the future.
We continue to comply with the UK Governments carbon reduction commitment and have the following as the key areas of focus: Ensuring efficient use of energy and other materials.
Maximising the amount of waste which is recycled.
Ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
Energy Basic Principals The Groups core business is Retail and it is the Groups aim to give customers an enjoyable retail experience with goods presented attractively in an environment that is both well-lit and has a pleasant ambient temperature.
However, the Group accepts that all the businesses within it must be responsible in their energy usage and associated carbon emissions.
This policy applies in all territories.
Carbon Management Programme The Group maintains a Carbon Management Programme CMP which is sponsored by the Chief Financial Officer and is reviewed regularly.
The objectives of this programme are: Objective Action & Progress 1.
Understand the drivers and timing of usage by continued investment in energy This has now been achieved in over 531 of the Groups sites with ongoing rollout planned smart meters.
Combined with the stores where accurate and timely usage data is already received from mandatory half hourly meters, this means that in excess of 96% of the UK and Republic of Ireland electricity consumption and 72% of gas consumption is automatically measured every 30 minutes.
Reduce energy usage in non-trading periods.
In the period to 31 January 2015, the Group has invested in Building Management Systems in 150 of its highest energy consuming stores in the UK.
The project covers all fascias and is delivering average energy savings of 20% and a payback in less than 12 months.
This technology is now fitted in all new stores as standard with further retrofits scheduled for 2015.
Reduce energy usage through investment in lighting technology.
Working with our preferred lighting suppliers, we have improved the design of the 23 Watt LED lamps, which are used as standard in all new shopfits, delivering an 11% improvement in power efficiency compared to the previous design.
Our standard retail LED lamps now use approximately 60% less electricity compared to the 70 Watt conventional lamps which were used as standard in 2010.
Reduce energy usage through staff awareness and training.
Retail staff have a key role to play in the execution of the CMP.
All new managers receive training in energy management as part of their wider training programme.
Purchase energy competitively from sustainable sources wherever possible.
The Group has placed new supply contracts in the UK except Northern Ireland and renewed with Airtricity whole island of Ireland in 2014.
Both contracts are to supply the Groups core businesses with 100% of its electricity requirement from either renewable or other sustainable sources.
Newly acquired businesses are migrated to these contracts when possible.
Ensure all business activities are aware of their impact on energy consumption.
A multi-disciplined approach to the CMP is adopted with considerable focus also given to reducing usage in the Groups warehouses and offices.
Ensure that the CMP applies to all businesses in all territories.
The CMP applies to all business in the Group.
We work closely with the local management after acquisition to identify gaps and implement group strategies.
57 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate and Social Responsibility Continued KPIs Objectives For The Period To January 2016 The Group is committed to using and subsequently reporting on The Group is committed to investing in the necessary resources appropriate KPIs with regards to energy usage.
Accordingly, the to help achieve its targets on reducing carbon emissions, with Group can report the following which have been calculated the following works planned for the year to 30 January 2016: based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard using emissions Continue to expand the reach of the CMP by working with factors from UK government conversion factor guidance for the newly acquired businesses the year reported.
The emissions reported correspond with our Retrofit further stores with the 23 Watt LEDs for retail lighting financial year and reflect emissions from the leased and thereby further reducing energy consumption and heat controlled assets for which the Group is responsible.
gain in the retail environment Emissions are predominately from electricity use and delivery Further investment in the use of building management systems vehicle fuel consumption for our UK operations.
Emissions from to allow remote monitoring and control of building services the Groups overseas operations are low relative to UK activities.
Review energy usage and practices at the main warehouse 2014 15 2013 14 in Kingsway, Rochdale 2 2 Tonnes CO Tonnes CO Global GHG emissions from: Conduct investment grade energy surveys across the property Equivalent Equivalent portfolio which go beyond our ESOS obligations Combustion of fuels & operation of facilities i 6,150 6,724 Interaction with Pentland Group Plc Purchased electricity, heat, stream & cooling 34,564 33,216 Under the current rules of the statutory Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency scheme CRC, the Groups Intensity measurement ii submission to the UK Environment Agency is aggregated with Emissions reported above normalised to that of Pentland Group Plc who is the Groups ultimate holding per m revenue 29 33 company see note 35.
The Group continues to work closely with Pentland Group Plc on ensuring an efficient process with i Excludes facility F-Gas emissions regards to the emissions trading scheme which was introduced in April 2010, as part of the CRC.
ii Like for like revenues for businesses that have contributed full years both years Recycling The following businesses are excluded from the data above as Wherever possible, cardboard the major packaging their contribution is not considered material at this time: constituent is taken back to the Groups distribution centres.
The cardboard is then baled and passed to recycling businesses JD Sports Fashion GmbH for reprocessing.
During the year, the amount of cardboard Kooga Rugby Limited recycled increased further to 1,322 tonnes 2014: 993 tonnes.
Mainline Menswear Limited The Group has expanded its use of the Dry Mixed Recycling Source Lab Limited DMR scheme to all pre-existing stores and businesses in the Tiso Group Limited UK, Ireland and The Netherlands to divert as much waste as possible away from landfill.
The scheme will be rolled out to JD Sports Fashion SRL other newly acquired businesses as soon as this is possible.
Whilst it is not mandatory, the Group remains committed to In the period to 31 January 2015 we recycled 92% 2014: 89% presenting data with regards to energy usage and carbon of our DMR waste with the remainder being used as an footprint on a like for like basis in respect of those locations energy-from-waste EfW material.
in the Groups core operations in the UK and Republic of Our Kingsway Distribution Facility continues to be a zero waste Ireland that have been present for the full year in both years: to landfill site.
% In addition to the DMR scheme, there are four other main 2015 2014 Change elements to our recycling strategy: Energy Usage Electricity MWh 56,080 58,254 Confidential paper waste is shredded on collection by a Energy Usage Natural Gas MWh 2,474 2,809 recycling business.
This business provides a Certificate of Environmental Accomplishment which states that the Total Energy Use MWh 58,554 61,063 shredded paper, which was collected in the year, was the 2 Carbon Footprint Tonnes CO 28,232 29,370 -4% equivalent of 2,862 trees 2014: 2,884 trees Photocopier and printer toners laser and ink are collected and recycled for charity by Environmental Business Products Limited Food waste is separated where possible and reused in the production of compost 58 Strategic Report Corporate and Social Responsibility Continued Plastic Bags to the ETI Base Code standard.
Asia Inspections is a global quality and compliance solutions provider which performs Approximately 35% of the bags issued by the Groups like for like factory audits.
In the year to 31 January 2015, 60% of the businesses are high quality drawstring duffle bags, which are current supplier base was audited with the results reported to generally reused by customers many times.
However, the Group the Group Sourcing and Supply Chain Manager.
Our Supply is aware of the environmental impact of plastic bags and has base has been reduced in this period by 40% as the Group sought to minimise any impact through the following measures: amalgamates its sourcing strategy.
The bags are made from 33% recycled material Due to the diverse nature and scope of the supply chain, The bags contain an oxobiodegradable additive, it is not always possible to visit all of the factories directly.
which means that they degrade totally over a relatively Where instances of non-compliance are identified from the short life span risk assessment forms and or audits and the supplier cannot The use of this material has also been adopted in an additional be visited, they are required to provide evidence of corrective 60% of the Groups plastic bags handed out to customers.
action and subsequently re-graded against the initial report.
The Group uses paper-based bags rather than plastic bags in its These actions will be verified directly by the Groups Compliance stores in the Republic of Ireland and we are also fully compliant team as soon as practically possible on a future visit.
with the carrier bag charge scheme introduced by the devolved All suppliers are contractually obliged to comply with the administrations in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Groups Conditions of Supply which includes a specific policy on Employment Standards for Suppliers.
Human Rights The Group endorses the principles set out in the United Nations Our Communities Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International The Group seeks to be involved in the community where it Labour Organisations Declaration on Fundamental Principles can make an appropriate contribution from its resources and and Rights at Work which seek to ensure safe and fair working skills base.
Our suppliers are selected upon In 2011 we undertook a three year commitment to The Christie and contractually committed to the Group on the basis of their Hospital to help raise 500,000 for the teenage cancer unit.
The fundraising events have included Team JD running the BUPA Ethical Sourcing Great Manchester Run and our successful charity balls.
In 2014 we exceeded our nominated charity target and raised a total The Group seeks to provide its customers with high quality of 518,000.
The funds raised through the partnership has and value merchandise from suppliers who can demonstrate helped The Christie to build and develop the UKs premier compliance with internationally accepted core labour and young oncology unit, helping to fund vital research into new ethical standards throughout their supply chain.
These standards treatments, provide equipment, counseling, activities for the are based upon the provisions of the Ethical Trading Initiative young patients and support for their families.
ETI Base Code and specifically cover areas such as wages, working hours, health and safety and the right to freedom of Other examples of community engagement include: association.
We sponsor a Special Needs school in Coimbatore, India The Group requires all of its suppliers, both existing and new, which accommodates 30 children who have Cerebral Palsy, to formally commit to implementing the provisions of the ETI Downs syndrome, deafness and autism.
We have paid for Base Code throughout their supply chains.
Prior to any orders one years education for each child.
being placed, all new suppliers are required to complete the In addition we sent each child at the school a Christmas Groups risk assessment form to indicate their degree of present box which was delivered to them on Christmas Eve.
compliance to the ETI Base Code.
All existing suppliers are also Donations from within the Head Office also funded four required to conduct this assessment on an annual basis.
These cartons of toys to be sent to an orphanage in the same area.
forms are reviewed by the Groups Compliance team and any We made a donation to The Marina Dalglish Appeal of areas of concern with regard to potential non-compliance are 4,000 to improve cancer treatment facilities in Liverpool.
investigated when visiting the factories concerned.
These reports are shared by the Group in a central base and those travelling We made donations of 8,000 to Cancer Research UK and are encouraged to take all documentation from the base with 500 to Children with Cancer.
them when visiting the factories so that follow up can be done on a continual basis.
The Group has engaged Asia Inspections to complete an audit and compliance programme of the Groups current suppliers Brian Small Chief Financial Officer 15 April 2015 59
