OUR PEOPLE JIMMY CHOO IS A DYNAMIC COMMUNITY OF HIGHLY SKILLED PEOPLE THAT HAVE BEEN BROUGHT TOGETHER AROUND A UNIQUE BRAND THAT WE FEEL PASSIONATELY ABOUT FROM BOARD MEMBERS, TO PEOPLE WORKING IN DESIGN, FINANCE, MERCHANDISING, COMMUNICATION, LEGAL, AFTERSALES, HR, STORE PLANNING, REGIONAL MANAGERS TO SALES ASSOCIATES IN STORE, WE ARE ALL WORKING TOWARDS A SHARED VISION, WHICH FORMS THE CORE OF OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY HERITAGE CULTURE OUR PAST OUR PASSION We respect our entrepreneurial heritage and never We thrive on talent and passion.
We are a great place forget that our brand began in a humble shop for smart people with an urgent passion to build the offering extraordinary service, design and quality.
brand and serve the customer.
TEAMWORK CREATIVITY OUR PEOPLE OUR LIFEBLOOD No one person or team can do it alone.
The brand is We lead through our creativity whether in bigger than any individual.
We challenge, align and designing beautiful product or improving show a united front.
INTEGRITY CUSTOMER FOCUS OUR VALUES OUR JUDGE We are always proud of what we do and how we There is one version of the truth treat each other.
We have high ethical standards the customer is our judge and jury.
and give back to the communities we serve.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 40 CREATING A DIVERSE COMMUNITY The Executive Directors present the Strategic Plan for the year We believe that businesses thrive from the sharing of knowledge and annually to all corporate employees and managers within the retail experiences.
In order to make the most of the cross fertilisation of business.
This is supported by regular communication in relation to ideas, we employ people from a diverse range of professional and organisational changes in the business and sales data relevant to cultural backgrounds, not only because it is the right thing to do, but each employees region and responsibilities.
This regular update also because it enhances our work environment and strengthens our serves to introduce new colleagues, as well as provide information ability to nurture and grow the business.
on how we are performing against the strategic framework towards which we are all working.
The Group is committed to a policy of treating all of its employees and job applicants equally.
No employee or potential employee will Jimmy Choo is a dynamic environment and it is important to ensure receive less favourable treatment or consideration on the grounds of that the views of our employees are taken into account as we change race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, sex, gender and grow.
We therefore consult at local, regional and global levels at reassignment, sexual orientation, age, marital status, civil partnership an early stage where any changes may impact our employees.
This status, pregnancy, maternity or disability, or will be disadvantaged by process is supported by a clear open door policy with our HR team any conditions of employment or requirements of the Company that and a transparent approach, where appropriate, in the business.
cannot be justified as necessary on operational grounds.
All employees are encouraged to come forward with ideas and concerns.
This consultation has positive results for the long-term We have a comprehensive diversity policy which ensures that growth of the business, such as the introduction of new everyone who works at one of our workplaces, whether they are management training specifically designed to help our employees directly employed by Jimmy Choo or not, is protected from direct and develop into the senior managers of tomorrow.
indirect discrimination, harassment or victimisation, whether PROMOTION AND TRAINING deliberate or accidental.
In addition, we commit to ensuring that the In order to help our employees to grow within the business, training work environment is suitable for our employees to carry out their is offered throughout Jimmy Choo.
Training and development duties, with adjustments to equipment, location and working does not stop because someone is pregnant or has childcare practices where necessary.
We never assume that such employees are not interested in promotion.
We have put policies in place to ensure that the recruitment process is free from bias and that equal work receives equal pay.
We offer training appropriate to each employees current responsibilities, as well as those they need in order to progress There should be no discrimination on account of race, colour, within the business to achieve their potential.
Training is organised nationality, ethnic origin, religion or belief, sex, gender bythe Company and with external providers, where required, at reassignment, sexual orientation, age, marital status, civil Jimmy Choos expense.
partnership status, pregnancy, maternity or disability.
The Group will appoint, train, develop and promote on the basis Overall, we employed 1,157 people as at 31 December 2015.
those, 78% 898 were female and 22% 259 were male.
Of our All employees have personal responsibility for the practical eight member Executive Management Team, 63% five are female application of the Groups equal opportunity policy, which extends and 37% three are male.
Finally, of our eleven member Board, to the treatment of employees and clients.
27% three are female and 73% eight are male.
Special responsibility for the practical application of the Companys equal opportunity policy falls upon all managers and VARIABLE AWARDS supervisors involved in the recruitment, selection, promotion and All employees are incentivised with an element of variable training of employees.
compensation linked to metrics relevant to their role and function.
The Groups grievance procedure is available to any employee Atretail, this is largely linked to sales commission, whereas in the who believes that he or she may have been unfairly treated.
corporate side of the business, the variable component of pay Disciplinary action is taken against any employee who is found to islinked to a mix of metrics relating to the Companys overall have committed an act of unlawful discrimination.
Discriminatory performance and their particular role and function.
This blended conduct will be treated as gross misconduct and may lead to approach promotes the ethos that everyone at Jimmy Choo is summary dismissal.
responsible not only for their own role but working together to INVOLVING OUR PEOPLE IN THE BUSINESS promote the whole business within the strategic framework.
We want all of our employees to be part of Jimmy Choos success.
VALUES AWARDS This means not only excelling in their particular role, but also taking We invite managers to nominate members of their teams an interest in and influencing outcomes across the business.
We do annually to be recognised in front of their peers as people this through active two way communication, training, individual whohave achieved something exceptional and acted as recognition and variable rewards linked to corporate results.
a role model for our Company Values.
COMMUNICATION Our internal communication strategy is designed to ensure that the strategic framework and value creation architecture of the Board is well understood by all employees.
We keep employees up to date onthe medium-term plans for how we aim to achieve those goals, aswell as on the day to day progress of the business.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 41
