72 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5.
Environment 74 Improving Our Processes and Performance 75 Environmental Performance 77 Environmental Awareness 495 thousand tonnes CO equivalent, total global warming potential 2 9% reduction in waste to landfill ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 73 Battery Materials for a Greener Future Our business is built around sustainable technologies and using our expertise to find solutions that optimise the use of natural resources and protect the environment.
One of our new business areas is battery technologies, where innovation could unlock the broader commercialisation of fully electric, zero emission vehicles.
We are investing in R&D to create the next generation of battery technologies that will benefit the planet and fuel our business growth.
One of the newest additions to our growing network of technology centres, the Johnson Matthey research facility in Singapore, is exploring battery materials, tapping into the pool of talent that the country offers and strengthening our position in Asia.
Research scientist Suzi Deng from the Singapore Technology Centre talks about her work.
What is your role at the Singapore Technology Centre and what projects are you working on?
I am a chemist by background and Im working on new battery technologies.
Battery cells consist of a number of different component materials.
On the one hand, I am looking at how to optimise the formulations and synthesis of these components.
On the other, I am also investigating how the components work together so we can maximise the synergies between them to deliver better material performance.
Could you tell us something about the performance of lithium-ion batteries and the current technology challenges?
What you need in an electric vehicle is a battery that provides power density for acceleration and energy density which allows the vehicle to run for a reasonable distance.
Lithium-ion, or Li-ion, is the most promising technology available today.
Li-ion batteries have power and energy densities sufficient for hybrid electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids, but the energy density needed for distance must be improved if they are to meet customer expectations for fully electric vehicles.
Furthermore, these batteries have to last 10 to 15 years, their cost has to be controlled and they need to be safe to use in all conditions.
It is great to be working on developing new technologies to tackle these challenges.
As a scientist, how do you see the future of batteries?
Pressures on the environment have forced us to think about how we generate energy and adopt more sustainable approaches.
Interest in the use of batteries is not only confined to transport.
Improvements in battery technologies will also make it easier and cheaper to store on the grid the electrical power that is generated by renewable energy sources such as solar panels and wind turbines.
The result would be less reliance on power sources such as oil, gas, coal and nuclear.
A lot of effort has been put into battery research and I hope this will accelerate a solution for batteries that can be used in both electric vehicles and for grid energy storage.
Other battery technologies that we will be working on and have potential for the future include aluminum-ion and sodium-ion batteries, which are conceptually similar to Li-ion.
This will enable the wider use of these power sources by smoothing their fluctuating output as its not always sunny or windy to match the varying customer demand.
Theres certainly a lot happening in the area.
Suzi Deng Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 74 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5.
Environment Environment Performance Summary 2015 2014 % change 1 Energy consumption thousands GJ 5,360 5,015 7 2 Total global warming potential thousand tonnes CO equivalent 495 463 7 2 Total acid gas emissions tonnes SO equivalent 394 405 -3 2 Total VOC emissions tonnes 154 209 -26 Total waste tonnes 106,494 121,594 -12 Total waste to landfill tonnes 3,482 3,819 -9 3 Water consumption thousands m 2,529 2,564 -1 1 Restated to include energy derived from the combustion of bottled gases at a small number of sites.
2 Restated to include Scope 1 manufacturing process derived emissions and emissions due to the combustion of bottled gases.
At Johnson Matthey we make a major contribution to protecting the environment.
We do this by responsibly managing the resources we use, the way we operate our businesses and through the effect of our products and services on the environment.
A key element of our business is the Our Sustainability 2017 and Work to achieve our targets is done application of our expertise in chemistry Manufacturing Excellence programmes at business and site level.
Each of our to turn natural resources into value are well established, enabling us to businesses sets internal reduction adding sustainable technologies for our increase resource efficiency within our targets which are formally reviewed as customers.
For example, our process own operations, generating cost savings part of the annual budget process to catalysts that improve resource efficiency for our business today and helping to ensure that they are aligned with the and our emission control catalysts for improve our environmental performance Sustainability 2017 and Manufacturing vehicles both have a positive impact on and conserve resources for the future.
Excellence programmes and are the environment.
We invest heavily in contributing to the groups goals.
In R&D to support the development of Read more on the environmental addition to process improvement efforts, the next generation of products with benefits of our products at efficiency and longevity of equipment are sustainability benefits and are proud to www.
com sustainability considered in purchasing decisions and say that 89% of the products that we products.
for large capital expenditure projects.
At group level, we have well We operate in a world where established policies, systems and Improving Our Processes increased demand for key resources processes in place to manage and Performance and critical raw materials can expose the environmental performance and help In our Sustainability 2017 programme, group to the risk of price volatility and us realise continuous improvement.
we set ourselves a series of tough even the availability of resources.
So we All our major manufacturing sites are targets to improve environmental apply our technical expertise to mitigate required to maintain certification to the performance.
We state that we want to these risks.
ISO 14001 environmental management cut our carbon intensity by half, achieve We do this in three ways.
Firstly, system as a means of setting, zero waste to landfill and halve the key we develop products which deliver the maintaining and improving standards.
resources per unit of output consumed same performance but have a lower The group also requires new or acquired compared with baseline data from 2007 content of critical raw materials for sites to achieve ISO 14001 certification by 2017.
We identified natural gas, example, we reduce the proportion of within two years of beneficial operation electricity and water as our most rare earth materials in our emission or acquisition.
The battery systems significant resources in the context of control catalysts and refinery additives.
business, acquired in October 2012, how available these resources are now Secondly, we develop products that has now achieved ISO 14001 and all and will be in the future taking into can be manufactured in a less resource other recent acquisitions are on track account factors such as accessibility, intensive way.
One example is our to achieve accreditation this year.
geopolitical conditions and infrastructure, compact catalysed soot filter product for together with costs and the quantities we diesel cars.
Finally, we develop products Go online for full details of our use.
To help us to meet our targets and that enable our customers to lower their policies and strategies at aspirations, we have in place long term own environmental footprint: this is www.
environmental improvement plans, and something that our process catalysts do.
performance indicators have been agreed.
Read more on our Sustainability 2017 progress on page 2.
75 Environmental Performance Energy Consumption Scope 1 emissions generated by The groups total energy consumption the direct burning of fuel, Johnson Matthey undertakes a increased by 7% to 5,360 thousand GJ, predominantly natural gas, and comprehensive annual review of group which represents a 2% increase relative process derived CO emissions.
2 environmental performance which to sales.
This was primarily caused by an Scope 2 emissions generated covers all manufacturing and R&D increase in natural gas consumption due from grid electricity and steam use facilities.
Data is presented for a five year to the expansion of our manufacturing at our facilities.
period for ten environmental indicators facilities at Savannah in the USA.
Total on page 187 of this report.
Year on year Scope 3 emissions from the losses electricity usage relative to sales declined performance is highlighted on the associated with transmission and by 1% although natural gas used following pages.
Of the We recorded decreases in seven energy consumed in 2014 15, 64% arose In 2014 15 emissions of CO derived 2 of our ten environmental indicators this from direct sources i. e. various fuels and from our manufacturing processes year whilst at the same time growing natural gas combusted by the group and reached a level which we determined to our business.
This is the result of our 35% from consumed electricity generated be material and so we have included it in ongoing Sustainability 2017 and by a supplier.
1% was generated locally our Scope 1 emissions for the first time.
Manufacturing Excellence programmes from zero carbon sources.
We have also restated our total GWP which aim to reduce our impact on the Energy consumption for 2014 has for 2014 to include such manufacturing environment.
There were increases in been restated to include energy derived process derived emissions and also to three indicators: energy consumption, from the combustion of bottled gases at include emissions due to the combustion total global warming potential GWP and a small number of sites and which had of bottled gases at a small number of emissions of oxides of nitrogen NOx, been included in prior years data.
This caused our total GWP for primarily as a result of expansion in 2013 14 to increase compared to the total production at our facility in Savannah, GWP reported in the 2014 annual report.
This plant has almost doubled its In 2014 15 the groups total GWP We report greenhouse gas emissions production capacity, leading to an increased by 7% to 495 thousand from process and energy use and increase in energy consumption.
This increase convert the total group energy use to 2 additional facilities were designed to is principally due to an increase in the tonnes of carbon dioxide CO equivalent minimise water use, reduce waste and 2 Scope 1 emissions at our Savannah using national and regional conversion emissions to air, and they have proved site, as its new production facility came factors for each emission source as to be very successful in these areas.
Relative to sales, our appropriate.
The groups total GWP Johnson Mattheys sales excluding total GWP increased by 2%.
The is based on the following as defined precious metals sales grew by 5% in breakdown of the groups total GWP by the greenhouse gas protocol the year.
Eight of our ten indicators all is shown in the table below.
org : but energy consumption and total GWP reduced relative to the rate of growth of the groups sales, demonstrating the Total Global Warming Potential 2015 2014 positive impact of our efforts.
thousand 2015 thousand 2014 There were no significant fines tonnes CO % of total tonnes CO % of total 2 2 1 equivalent GWP equivalent GWP and no non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Scope 1 208 42% 184 40% and regulations in the year.
Scope 2 261 53% 253 55% Scope 3 from electricity transmission and distribution 26 5% 26 5% Total global warming potential 495 100% 463 100% 1 Restated to include manufacturing process derived emissions and emissions due to the combustion of bottled gases.
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 emissions Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 emissions Tonnes GJ 000 GJ Tonnes CO equivalent Tonnes CO equivalent from electricity supply million sales 2 2 million sales Tonnes CO equivalent 2 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 76 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 5.
Environment Environment continued Although we consumed more Other Emissions Water Consumption natural gas than electricity, natural gas Emissions from our operations are During the year, water consumption has lower carbon intensity than grid generated from a number of sources decreased by 1% compared with 3 electricity and thus represents a lower including combustion processes, 2013 14 to 2.5 million m : relative to proportion of GWP.
materials handling and chemical sales, water consumption decreased We do not report fully on our Scope 3 reactions and are typically licensed by 6%.
Of the total water used by the emissions.
However, the emissions we by local regulations.
All sites monitor group, 89% was supplied by local report from electricity consumed at our emissions to ensure compliance with municipal water authorities and 11% facilities include Scope 2 emissions from these regulations and set their own was abstracted.
electricity generation and Scope 3 absolute targets aimed at reducing Total effluent remained constant at 3 emissions caused by transport and significant emissions as part of their 1.7 million m, despite a recalculation distribution losses in electricity grids.
local environment, health and safety of our 2013 14 data due to one site In terms of other Scope 3 emissions, improvement plans.
There is some those from travel by employees on In 2014 15, our total emissions natural year on year fluctuation in our company business are not material.
of acid gases decreased by 3% to effluent data as we have some sites in The majority of our products are high 394 tonnes sulphur dioxide SO geographical locations where rainwater 2 value but low volume and so the carbon equivalent.
Relative to sales these run off from our buildings is included in associated with their transportation is emissions also decreased, by 7%.
low, relative to other carbon intensity In 2014 15, our emissions of oxides The chemical oxygen demand COD figures.
The majority of our Scope 3 of nitrogen NOx increased by 3% to test is commonly used to indirectly emissions relate to the extraction and 497 tonnes and total SO emissions measure the amount of organic 2 or production of purchased materials decreased by 31% to 46 tonnes.
This is compounds in water and is a useful and outsourced activities such as waste mainly due to a change in product mix measure of water quality.
We continue to quantify these at our Savannah, USA plant.
group discharged organic chemicals Scope 3 emissions by conducting life equivalent to a COD of 422 tonnes into cycle analysis studies of our major water courses, as regulated by local Waste product categories and by improving our emission limits at each manufacturing The group generated 106,494 tonnes knowledge of our role in the value chain.
facility, a decrease of 3% on the of waste during the year, down 12% previous year.
Waste to landfill also decreased in the year, down 9% to 3,482 tonnes.
Achieving zero waste to landfill by 2017 is one of the groups Sustainability 2017 targets and our focus has been to reduce, reuse and, where possible, recycle.
Our facilities worldwide evaluate their waste beyond simply a material destined for disposal and increases this year were offset by initiatives to reduce their landfilled waste, such as waste to energy opportunities.
As such, they will play an important role in helping Europe meet its target of reducing fleet average CO emissions to 95 g km by 2020.
However, diesel engines 2 also produce harmful oxides of nitrogen NOx emissions that need controlling.
Selective catalytic reduction SCR technologies are used to cut these emissions.
Johnson Matthey has been instrumental in developing more efficient SCR systems by improving catalyst design and choice of active materials.
In an SCR system, urea is injected into the exhaust and decomposes to ammonia, which in turn reduces NOx to harmless nitrogen gas.
The SCR coating can be applied directly to the filters that are already fitted to control particulate matter, allowing for a more compact emission control system.
We call this SCRF technology.
There are challenges though: not all cars have room for a urea tank and the SCR process is not as effective below 200C.
Johnson Matthey has developed NOx adsorber catalysts NACs which are a useful alternative that can be used to trap NOx at lower temperatures for later conversion once the catalyst has heated up.
In the future, we expect diesel cars to combine NAC and SCRF technologies into a more robust system that can effectively convert NOx over the widest possible range of driving conditions.
This will help vehicles meet ever tightening legislation.
Today, our diesel technologies cut NOx emissions levels to 90% below those legislated for ten years ago.
We are continuing our focus to develop increasingly effective emission control solutions to create value for our customers and to protect our planet for the future.
We also assess emerging Environmental Awareness environmental regulations and legislation Johnson Matthey has a robust and that may have an impact on our effective management system which operations.
In 2014, the UK Energy requires all sites to report environmental Savings Opportunities Scheme ESOS incidents to the groups environment, was introduced in response to the 2012 health and safety department.
During EU Energy Efficiency Directive EED.
2014 15 no significant spillages to the During the coming months we will be environment of raw materials, working to ensure that our UK operations intermediates or products have been comply with this regulation and we are reported by the group.
assessing the implications of the EED on our other European operations.
