56 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3.
Health and Safety 58 New Metrics 58 Reviewing our EHS Management System and Policies 58 Safety Performance 59 Health Performance 60 Health and Safety Culture 60 Principles for Health and Safety 60 Training and Safety Self-Assessment 60 Contractor Health and Safety 60 Governance Processes and Auditing 60 Looking Ahead to 2015 16 60 Product Stewardship 61 Regulatory Matters 45% reduction in occupational illness cases 25% reduction in lost time injury and illness rate HEALTH AND SAFETY SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 57 Making Health and Safety our Priority Our Fine Chemicals Division has targeted improvements in health and safety with a two pronged approach.
Firstly, the management team is working with employees to establish a behaviour based safety programme and secondly, by providing new equipment, the risk of workplace injuries is being reduced.
Peter McGinnis, the environment, health and safety lead for our Fine Chemicals Division, explains how both of these investments are having a positive impact across the division.
Why is health and safety important for your division?
Health and safety is our priority across all of our divisions.
In Fine Chemicals our R&D, manufacturing, and packaging teams work with a wide range of hazardous materials.
This means we focus on advanced areas of process safety and chemical exposure control, as well as minimising day to day risks.
We also have a responsibility to ensure that our safety systems meet the highest standards.
What improvements have you seen to health and safety this year?
Our goal is to achieve a world class health and safety culture.
We are training all employees on principle driven behaviours as set out in the Johnson Matthey Behaviour Standard.
The standard is designed to help all employees assess their behaviours and modify them accordingly.
Its already having a positive impact.
Theres real engagement, which has translated into everyday activities.
To support ongoing learning, our meetings begin with the safety minute where an individual shares their recent safety experiences.
What else are you doing to achieve your health and safety aspirations?
Weve looked at ways to improve our existing safety procedures.
For example, weve examined the process for handling heavy steel drums across all our sites and are sharing best practice in this area.
However, a world class health and safety culture is not only achieved through behavioural and procedural improvements but also by investing in the latest high quality equipment.
At our site in Edinburgh, UK, where we manufacture and test potent compounds, we have installed a high containment facility which includes a state of the art isolator that physically separates the employee from the hazards of the task.
At our West Deptford site in the US we are adding a tank farm to store flammable solvents.
This new installation will enable us to pump the solvents straight into production vessels, minimising the need for manual handling of drums.
Definitely in the coming year we will continue our investment in both behavioural change and equipment, moving us towards our health and safety goals.
Peter McGinnis Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
