SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS THE JIMMY CHOO FOUNDATION Corporate Social Responsibility has always been integral to Jimmy SUSTAINABILITY HAS Choo and is embedded in our company values.
To reinforce this ALWAYS BEEN PART commitment the Jimmy Choo Foundation was established in 2011 to OF OUR THINKING focus upon the empowerment of women and improving their quality of life through education and enterprise.
There is growing recognition that the economic, moral and social progress is achieved by giving women the means to contribute to and be included in the global economy.
According to the United Nations Development Programme there is clear evidence that bringing women into the economy helps to raise economic productivity, reduce infant mortality, contribute to improved health and increase the chances of education for the next generation.
Simply put, progress is achieved through women.
The Jimmy Choo Foundation addresses the most common barriers Jimmy Choos Board, Senior Management and employees recognise faced by women in developing economies.
In order to maximise our the importance of reducing our impact on the environment and efforts and impact, the Jimmy Choo Foundation has partnered with increasing our positive social impact in the regions in which we the global organisation Care International Care, in particular their operate as well as in a wider global context.
Sustainability has always lendwithcare initiative.
Founded in 1945, Care is one of the largest been part of our thinking and we have implemented a wide variety and most established humanitarian aid organisations focused on ofsustainability initiatives at a local level.
We are always concerned fighting global poverty.
Launched in 2010 and operating in more than to make our business more sustainable and to this end we are 11 countries, lendwithcare is Cares groundbreaking programme continuing our work to create a global sustainability strategy and which supports some of the worlds poorest women, enabling them policy, both in terms of new initiatives as well as leveraging further to lift themselves out of poverty with pride and dignity.
Lendwithcare our existing sustainability initiatives.
provides female entrepreneurs with access to credit, education and CHARITABLE ACTIVITY financial tools, encouraging them along the way to develop the Jimmy Choo has a rich history of innovation, not only in design but confidence that comes with building a successful enterprise.
inits collaborations with artists and charities.
Jimmy Choo adopts apolicy of working with local charities in markets where this is established practice and undertakes frequent charity events in which a portion of the sales are donated to a local charity.
These events, particularly in the USA, allow Jimmy Choo to connect with the JIMMY CHOO FOUNDATION community and to deliver on our values of contributing to the communities which we serve.
Total donations in 2015 to charities Funding for the Jimmy Choo Foundation amounted to 0.2m.
comes from corporate donations and fundraising initiatives coordinated by employees of Jimmy Choo CARE JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 37 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Since 2010 lendwithcare has benefitted 20,000 women in developing CARBON FOOTPRINT countries through the provision of loans and business training.
The In 2015, Jimmy Choo had its carbon footprint independently impact of lendwithcares investment is multiplied by these women as measured by Deloitte LLP.
This enabled Jimmy Choo to identify the benefits are extended to the world around them, creating better areasof risk and prioritise areas on which to focus carbon footprint lives for their families and building stronger communities.
Over the next 12 months, Jimmy Choo will Choo Foundation, in partnership with lendwithcare, has set a goal of continue to build on activities which currently centre on 93 energy supporting more than 8,000 people in developing countries by 2019. reduction initiatives already in place across its operations.
In due course, we will establish a global energy management programme.
Whilst lendwithcare is the primary beneficiary of the Jimmy Choo GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSION STATEMENT Foundation, Jimmy Choo still actively pursues and supports The GHG Protocol categorises GHG emissions into three broad scopes: localcharities.
Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions.
Funding for the Jimmy Choo Foundation comes from corporate Scope 2: Indirect emissions from consumption of purchased donations and fundraising initiatives coordinated by employees of electricity, heat or steam.
The Trustees are Pierre Denis, Sandra Choi, Hannah Scope 3: Other indirect emissions.
ENVIRONMENT Jimmy Choo has chosen to use an intensity ratio measure based Jimmy Choo is strongly committed to meeting high environmental upon emissions per m of revenue in order to put the GHG intensity standards in its operations and throughout its supply chain.
Jimmy in context for the size of the business.
Choo ensures that all of the sourcing of materials is done in a way 2015 that limits the impact on biodiversity and animal welfare.
We comply tCO e tCO e M 2 2 with the Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora CITES, which aims Scope 1 to regulate the trade of specimens of endangered animals and plants Fuel combustion 122 0.38 by monitoring their exportation, re-exportation, importation, transit, transhipment or possession.
Scope 2 Purchased electricity 3,351 10.54 Statutory Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions 3,473 10.92 In addition to the statutorily required Scope 1 and 2 disclosure, Jimmy Choo has voluntarily analysed the Scope 3 emissions where it has the ability toinfluence them.
Scope 3 Upstream Scope 3 emissions 1,536 4.83 Total Emissions 5,009 15.75 Note: LENDWITHCARE tCO e is an abbreviation of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent and is the internationally 2 recognised measure of GHG emissions.
Jimmy Choo applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational boundaries.
Datais reported for sites where it is considered that Jimmy Choo has the ability to influence energymanagement.
Data is not reported for sites where Jimmy Choo has a physical presence, butdoes not influence the energy management for those sites, such as a concession within adepartment store.
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol revised edition, 2004 and ISO 14064-1 2006 to estimate emissions and apply conversion factors from Defra, UK Government conversion factors for Company Reporting 2014.
All material sources of emissions are reported.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 38 In 2015, intensity ratios decreased across all three metrics measured: SOCIAL Jimmy Choo is committed to improving working conditions for Emissions per m revenue.
workers both under its direct operations and across its value chain.
Jimmy Choos shoes and accessories are all made in Europe and 2 Emissions per m gross internal area.
inparticular Italy, where factories and tanneries are subject to mandatory legislative requirements.
Jimmy Choo already expects Absolute gross emissions dropped from 5,081 tCO e in 2014 to itssuppliers and sub-suppliers to include clauses combatting child 2 5,009 tCO e in 2015. labour in their contracts.
2 ENERGY SAVINGS OPPORTUNITIES SCHEME ESOS In the unlikely event that Jimmy Choo identifies working conditions The ESOS Regulations 2014 brought into force Article 8 of the EU which do not meet its minimum standards, the Group will work Energy Efficiency Directive and mandated that all large businesses in closely with suppliers to improve their performance.
Jimmy Choo has the UK should undertake comprehensive assessments of energy use continued to follow through on its commitment to improving working and energy efficiency opportunities at least once every four years.
conditions for workers both under its direct operations and across During 2015, Jimmy Choo employed Deloitte LLP as a Lead Energy itsvalue chain.
Jimmy Choo has now implemented formal written Assessor to conduct an ESOS Assessment.
Having notified the contracts with the majority of its suppliers which include clauses Environment Agency, Jimmy Choo is therefore compliant with ESOS combatting child labour.
Further efforts are being made to widen Regulations 2014.
We continue to seek ways to reduce our energy thescope to include anti-slavery provisions for workers.
use and to improve our energy efficiency across the business.
ENGAGEMENT AND REPORTING We presently meet all mandatory reporting requirements and continue our work to enhance this disclosure.
JIMMY CHOO PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 39
