62 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4.
Social 64 A Sustainable Workforce 64 Talent Management 65 Developing our People 65 Reward and Recognition 66 A Growing Workforce 68 Engaging our People 69 Stakeholder Engagement 71 Governance and Human Resources 71 Human Rights 6.0% voluntary employee turnover 675,000 charitable donations made, including matched fundraising by employees SOCIAL SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGIES for today and for the future 63 Inspiring Our Next Generation of Scientists As we continue to develop our sustainable technologies we need a pool of talent to enable us to innovate for today and for the future.
All around the world, we are supporting schools and universities, science related charities and non-profit organisations to promote STEM subjects science, technology, engineering and maths.
Many Johnson Matthey sites around the world receive visits from school children.
We have several outreach programmes underway and make regular contributions to educational charities.
This year for the first time we sponsored a stand at the Big Bang science fair in Birmingham, UK, an annual event for schoolchildren.
As a teenager, research scientist Sheena Hindocha was inspired by an outreach programme.
This year it was her turn to motivate visitors to the Big Bang fair by showing them the exciting and rewarding opportunities from a career in science.
What inspired you to become a scientist?
As a child, I always had an interest in science.
When I was 13 I spent a week at an outreach programme working on practical experiments it was far more hands on than at school.
It took science to a whole new level and was a brilliant experience.
How did you get involved in the Big Bang fair?
I had already mentioned my interest in outreach activities to my manager.
Id been involved with ScienceGrrl, an organisation that supports female scientists, and had done outreach work at the Science Museum in London, so was eager to get involved.
I was responsible for coordinating the team and bringing the different parts of the project together.
With so many visitors 70,000, health and safety was key.
Everything on the stand was risk assessed and approved.
The fair itself was great and being involved was one of the best things Ive done since joining Johnson Matthey.
Id love to do something similar again!
What hands on experiments could visitors try?
We created four zones: energy, clean air, healthcare and learning.
In the energy zone we used a Scalextric track to show how cars can be fuelled in different ways.
In clean air we explored how our autocatalysts work to reduce harmful emissions from cars.
In healthcare we set up a molecule building race, while in the learning area we created an interactive quiz.
How did the children react to the experiments?
They enjoyed the learning environment hugely.
One group of primary school children were asked to name famous scientists like Marie Curie and Tim Berners-Lee they were all excitedly shouting Me!
It was great to see them discovering that science is fun.
There was a real mix of children from different backgrounds keen to get involved and understand the activities.
I think its really important for Johnson Matthey and the larger science community to be involved in these types of events to inspire our next generation of scientists.
Sheena Hindocha Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
