58 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3.
Health and Safety Health and Safety Performance Summary 2015 2014 % change 1 Lost time injury and illness rate 0.49 0.65 -25 1 Total recordable injury and illness rate 1.14 1.77 -36 Incidents of occupational illness cases per 1,000 employees 1.2 2.2 -45 We are focused on reinvigorating our health and safety culture with the aim of achieving world class performance.
New metrics, clearer reporting and the adoption of health and safety as our priority are all contributing to improvements.
By working together, we can protect our These metrics, originally developed Safety Performance employees, suppliers, customers and by the US Occupational Safety and Our performance summary of accidents communities, and improve our health Health Administration, are now in use is shown in the table above and two and safety performance.
Seven major companies in our year performance is shown opposite.
This is how we industry and adjacent sectors use these 1 The LTIIR number of lost workday have identified health and safety as one metrics, so we decided to join them and cases per 200,000 hours worked in a of our core values.
rolling year improved by 25% during The Group Management Committee The metrics are more stringent and the year, from 0.65 in 2014 to 0.49 in GMC is leading the company to give a clearer and more accurate picture 1 2015.
The TRIIR number of improved health and safety performance.
They also include the recordable cases per 200,000 hours Over the year, our management systems impact of work related illness and worked in a rolling year also improved and approach to health and safety have restricted duties.
over the period from 1.77 in 2014 to been assessed and significant changes 1.14 in 2015, a reduction of 36%.
There have been made, where necessary, Reviewing our EHS Management were no employee or contractor fatalities paving the way to a cycle of continual System and Policies at Johnson Matthey in 2014 15.
last fatality that occurred on one of our Our corporate environment, health and sites was in October 2010 and was a safety EHS management system is New Metrics contractor who was working at our supported by policies and guidance facility in Panki, India.
As Johnson Matthey moves towards documents which serve as a framework The reduction seen in both rates is a world class health and safety culture, for managing EHS matters at our facilities.
the result of our continued focus and the first step is to benchmark against With the global environment rapidly awareness in relation to improving health other companies.
We had been using changing, we regularly review our and safety.
Our behavioural programmes a metric, familiar in health and safety policies to ensure that they are up to for managers and employees have gained measurement, of greater than three day date.
During the year we looked at the momentum as we target a reduction in accidents, i. e. accidents where the format and content of all our policies and the number of injuries with a high employee involved was unable to work guidance and simplified the documents behavioural cause.
We found that 85% for more than three days.
to make them easier to use.
We also of injuries across the group last year fell When we looked at how leading created a new consultation review into this category see LTIIR by Event global companies assess performance programme to secure input from our Type chart opposite for full details.
We we discovered that they used more sites.
Through the programme, we solicit will continue to build on our progress sensitive measurements: total recordable comments on the changes to be made next year in our ambition to reduce injury and illness rate TRIIR and lost to each policy.
This is a highly effective both our LTIIR and TRIIR rates further time injury and illness rate LTIIR.
means of improving our core EHS and develop a world class health and processes and our plan is to update all safety culture.
polices during the coming year.
As part of the review, we introduced changes to our EHS auditing.
One area of change was to simplify the grading system, using grading in such a way as to encourage improvement.
1 For further explanation see page 188.
59 Occupational Illness Assistance Programmes Health Performance Education Prevention As we reinvigorate our health and safety Programme recipients training Counselling risk control Treatment activities, we are putting the emphasis Workers Yes Yes Yes Yes as much on occupational health as on Workers families n a n a n a n a safety at work.
New this year is a network Community members n a n a n a n a of global physicians, based in the UK, USA, China and India, who are specialists in occupational medicine.
They provide In 2014 15 we achieved a significant of illness included to bring our advice and guidance on medical issues reduction in the annual incidence of measurement in line with World Health that affect Johnson Matthey and its employee occupational illness cases Organization specifications.
employees and act as consultants to as we continue to aim for our target There were no reported cases of the occupational health teams working of zero occupational illness cases.
We occupational illness affecting contractors at our facilities around the world.
have invested in equipment, in raising working at our sites during the year.
During the year we continued to awareness and in occupational health Johnson Matthey has comprehensive develop our corporate and facility health specialists to support this.
Consequently processes in place to prevent, identify programmes and have made good the incidence reduced from 2.2 cases and manage occupational illness progress towards our long term health per 1,000 employees in 2013 14 to conditions at every facility.
Some 83% of our 1.2 cases per 1,000 employees in chemical related, musculoskeletal, facilities around the world reported that 2014 15.
This represents a 45% mental health and physical agent related they had complied with the requirement improvement and is mainly the result illnesses noise and hand-arm vibration.
to conduct an annual sustainable health of a reduced number of cases of skin The elements of these programmes are review and improvement planning disease and musculoskeletal conditions.
summarised in the table above based process in 2014 15, broadly the same In 2014 15 we refined our definition of on guidance provided in the Global proportion as last year.
occupational illness and the types Reporting Initiative reporting guidelines.
95% of sites completed their health scorecard review during the year.
We use a health scorecard system to rate the level of implementation of 1 Occupational Illness Cases LTIIR by Event Type preventative programmes against our number of rate corporate standards.
It includes 14 key Chemical cases 1,000 employees related elements of health programmes that 1 Workplace Other 5% align with our most significant health design 17% 30 3.0 7% risks.
We saw an increase in the Struck 25 2.5 proportion of sites achieving a best 2 by object practice level of performance for seven 20 2.0 9% of the 14 programme elements.
15 1.5 Struck Lifting 2 There was a small reduction in against 10 1.0 and 11% performance in the areas of emergency handling 5 0.5 medical management and health 26% 0 0.0 surveillance over the year.
However, Slip, trip or fall 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 25% this is not unusual and a small amount of annual variation in these numbers Occupational Rate per 1 illness cases 1,000 employees Sum of individual event types below 5%.
The scores were not 2 See page 188 for definitions.
significantly different from recent years.
Lost Time Injury and Illness Rate Total Recordable Injury and Illness Rate per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year per 200,000 working hours in a rolling year 1.00 2.0 0.75 1.5 0.50 1.0 0.25 0.5 0 0 March March March March March March 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 60 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3.
Health and Safety Health and Safety continued Health and Safety Culture Training and Safety Our EHS policy is a written statement, formulated and agreed by the GMC.
Self-Assessment Analysis of our injuries and incidents Signed by the Chief Executive, it is shows that 85% have a high behavioural With our commitment to the principle that available at all sites and forms the basis cause.
With a stronger health and safety we are all responsible, we began training of the group EHS management system.
culture, many more of these incidents in September 2014 with a session for can be prevented as most of the injuries the GMC, led by an external consultant.
View the policy online at on our sites are the results of slips and This was followed by training for all www.
trips or incorrect manual handling.
We general managers across Johnson considered how safety culture can be Matthey in the form of two day workshops Looking Ahead to 2015 16 understood and recognised the designed to develop a culture of distinction between a compliance awareness and improvement.
At the We plan to continue the momentum culture and a commitment culture.
same time, new guidance was created on health and safety into the Under a compliance culture, there is an developed, entitled the EHS Behaviour next year and beyond.
We are extending emphasis purely on rules and procedures, Standard, and around 50% of our sites the EHS Behaviour Standard to all our which provides an external motivation.
sites, together with our newly established But under a commitment culture, We are working hard to ensure that health and safety principles.
motivation is internal, and while rules everyone is engaged with health and We intend to establish new targets and procedures remain important, there safety and feels their commitment, so for reducing our injury and illness rates.
is wide engagement at all levels.
If our that the strongest motivations are from Our new and more rigorous audit performance is to be world class, we within.
From ensuring that factory processes began in April 2015. recognise that we need to strengthen employees are lifting correctly to requiring As we continue to embed commitment at an individual level.
senior managers to act as role models behavioural changes around health and We have adopted a maturity model and lead by example, our emphasis on safety we will expand our training and to guide our health and safety practices health and safety is already having an communication efforts.
The model defines five impact across the business.
This is all identified safety observations a system levels of maturity, from emerging at part of being the best we can be and of reviewing safety practices on the level 1, through managing, involving, pursuing operational excellence, ground and the investigation of safety and cooperating up to level 5 which is contributing to our business strategy incidents as two areas that will help us continually improving.
We consider that, for our next century of growth.
as a whole, we have reached between We are maintaining our drive to level 2 and 3 of the model, where we are secure buy in at all levels, with employees Contractor Health and Safety managing health and safety through following the rules because they want to We treat our contractors just as we treat training, site surveys and other activities.
and not because they have to.
our permanent employees and maintain The maturity model is helping us Among our management, we expect the same concern for their health, safety plot our course towards further managers to show visible leadership and and wellbeing.
improvement and shows us clearly commitment, helping us to move up our We employ contractors to cover where we want to be.
maturity model to the higher levels of a long term sickness absence and maternity robust and world class safety culture.
leave and on sites where we experience We see a strong health and safety Principles for Health and Safety seasonal variations in workload.
culture as an essential building block of Our approach is embodied in our newly Our new metric, LTIIR, is also applied our vision and strategy for the future.
adopted health and safety principles.
This year Improvements in health and safety They hold that: our contractor LTIIR at 31st March 2015 enhance our reputation and help the was 0.48 2014 0.57 representing a All injuries and occupational company to create value.
that as health and safety improves, so too do quality and productivity.
There is We are all responsible for preventing Governance Processes also a positive effect on employee morale.
and Auditing In short, its good for people and business.
Adherence to lifesaving policies and Compliance audits on EHS matters are site safety rules is mandatory.
conducted to verify that performance Product Stewardship Working safely is a condition of standards are in line with our corporate The products that leave our sites are employment.
These include specialist only part way through their life cycle.
reviews of occupational health clinical We will promote off the job health They go on to become part of another governance.
and safety for our employees.
product or material which will be used During the year we introduced and then disposed of or recycled.
These principles are integral to our improvements to the way in which we Product stewardship is about taking thinking and form the foundation for audit our sites EHS performance and we responsibility for the content of a future activities.
updated our EHS audit protocols as part product over its life cycle so that it will of the review of our EHS management not go on to have an adverse impact on system.
As a result, our EHS audits are the environment or on human health.
more rigorous and more transparent.
61 At Johnson Matthey, we are This included the recruitment of Regulatory Matters committed to responsible management additional specialists in the areas of The EU chemical management framework of the chemicals we use and produce.
known as REACH the Registration, We have well established product Particular attention was paid to the Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction stewardship systems to ensure the product stewardship requirements of of Chemicals Regulation has entered sound management of chemicals our emerging new businesses such its final phase of registrations with the throughout their life cycle.
In these we as battery materials and atmosphere approach of the 2018 deadline for lower follow a global framework introduced by control technologies.
Johnson Matthey the Strategic Approach to International We also focused on enhancing anticipates making around 140 Chemicals Management SAICM to our workplace chemical exposure registrations during this period of peak promote chemical safety around the management, especially around the activity and the related business and world.
Our focus on sustainability also control of potent compounds in our API corporate programmes are on track to motivates us to apply green chemistry Manufacturing business.
This included achieve the registrations in a timely and principles when selecting materials and the development of a new control efficient manner.
Due mainly to leveraging putting effective controls in place to matrix for the definition of exposure very cost efficient consortia partnerships, restrict the use of substances of concern.
control targets at various stages of the we continue to be below budget in We carry out rigorous evaluations of product development process, and a respect of the overall REACH programme our new and existing products, assessing hazard and control screening system for costs versus our initial estimates.
any risks associated with product use our compound development pipeline.
Product diversification via our New and determining risk management Comprehensive internal guidance was Businesses Division, together with the measures, which we communicate to also developed on certain key workplace geographic growth of the group, has led end users and others in the supply risks, such as the safe handling of to the expansion of the scope of our chain.
We work in cooperation with chlorine at our facilities.
regulatory monitoring and compliance industry partners and customers, During the year, Johnson Matthey programmes.
For instance, we have regulators and non-governmental contributed to industry wide efforts to recently committed significant effort to organisations to strengthen confidence develop state of the art guidelines on regulatory horizon scanning and systems in our products.
occupational hazard and safety related to global legislation on food Our businesses have management management information for platinum contact materials, batteries and related systems to assess the health and safety group metals and their products via the materials, and water purification.
These impacts of products across their life International Platinum Association efforts will support the business in the cycle, from product concept and R&D, Platinum Group Metals Health Science future and underpin both regulatory and through manufacturing, distribution, Research Group voluntary programmes.
product safety assessments for our the use phase, to end of life or reuse.
We also continue to upgrade Looking Ahead to 2015 16 the effectiveness of our response to Find more online about product In the coming year we will be introducing newer Asia Pacific region regulations, stewardship at Johnson Matthey, a more formalised stage gate assessment such as K-REACH and China-REACH.
including our policy on animal testing, for new product and technology We are also anticipating important at www matthey.
This changes to the US chemical will focus on three key characteristics: management framework via the Toxic Performance in 2014 15 and product safety, product sustainability Substances Control Act modernisation Strategic Priorities and regulatory compliance.
From this initiative currently being considered by Johnson Matthey uses a systematic we will be able to make full assessments US Congress.
product responsibility reporting scheme earlier in product life cycles and deliver conforming to the Global Reporting more consistency when evaluating the Initiative Sustainability Reporting introduction of new products across the Guidelines, G3.1 to monitor the group.
The improvement programme performance of our operations and will roll out over a period of about three maintain surveillance of the companys years, beginning in 2015. products and services.
In 2014 15, there We also plan to implement a were no notifications of significant end number of enhanced procedures, user health effects involving our products training and improved systems to help and no major incidents or environmental with the management of global trade releases during our product distribution control compliance for products and were recorded.
No product recalls technologies subject to export and occurred for safety reasons.
import controls or other movement During 2014 15 we strengthened or sales controls.
and expanded our central product stewardship team, covering the product regulatory requirements in our businesses, and responding to significantly increased new product development in our API Manufacturing business.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
