64 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4.
Social Social Performance Summary 2015 2014 Average number of employees 12,148 11,331 1 Total employee turnover % 8.7 9.0 1 Voluntary employee turnover % 6.0 5.6 2 Employee gender female % 25 24 Gender of new recruits female % 30 27 Trade union representation % 28 29 Training days per employee 3.2 3.3 3 Training spend per employee 426 465 Internal promotions % of all recruitment in year 33 26 Attendance days lost per employee 4.9 5.3 Charitable donations thousands 612 626 1 Employee turnover is calculated by reference to the total number of leavers during the year expressed as a percentage of the average number of people employed during the year.
The analysis does not include agency workers not directly employed by Johnson Matthey.
3 Training spend does not include the cost of in house training or the cost of employees wages during training.
In support of business growth, our social goals remain: to be a leader in developing our people, enhancing our relationships with our stakeholders and encouraging positive involvement with the communities where we operate.
We want to be a good corporate citizen in line with our Sustainability 2017 Vision, excelling as an employer and justifying the good reputation that we have earned.
To support cross divisional career A Sustainable Workforce Talent Management development opportunities we must also As we grow our business, we are We are one year into our new talent complete cross divisional talent reviews.
increasing our workforce and we need management approach, which we The Group Management Committee to make sure that we are attracting the launched in 2014.
At its heart is our looks right across the group to gain a right people and retaining them.
We value of recognition and development strategic overview and review the most have a good record of low staff turnover the goal is to identify employees senior roles.
We also consider the talent and we promote from within.
At the across different pools of talent globally, needs of particular functions, for same time we must encourage accelerate their development and offer example manufacturing and finance, prospective employees from outside career opportunities to help them realise as well as individual countries, for who will add their skills and experience their full potential.
At Johnson Matthey, example China which is a significant to our diverse mix.
anyone from anywhere can progress.
Our Human Resources HR strategy We have introduced a talent review We are a business with operations is defined as attracting, engaging and process which focuses on strategic reaching around the world, relying on growing our people to enable the effective people issues and an in depth review the movement of people between delivery of the groups strategy over the of talent across all of our divisions.
In practical terms, that a year, each division holds a high level developing consistent global HR means recruiting people through new meeting to look at the most critical roles practices to make the transition for them channels as well as traditional means, for the business and succession plans.
go as smoothly as possible and as we offering career development to meet We assess employees with the potential implement our talent strategy, we are their needs and those of our company, to grow into more senior roles and ensure introducing a common approach and and rewarding employees fairly.
This is that sound personal development plans common language in this important area.
the basis for a sustainable workforce.
Last year, we To guide our leaders at all levels started this process by reviewing our we have developed a new leadership senior management population.
Next framework aligned to our 3C Strategy.
year we plan to expand it to middle and This is a cornerstone of our groupwide junior management levels to achieve talent strategy and will serve as a visibility of our best talent at more levels practical tool in recruitment, appraisal in the organisation.
This will help us and development processes with a put in place the necessary leadership focus on positive leadership behaviours.
pipeline for the growth of our business.
65 We want our leaders to show by example Another example is our Senior During 2014 15, 906 internal how we live our values and to understand Leaders Programme, an executive promotions were made representing what key actions they and their teams development programme, now in its 32.8% of appointments made during need to take.
The new framework fourth year and provided in partnership the year and 132 of these were moves includes several core competences, with London Business School.
This reflects for example customer focus, building programme is designed to accelerate our ongoing commitment to the collaborative relationships and leading the development of our senior business training and personal development change, which will all be critical for our and functional leaders.
Next year we will impact survey conducted in 2014 Next year we plan to review and continue to implement this framework showed that the programme is having enhance our metrics in the area of across the group.
a significant positive effect on the people development and training so participants and on our business, that we can improve how we measure Employee Mobility including clear benefits in terms of progress against our objectives.
career progress, collaboration, strategic We remain committed to improving employee mobility across our divisions projects and leadership effectiveness.
Reward and Recognition Our future plans for leadership and international borders and believe At Johnson Matthey we aim to provide it is an important aspect of peoples development include a new leadership remuneration and benefit arrangements curriculum which will set out our learning development individuals gain breadth that are market competitive and valued and depth of experience while the programme for all levels of leaders.
We by our employees so that we can will define a core curriculum and specific company benefits from their enhanced continue to attract and retain the people knowledge and greater collaboration, development activities for different we need.
Together with this, we all of which help deliver our business During the year we reviewed our strategy.
plan to refresh our regional leadership salaries and created a new bonus programmes aimed at emerging leaders Over the past year we have framework that applies to all levels of the developed a global mobility function and with further potential to progress.
The framework is designed Our divisions continue to be recruited dedicated specialists, as well to support our strategic aims for the as introducing consistent processes responsible for technical training and future and recognises the importance local development activities as this and global supplier arrangements of overall group performance as well which will improve the effectiveness gives them the flexibility to identify as business and personal performance.
This includes of our programmes.
The framework will be implemented during Next year, we plan to implement our well established apprenticeship the next financial year for managers and programmes in key locations, as well new policies for different types of thereafter for other employees.
international assignment to ensure they as divisional graduate development We have also improved our pay programmes, for example for offer guidance, support and incentives in processes to enable greater consistency line with our talent management activities.
This will be built upon The following table sets out, on next year as we develop a global job a total and on a per employee basis, Developing our People classification system, which will not only the days of training and training spend enable better pay benchmarking but We place strong emphasis on developing during 2014 15.
The training spend also facilitate career development our people and this is a key element of does not include the cost of in house pathways.
In addition, we will expand our HR strategy.
Our philosophy is to training or the cost of the employees our performance related pay system.
provide challenging job experiences wages during training.
We completed an audit of our alongside collaboration, coaching and global benefit arrangements to ensure mentoring opportunities, as well as Training Days and Spend on Training good governance and the availability of formal training.
We offer a mix of regional 2014 15 data which will allow us to benchmark and global development programmes at Number of days our reward programmes against local different levels which stretch employees Total shifts Spend markets.
We have also launched a to learn new skills, collaborate across days training per shifts per employee new suite of communications, initially divisions and complete project work training employee in the UK and the USA, to engage our based on real business challenges.
Europe 18,379 3.1 609 workforce with our benefit programmes One example is our global North America 10,126 3.1 215 and promote the idea of total rewards manufacturing leadership programme Asia 5,015 2.8 285 through online and offline communications.
This Rest of World 3,418 6.0 214 Next year we will expand this to other programme is helping us to strengthen Total group 36,938 3.2 426 major countries.
our internal talent pipeline for senior manufacturing roles which we have identified as key to meeting the needs of our growing manufacturing businesses.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 66 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4.
Social Social continued A Growing Workforce Employee Turnover by Region A growing trend in recruitment is the 2014 15 importance of employer brand.
We want This year we experienced further steady Voluntary to appeal to the best people who also Total Employee employee growth in our employee numbers and leavers turnover turnover share our culture and values.
How a an increase in promotions and moves company is perceived in the marketplace Europe 436 7.4% 4.7% within the group.
This reflects continued and its sustainability credentials are North America 303 9.2% 6.4% growth in our existing business as well as significant factors in determining whether Asia 221 12.2% 9.6% a number of acquisitions during the year.
Rest of World 44 7.8% 6.0% the best applicants will want to join us.
The following tables set out the Polls on the best companies to work for Total group 1,004 8.7% 6.0% average number of people employed by are taken seriously by recruits.
In 2014 Johnson Matthey and the net change in we were named Britains Most Admired the number of people employed during We have reviewed our divisional and Company in Management Todays peer 2014 15 by geographical region and by local graduate programmes and found assessed annual awards in recognition of employment contract.
that they provide excellent development the progress we have made in this area.
opportunities and serve the needs of the We understand that the quality Average Number of People Employed businesses well.
We are an attractive of our people is a key source of Average headcount 2014 15 employer to high calibre graduates as competitive advantage.
Next year we well as industrial placement students.
are reviewing our employer brand in Temporary Permanent contract Next year we plan to enhance the order to continue to attract the highest employees employees Total experience of placement students calibre of graduates and experienced Europe 5,857 547 6,404 during their time with us at Johnson staff.
The review will cover our online North America 3,278 38 3,316 Matthey.
We will be holding events presence, including social media, and Asia 1,816 46 1,862 that will give them more information we will launch a global toolkit of Rest of World 566 566 about career opportunities at Johnson resources for use by our recruitment Total group 11,517 631 12,148 Matthey, and help them meet and teams that can be tailored locally.
network with more of our people while they are with us.
Its about engaging Trade Union Representation Annual Change in People Employed with students proactively and ensuring 28% of all group employees worldwide Net change between average they have the best experience possible.
2013 14 29% belong to a recognised headcount 2013 14 and 2014 15 As we are a business reliant upon trade union.
We continue to maintain chemistry and its applications our future good and constructive relations with all Temporary Permanent contract Total net depends on the recruitment of excellent recognised trade unions which collectively employees employees change science graduates.
As such we actively represent our employees.
The following Europe 80 212 292 promote the study of STEM subjects table sets out the average number and North America 214 -4 210 science, technology, engineering and percentage of Johnson Mattheys Asia 307 -2 305 maths in schools and universities.
employees who were covered by Rest of World 15 -5 10 We organise site visits from school and collective bargaining arrangements Total group 616 201 817 university students and work with local and represented by trade unions by schools, at primary and secondary level, geographical region in 2014 15. to stimulate an interest in science.
During 2014 15 no working time The high level of employee Through a range of activities, we aim was lost within the group due to commitment and loyalty to the group to draw young people to science long employee action.
continues to bring strength to our before we want to attract them to a job businesses.
Voluntary staff turnover in the company.
increased slightly to 6.0% 2013 14 5.6% Trade Union Representation remaining very low compared to many Average headcount 2014 15 Read more on page 63. other organisations.
The total employee Permanent % turnover figure fell slightly to 8.7% from employees Represented represented 9.0% in 2013 14.
Europe 5,857 2,290 39% The following table sets out the North America 3,278 621 19% employee turnover in 2014 15 by Asia 1,816 16 1% geographical region.
The employee Rest of World 566 253 45% turnover figure is calculated by reference Total group 11,517 3,180 28% to the total number of leavers during the year expressed as a percentage of the average number of people employed during the year.
67 Diversity conferences, actively discussing diversity The table below shows the gender At Johnson Matthey we offer equal in succession planning and talent breakdown of the groups employees opportunities for all and welcome diversity management, promoting industrial and as at 31st March 2015.
Our policies on in all its forms.
We recognise the value of scientific careers to women and equal opportunities and diversity are diversity in the workplace encouraging developing family friendly and flexible shown on our website.
creativity, broader cultural understanding employment policies.
There are and access to a wider pool of talent challenges to overcome but we are and have policies in place to guide our making progress.
This coming year we will measure diversity across our talent Gender Diversity Statistics pools and ensure the right questions As at 31st March 2015 concerning diversity are asked as part Male Female % male % female of the talent review process.
Board 82 80% 20% Our policies and processes 33% of non-executives prevent bias in relation to recruitment 1 Group Management Committee 9 1 90% 10% 2 1 and promotion, and we are working Subsidiary directors 121 18 87% 13% 2 Senior managers 178 48 79% 21% to implement other positive measures New recruits 1,357 578 70% 30% to actively promote diversity.
These Total group 9,159 3,107 75% 25% measures include requiring balanced shortlists when recruiting, ensuring a 1 Includes four males who are also on the board.
diverse mix at company events and 2 Senior managers who are also subsidiary directors are included in both categories.
Managing Talent to Develop Future Leaders Investing in our people is one of the nine building blocks of our 3C Strategy.
The progress that we make each year is only made possible by their enthusiasm and dedication and it is essential that this continues as we move into our 3rd century.
As global markets drive demand for advanced facilities and the right people to manage them, we have launched a leadership development programme to cultivate our manufacturing talent.
The programme is aimed at accelerating the development of those manufacturing managers with the ambition and drive to succeed.
Participants take part in a wide range of activities to develop new and existing skills.
They are encouraged to use knowledge gained from formal training to solve real world problems around our business.
They also visit some of our major operations around the world to help them better understand our global manufacturing capabilities.
These visits have been valuable to both participants and sites.
During a recent trip to our refinery additives plant in Savannah, USA, the group worked with the plants operations team to improve its filtering processes.
After analysing data and diagnosing issues they were able to recommend a number of solutions and increase output capacity to the value of approximately 400,000 per year.
Not only did this collaboration have real time benefits for the Savannah plant, since completion of the programme many of the participants have used what they learnt in their own roles and progressed in their careers.
We expect to see more examples of the programmes success over the coming months as it expands further across the group.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 68 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4.
Social Social continued Engaging our People We have also developed a A confidential, secure, externally-run collaboration framework to drive an whistleblowing website and telephone As a global company it is important that increased level of collaborative project helpline are also in place to give all employees, wherever they are based, ideas.
The aim of the framework is to employees additional means to raise any connect with our 3C Strategy and vision.
encourage and facilitate ideas, issue of concern.
The website offers Employee engagement is about our innovation and idea management, as multilingual access and allows for written people feeling involved in the company well as to resource and deliver cross or telephone reports.
The site is and committed to its goals which, in divisional collaboration projects across publicised via site notice boards and turn, promotes better performance, the group.
Introduced towards the end on myJM.
Reports received through employee retention and wellbeing.
of 2014 15, it will allow key stakeholders the website and helpline as well as When information flows freely and greater visibility of collaborative efforts any received as e-mail or letter are employees are aware of the activities and enable proactive engagement at a appropriately investigated in accordance and management decisions that affect strategic level.
with our policy on whistleblowing.
their day to day work and how they can For the group, there were a total contribute to the overall performance Attendance of 23 new whistleblowing reports in the of the business, employees feel more calendar year 2014 2013 16 and all Good rates of attendance were engaged.
At Johnson Matthey we maintained this year.
The average number but three have been resolved as at the promote two way communications date of approval of this annual report.
of days lost per employee in 2014 15 and a culture that encourages due to sickness and unplanned absence At its meeting in January 2015, the employee feedback.
Audit Committee reviewed the groups was 4.9 days, down from 5.3 days in However, in 2013, feedback from 2013 14.
This represents 1.9% of lost whistleblowing procedures and the employees suggested that our strategy matters raised during 2014. time per employee in the working year.
was not as widely understood internally We continue to invest in sustainable as we would have liked.
So in June health and wellness programmes to Share Ownership Schemes 2014 we launched a communications support the longer term health, and Pensions campaign to share our 3C business wellbeing and performance of our An employee share ownership scheme strategy with all of our people via a employees.
Many of our businesses have gives staff a financial interest in the series of more than 150 local events.
made arrangements for employees to company and stimulates performance.
Post event feedback collected online have access to flu vaccinations, Employees may participate in share was very positive.
To further embed the discounted rates at local gyms, stress ownership plans, where practicable, strategy across the business, we are awareness training and arranged other under which they can buy shares in launching our global 3C Awards which wellness initiatives.
Read more about Johnson Matthey which are matched are designed to strengthen the link our Macedonian teams marathon by a company funded component.
between reward and recognition and efforts on page 71.
Employees in six countries are able to the 3C Strategy.
The awards aim contribute to a company share ownership to seek out the best of the best across plan or a 401k approved savings Business Integrity and Ethics the group in the areas of collaboration, investment plan the latter is a US tax Johnson Matthey strives to maintain the customer focus and creating value.
Through these highest standards of ethical conduct and Our groupwide intranet, myJM, ownership plans, Johnson Mattheys corporate responsibility worldwide to which launched two years ago is current and former employees collectively ensure we act with integrity, transparency available to all employees with computer held 1.68% of the companys shares at and care for the rights of the individual access about 70% of employees.
The 31st March 2015. wherever we do business.
Integrity is platform was designed to promote Johnson Matthey also provides one of our core values and our ethical networking between employees across pension plans for its employees principles and standards are set out in the world and people are using the worldwide.
These pension plans are our Business Integrity and Ethics Policy system to link up, share information and a combination of defined benefit and which applies to all our employees.
A survey found defined contribution pension that since its launch, myJM users believe arrangements, savings schemes and View the policy online at communication between the company provident funds designed to provide www.
and its employees has improved and that retirement benefits, based on local it is easier to network with colleagues.
During the year we began a project to Accelerating collaboration is a key prepare a new code of business integrity theme of both our 3C Strategy and our and ethics.
The code will set out the Manufacturing Excellence approach to employee engagement.
standards and principles that everyone Our Manufacturing Excellence A project is underway to enhance myJM at Johnson Matthey is expected to programme, which is improving efficiency to improve its functionality and to allow meet.
It will bring all of our values to life and productivity across our operations, remote access so that information and by providing advice and guidance in also has a strong employee engagement collaboration opportunities are available the way we work to ensure that we are component, both through training to those who do not have regular access all acting legally, ethically, safely and courses and by encouraging employee to a company networked computer.
Doing the right thing by our contributions to manufacturing people, customers, shareholders and improvements.
In 2013 we launched the communities is a fundamental part of life Efficiency Recognition Programme, an at Johnson Matthey.
internal benchmarking programme that is open to all our manufacturing sites.
69 The programme is made up of three our website, surveys, our internal From a broader sustainability perspective standards Silver, Gold and Platinum collaboration platform myJM and we have regular dialogue and consultation and recognises locations that achieve meetings on specific topics.
with Business in the Community, and sustain improving levels of efficiency.
We also continue to be actively PE International now renamed thinkstep During the year, five of our sites across involved with the key trade associations as a member of its Product Sustainability the group attained the Silver standard.
and industry organisations that are Round Table and the Sustainability 50 connected with our activities.
This global group to keep us abreast of the Read more in the case study below.
provides an effective way of latest thinking.
understanding, shaping and contributing to a range of discussions that are Find more online at Stakeholder Engagement relevant to our stakeholders, and those www.
Johnson Matthey has a wide network of the broader industry and market of stakeholders, including communities, sectors in which we operate.
Shareholders are an important customers, employees and their During the year we participated in a stakeholder group for us.
We meet representatives, fund managers, number of trade associations including with major shareholders regularly, as governments, non-governmental the UK Chemical Industries Association, described in the Corporate Governance organisations, national and international the Diesel Technology Forum, the Society Report on pages 96 and 97.
A number trade associations, shareholders and of Motor Manufacturers and Traders, of our investors are particularly interested suppliers.
the Energy and Resources Institute, the in ethical and socially responsible By working together with our Engineering Employers Federation, the investments.
We discuss sustainability stakeholders, through consultation or Pgm Health Science Research Group, and CSR issues with them and provide collaboration, we can make sure that the International Platinum Group Metals the information they need to specialists the things that matter to them matter Association and Eurometaux, the from their organisations.
That means that the interests association servicing and representing participate in key benchmarking studies of these groups are considered as we the European non-ferrous metals industry.
Carbon Disclosure Project, FTSE4Good, make decisions on how to develop While much of our engagement in London Benchmarking Group and are the business.
policy development is through trade a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
We communicate with stakeholders associations, from time to time we The communities where we on an ongoing basis and in a number also engage with national and local operate are another significant partner of ways.
They include our regular government to inform the development for us.
Our workforce includes a large publications including this report, of policy in areas where our technology number of people from local areas.
or products can play an important role.
Driving Efficiency to Improve Our Performance We developed the Manufacturing Excellence programme in 2012 to develop our people, identify new technologies to improve manufacturing and increase operational efficiency.
Today operational excellence and sustainability is one of the nine building blocks of our 3C Strategy.
The programme includes a voluntary assessment element developed to recognise individual sites for their progressive implementation of continuous improvement methods, starting with Silver then moving up to Gold and Platinum.
This year we are pleased to announce that five more of our sites across the USA, UK, Mexico and Macedonia have achieved Silver efficiency status.
Before receiving an award each site goes through a rigorous assessment whereby their overall performance is measured against the financial impact to decide which standard, if any, has been reached.
Manufacturing is a major part of our business, providing work for more than 50% of our people, and it is the way we bring our science to life.
Improving our performance in this area can therefore create significant value for our business.
Our focus on improvements, such as those delivered through Manufacturing Excellence, are helping us adapt to new and changing markets.
By expanding the programme further this long term investment across the group is set to bring many more benefits in the future.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 70 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2015 4.
Social Social continued We aim to be a good corporate member As a responsible business we During 2014 15 the company of the community but from time to time are committed to making a positive donated 612,000 to charitable we have to close a facility for business contribution to the development of our organisations.
This figure only includes reasons and are aware of the hardships local communities.
This can take the donations made by Johnson Matthey that may arise as a result.
Demand for form of being a good employer, and does not include payroll giving, our colour products which are used in collaboration with our local communities donations made by staff or employee the decorative ceramics industry and neighbours, and investment in the time.
The company made no political continued its long term decline and community by giving financial support, donations in the year.
we decided to exit the market resulting providing employee time or making in At a group level, Johnson Matthey in the closure this year of our site in kind donations.
operates a charitable donations Stoke-on-Trent and the loss of 44 jobs.
Many of our sites participate in programme which represented 49% The bankruptcy of a customer of our activities in their communities giving of total donations in 2014 15.
This Fuel Cells business during the year also to local charities and supporting programme supports organisations resulted in the loss of 33 positions.
educational projects, as well as getting working in the areas of environment involved in projects to advance science and sustainability, medical and health, or stimulate economic regeneration.
science and education, social welfare Material Issues Many also allocate a budget to and international development.
As we continue to plan long term for the community investment activities.
This year saw us set up a global sustainability of the business we are Our Community Investment Policy Community Investment Forum with developing more systematic ways to get allows all employees two days paid members from all areas of our business a better understanding of what issues are leave per year for community or charity taking part to encourage collaboration most material or relevant to our success work, subject to the approval of their across the group.
From raising the profile and to engage more effectively with our manager.
Employees are encouraged of local efforts to sharing new ideas and stakeholders to help inform our planning.
to take the opportunity to make a best practice, regular meetings have Horizon scanning and identification contribution to their local area.
We are benefited us in multiple ways and of global megatrends are a key part of developing processes to collect data discussions have helped to shape our our long term planning.
The Group on volunteering by our employees so plans for 2015 16.
In the coming year Policy and Compliance Committee that we can track progress.
we aim to develop relationships with our assesses emerging issues for materiality The communities in which we charity partners that go beyond financial and initiates any action as required.
operate face a wide range of issues and support.
We are also restructuring our Material issues are continually assessed priorities as they are located in different Community Investment Committee to as part of our risk management and countries with different needs.
We try reflect the different locations in which business planning processes.
to ensure that our operations have the we operate and the different needs of By establishing a more integrated resources and support to identify the our communities.
approach to defining material issues, projects, initiatives and partnerships We are now halfway into our two we will, in the future, be able to better that can make a real difference in their year partnership with Cancer Research communicate our findings in a clear communities and that mean something UK, which began on 1st April 2014, with and simple way to stakeholders on to employees and their families.
We also our non-UK sites being encouraged to matters of genuine importance to our aim to support the future growth of our support their national cancer research long term profitability.
business through the promotion of charities.
Employees have been keen to science education among young people support Cancer Research UK at both Working with our Communities the flagship theme of our Community site and personal levels and in 2014 15 We have a strong tradition of encouraging Investment Policy.
we raised more than 26,000, including our employees to get involved with their Johnson Matthey is a member of a 15,000 corporate donation.
communities and build good community the London Benchmarking Group LBG, relations.
This contributes to our a global network of companies that Sustainability 2017 Vision to build a share and drive best practice in sustainable business and we believe Charitable Donations 2014 15 corporate community investment.
that investing in our communities is an integral part of that commitment.
Other Charitable Donations We invest in our communities to: corporate Emission Across the globe, Johnson Mattheys sites functions Corporate Control demonstrate our commitment to lend support to many charities locally and 1.3% central group Technologies being a responsible business that donations nationally through donations, employee 17.6% 48.5% provides value beyond our products: time or the loan of company facilities.
make a positive impact in the Process Find more online at Technologies communities in which we operate: 12.3% www.
create goodwill and enhance our reputation within our local Precious Metal communities: and Products 11.8% Fine build our profile as an employer New Chemicals of choice.
Businesses 8.2% 0.3% 71 In addition to our corporate In line with our Equal Opportunities In addition the Nomination Committee charitable donations, we also offer Policy, we recruit, train and develop oversees talent and succession decisions matched funding for employees employees who meet the requirements and the Remuneration Committee deals fundraising efforts.
The company will of the job role regardless of gender, with remuneration policy.
match employees fundraising in aid of a ethnic origin, age, religion or belief, registered charity.
Matching is provided marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy Human Rights from central group funds up to 1,000 or maternity, sexual orientation, gender We are confident of our human rights per employee per year, subject to a cap reassignment or disability.
People with performance in our own operations.
of 50,000 per annum for the group as disabilities can often be denied a fair However, business practices along the a whole.
We saw increased participation chance at work because of supply chain are not always transparent from employees as they raised 63,000 misconceptions about their capabilities, and this is a risk that we have to manage.
for 52 charities which was topped up and we seek to enhance the opportunities We make every effort to ensure the with an additional 44,000 from the available by attempting, wherever issues are managed effectively.
We company in matched contributions.
possible, to overcome the obstacles.
support the principles defined within This might mean modifying equipment, the UN Universal Declaration of Human restructuring jobs or improving access to Governance and Human Rights and the International Labour premises, provided such action does not Resources Organisation Core Conventions, including compromise health and safety standards.
As a global company, we maintain the conventions on child labour, forced This is set down in our policy, progressive HR standards backed by labour, non-discrimination, freedom of which extends to employees who group policies.
Our sites are located in a association and collective bargaining.
have become disabled during their number of countries which have different We also support the principles employment and who will be offered legal frameworks and requirements.
endorsed under the UN Global Compact employment opportunities consistent Consequently, our HR practices always and the UN Guiding Principles on with their capabilities.
meet local statutory requirements and Business and Human Rights the Ruggie Diversity is welcomed and we see we often go beyond them to recognise Principles.
We comply with these core it as a core component of a sustainable regional best practice.
Our global HR principles whenever we enter into business.
Job applications are policies have application across all our business in a new territory, make an encouraged from all sections of the sites and are supplemented by local acquisition or enter a joint venture.
The community including minority groups.
Site specific human resources principles are integrated into our risk As part of our governance, our policies and procedures are assessment procedures and impact HR policies and risks are examined communicated to staff at inductions assessments as part of our due by the Group Management Committee and through staff handbooks.
and the Group Policy and Compliance Committee, with the board responsible for overseeing the overall HR strategy.
Marathon Effort to Improve Health in Macedonia Part of our commitment to fostering healthy working environments involves encouraging off the job health and safety among our employees.
Many of our sites run health and wellbeing events, host information campaigns and enter teams into large scale sporting events.
Keeping fit is a preventative measure we can all take to reduce our risk of short and long term injury and illness.
Building on its participation in previous years, our site in Macedonia took part in the annual Skopje marathon for the fourth time in May 2014.
With training ongoing throughout the year it was a great team effort from sign up to race day.
Employees regularly trained together to keep motivation high.
In total, 70 employees took part in the event, which is around 15% of the local workforce.
Not only were we recognised as the company with the largest number of participants, we were also awarded Most Popular Large Company.
The teams mantra throughout training and the race itself was never, never give up.
This is something that the team has kept in mind during preparation for the 2015 event too.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
