Building a sustainable business 1 Our Core Values underpin the sustainability of our business.
Our Core Values are at the heart of our business because they define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for.
They set out how we act and how we expect to be treated as part of Wood Group and provide a sound basis to make decisions.
Find out more about our core values at: www.
Wood Group went 3 above and beyond in fundraising efforts for The ARCHIE Foundations High 10 campaign, resulting in a grand total raised of over $380,000.
Prompted by the Wood Group 2015 Environment Day, our trainers and students in Equatorial Guinea took part in a carnival like clean-up.
Following the successful partnership with the Vine Trust, which combined our engineering expertise and fundraising efforts to send the Jubilee Hope vessel from Glasgow to Lake Victoria, in 2015, the Jubilee Hope completed 10 medical expeditions.
The plan for 2016 includes an additional 3 expeditions with the target of providing 60,000 consultations.
In 2015, Wood Group launched the STEM initiative which aims to encourage, promote and improve knowledge in Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths in schools.
In 2015, Wood Group raised over $100,000 for Multiple Sclerosis, as part of the MS150 cycle in Houston, Texas.
we were awarded the Circle of Distinction award for contributing over $1 million through participation in the MS150 to date.
4 5 14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Health, safety and security Wood Group is committed to ensuring that our growth is We are commited to continuous improvement and in 2016, in line with inclusive of health, safety and security.
Good safety is our strategy, we will be focusing on: good business.
X Back to basics: Reviewing and streamlining our Group standards In 2015 we delivered measurable improvement in Health, Safety, X Understanding risk: Setting a common standard for evaluating Security and Environment HSSE performance, based upon our risk and assurance plans key performance indicators.
Across our workforce of 33,000 employees excluding JVs we had zero fatalities and our Lost Work X Leadership reset: Clarifying expectations and ensuring our Case Frequency LWCF showed an 11% improvement on 2014 leaders know how to meet these expectations performance.
We did however see an 11% increase in our Total Recordable Case Frequency TRCF.
Although incidents reduced by X Driving a learning culture: Sharing lessons learned and 14% in the year, hours worked reduced by 20%.
This can be partly increasing the profile of high potential incidents.
attributed to improved case recording across the Group.
Building on our vision of safety for everyone, everywhere, everyday, we continued to communicate our belief that accidents are preventable.
We believe that clear communication is vital to improving LWCF: lost work case frequency our safety performance and are focused on active engagement per million man hours sessions with senior leadership and our workforce to reinforce commitment and determine areas of continuous improvement.
0.70 0.65 Wood Groups security team worked across the business to ensure 0.45 0.40 that security risks were identified and addressed prior to starting 2012 2013 2014 2015 new operations.
The security team is structured to provide extensive regional support and expertise and in 2015 worked to further develop our security management capability and capacity through TRCF: total recordable case frequency key activities that support our focus on sustainable and responsible business development with the safety and security of our people at per million man hours the forefront.
1.99 1.81 The 2015-2017 HSSE Strategic Plan continues to build on our 1.54 1.39 strong foundation, while at the same time recognising the challenges that a business of significant breadth and diversity presents and the 2012 2013 2014 2015 impact that this brings to the HSSE system as a whole.
The Plan is centred on six core strategic objectives: X Robust processes and systems Find out more about our safety performance and initiatives at: X Competent people www.
com our-values safety-assurance X Inspiring leadership X Risk understanding, management and assurance X Adapting to change X Continuous learning John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 15 Environment At Wood Group we aim to make a positive difference to the communities where we operate and seek ways to reduce or Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas GHG emissions minimise the impact of our operations.
We recognise that Global GHG emissions data is shown for the year ended sustainability isnt just important for people and the planet, 31 December 2015 and totals 27,752 tonnes of CO e split as but also vital for business success and responsible growth.
The reduction in 2015 is mainly attributable to We manage environmental risks within our business by aligning the reduction in US activity, alongside the consolidation and our environmental management systems to ISO14001 and we reduction of our property portfolio.
drive heightened environmental awareness through HSE alerts and environmental initiatives.
We ensure compliance with all regulatory Emissions from 2015 2014 requirements as well as participate in the voluntary Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
The CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation Combustion of fuel and 23,319 36,189 and the largest published registry of corporate GHG emissions in the operation of facilities tonnes of CO e tonnes of CO e 2 2 world.
Our performance in the 2015 submission saw Wood Group demonstrate continuous improvement on previous years and score Electricity, heat, steam higher than some of our key competitors, giving us a platform from 4,433 6,263 and cooling purchased which to proactively demonstrate our commitment to reducing the tonnes of CO e tonnes of CO e 2 2 for own use Groups carbon footprint.
In 2015, we saw the introduction of the Energy Savings Opportunity Companys chosen intensity Scheme ESOS, which was developed as part of the UKs responsibilities measurement: Emissions under the EU Energy Efficiency Directive.
The ESOS is a mandatory reported above normalised 0.8 1.0 energy assessment and energy saving identification scheme for to per tonne of $100,000 revenue companies with over 250 employees or annual turnover over $55 million.
Under the scheme the Group was party to an energy compliance audit on 90% of the Groups energy consumption in the UK, following which Methodology energy efficiency measures were identified for the Group to consider.
We have reported on all of the emission sources required under At Wood Group, we understand that cutting energy costs through the Quoted Companies Greenhouse Gas Emissions Directors improved energy efficiency does not only benefit the environment but Reports Regulations 2013.
We do not have responsibility for also makes us a more sustainable and competitive organisation.
any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated In 2015 we continued to invest in a sustainable property portfolio for financial statements and that we do not have managerial control improved working conditions and energy efficiency, sourcing 100% over.
This includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Green electricity across our UK buildings and by upgrading and We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and consolidating our existing locations, recently completing work on a new Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered to fulfil Wood Group Southern campus in Aberdeen.
Our office in Melbourne our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency scheme, Australia is the first premium building and second largest Victorian and emission factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion building to receive the six-start Green Star Office As Built v2 certified Factors for Company Reporting 2015. rating by the Green Building Council of Australia GBCA.
Wood Group in the UK purchases 100% green electricity.
Our annual Environment Day in celebration of World Environment Day saw activities across our global footprint raise awareness around our impact on the environment with activities ranging from local area clean ups and garden planting to local community events, energy efficiency Find out more at: campaigns and informative presentations with a focus on sustainability.
com our-values  We continue to develop our engineering, production support and renewable expertise to help reduce our customers environmental impact.
In 2015 Wood Group launched our new Innovation Seed Fund which will aim to bring new innovative ideas to life.
SgurrEnergy, our renewable energy consultancy, has already developed innovative models which will enhance and improve the operational performance of wind farms.
This highlights our belief that the future of renewable energy is not only robust, but is a business sector in which we intend to grow, expand and develop further.
16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Society Our People Our people are the heart of our business.
As an asset light Over 5,800 designated Business Ethics personnel, identified based business, our people are the foundation of our Group and on a range of roles and responsibilities, including those who liaise with we remain committed to being the best technical services customers and third parties, were required to compete online training company to work for.
and confirm their continued compliance in 2015.
Our success depends entirely on the strength of our people and our We offer an external, confidential, multi-lingual Business Ethics helpline ability to identify, develop and retain our key talent.
We strive to attract, where anyone, anywhere can raise a concern or report a suspected develop, mobilise and retain talented and engaged employees from violation of the Business Ethics Policy.
Violations or complaints are different backgrounds and cultures to provide solutions to our customers.
investigated and any necessary action is taken.
This starts with our strategic resourcing function, where the focus is on A register of matters is maintained by the Groups Chief Compliance recruiting the right people, at the right time, to the right location, at the right Officer and the Board receives regular updates.
During 2015 we cost, to provide us with a flexible, diverse, talented and mobile workforce.
conducted a number of internal investigations into allegations of unethical behaviour.
Appropriate disciplinary action was taken based Over the last year, our leadership teams have committed to increased on the facts and circumstances, including the dismissal of 6 employees talent reviews as part of our broader talent management framework, and 7 other cases where an employee left during or immediately upon conducting a deep dive into the strengths and development areas of completion of an investigation.
By taking a structured approach to talent and succession management, we ensure that we are building a robust pipeline of future Our Business Ethics Policy is available at: leaders and promoting talent from within.
This was evidenced in 2015 www.
com our-values integrity with the successful progression and transition of our COO into the Chief Executive position, and of our Wood Group PSN CFO into the Information on our Business Ethics Helpline is available at: www.
com ethics Group CFO role, and the recent appointment and promotion of three new SBU CEOs all from within the business.
We recognise that in order to attract and retain the best people we Community need to offer challenging and exciting opportunities and ensure a fair We believe in making a positive difference in the communities in which and competitive reward.
We implement benefit strategies that promote our businesses operate.
With every new contract and new geography engagement, recognise the needs of our diverse workforce and comes an opportunity to employ locally and to reinforce our relationship support local business strategy.
Our long-term reward programmes with the community.
focus on driving business outcomes whilst rewarding and retaining key talent.
In 2015 we launched the first phase of our new Employee Share We support a range of local and international charities and causes Plan in the US, UK, UAE and Australia with the aim of promoting wider spanning health, education, the arts, medical research and the prevention employee share ownership in Wood Group.
We foster long-term support for flagship charities ARCHIES in the UK, MS in the US and the Vine Trust in Tanzania.
As we are a global Group with over 33,000 people excluding JVs We also support a wide range of local projects where we operate.
working in more than 40 countries, localisation of the workforce is imperative.
We are committed to nurturing local skills and sustainable Specifically in 2015, we have launched the STEM initiative which aims community development, hiring and developing local people and working to encourage, promote and improve knowledge in Science, Technology, with local supply chains whenever we can.
We provide training to local Engineering & Maths in schools.
Staff members, many of whom are workers and support to local companies.
graduates, visit local schools to assist with a variety of educational activities to support in the development of technical and behavioural Our business model is built on flexibility: being able to flex our business skills and to provide young people with an insight into the industry.
in line with changes in the market.
In 2015, market conditions have been challenging and as a result we have had to make the difficult decision to reduce our underlying headcount by over 8,000 people.
Gender diversity We value and demonstrate equal opportunity in recruitment, career Ethical conduct development, promotion, training and reward for all employees.
Wood Group is committed to protecting and enhancing the human dignity of all personnel and everyone who has dealings with the Group Executive leadership team worldwide.
Our human rights policy respects and enforces the principles 10 people as at 31 December 2015: established in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This policy is CEO, COO, CFO, WG Mustang CEO, 30% 70% supported by our commitment to Equal Opportunities across the Group.
WG Kenny CEO, WG PSN CEO, Group Head of HR, Group Head of HSSE, Our Human Rights Policy is available at: Group Head of Strategy & Development and www.
com humanrights General Counsel Company Secretary.
We encourage and train our personnel to do the right thing, and we are Overall proud of the reputation we have built on this.
Our Business Ethics Policy Around 33,000 people excluding JVs highlights the importance of conducting business both ethically and as at 31 December 2015.
Compliance with our Business Ethics Policy is mandatory for our directors, officers and employees as well as all contractors, consultants, representatives, intermediaries and agents retained by Wood Group.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 17
