Strategic Report Chief Executives letter Corporate Social Responsibility ever Chief People Officer.
These At JUST EAT we important hires demonstrate our continuing commitment to maintain recognise our wider The JUST EAT the strongest possible leadership team.
responsibility to culture goes hand As part of our efforts to build an manage and conduct internal pipeline of future leaders, we in hand with the have also committed to hire 22 people our business in a onto a specific graduate scheme in success of our socially responsible September 2016.
They will participate in functional programmes across six and ethical manner.
business, helping functions, gaining exposure across all During 2015, we undertook a parts of our global business.
As part our people comprehensive review of the Groups oftheir training programme, they Corporate and Social Responsibility willgain professional qualifications around the world policies, and are aiming to integrate relevant to their area as well as this as part of our broader corporate work together takingpart in a business skills values and strategy.
development programme to support effectively.
Developing talent As well as bringing in great talent, In order to attract and retain the we also look to provide multiple best people, we have introduced new development opportunities for hiring and onboarding processes to our existing team.
Every year we ensure new employees get up to speed create an offering of development quickly, fit with the JUST EAT culture activity relevant to the needs of and will inevitably become strong each individual, as identified in their contributors to JUST EATs future.
Reward These opportunities are available During 2015 we enhanced our to the entire global business and benefits offered to include an increase individuals can manage their own to the amount that the Company development online.
contributes to the pension savings We encourage individuals to reach of our employees and the launch of their full potential.
Our multi-tiered a three-year Company Sharesave JUST EAT Management Stars JEMS Scheme enabling employees to make programme identifies and develops savings and gain a direct stake in the high potential individuals, providing future success of JUST EAT.
them with the skills, knowledge and experience they need to become leaders.
The Manager Essentials Programme provides new managers A team of JUST EATers delivered gifts with information and skills needed to sick children in Our JUST EAT tobe great people managers.
hospitals in London Management Stars and Cardiff.
Hiring talent programme JEMS In 2015 our UK FTE employees identifies and develops increased by 18% as we continued to grow, including two senior our leaders of the See the Groups risk of appointments to the Executive team: future.
changing culture on Barnaby Dawe as Chief Marketing Page 29 Officer and Lisa Hillier as our first 30 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs030-033.
indd 30 09 03 2016 11:56 Strategic Report The World Party event, June 2015.
The social highlight of the Group is An expanding team the annual World Party.
The day As at 31 December 2015 we had Culture includes briefings from the CEO and grown to 936 FTE employees in The JUST EAT culture goes hand in Executive team, awards to celebrate the UK across three locations hand with the success of our business, individual and team successes, and 31December 2014: 824 : including helping our people around the world team building activities to ensure the our new Technology hub in Bristol.
work together effectively to maintain cultural spirit that has driven our In addition, we employed 910 FTE a high performance, entrepreneurial success to date is reinforced.
employees across our international way of working.
Our culture is markets 31 December 2014: 684, driven by four key values known as Losing the Groups culture is bolstered by the acquisition of the the JAM: being frank, passionate, considered a principal risk see page Menulog Group in Australia and innovative and working as a team.
Whilst the Groups processes New Zealand.
We embrace cultural Webelieve its important that our and controls have been effective in diversity within our organisation, people live andwork by our values, managing our rapid growth to date, valuing and respecting local practices making JUSTEAT a unique, engaging there is no doubt that being a listed whilst maintaining a consistent and funplace to work.
company creates a new dynamic Groupculture which aligns us to thatwe are consciously managing.
Our Jammy values 1 2 3 4 Frank Passionate Innovative Team Love what you do Listen carefully Try new things Help each other Push yourself Challenge honestly Create the future Share success Inspire others by Laugh about it Keep improving Put the team before your example afterwards the individual 31 156122 JUST EAT-TEXT-pgs030-033.
indd 31 06 03 2016 20:03 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued Corporate Social Health and safety Environmental policies The Groups policy on health and We are striving to make our processes safety is to provide adequate control of as environmentally friendly as possible.
Responsibility the risks arising from work activities, To reduce our carbon footprint we Our policies and ensuring JUST EAT is a great and continue to use paper which has In 2015 we reviewed our HR safe place to work.
been made from agricultural waste, policies and practices to ensure they as well as joining the Fruitful Office Diversity contain a clear ethical component, campaign, which directly results in We maintain consistent and are effectively and fairly applied, new trees being planted.
The majority transparent diversity policies across and that JUST EAT remains an of our sales fleet utilise low emission all our markets.
We firmly believe employer of choice for existing and vehicles where it is not practical to use that career opportunity, recognition potential employees.
New policies public transport and initiatives have and reward should be determined by a covering equal opportunities, been introduced to increase the fuel persons capabilities and achievement, anti-harassment and bullying efficiency of our vehicles.
not their age, gender, race, religion, and a code of conduct were sexual orientation or nationality.
Modern Slavery Act implemented, demonstrating JUST JUST EAT is opposed to slavery, EATs commitment to a positive, Our policy for the employment of productive working environment.
servitude, forced labour and human disabled persons is to provide equal Our intent is to attract and retain a trafficking.
We take a zero-tolerance opportunities with other employees diverse, inclusive and representative approach to modern slavery in the totrain for and attain any position workforce where everyone is supply chain and businesses under inthe Group, having regard to the treated with dignity and respect.
The Board has maintenance of a safe working Online training for employees is approved a statement about the steps environment.
used to highlight these policies.
we have taken and will take to combatmodern slavery.
The Groups whistleblowing policy is also available to all employees on our intranet.
This details how employees can raise concerns about risk, malpractice or wrongdoing that may affect our restaurants, Gender breakdown consumers, employees or which A breakdown of our Board, senior managers and all permanent employees is may be of public interest.
shown below: The Group has no specific policy 2015 2014 Number % Number % in place regarding human rights, Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female however the above policies govern how all employees, officers, Directors 8 1 89% 11% 8 1 89% 11% consultants, contractors, volunteers, Senior managers 30 5 86% 14% 27 4 87% 13% interns, casual and agency workers Total permanent employees 1,096 708 61% 39% 901 584 61% 39% are treated.
Looking forward, we are committed We have determined that those We firmly believe in recruiting to creating an organisation that has members of management within the right people for the role but a strong, clearly defined and unique the General Management Team recognise we must progress a culture that supports our strategy GMT meet the definition of a longer-term succession plan process and our organisational design is as seniormanager.
to improve thegender balance in lean and dynamic as it can be.
At JUST EAT we remain committed togender diversity and acknowledge the Davies Report recommendation that at least 25% of Board members should be female.
indd 32 06 03 2016 20:03 Strategic Report Community In 2015, we continued to support Starlight, our nominated charity partner.
Starlight is a charity who helps grant wishes for seriously and terminally ill children.
All of their activities are aimed at distracting children from the pain, fear and isolation they can often feel as a result of their illness.
A total of 93% of funds raised by Starlight are put back into charitable spending, an important factor for our continuing support.
Over the year we helped raise over 33,000 including funds matched by the Company towards granting wishes.
We did this through bake sales and raffles at team events, plus a selection of JUST EAT employees running the London and Brighton marathons, finishing Ride London, Tough Mudder and the Three Peaks In July 2015, a team of 17 intrepid JUST Challenge.
We ended the year with EATers climbed a team travelling over 200 miles on Over the year we the three highest a takeaway delivery scooter to two mountains in England, are delighted to have Scotland and Wales childrens hospitals in London and supported Starlight.
Cardiff to deliver over 500 Christmas gifts donated by our employees.
Greenhouse gas emissions 3,000 Greenhouse gas GHG emissions for Scope 1 comprises vehicle emissions the financial year ending 31 December in relation to operational visits to 2,500 2015 have been measured as required restaurants.
under the Large and Medium-Sized Scope 2 comprises our energy 2,000 Companies and Groups Account and consumption in buildings.
Reports Regulations 2008, as amended Scope 3 comprises other business travel.
The main activities which In 2015, JUST EAT submitted a return release GHG emissions include the use to CDP to facilitate distribution of our 1,000 of purchased electricity, waste disposal, environmental strategy and impacts.
business travel and use of vehicles.
500 Intensity ratio We have used the GHG Protocol We have chosen to present our total Corporate Accounting and Reporting 0 emissions in relation to revenues, in standards revised edition, data order to represent how our emissions are 2015 2014 gathered to fulfil the requirements impacted by the growth of the business.
Intensity ratio 9.83 16.84 under the CRC Energy Efficiency tCO e m 2 Despite 58% growth in revenues, and scheme, and emission factors from the acquiring new businesses in Australia, Scope 1 emissions tCO e 2 UK Governments GHG Conversion New Zealand and Mexico in the year, the Scope 2 emissions tCO e 2 Factors for Company Reporting 2014 intensity ratio has decreased significantly.
Scope 3 emissions tCO e 2 tocalculate the disclosures.
