Corporate governance statement continued Health, Safety & Environment Committee report Activities of the Committee The main activities of the Committee since the last report were asfollows: reviewing the Groups safety performance in 2015 against its plan: receiving safety performance reports and updates on progress against the 2015 health, safety and environment plan: revising the Groups HSE Assurance Framework and receiving updates onthe 2015 Assurance Programme: receiving reports on the implementation of Root Cause Analysis training workshops within the business: approving the inclusion of the Quality Management framework within theHSE functional teams: reviewing the positioning of the Group in relation to sustainability: receiving updates on our Environmental Awareness Campaign that was rolledout in 2015: and receiving updates on regulatory and legal developments.
Progress during the year Whilst we made significant progress against our annual HSE targets, thesewere tragically overshadowed by the deaths of two employees Nancy Tuor Moore working on site in Malaysia during the year.
The incident was investigated Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee by the local regulator.
Whilst the Company has given bothfinancial andemotional support to the colleagues and families of the employees involved, and will continue to do so, we have conducted our own HSE Committee Membership: investigations to ensure that the learnings are shared across those of Nancy Tuor Moore chairman from 26 June 2014 ourbusinesses working in similar environments and such an occurrence Ruth Cairnie isprevented from happening in the future.
Chris Girling appointed on 24 September 2015 Paul Withers The introduction of Quality into the HSE function will ensure that, going forward, standard operating procedures are put in place to continuously improve our products.
Dear shareholder It is my pleasure to present the HSE Committee Report for the year Reductions ended31 December 2015.
The number of rigs overturned in 2015 have reduced by 25% and there hasbeen a 39% reduction in hands and feet injuries.
Key objective The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities We are also pleased to report a reduction of 10% in our AFR: 30% in in relation to health, safety and environmental matters arising out of the major injuries: and 4% in LTIs.
activities of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the Groups Health and Safety Framework Further detail on the Companys HSE performance in 2015 can be in line with applicable laws and regulations.
It also evaluates and oversees foundinour Strategic report on pages 29 to 31. the quality and integrity of the Companys reporting to external stakeholders concerning health, safety and environmental matters.
Nancy Tuor Moore Terms of reference of the Committee Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environment Committee The Committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on the Groups website www.
co. uk and on 29 February 2016 request from the Company Secretary.
Committee membership Further to the 2015 Board and Committee review and evaluation process, itwas agreed that all of the Non-executive Directors should constitute themembership of all of the Board Committees.
Accordingly, Chris Girlingwasappointed a member of the Committee with effect from 24 September 2015.
Committee meetings The Chief Executive and the Group Health, Safety, Environment & Quality Director attend all meetings of the Committee.
Members of the Executive Committee have an open invitation to attend meetings where they are encouraged to contribute and present and are required to attend to report to the Committee in the event of a major incident ornear-miss occurrence.
The Committee is required to meet at least twice per year.
During this financial year the Committee met three times.
KELLER GROUP PLC 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
