Responsible investments KWE UK portfolio EPC rating summary as at 31 December 2015: 78% EPC ratings by passing rent Fraser Kennedy Head of Finance, Kennedy Wilson Europe Currently not at risk A 0% B 4% C 22% D 39% We have been working E 13% across the business to make At risk F 6% responsible investing part G 2% of day-to-day approach.
It EPC unknown 14% means that we can mitigate against environmental risks Our first task was to understand the Measuring carbon emissions by making our buildings environmental issues facing our UK Whilst KWE does not fall into the UKs better quality and more business.
Through actively engaging with mandatory emissions reporting scheme, our key stakeholders both internally and we have chosen to quantify our UK efficient.
At the same time, externally, such as senior management and greenhouse gas GHG emissions in we can enhance the space the Board, our property managers, our accordance with Section 7 of the UK tenants and our investors, we identified clear Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report for occupiers and, ultimately, areas for immediate action.
These include and Directors Report Regulations 2013. increase the underlying mitigating legislative risks, measuring our carbon emissions, improving corporate We have followed Defras Environmental value of the asset over the transparency and identifying opportunities Reporting Guidelines and have used long-term.
to improve our assets energy performance.
the UK Governments 2015 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting to Mitigating legislative risk calculate carbon CO equivalent 2 In 2015, KWE reviewed the energy and emissions from corresponding activity We recognise that energy use in buildings carbon legislation affecting the UK business data.
We use an operational control contributes significantly to global and our assets.
As part of this, we reviewed approach for our data boundary, and emissions of carbon dioxide.
At the same Energy Performance Certificates EPCs we do not report data for our single-let time, buildings are themselves particularly across the portfolio, to comprehensively properties or other properties where vulnerable to the impacts of climate prepare for EPC compliance to the Minimum we have no management control.
change, including extreme weather, sea Energy Efficiency Standards MEES in This reporting boundary ensures we level rise and flooding.
Our approach to EPCs has ensured measure and manage the impacts we that any risk associated with the MEES can directly control.
As such, our baseline requirements is effectively managed, and measurements relate to all 21 properties We are therefore integrating a responsible that all relevant EPC data informs our energy in the UK that fell under Operational investment approach into our investment management programme.
Control during 2015: this represents decisions and asset management.
This 1 581.6 million of investment value and mitigates the risks associated with climate 2 Of the assets currently classified with an 30.0 million of annualised NOI, or 35.0% change, improves the quality and efficiency F or G rating, or with an unknown EPC, 43% and 27.1% of our total UK direct real estate of our buildings, enhances occupier of the passing rent is under refurbishment, portfolio, respectively.
The next table satisfaction and, ultimately, leads to bringing those EPCs out of the at risk shows our tonnes of carbon equivalent increased long-term values.
category, or is in the process of being sold.
tCO e emissions from building electricity 2 and natural gas use during 2015.
Understanding our responsible Where we found underperforming EPCs, investment approach we have begun implementing a remedial KWE UK portfolio carbon emission Throughout the last year, we have been programme.
This includes either reviewing summary for 2015 working with Carbon Credentials Energy the EPC or ensuring that appropriate Services to understand how best to investment is undertaken, as part of our tCO e 2015 2 address our responsible investment wider asset management plan, to improve obligations and set actionable goals.
Scope 1 emissions from the EPC and remove the compliance risk.
natural gas combustion 3,348 Our approach to properties with unknown Scope 2 emissions from Footnotes: EPC ratings depends on the timing of the purchased electricity 15,008 1.
Asset values as at 31 December 2015: for next lease event, our asset management those assets disposed of during 2015, sales Total Scope 1 and 2 18,355 and capex plans, and whether it forms part price has been used of our disposal programme.
Scope 1 and 2 tCO e per Office: 567 2.
NOI as at 31 December: for those disposed 2 of during 2015, NOI at exit has been used m net operating income Retail: 40 28 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information 111 Buckingham Palace Road in Victoria, Identifying opportunities to UK performance data London, is the asset that consumes the improve energy performance Throughout 2015, we have focused on most energy within KWEs UK portfolio, Identifying and implementing energyimproving the quantity and quality of the contributing 39.0% to KWEs Scope saving opportunities across our portfolio, environmental performance data we 1 and 2 emissions.
We are therefore where appropriate, is long-term value collect, analyse and report across the UK focusing on this site for emission enhancing.
It is therefore important to portfolio.
This data set informs our asset reduction opportunities, as demonstrated take a practical approach where it is going management decision-making process, in the case study on pages 30 to 31. to make a significant difference, and and enables us to prioritise those actions as such, we commissioned a detailed that will significantly improve the Improving corporate transparency Techno-Economic Energy Audit Report at performance of our total UK portfolio.
To provide all of our stakeholders with 111 Buckingham Palace Road during 2015. high-quality environmental performance Going forward, we intend to undertake The table below shows the 2015 baseline information, KWE has chosen to align energy efficiency audits of other key assets energy and carbon footprint for KWEs UK its sustainability disclosure with EPRAs across the entire KWE portfolio, so we can portfolio.
The scale of the UK portfolio has Sustainability Reporting Best Practices advance both their efficiency and value.
materially transformed over the last year, Recommendations.
See below for the from 63 direct assets with a value of EPRA aligned tables.
818.1 million at the end of 2014 to 228 direct assets with a value of 1,662.8 million at the end of 2015.
As such, we have 2015 to constitute our baseline year, and we will be able to provide like-for-like analysis going forward.
KWE UK portfolio: energy and carbon performance data for 2015 EPRA Indicator Sustainability performance measures 2015 Elec-Abs Electricity for landlord shared services 25,447 MWh sub metered exclusively to tenants 7,024 MWh Total landlord-obtained electricity 32,471 MWh Fuels-Abs Fuels for landlord shared services 18,151 MWh sub metered exclusively to tenants n a Total landlord-obtained electricity 18,151 MWh Proportion of energy MWh estimated 11% Coverage of data disclosed by asset number, assets under management UK portfolio only 100% GHG-Dir-Abs Direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 1 emissions from gas use and facility operations 3,348 tCO e 2 GHG-Indir-Abs Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 emissions from electricity purchased for own use 15,008 tCO e 2 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Scope 3 emissions from third parties in value chain 1,239 tCO e 2 GHG-Int Scope 1 and 2 intensity figure Offices: Tonnes CO per m net operating income 567 2 excluding Money Centre Retail: Tonnes CO per m net operating income 40 2 excluding 41-45 Neal Street Data qualifying footnotes: As noted above, like-for-like figures would normally be reported in this table but the KWE UK portfolio has been assembled over the past two years so this is not possible.
Going forward, like-for-like energy performance data will be reported.
There is no district heating to report upon in the KWE UK portfolio.
Energy consumption data was collected for managed assets through their respective managing agents.
Assets that are not operationally controlled are not included in this analysis.
The following assets are excluded from the reported intensity figures: Fairmont, St Andrews this asset is a hotel and rental value is not an appropriate normalising figure for this asset class : Oracle House, 6 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh this asset was being refurbished during 2015 : The Money Centre, 1 Drake Circus, Plymouth this asset was disposed of during 2015 : 41-45 Neal Street, Covent Garden, London this asset was disposed of during 2015.
Coverage focuses on UK assets only.
KWEs UK direct real estate portfolio is the largest and most sophisticated, with a value of 1,662.8m: this represents 63.6% of KWEs total direct real estate portfolio.
Electricity and fuel that is sub-metered exclusively to tenants has been split out for 111 Buckingham Palace Road, where the sub-metering data was available and validated.
In this disclosure, estimation refers to filling invoice gaps, not to whether invoices are based on estimated or actual readings.
Where data was missing, a pro-rata estimate has been calculated based on the daily average consumption.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions were calculated using the applicable Defra emissions factors for 2015.
Scope 1 includes all natural gas consumption.
Scope 2 includes all electricity consumption.
The only GHG Protocol Scope 3 emissions disclosed here are for emissions from electricity grid transmission and distribution losses, reported in alignment with Defra emissions factors, 2015.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Responsible investments continued Case Study 111 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London SW1 111 Buckingham Palace Road 111 BPR Optimisation and upgrades A number Energy usage at is the largest office building in our UK of opportunities to upgrade the building 111 Buckingham Palace Road portfolio.
We have already invested in a have been highlighted.
Through improved number of energy conservation measures control and low-cost investment relating in the building, including the installation to the central plant, building management of air handling unit optimisers, improved system and lighting, we forecast an annual 15.7 GWh Building Management System controllers saving of up to 38,800.
Total electricity and gas usage and energy efficient lighting in communal areas.
Additionally we have worked with Engagement Thermal conditions Telegraph Media Group, the largest tenant vary throughout the building, as they Site electricity and gas at 111 BPR who complies with the Energy are currently dictated by each tenant.
Savings Opportunity Scheme, to identify This leads to high levels of equipment further energy efficiency opportunities in energy consumption, as the plant has the building.
long running hours and heating and cooling can be required simultaneously.
We have worked with Carbon Credentials Improving tenant engagement through Energy Services to carry out a Technoincreasing awareness initiatives and Economic Energy Audit Report at implementing a change to the out of the site and provide energy saving hours working process will drive recommendations.
The energy audit significant energy savings.
was commissioned to enable us to build on our previous initiatives and to help us Renewables The large roof space understand the propertys full energy at 111 BPR offers the possibility of performance potential.
The roofs structural properties are Each year, 15.7 GWh of electricity and to be further analysed by a solar PV gas is consumed at 111 BPR.
Electricity Natural gas this, approximately 55% of electricity 4% 96% consumption is attributable to the tenants, Lifecycle replacement An asset with the remaining 45% used by central replacement strategy that looks beyond landlord plant and equipment.
The building the manufacturers expected lifecycle will Landlord tenant electricity split already has a detailed sub-metering deliver significant energy savings over a system, which allows consumption to be five to ten-year programme.
At the point broken down into parent sub-meter and of replacement, all major plant equipment plant equipment level where required.
will be assessed for energy efficient alternatives.
Plant equipment sizing and Energy saving recommendations location will also be carefully considered identified by the Techno-Economic in relation to current operations, improved Energy Audit controls and future enhancement.
The Techno-Economic Energy Audit highlighted four key areas for improvement, which will lead to both immediate and longer-term reductions in energy use.
These areas are: Tenant Landlord 45% 55% 30 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Case Study 111 Buckingham Palace Road, Victoria, London SW1 Identified savings opportunities Implementing energy conservation measures is expected to lead to the following efficiencies: 1.8 GWh Energy consumption saved 195,500 Annual tenant utility cost savings 12% Site level energy consumption saving 26% Saving of landlord attributed electricity Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31
