Below we summarise the key elements that lead Creating sustainable value tothe creation and protection of sustainable value.
Ourfocused and integrated approach has already delivered tangible returns for shareholders.
We create a sustainable Strategic priorities business by aligning our Vision 2020 strategic priorities, managing our performance to address the risks and opportunities that we face and using our experience Sustainable and ambition to drive business ourgrowth through our strategic priorities.
Principal risks and opportunities KPIs Driving our plan Measuring our progress OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Context Our markets Our business model Our vision We are operating in a generally Vision 2020 is our strategic Our vision is to be a OLD ICONS NEW ICONS positive market overall, plan to grow the scale, world-class, customerOLD ICONS NEW ICONS withgood pipeline visibility.
coverage and profitability of focused company that Investment in key market the Group, delivered through invests in, builds, maintains sectors, such as education our business model.
and renews the places where and infrastructure, together we live, work and play.
OLD ICONS NEW ICONS with changes in public sector OLD ICONS NEW ICONS spend, provide apositive backdrop for our growth plans.
Page 12 Page 14 Page 16 OLD ICONS NEW ICONS Our strategic 1.
Achieve top quartile priorities sustainable business a top three player in our performance and chosen markets efficiency 4.
Ensure the business is customer experience highly motivated, supported by investment high-performing teams in technology and backoffice systems Measuring Key performance indicators KPIs Risk management, principal risks success We have performed well against the majority anduncertainties of our KPIs against which we monitor our The Group has well-established risk performance.
management and internal control systems tomanage the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
Pages 26 and 27 Pages 32 to 37 11 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
