Corporate governance Safety, Health and Environment CommitteeReport Dear shareholder, Nick Winser I am pleased to present the Safety, Health and Chair Environment Committee Report for 2015.
The health and safety of all those who visit and work at the Groups sites, together with the protection of the environment, have been and will remain key priorities for Kier.
It is therefore important that the Group has a well-established and robust governance structure, led by the Committee, to ensure that safety, health and environment SHE matters are appropriately managed by the Group.
Having recently acquired Mouchel, the Group now operates on several hundred sites at any one time, both throughout the UK and internationally, and employs over 24,000 staff.
The projects undertaken by the Group are not only complex, but inherently dangerous.
Although I am pleased to be able to report, overall, astrong SHE performance in 2015, the fatal road traffic accidents which occurred during theyear, in particular, demonstrate the need to seek continuous improvement in the management of SHErisks in the workplace.
This report provides a summary of the Committees activities during 2015.
I will be available to answer any questions about the work of the Committee at the AGM on 12 November 2015.
Role The role of the Committee includes: Assisting the Board to review the Groups strategy with respect to SHE matters: Encouraging management accountability with respect to managing the Groups SHE risks: Reviewing and, as necessary, approving material group-wide SHE initiatives, policies and procedures: Receiving reports on any major health and safety or environmental incidents: and Reviewing the Groups exposure to SHE risks andmonitoring the Groups performance against SHE targets.
The terms of reference for the Committee canbeviewed on the Companys website at http: www.
Composition and meeting attendance The members of the Committee are: Nick Winser Chair Kirsty Bashforth Amanda Mellor 82 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Regulatory investigations The executive directors and the Group SHE Director One of the areas of the Committees remit is to are invited to, and expected to attend, meetings, ensure that management responds appropriately and unless they are notified to the contrary.
The secretary in a timely to manner to investigations conducted by of the Committee is the CompanySecretary.
regulatory bodies in relation to SHE matters.
For example, from time to time, the Health and Safety Details of attendance at Committee meetings during Executive the HSE and the Environment Authority the 2015 financial year are set out on page 69. the EA will conduct investigations into incidents which occur on the Groups sites.
Some of these Principal activities 2015 investigations result in court proceedings being A summary of the Committees principal activities in taken against the Group and, as a committee, we the 2015 financial year is as follows: work with management to ensure that its approach to the conduct of these proceedings is appropriate.
New Group SHE Director As a committee, we were delighted with the During the 2015 financial year, the Committee appointment of John Edwards as the new Group oversaw managements responses to the HSE SHEDirector earlier in 2015.
Since his appointment, investigation into the fatality which occurred on the John has been undertaking a review of the Groups Crossrail site at the BFK Holborn site in March 2014, approach to the management of SHE risks for the proceedings brought against Kier and itsjoint example, reviewing SHE governance, re-drafting venture partners in Hong Kong as a result ofa documentation and procedures and overseeing an fatality on site in September 2013 and the assessment of the Groups culture with respect to investigations into the road traffic accidents which SHE issues see below.
occurred during the 2014 and 2015 financial years.
We have also overseen managements response to SHE strategy the EA in connection with a water pollution incident The Committee has closely reviewed managements December 2013 and a fuel spillage November plans to ensure that the management ofSHE issues 2014 and discussed with management its strategy remains a top priority in the context of Vision 2020. with respect to the defence of proceedings brought In particular, wehave challenged management to against Kier and its joint venture partners in ensure that the Groups SHE strategy remains HongKong which relate to two allegations of aligned with the Groups overall corporate strategy watercontamination.
and that, as the Group continues to grow, its SHE culture, policies, procedures and governance Behavioural safety self-assessment remainappropriate and able to continue to support One of the most significant activities of the business.
theCommittee in 2015 was to oversee the behaviouralsafety self-assessment which Fleet management instigated across the Groups As a committee, we oversaw managements operations.
Each business was asked to assess investigations into the fatal road traffic accidents itscultural maturity against a series of questions in which occurred during the 2015 financial year, order to set a benchmark against which to measure reviewed the incident reports and challenged and continuously improve the Groups SHEculture management to ensure that the learning points from the incidents were appropriately communicated and ensure that it remains appropriateas the Group throughout the Group.
Specifically, these incidents continues to grow.
led to the Committee overseeing a number of significant policy changes with respect to driving The results of this self-assessment will be used atwork for example, the banning of making or todevelop the policies and procedures to assist receiving telephone calls whilst doing so.
theGroup to develop a fully-integrated SHE culturefollowing the acquisition of Mouchel.
High-potential incidents Overseeing managements development of these During the course of a year, high-potential incidents policies and procedures will be one of the will occur on the Groups sites.
Management has Committees priorities in 2016. well-established processes to ensure that the remedial actions to be taken after the reporting of any such incidents are closed-out.
The Committee provided constructive challenge to management to ensure this is done in a timely manner.
In addition, we assisted management to continue to promote the Nick Winser benefits of, and encourage, the reporting of such Chair of the Safety, Health and incidents and to ensure the effective communication EnvironmentCommittee of the learning points across theGroup.
16 September 2015 83 Kier Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 159 Governance Report 60111 Financial Statements 112168
