Corporate responsibility Behaving responsibly has always been a priorityfor Ladbrokes and Fair Play is built intotheway we do business.
We do our best toremain leaders in responsible betting and gaming, have a positive impact on our communities and operate with integrity.
LEADING THE WAY IN RESPONSIBLE BETTING AND GAMING HAVING A POSITIVE IMPACT ON OUR COMMUNITIES OPERATING WITH INTEGRITY Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued FAIR PLAY Whats important to us?
The betting and gaming landscape is continually evolving and stakeholders employees, customers, shareholders, regulators toremain leaders in our industry, Ladbrokes has had to change and the general public and how much they are, or could be, with it.
Expanding our multi-channel offerings and entering new akey driver for the business.
Due to the sensitive nature of the markets and jurisdictions are some of the ways we are keeping issues, we have anonymised the exact details in the matrix pace with the industry.
Each of our new offerings and markets belowbut reassuringly, there were no surprises among the brings new challenges some of which have implications for results.
The areas identified for our greatest focus included the ourCorporate Responsibility CR programme, both locally and promotion of responsible gambling behaviours, providing better globally.
We regularly review whats important to us, and our player information and harm minimisation strategies, especially major stakeholders, todetermine any actions we need to take.
around machine play, ensuring the safety of our staff and customers and overall crime prevention.
This chimes well with This year we took stock again.
We carried out a formal materiality thetwo non-negotiables of our new Chief Executive: responsible analysis to see if we had missed anything within our current gambling and health and safety, and builds on the issues CRprogramme.
We identified a range of themes and emerging research completed with our key investors in previous years.
societal issues that may have some relevance to Ladbrokes.
More detail on this analysis and our CR programme as awhole is Wethen considered how important these issues were to our contained in our 2015 CR report available on ladbrokesplc.
com CR materiality matrix Economics HIGH Ethics Governance and risk Responsible gambling Customers Workforce and labour standards Community and society Wider human rights LOW Relevance to business and company HIGH 32 ladbrokesplc.
com Stakeholder importance Leading the way in responsible betting a first within the sector.
This year we have focused the KPIs andgaming on:theroll out of our responsible gambling policy especially We have always placed great emphasis on being a responsible aroundcolleague understanding and engagement: successful business, advocating and maintaining high standards across implementation of the DCMS regulations on machine play with oursector.
Ouractivities during 2015 have continued to support stakes over 50: implementation of the Senet Group guidelines: and development of our own trial algorithm on responsible this aim.
Wehave been working across our industry to push gambling.
We recognise that many of the targets are focused theboundaries of our understanding of responsible gambling onthe short term and in implementing new codes and systems, behaviours and the options for harm minimisation.
We are active which will also continue into next year.
In the future we would participants of the Association of British Bookmakers ABB and liketoestablish KPIs which are directly linked to the ongoing Remote Gambling Associations RGA responsible gambling responsible performance of the business and this is something committees, and were key instigators in setting up the IGRG weare currently working on.
Industry Group on Responsible Gambling and the Senet Group.
Developing our algorithms to detect problem gambling Through our involvement in several industry working groups, Late in 2014 we embarked on a pilot study to track customer wehave: behaviour and intervene when we suspect problem gambling Established an update to the ABB Responsible Gambling might be occurring.
Using data from customer loyalty cards, we Codeincorporating new requirements for advertising and player systematically assessed the gambling habits of approximately protection.
The 2015 Responsible Gambling Code includes best 8,000 shop customers on a weekly basis.
We defined a set practice standards for the use of behavioural data to identify ofrules that may indicate a player showing signs of problem customers who may be developing problems with their gambling gambling and monitored individual players behaviour against based on agreed markers of harm this measure will enable these.
During 2015 we dedicated more resources to this shop staff to engage earlier with customers who may be at risk: algorithm trial, expanded the coverage, experimented with Piloted cross-industry self-exclusion schemes in Glasgow, different ways of intervening and teamed up with external Kentand London.
Under these schemes, any customer who partners for greater insights.
We also developed a separate visits one of the participating shops and feels they are getting algorithm for our Digital customers.
Having said that, we are into difficulty with their gambling can now self-exclude by increasingly taking a multi-channel approach to customer contacting a central team of advisers, who will then tailor development, including offers and promotions and hence theirself-exclusion based on locations they frequently visit.
needtotake a multi-channel approach to monitoring customer These pilot schemes are playing a key part in developing a behaviours.
In an industry first, our algorithm trial now covers multi-operator scheme that will be rolled out to all bookmakers OTC transactions as well as machines and is in operation during the spring of 2016: and acrossthe UK estate.
Our aim is notonly to detect and intervene Launched a new Player Awareness Systems PAS initiative when problem gambling occurs, but to identify the trajectories tominimise harm on machine play.
The PAS initiative is a that lead to such behaviour.
If we believe a customer is on a response to RGT research in 2014 that showed it was possible trajectory towards harm, then we will interact with them to try to distinguish between problem and non-problem gambling andprevent this from happening.
behaviour by players using gaming machines in licensed Positive interactions with our customers betting offices.
All members of the ABB have signed up to the This year we have continued to implement the ABBs initiative, which is believed to be a world first in retail betting.
Responsible Gambling Code across our business.
As founding members of the Senet Group, an independent body TheCodehighlights four areas for improved performance: setup to promote responsible gambling standards, we have helped Providing adequate information on how to gamble responsibly: to run a high impact TV and advertising campaign to educate Providing tools to help customers better control their activity: people about the risks of gambling and how to stay in control.
Training staff to detect signs of potential problems: and We are fully aligned with the GB Gambling Commissions Undertaking central analysis of data to spot signs of objectives to ensure that gambling is crime free, fair and open and abnormalactivity.
children and vulnerable people are protected and indeed commit to these objectives across the whole of our business wherever We have stepped up the promotion of responsible gambling weoperate.
During 2015 we were audited by the Gambling messages.
As part of this, we have introduced more prominent, Commission one of the first in the industry and there were more frequent and clearer messages on staying in control in nomajor issues to report.
ourshops, on our machines and across our Digital estate.
Incentivising responsible behaviours Supporting research, education and treatment Our Board Committee to oversee delivery against our responsible We promote multiple harm minimisation initiatives through gambling objectives has continued to evolve.
TheSocial oursupport of the Responsible Gambling Trust RGT.
Responsibility Committee is led by Sly Bailey, and comprises two Organisations that benefited from RGT funding in 2014 independent non-executive directors, with the Chairman and the includedGamCare, the National Problem Gambling Clinic Chief Executive in attendance.
Following our commitment in 2014, CNWL and theGordon Moody Association.
we have now established KPIs to link executive remuneration with Our total contribution to RGT amounted to 682,500 in 2015. responsible gambling performance.
This is a major step for us and Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Strategic report Corporate responsibility continued Keeping crime out of gambling includedin the prestigious World Index, achieving maximum Reducing crime and anti-social behaviour remains a key priority scores of100% for our approach to responsible gambling for us.
Our efforts to date have been focused on machine andour anti-crime measures.
Since 2002 we have also damage, monitoring customer behaviour in and around our beenamember of FTSE4Good.
This year we were ranked shops and eliminating gambling related crime such as money inthe99thpercentile of companies in our industry segment, laundering.
We have also continued to be vigilant and active achievingmaximum scores for customer responsibility onall matters relating to sporting integrity.
Ladbrokes dedicated Anti-Money Laundering AML team Having a positive impact on our communities ensures compliance with AML and anti-terrorism financing An employer of choice legislation wherever we operate.
To this effect, we have As our international operations continue to grow, its important established a comprehensive compliance programme, that our people have plenty of reasons to be excited about includingdetection and monitoring systems across all our working at Ladbrokes and grow with us.
From the moment business activities.
someone joins us, training and career progression is our top Similarly, health and safety is another key priority for us.
Were proud of our grow our own approach and we Duringthe year Jim Mullen, CEO, emphasised the importance offer all of our people every opportunity they need to develop ofhaving a robust health and safety culture throughout the andprogress with us.
Our Chief Executive, Jim Mullen is a case business.
As part of implementing his new strategy, we have in point, since he started life in the industry working as a retail looked at how we approach health and safety and decided to assistant in a shop in Glasgow.
These largely affect the structure and We have further developed our learning and development reporting lines but we are also embarking on a cultural shift programmes, across all our grades, and extended our Females tore-enforce that everybody has a part to play in this vital area.
inLeadership programme, offering mentoring opportunities and Separate to this, within our retail estate we have decided to move increasing the visibility of senior female role models.
to single scheduling in theevenings to a voluntary basis only.
Gender diversity females as a % of total employees Betting shops have some of the lowest levels of crime among high street retailers.
However, during 2015 we were unfortunate Group board to have a serious incident involving the attack of oneof our employees.
This is currently the subject of an ongoing criminal 25% 22% prosecution by the Crown Prosecution Service against 2015 2014 the attackers.
1 Directors of Group companies Where possible, we work in partnership with local authorities 13% 7 out of 55 2015 andother bodies to ensure gambling remains crime free.
Ourpartners include Crimestoppers, the Association of BusinessCrime Partnerships and the Safe Bet Alliance SBA.
15% 11 out of 73 2014 Wealso continue to support the SBAs National Standards 2 forBookmakers.
Senior managers Protecting our customers and keeping our data safe 20% 50 out of 255 2015 Having effective data and information security systems in place isonly a first step to protecting our customer and corporate 19% 45 out of 240 2014 information.
Human behaviour can be the biggest threat to maintaining cyber security.
To address this we have developed 3 All employees acomprehensive cyber security programme based on the UK Governments 10 steps to Cyber Security, and, during 2015, 53% 7,403 out of 14,055 2015 launched a new information security web portal to help educateour employees and tell them what they need to know 55% 6,817 out of 12,396 2014 tominimise our risks.
We will be implementing further elements ofthis programme in 2016, including global staff training and 1 2014 data restated to be the number of individuals who were directors development of our IT monitoring and security systems.
of Groupcompanies rather than the number of directorships.
Benchmarking our performance 2 The top four management grades, including those who were also directors ofGroupcompanies.
We continually compare our performance with that of our 3 2015 data includes UK, Ireland, Gibraltar and Australia.
peersthrough external benchmarking and peer review.
Weactively engage with two investor indices, the Dow Jones Our policies remain consistent with the requirements of the Sustainability Index DJSI and FTSE4Good both provide us Universal Declaration on Human Rights and the spirit of the with benchmarking information on our CR and sustainability International Labour Organization core labour standards.
For the 13th consecutive year we have been aconstituent of the DJSI, an elite index for responsible companies.
We are the only European betting company 34 ladbrokesplc.
com Employees of the future engaging with our communities Operating with integrity The Ladbrokes UK-wide apprenticeship scheme is in its third As with any major business, our activities have an impact on year and has grown steadily.
Our main impact is caused by the electricity applications to join the scheme in 2015, with a selection of 419 andgas used on our premises.
Fossil fuel consumption emits eventually joining us.
We lifted the maximum age-restriction of greenhouse gases GHG which contribute to climate change.
24years so that any talented candidate could secure a place.
Climate change in turn poses a risk to our business, especially The12-month, fully supported, development programme aswe expand into overseas markets.
provides candidates with accredited training in customer Our carbon footprint service, literacy and numeracy and responsible gambling.
Our GHG emissions decreased by 11% in 2015.
The energy Uponcompletion, successful apprentices obtain an NVQ usage of our GB shop estate decreased by 3.3%, mainly due Level2in Customer Service and a position in one of our shops.
tothe implementation of new LED lighting systems.
Economic contribution to society 1,2, 3,4 Global GHG emissions by revenue At Ladbrokes we employ over 14,700 people across 15 countries, 2015 2014 contributing substantially to economic activity and employment Metric tonnes CO e per m net revenue 39.6 45.9 2 wherever we do business.
According to research conducted in 2013, the UK betting industry directly accounts for2.3 billion GHG emissions from our global operations in tonnes CO e 2 toward GDP and 38,800 full-time equivalent jobs.
The indirect economic footprint is even greater, amounting to 5billion GB emissions International emissions andaround 100,000 full-time equivalent jobs in total.
In2015, 42,419 4,928 2015 Ladbrokes paid a total of 264m in wages and salaries, of which232m was in the UK.
Our tax impacts 47,204 5,939 2014 Tax revenue is vital to economic prosperity and social stability.
We recognise that our contribution to governments and national finances through the taxes we pay is important and significant.
41,331 6,429 2013 Our approach to tax payments and disclosure is guided by the four principles below: 1 Based on 2015 UK Defra GHG reporting guidance and conversion factors and includes Complying with and following the law in all countries Scope 1: direct emissions from the combustion of fuel and Scope 2: indirect emissions fromthe purchase of electricity.
ofoperation: 2 Emissions from our global operations include those arising from our businesses in Being transparent in our reporting of tax affairs to all theUK, Ireland, Belgium, Gibraltar and Spain.
We are working on gathering GHG ourstakeholders, meeting all regulatory requirements dataforourother overseas activities.
We estimate based on pro-rata headcount thatthiswillincrease our global GHG emissions by no more than an additional 3%.
andreflecting best practice: 3 Excluding fugitive emissions from refrigerants, which represent less than 2% of GHG Engaging proactively and openly with local and national emissions from our business operations.
taxauthorities: and 4 Excluding High Rollers.
Driving sustainable returns for our shareholders.
For more information We take part in PwCs Total Tax Contribution survey, an annual Our CR Report contains further details on Fair Play at Ladbrokes.
benchmarking exercise comparing the total tax contribution Our full disclosure and supporting documents are available at andwider socio-economic impacts of some of the biggest http: www.
Of the 100 companies taking part in the Ladbrokes is a proud constituent of the following indices assessment, Ladbrokes is among the smallest when measured by market capitalisation.
However, the 2015 results show that Ladbrokes punches well above its weight, ranking 26th for taxes borne in the UK and 57th for wages and salaries paid in the UK.
It is clear that the betting sector is heavily taxed.
In 2015 our effective tax-rate on profits amounted to 86%.
This covers tax contributions of over 20m to local councils in the UK and over 277m in taxes to the UK Treasury and the greyhound and horse racing industries.
Internationally, we paid an additional 42.8m in taxes across our markets of operation.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35
