HOW ARE WE HELPING MILLIONS OF PE PLE TO CONNECT?
TELECOM COMPUTING Working closely with our systems integrator partners, we helped transform the bandwidth throughout Terminal 1 of Taiwans Taoyuan International Airport.
Our teams extensive RF experience, core focus on telecoms and proven technology made us the natural partners in what is a very prestigious project for the airport and the country itself.
Situated on 130 ceiling and 10 directional antennas, our advanced 3G 4G LTE technology is not only enabling travellers and airport workers to make the most of the EIoT it is also at the heart of the airport authoritys ambitious expansion plans.
CNN business travellers ranked Taoyuan as their fourth favourite airport in 2015.
Now the aim is to move further up the league tables, with telecoms performance a key factor in the drive toestablish Taoyuan as Asias airport of choice.
IM AT THE HEART OF MILLIONS OF INTERNET COMMUNICATIONS Michael Chang IAS, Asia Pacific region IM HELPING VISUALLY IMPAIRED PEOPLE SEE FOR THE FIRST TIME Jen Sarto, LSR HOW ARE WE TRANSF RMING LIVES?
CONNECTED MEDICAL Our LSR business is helping to bring new sensations to visually impaired people by helping them to see their surroundings for the first time.
Based on an intra-oral component that sits on the tongue, users report the sensation as pictures that are painted on the tongue with tiny bubbles.
The role of the design studio team at LSR was to work with Wicab Inc to create a look and feel that would deliver a positive user experience for the companys BrainPort device.
Our input was critical to the ergonomics, industrial design and mechanical engineering of the headset as well as the intra-oral device.
Drawing on our extensive experience with human factor design and new product development everything from razors and baby strollers to treadmills we have helped create a product that is both user friendly and discreet.
IM WITH YOU, EVERY SINGLE MILE OF THE JOURNEY Dan Dimich Telematics & M2M HOW ARE WE DELIVERING A GL BAL CAPABILITY ON A LOCAL BASIS?
CONNECTED TRANSPORT Car theft is a huge and growing problem in Brazil.
In 2012, the nation had the highest car theft rate among 34 countries, with 140 of every 10,000 vehicles stolen.
Quanta is a leader in the development and manufacture of tracking devices and our LT-100 tracker was the perfect choice because its high level of reliability enables finance companies to locate the vehicle at all times.
Easy to install, unobtrusive and requiring no input from the driver, the LT-100 is a completely stand-alone product housed in a compact plastic enclosure.
However, in this instance the customer requirements extended beyond a high-performance solution.
Quanta prefers to partner only with local suppliers, so our strategic decision to bring our engineering and production closer to our telematics customers in Brazil was extremely timely.
We have now built a brand new state-of-theart engineering, design and manufacturing facility outside So Paulo and are looking forward to playing our part in helping to recover stolen cars across Brazil.
Report by Secured By Design Ltd. a UK-based consultancy specialising in vehicle security.
HOW ARE WE HELPING CUST MERS TURN IDEAS INTO REALITY?
TELECOM COMPUTING Education, job opportunities, health information and more are all denied to 75% of the worlds population simply because they cant afford computer technology.
Our Model Solution business is helping to transform lives by supporting Endless Computer in its mission to provide affordable personal computers to people in the developing world.
The key challenge faced by Endless was how to persuade investors to buy into something that was just an idea.
In only seven days, we built a working model based on a refined 3D CAD model and working printed circuit board assembly provided by Endless.
This was used to showcase the companys concept to potential investors and led to Endless receiving more than $176,538 in funding in just one month.
Backed by our skills and supported by new funding, Endless is now able to transform the lives of countless people, worldwide.
IM ENABLING BILLIONS OF PEOPLE TO ACCESS COMPUTERS FOR THE FIRST TIME Danny Sung Model Solution
