51 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2015 ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN M&S GOVERNANCE EVENT 2015 As indicated earlier in this report, in 2014 we We held an investor event in Paris, providing The M&S Governance Event is a regular refreshed our core business values as part an update on our International strategy, xture on the calendar and is hosted by of our drive to ensure that our business is and a seminar on the development of our the Chairman, Robert Swannell.
These values, Inspiration, multi-channel capabilities.
Presentations attendees for 2015 will be Vindi Banga Innovation, Integrity and In Touch, are not at these events are made by directors or Senior Independent Director and Chairman in themselves entirely new to M&S: rather, senior managers and off er investors more of our Remuneration Committee, Andy we have placed them at the heart of our in-depth information on the progress being Halford Chairman of our Audit Committee, business as the essential behaviours made towards our strategic goals.
No new, Martha Lane Fox Non-Executive Director through which we aim to make everyday material financial information is disclosed at and member of our Sustainable Retailer life better for customers, employees and these events and no additional statements Advisory Board and Mike Barry our investors alike.
The latter of these four are made regarding current trading Director of Plan A. values, In Touch, complements our attitude performance.
The slides from the towards engaging with our investors as we presentations are available to view at Invitations are sent to our 30 largest believe that the foundation of our strong marksandspencer.
shareholders, representatives from the relationship with them lies in regular, open in uential investor advisory rms and To understand the views and opinions of dialogue.
Ensuring that we are in touch industry governance specialists.
The event our private investors outside of the AGM, means we are always available to discuss is an opportunity to meet and discuss the we engage with a number of leading client particular areas of the business and to wide range of matters considered by the brokers who typically represent our private address any concerns they might have.
Board, both during the year and going shareholder base.
For an independent This year, the business had over 566 contacts forward.
Presentations at the meeting view, Makinson Cowell, the capital markets with over 316 separately identi able institutions will focus on the following six areas: advisory rm, continues to provide via one-to-one or group meetings hosted guidance to our Investor Relations team by an executive director or our Investor The Board Audit Risk and undertake an annual audit of our Relations team.
Additionally, I hosted the Remuneration Plan A Q&As major investors views on the Companys annual M&S Governance Event.
Details for management and performance.
The The presentation will be available at this years event are provided in the box on results are presented to the Board.
AMANDA MELLOR GROUP SECRETARY AGM In last years report, I spoke of the school pupils aged between 5 and 18, who The 2015 AGM will be held at Wembley importance of maintaining our trusted took part in a range of educational sessions.
Stadium in London on Tuesday 7 July relationship with our shareholders and Demand from schools is overwhelming and at 11am.
outlined my role, as Company Secretary, is met by our Education Offi cer who works in engaging with stakeholders on a variety with Heritage Ambassadors across our stores The Notice of Meeting sets out the of governance matters.
These remain as to share the history of M&S, Plan A and the resolutions to be proposed and the intrinsically important as ever and, over environment, with their local community.
A copy of the the course of the year, I have again had The archives education programme has Notice can be downloaded at discussions with a number of investors and received the prestigious Sandford Award for marksandspencer.
I am also tasked with excellence in heritage education and Visit Themeeting will be webcast live and safeguarding the important relationship Englands VAQAS award for the quality of its a recording made available on our with our private investors, who are some of visitor off er.
our most loyal customers, and for whom The relocation of the archive laid the The Board and M&Ss senior management we have introduced a new loyalty scheme foundation for a broader partnership with team will be available for shareholders this year in partnership with our registrar, the University of Leeds, encouraging close to speak to before the meeting.
collaboration in areas ranging from design, Robert Swannell and the Chairs of our We must also recognise that our unique food technology and product innovation Committees will be available to answer heritage positions us to engage more widely to business management and law.
The shareholders questions during the beyond the traditional stakeholder group.
partnership is also a fantastic medium formal proceedings ofthe meeting.
This is well illustrated by our acclaimed through which to articulate our values: for The AGM in 2014 was well attended Company Archive, which was relocated in example, we have worked with the University and all of the proposed resolutions 2012 to a purpose built facility within the to produce a free, online educational course were passed, with the percentage of the campus of the University of Leeds and on innovation, which was a huge success Companys share capital voted in favour houses a collection of over 70,000 items and reached almost 15,000 people.
For my of each ranging from 88.25% to 99.99%.
The facilitys part, I am proud to help strengthen this award-winning Marks In Time exhibition partnership as a member of the University See Shareholder information on p127 opens up our heritage to customers, schools Council and to promote the importance of and the wider community.
It has received ethical leadership as a visiting professor of thousands of visitors, including over 8,000 the Universitys Ethics Centre.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR BUSINESS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE
