% % % 5 4 5... 8 9 2 7 3 3 22 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR PERFORMANCE PEOPLE BEHIND THE PLAN OVERVIEW OUR LEADERSHIP TEAM A NEW APPROACH Our people are at the very heart of M&S: The changes we made last June saw UKRetail In order to support the organisational bringing our values to life and putting our and International represented at Board level changes, we launched a new leadership strategy into action.
To create value for our for the first time.
To re ect the increasingly programme Fit to Lead The Future.
shareholders we must engage employees channel neutral outlook of ourcustomers, Designed to equip our people with the across the business in our strategic plans Laura Wade-Gery assumed responsibility for insights and practical techniques to build and ensure we have the right people, UK Retail as well as Multi-channel.
and lead high performing teams, it will withthe right mix of skills to drive our ensure our leaders understand whats Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne took on growth ambitions.
required of an organisation to remain responsibility for International, as well as sustainable in a quickly changing world.
Marketing, to help bolster M&Ss global ENHANCING LIVES, EVERY DAY Weare also running engagement events brand position.
for our 1,300 head offi ce employees who We have done a lot of work this year We were delighted to welcome Helen Weir have responsibility for directly managing to ensure that we have the correct onto our Board as Chief Finance Offi cer on individuals or teams to ensure they management structures in place to deliver 1 April 2015.
Helen, who replaced Alan understand the important role that they on our promise of enhancing lives, every Stewart, brings with her a wealth of retail, play in driving high performance.
Inthe face of changing shopping consumer and financial experience.
She was values are re ected in our employee habits, wehave to make sure that our formerly Chief Finance Offi cer at the John policies, including the behaviours we framework is t for the future.
Prior to that she held look for when we recruit, the induction Last summer we realigned our executive senior positions at Lloyds Banking Group of new employees, in performance teams responsibilities to ensure greater andKing sher.
management and as part of our accountability across the business.
Our Management Committee helps shape streamlined our processes and introduced our annual business priorities and drives the more collaborative ways of working delivery of our plan.
To ensure that all areas throughout the Company to speed up of our business work as one team, it was decision-making.
extended to ensure it is fully representative Our four new core values underpin of the entire business.
The Management everything we do: Inspiration, Innovation, Committee is ably supported by the Senior Integrity and In Touch.
Leadership Group, whose key objective is todrive a high performance culture and promote a wide understanding of our plans and priorities, so that every employee feels clear and con dent about the direction of our business.
EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY AS AT 31 MARCH 2015 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Marc Bolland Hugo Adams Belinda Earl Chief Executive Director of Property Style Director Total employees Development & Facilities Female 59,710 Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne Paul Friston 82,461 Management Male 22,751 Executive Director, Executive Assistant & Business Marketing & International Andy Adcock Development Director Director of Food Trading John Dixon Dominic Fry Executive Director, Costas Antimissaris Director of Communications General Merchandise Director of International & Investor Relations Total senior managers Steve Rowe Mike Barry Dirk Lembregts Female 75 Executive Director, Food Director of Plan A Director of Supply Chain 190 Male 115 Laura Wade-Gery Sacha Berendji Amanda Mellor Executive Director, Director of Retail Group Secretary & Head of Multi-channel Corporate Governance Carl Dawson Helen Weir Director of IT Chris Taylor Chief Finance Offi cer Business Improvement Director Florence fide Boosere Total Board Global Director of Store David Walmsley Female 5 13 Environment & Product Director of M&S.
com Male 8 Presentation Rob Weston Tanith Dodge Global Brand & Marketing Director of HR Director Includes Helen Weir and Richard Solomons, whobothjoined the Board in April 2015.
