Strategic Report Sustainability Corporate responsibility, an awareness and mitigation of adverse impacts onthe environment, and positive engagement with our community andemployees have long been core values of Marshalls.
Overview Marshalls sustainable business model Corporate responsibility, awareness and mitigation of adverse impacts The Group has a sustainable business plan and has set KPIs onthe environment, and positive engagement with our community forthekeyareas of this plan.
It addresses economic, social and andemployees have long been core values of Marshalls.
We aim to align environmental aspects of Marshalls operations, underpinned our business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic and bythedevelopment of management systems recognised by environmental needs of our stakeholders, embedding responsible and anindependent third party BSI.
ethical business policies and practices in everything we do.
Our commitment to these values is led by the Board and Jack Clarke isthe Director with primary responsibility for reporting to theBoard onenvironmental, social and sustainability matters.
More information on our policies in relation to the environment and Environmental ourimpact on it can be found on the Groups Sustainability website.
Water use, CO and CO e 2, 2 Employees Marshalls continues to focus closely on the established values of Biodiversity Waste to landfill leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability and to build these into all ofits activities, not least those involving employees.
We are firmly focused Legal on encouraging all staff, no matter where they are based, to collaborate in Social Economic all aspects, whether on work issues or as part of the Groups Giving Back Ethical sourcing Total shareholder return Safety programme, which continues to be a growing activity.
The Group has Community responsibility Customer service index raised a substantial amount for good causes during 2015.
In 2016 our focus will be to support Prostate Cancer UK.
For the second year Marshalls is proud to be a Living Wage Employer, underscoring its commitment to employees.
In September 2015 we launched our employee Sharesave scheme, which enabled employees tosave a fixed amount for a period of 3 years in order to buy discounted FTSE4Good membership shares at a set price.
The Sharesave offer was well received, withmore than 900 employees representing 46 per cent of the eligible workforce applying to participate.
This demonstrates a significant level of confidence on the part of our employees in Marshalls future.
We welcome and give full and fair consideration to applications from individuals with recognised disabilities to ensure they have equal opportunity for employment and development in our business.
Wherever practicable we offer training and make adjustments to ensure disabled 2,300 employees employees are not disadvantaged in the workplace.
Our success depends on our people.
Because of that, we are committed to the highest health and safety measures for all of our employees.
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We also remain committed to employing a diverse workforce and, in Giving Something Back, which will enable employees both to improve particular, encouraging more women to enter what has traditionally their personal health and contribute to both our corporate charity been a highly male-dominated workplace.
Janet Ashdown joined partner, Prostate Cancer UK, and local causes.
Company-sponsored social Marshalls plc during 2015 as a Non-Executive Director.
At the end of activities range from encouraging employees to take part in Sport Relief 2015 our workforce comprised 2,292 employees with the following to a national Walk This Way campaign.
The survey results are cascaded gender balance: throughout all levels of the organisation, ensuring everybody understands the feedback.
Employees are actively encouraged to take Male Female part during the planning stages, which will establish agreed actions to Total workforce 84% 16% improve our employee engagement during the year ahead.
Senior managers 87% 13% Communication with our employees on matters of concern to them is Directors 83% 17% done in face-to-face briefings, via monthly newsletters, site notice boards and our Group intranet.
We operate a structured consultation process in Employee engagement relation to pay and employment terms.
In 2015 we participated, for the fifth successive year, in the Best Employee development Companies Workplace Engagement Survey, with over 85 per cent of We have identified a number of priorities across all aspects of the employees taking part an increase from 75 per cent in 2014.
The Group employee life cycle, from attraction and recruitment to personal also saw a positive increase in its Best Companies Index Engagement growth and career progression.
The introduction of a new centralised Score and we maintained our One to Watch status.
We are working on HR information system during 2015 has improved the quality of the detailed implementation plans that will address key focus areas that have Groups employee data metrics, which will be used to improve arisen from the survey.
These include Fair Deal, Giving Something Back, medium to long-term talent recognition and people development, Wellbeing, Communications and Personal Growth.
During 2016 we the wider adoption of shared best practice across our business and have a scheduled plan of monthly activities, covering Wellbeing and the introduction of new cohesive initiatives.
Land at Moselden Quarry Sustainability We are committed to achieving the highest standards of Weaim to be the supplier of choice of innovatively designed environmental performance.
Whether it is reducing our ranges of the highest quality landscape and walling products carbon footprint or promoting biodiversity at our works, we to the architect, contractor and consumer.
We believe continue to strive for real environmental results in everything in conducting our business in a manner which achieves we do.
We believe in demonstrating a high degree of social sustainable growth and we believe in acting responsibly with responsibility, working with the communities in the UK and all stakeholders.
overseas, and engaging with issues of social importance.
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Sustainability continued Training and development overtime and also provides an insight for shareholders regarding The development review process has been further extended during 2014 theGroups energy, carbon and climate change impact and provides all employees with the opportunity for one-to-one discussions managementprogramme.
with their manager, covering work objectives, personal performance and Marshalls has a mandatory duty to report its annual greenhouse career development.
"This is supported by the use of enhanced online gasemissions GHG under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and resources and tools, together with site-based ""tool-box talks""."
Directors Reports Regulations 2013 and the Large and Medium-sized A tailored team leader development programme commenced in Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
2014 to develop around 100 first-line managers within operations to Marshalls uses the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting drive manufacturing excellence.
The programme, which continued Standard revised edition and the latest Defra publishedCO e 2 through 2015, aims to improve management and leadership skills conversion factors to measure its GHG emissions.
through professional qualifications and a range of internal workshops.
The Group has conducted audits of its UK fugitive emissions and Carbon emissions disclosure found these to be less than 0.5 per cent of the Groups total emissions: Marshalls Energy and Climate Change Policy confirms the Groups accordingly, these are excluded from the report.
commitment to reducing the energy and carbon impact of its The chart below left illustrates the Groups UK absolute CO e emissions 2 business.
Our target is to reduce Group absolute CO e emissions 2 intonnes, including transport activities, between 2011 and 2015. inline with the UK Governments targets 34 per cent by 2020 and 80percent by 2050 from a 1990 baseline.
The progress indicates The chart below right illustrates the Groups CO2e intensity emissions thatreductions are in line with the 2020 and 2050 targets.
as aproportion of production output, including transport activities, between 2011 and 2015.
The Group complied with its legal obligation in the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC A number of factors have contributed to the Groups energy performance bysubmitting its Annual Report and surrender of carbon allowances during the year, including significant increases in outputs from for the period April 2014 to March 2015 within the time limit imposed continuing operations, product mix, weather temperature impacting by the legislation.
The Group successfully recertified to the Carbon onthe use of heating cooling fuel and energy management activities.
Trust Standard up to December 2016.
The Groups approach to the During the year Marshalls increased its LGV fleet by 20 per cent: Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS legislation was to thisresulted in a transfer ofscope 3 to scope 1 emissions, an impact define itsenergy management in compliance with the international equivalent to 28 per cent of the scope 1 increase.
standard for energy management ISO50001, gaining certification The Group reports that it is responsible for the GHG emissions of inNovember 2015.
The Group continues to report voluntarily to the Marshalls NV.
The CO emission from Marshalls NV activities in 2015 2 Carbon Disclosure Project receiving a 98B rating for its 2015 report.
was absolute 640 tonnes and intensity 8.49 kg per tonne production.
co. uk EnvKPI2016 M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Tonnes CO e 2 kgs CO e per tonne production output 2 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety standards for all its employees, reinforcing and developing itssafety processes, and developing a competent workforce.
The headline target for 2015 was a 10 per cent reduction in days Sustainability website lostresulting from workplace incidents against 2014.
co. uk sustainability reductions achieved were: 43.2 per cent reduction in days lost resulting from workplace incidents: Environmental reporting 17.4 per cent reduction in all incident frequency rate: Marshalls publishes its environmental KPI performance for the financial year in a separate document, the Marshalls Environmental 29.2 per cent reduction in lost time incident LTI KPI 2016 Report.
This covers our energy performance in more detail, frequencyrate:and together with the reporting of our environmental governance, 51.5 per cent reduction in rate of incidents reportable to the policies, management and key environmental impact areas such as HSEunder the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous waste, water and packaging.
The Environmental KPI 2016 Report also Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR.
details our work with internationally recognised expert bodies such asthe Carbon Trust and the RSPB.
The table below shows the KPIs used by the Group to monitor performance, and progress against those KPIs over the last 5 years.
This section of the Annual Report has been audited by a qualified Accident frequency and verifier on behalf of BSI.
On the basis of the work undertaken this severity rates per 1 million carbon statement is considered to be a fair reflection of the Groups hours worked 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 performance during 2015 and contains no misleading information.
All accidents 83.2 69.5 65.6 59.1 48.8 Health and safety All lost time Marshalls remains committed to meeting the highest safety standards accidents 15.5 14.0 12.2 7.2 5.1 for all its employees, reinforcing and developing its safety processes, and developing a competent workforce with a view to achieving All RIDDORs 8.1 6.1 3.6 3.3 1.6 long-term improvement gains, and this remains a key priority for All days lost 204.4 134.5 114.6 80.7 45.8 thebusiness.
Average UK Achievement of annual health and safety improvement targets is headcount 2,456 2,252 2,055 2,132 2,237 directly linked to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and To align our accident statistics with those of the Mineral Products Association our base unit of senior management, as explained in the Remuneration Report.
measurement has changed to 1 million hours worked.
Previous years' results have been amended to reflect this change.
"Our Safety, Health and Incident Prevention SHIP teams, consisting of employee representatives and managers, are the cornerstone During 2015, the Group has invested additional resources in health ofthe safety management system at site level and meet regularly and safety awareness training through its ""Visible Felt Leadership"" tosupport and develop our safety programme and objectives."
initiative, which has now been delivered to all managers and TheGroups operating sites have been progressively implementing supervisory staff.
integrated management registration systems accredited by The industry leading fleet safety standards were recognised at the BSI, incorporating accreditation to OHSAS Occupational Health 2015 Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Awards for andSafety Accreditation Standard 18001:2007.
"At the end of Excellence with Marshalls winning the prestigious ""Safety"" category."
2015allUK operational sites within the Group held a BSOHSAS 18001:2007 registration.
"Marshalls was also the winner in both the ""Engineering Initiatives"" and the ""Behavioural Safety, Safety Culture and Leadership"" categories at the Mineral Products Association's 2015 Health and Safety Awards."
M Marshalls plc arshalls plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
