24 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 PEOPLE AND CULTURE Communicate, collaborate, create.
Meggitts performance culture is based on delegating decision-making as far down the hierarchy as possible where problems can be resolved by the teams who understand them most.
That is Meggitt Production System basic equipment, facilitated through the technique of Daily Layered Accountability or DLA.
New value streams are playing a role at divisional level too, devolving responsibility to where it is best discharged, MPS-style.
The focus on international networking 1 continues through the international graduate programme, the executive leadership programme with Oxford University and the launch in 2016 of the Groups first global intranet.
Paul Devaux Robin Young Karl Elkjaer President, Power & Motion Group Organisation Development Director Meggitt Production System Leader hen Group Organisation Devaux is DLA see box right.
Its what One mans industrial paradise Development Director, Robin you do every day at Meggitt.
It is not in Paul Devaux heads up Meggitt Sensing WYoung, joined Meggitt, the Group addition to anything else.
Systems Power & Motion value stream.
was half the size, a conglomerate of small And it works.
An operations expert and French national to medium-sized enterprises.
It was good based in Meggitts power management To some, the daily monitoring and for innovation and speed but we needed facility in Avrill, France, he has spent his problem-solving system seems too simple.
to leverage our scale to really count in our career working for international Devaux asserts: Some organisations have markets for the long term.
From Morocco to France and forgotten the world we are living in.
what Meggitt did in 2009, organising its the UAE to Indonesia, he has experienced Complex systems can be very satisfying businesses around core capabilities into the extremes of disaffecting command intellectually but they are not always integrated divisions.
Meggitt is changing, and control processes to what he efficient.
We are engineers and subtly, again.
The divisional structure describes as the industrial paradise of manufacturers.
We are not making remains firmly in place but as our engagement.
However, the impact of the philosophy.
We are trying to make business has become more international Meggitt Production System could not profitable parts that satisfy our customers.
and more intricate, the way we think about have been greater when he joined Simplification in our world has to be one some of these divisions at an identity level Meggitt in 2015. of the greatest virtues.
Young is referring to the new value streams created by This operating system is done in a very And this touches on a fundamental of Meggitts Sensing Systems and Polymers smart way.
It is not beside the business.
At the & Composites divisions to provide is inside the business.
It is fully helm of an outward-looking value stream, customers with the best solutions and integrated.
The most Devaux knows he will not be taken aside as improved support.
palpable expression of integration for he once was by a customer who told him: 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
indd 24 07 03 2016 17:49 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 25 process and they will fail.
My role is about creating the right conditions for people to The DNA of DLA succeed and enabling them to work better in teams.
Safety Eureka moments Quality Elkjaers graduate programme rotation Delivery started in Denmark, followed by ninemonth cycles in the US and UK.
He is Inventory sensitised to different national Productivity management styles and has had significant exposure to Meggitts international customer base.
As he changed his perspectives so, he believes, DLA is the daily drumbeat of early morning meetings all over Meggitt his hosts changed theirs, if only to learn where progress against production goals is monitored and obstacles to about other businesses in the Meggitt group.
The effect of Youngs desired success identified.
There and then, problem-solving paths are devised, random intersection occurred when he actioned and recorded for all, in the most visible way possible on SQDIP rotated from a sensing business in Safety, Quality, Delivery, Inventory and Productivity boards.
Denmark, where he had been looking at a paint form of piezoceramic sensor, to a composites business in the UK looking for actuating technologies for anti-ice at your company, you seem more at the leash to reach out to each other and systems.
An ultra-low power solution interested in your culture than your explore the possibilities, he says.
deploying this technology contributed to customers!
Meggitt Polymers & Composites Graduate programme cohort evaux knows about the effectiveness Loughborough beating the industrys of the value stream approach to expands into operations odds-on favourites in a competition to lead Ddelivering growth from product lines a state-of-the-art anti-ice systems Meggitts international graduate within individual factories.
Now Meggitt is research project with EUR 6.2 million programme is in its fourth year and the innovating, applying a common sense European Union funding.
first cohort to finish its three-year rotation principle to aggregate businesses at an is starting full-time roles across the international level.
Devaux is very Networking Group.
Meggitt employees with senior leadership focused, the programme piloted potential continue to enjoy the networking With his team, he is combining the operational streams last year, which has value of the biannual executive training capabilities of five specialist centres led to a 50% increase in intake in 2015 programme with Oxford Universitys Said business school.
Its fourth cohort is now benefiting from the one-year bespoke You can take the best person and drop programme.
Diverse talents, from new them into a poor process and they will fail joiners to old hands, work on special projects to develop systems thinking beyond their functional areas.
Several in France, the United States and Vietnam including the Meggitt Production System alumni now serve on Meggitts executive into a rich seam of power generation, leaders of the future.
conversion, storage and management from the programme, including changes of technologies, providing customers with career aspiration and what Young calls the And theres a new information democracy the best solutions and improved support.
effect of random nodes, where to come.
In 2016, Meggitt will launch its technologies and markets find new first global intranet.
Any employee, It takes Devaux back to his industrial intersections.
worldwide, will be able to tap into the paradise in which control is given to richness of what Meggitt has to offer and businesses rather than functions.
For From nanotechnology to act on the information through the Devaux, being part of the Meggitt group intranets latest communication and means access to investment, functional industrial psychology collaboration tools.
Young concludes: A expertise and world-class systems like Karl Elkjaer exemplifies this idea.
With new level of creativity will be enabled as MPS.
As owner of a value stream, he can his Masters in physics and nanotechnology these tools become available for use in benefit from the parent but have the he might have been expected to take a day-to-day activities.
All this contributes to freedom to make decisions relating to route to a Meggitt Technical Fellowship.
a fertile environment for sharing and customers and markets with which he Instead, he has discovered the satisfying developing ideas that lead to revenueand his team are in step.
That is exactly immediacy of solving problems in generating new products and technologies.
where he wants to be in professional operations.
His chosen permanent role is Meggitt is a treasure trove of capability terms.
He is equally ambitious for his as Meggitt Production System leader at and talent that deserves to be shared people.
The opportunities to showcase the Groups specialist piezoceramics widely, inside the business and, ultimately, best practice from one facility to another facility in Denmark.
The problems are with our customers.
Our new intranet is are significant.
The engineering equally as complex in operations, to which central to providing that narrative.
challenges will grow in complexity and the new discipline of psychology can be deliver greater professional satisfaction.
You can take the The Power & Motion teams are straining best person and drop them into a poor 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
