STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 41 Corporate responsibility We recognise our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community to conduct our operations in a safe, responsible and sustainable manner.
We believe that our focus on corporate responsibility creates value for Meggitt and our stakeholders.
Ithelps us manage our businesses more efficiently, which in turn helps us mitigate risks, reduce costs and to support the communities in which we operate.
Policy We are committed to: Upholding sound corporate governance Minimising the environmental impact of principles: products and processes and maintaining  environmental Upholding our employees human rights: management systems: Encouraging dialogue with employees: Acting as a responsible supplier and Professional and comprehensive employee encouraging our contractors and suppliers training programmes: to do the same: and Supporting our local communities: Improving our financial, social and environmental performance.
Conducting business relationships in anethical and responsible manner: Action For our stakeholders this means: Complying with relevant national laws Modern, safe and efficient operational andregulations: practices: Supporting the Ten Principles outlined in the Contributing to the social and economic United Nations Global Compact on Human enrichment of local communities, focusing Rights: particularly on activities related to education: Providing a supportive, rewarding andsafe Effective risk identification and mitigation working environment: across all areas of the business: Delivering comprehensive training for Conducting independent audits in employees: compliance areas: and Developing state of the art communication Robust internal and external reporting and and collaboration tools: controls and ensuring financial probity.
indd 41 07 03 2016 04:15 42 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate responsibility continued Governance and compliance All our manufacturing facilities are Excluding MABS, the Group would have In 2015, the Board approved a revised required to obtain the ISO 14001 achieved a 4% reduction in GHG emissions Corporate Responsibility Policy to align it standard.
At the end of 2015, all had on an absolute basis and a 6% reduction further with ISO 26000 and to confirm our achieved certification, except our new in GHG emissions normalised to revenue.
commitment to uphold our employees acquisitions which are currently setting We are evaluating new strategies and human rights and our support for the Ten out their plans to achieve certification.
technologies which should enable us to Principles outlined in the United Nations reduce absolute GHG emissions from Performance Global Compact.
The revised policy MABS, including the use of cogeneration Table 1 shows our performance for key highlighted our commitment to working and new renewable energy technologies environmental metrics and Table 2 with and supporting local schools, colleges, such as fuel cells.
showsour progress on achieving universities and other education initiatives.
In 2015, we announced new targets for the internallyset targets.
The updated policy is published on our reduction of GHG emissions across the website, together with Board-approved Our overall performance in 2015 reflects Group.
Excluding MABS, we have set an policies on health and safety, environment, the challenges we face reducing aggressive target to reduce our GHG ethics and business conduct, antiGreenhouse Gas Emissions GHGs arising emissions by 25% relative to revenue over corruption and trade compliance.
from the significant energy consumption a ten-year period using 2015 as the demands associated with our carbon The Board is responsible for baseline year.
For MABS, we have set a brake manufacturing processes at implementation and performance of the separate 2016 GHG ceiling efficiency Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS.
On a target of 138 kilogrammes of GHGs The carbon densification process requires day-to-day basis, the Executive Director, emitted per kilogramme of carbon large amounts of electricity and natural Commercial and Corporate Affairs has produced.
This separate target is gas due to high processing temperatures functional responsibility for corporate necessary due to the difficulties in over lengthy cycle times.
Primarily due to responsibility CR matters on behalf of the reducing electricity and natural gas a significant increase in carbon production Chief Executive, including ethics and consumed during the carbon brake in 2015, our GHG emissions remained business conduct, trade compliance and manufacturing process.
The ceiling target relatively flat as shown in Table 1 below.
The Group is based on analysis of data gathered over Operations Director has functional prior years that shows this to be the This is also reflected in our performance responsibility for health, safety and maximum amount of carbon brake against the five-year targets for electricity environment on behalf of the Chief material that could be produced when the and natural gas consumption Table 2.
Divisional presidents and site carbon furnaces run at peak efficiency.
will be challenging for us to achieve the directors are responsible for implementing targets by the end of 2016. our policies and procedures locally.
The Group is committed to providing the support needed to ensure our facilities can fulfill the 1 requirements outlined in ourpolicies.
Environmental metrics Table 1 2015 Change 2014 Utilities Activity in 2015 ElectricitygWh 201 201 Environment MWh per m -1% 126 127 Meggitt continues to target high levels of 203 190 Natural gasgWh environmental performance throughout MWh per m 127 6% 120 our businesses based on global standards 1 Greenhouse gas emissions CO e tonnes 132,074 131,897 2 and procedures.
Toachieve the goals of Tonnes per m 82.7 -1% 83.5 our Environmental Policy, Meggitts Wastetonnes 12,098 12,200 environmental management programme Tonnes per m 7.58 -2% 7.72 includes setting environmental targets, Watercubic metres 711,385 722,200 communicating regulatory developments, Cubic metres per m -3% 446 457 training and information-sharing, data analysis and internal and external audits 1 Metrics per m are calculated using revenue converted at constant exchange rates.
Greenhouse gas of environmental management emissions GHG are calculated using conversion factors published in the 2014 and 2015 Guidelines to systemsandpractices.
DEFRA DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Emissions from overseas electricity are in CO only not CO e. 2 2 Our global environmental audit programme, supported by external Targets Table 2 consultants, includes a comprehensive Target review of applicable regulatory improvement requirements.
In 2015, our environmental Baseline over performance Achieved as at year Performance period period 31 December 2015 audit programme, supported by external CO emissions 2015 1 January 2016 31 December 2025 -25% N A consultants, was integrated with our 2 Electricity 2011 1 January 2012 31 December 2016 -15% 10% health and safety audit programme and Gas 2011 1 January 2012 31 December 2016 -15% -5% the audits included a comprehensive Water consumption 2011 1 January 2012 31 December 2016 -10% -8% review of applicable regulatory Waste to landfill 2011 1 January 2012 31 December 2016 -10% -9% requirements as well as site compliance Waste recycled 2011 1 January 2012 31 December 2016 10% 6% against industry best practice standards.
In total, ten sites were audited in 2015.
indd 42 07 03 2016 04:15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 43 Meggitt recycles an estimated average their recycling efforts in 2015 by Greenhouse gas emissions GHG 100,000 cubic metres of water each year identifying waste recycling vendors for Table 3 shows the GHG emissions data for through closed-loop water recycling items such as cardboard and waste the Large and Medium-Sized Companies systems installed at several facilities.
As a result, we increased and Groups Accounts and Reports Other water conservation measures our waste recycled by 13% and decreased Regulation 2013 the Regulations.
include installation of thermostaticallyour waste to landfill by 9% in 2015 Thesites reporting GHG data are the controlled water circulation systems on compared to 2014.
We are on track to sameas those consolidated in the process tanks reducing evaporative meet our five-year target for increases Groupsfinancial statements.
As a result of these efforts in 2015, in recycled waste and reduction of waste we continued to decrease our water to landfill.
consumption despite increased water used at the MABS UK facility during the carbon manufacturing process and 1 GHG emissions data Table 3 significant leaks which were resolved in 2 the water supply at one site.
Decreased 2015 2014 Tonnes of Tonnes of production demands at some UK facilities CO e CO e 2 2 and water restrictions implemented in 3 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 37,796 35,693 response to drought conditions in Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 94,278 96,204 California contributed to the overall 132,074 131,897 decrease in water consumption in 2015.
Intensity measurement: We are on track to meet our five-year Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes per m revenue 82.7 83.5 target for reduction in water usage.
1 Global GHG emissions are calculated using conversion factors published in the Guidelines to DEFRA We continued to decrease the amount of DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Emissions factors from overseas electricity waste generated in 2015 with the are in CO only not CO e. 2 2 2 conclusion of consolidation, demolition 2014 numbers have been restated to the updated 2014 DEFRA DECC conversion factors.
3 and construction projects that began in Does not include GHG emissions generated from Meggitt-owned and operated vehicles or refrigerant gases as these emissions are not material to the Groups emissions.
Our facilities continued to improve Career-long learning Encouraging employees to take on new challenges is a key principle across the Group.
There are numerous initiatives but one of the most successful is the tuition reimbursement programme at Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS.
It grew more than 50% in 2015, with USD200,000 paid in fees for 32 employees studying postgraduate qualifications in areas such as law, engineering, project management and business.
Doug Moseley, VP of Applied Research and Technology, used the scheme 20 years ago to complete a Masters in engineering and is now using it to help finance a law degree.
I was spending more and more time dealing with intellectual property in my role and found the legal aspects fascinating.
The degree is demanding20-30 hours a weekbut its food for the mind and its very useful in my work.
Patents can cost USD150,000 during their lifespan so the question of whether to file is not taken lightly.
The R&Din areas like quiet carbon brakingis also expensive but it could give us a strong competitive edge.
The more I understand the legal issues, the better I can steer our decision making.
And once The degree was very much rooted in aerospace so my industry Im fully qualified, there are opportunities at division and Group level knowledge expanded rapidly.
And there were classes in finance, to get more involved with legal.
Im very excited about this next stage project management and systems engineering alongside the main in my career.
The programme has also proved a good recruiting tool.
One of the It qualified me to take a certificate in project management too reasons Programme Manager Jennifer Flowers joined MABS was which, in turn, led to a promotion.
Ive put a lot of my learning into to study for a Masters in engineering management.
practice since, developing templates and tools to streamline processes at MABS within programme management.
The scheme covered 70% of the fees and my manager was very supportive throughout.
Its broadened my horizons and opened a lot of doors for me.
indd 43 07 03 2016 17:50 44 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate responsibility continued We had a slight increase in our absolute under REACH and work closely with our site adherence to Meggitt Health and GHG emissions in 2015 and our GHG chemical suppliers to ensure substances Safety Procedure MHSP and process emissions relative to revenue remained are registered and will be approved for documents incorporating the best relatively static due to the increases in continued use, or identify suitable industry-recognised safety practices: electricity and natural gas consumed at alternatives.
We participate in aerospace Group-wide online health and safety MABS facilities.
The rest of the Group industry trade groups in the United States awareness training for all employees: achieved a reduction in absolute GHG and Europe involved in researching Implementation of a behavioural health emissions through site consolidations and replacements for hexavalent chromium and safety programme at four facilities relocation to newer, more energy efficient used in common aerospace manufacturing applications.
in 2015, with the requirement for properties.
facilities to build such programmes Obsolescence Saving energy into the MPS process: In 2015, our facilities continued to focus Our Obsolescence Review Board continued Health and safety provisions built into energy reduction initiatives on improving to identify and define a coordinated the MPS process, allowing facilities to facility lighting, replacing older, inefficient response to issues potentially affecting continuously improve on their health our business including conflict minerals, equipment and upgrading building and safety performance: insulation.
Improvements included: counterfeit and fraudulent materials and chemical obsolescence.
Working with our Continued dissemination of Ongoing lighting upgrade projects at customers and suppliers, we continue to many facilities resulting in reductions information and best practice through strive for the reduction and substitution of of approximately 55% of the energy intra-Group health, safety and materials and substances impacted by used in previous lighting: environment HSE conferences, health regulatory developments, performing and safety alerts and all-employee Installation of variable speed drive material assessments, surveying our safety bulletins: compressors resulting in 10% suppliers and undertaking reliability and electricity consumption savings: Roll-out of a MHSP for safe industrial qualification testing of alternatives.
lift truck operation and process The carbon refurbishment programme documents for safety when working at MABS continues to expand with over Health and safety with hexavalent chromium or 6,000 carbon discs reused and As a Group, we strive to ensure our hydrofluoric acid across the Group: refurbished in 2015.
The reduction in employees can work safely and live healthy, and process time saved 3,486 tonnes of productive lives by actively promoting CO that otherwise would have been 2 Roll-out of a HSE topic of the week for policies and programmes that help emitted representing approximately discussion at the DLA reviews held in individuals safeguard themselves, their emissions : 5% of MABS overall CO2 every production cell.
We have integrated and health and safety into our Meggitt As a result of these measures great Recladding of building insulation at Production System MPS by driving progress was made on our safety metrics a UK facility resulting in increased standard safe work in every facility, product across the Group, with a 20% decrease in heating and cooling efficiencies.
Our safety first days lost due to injury and lost time cases culture is reinforced in safety reviews of reported.
We achieved a 37% decrease in In 2015, Meggitt UK facilities representing every production cell as part of the MPS the Occupational Safety and Health 90% of our UK energy consumption daily layered accountability DLA daily conducted energy efficiency audits under Administration OSHA recordable incident management cycle see People and Culture, rate across our US sites.
Since 2009 we the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme page 24.
Our guiding philosophy is that have achieved a 72% decrease in the OSHA ESOS requirements.
Recommendations since all accidents and injuries are recordable incident rate at our US facilities.
were made from the audits and our preventable, our ultimate goal can be zero facilities are assessing their feasibility.
Although we made progress in 2015, our accidents and injuries.
In 2015, we continued Many of the recommendations are being total reportable incidents and associated to implement measures to improve safety in shared beyond the UK in similar incident rate increased see Table 4.
The the workplace, including: operations, providing further opportunities increase is due primarily to incidents that for energy reduction initiatives.
Regular external health and safety occurred at threeof our overseas facilities audits, which monitor site compliance accounting for 65% of all reportable We continue to actively investigate cleaner with laws.
These audits were integrated energy technologies including fuel cell incidents.
Some of those incidents involved with our environmental audits from first aid only which did not result in any power generation systems and solar 2015: lost time from work, and some, although energy throughout the Group.
not work related, were required to be A revised scoping of internal REACH reported to the local government compliance audits to include a review of Compliance with the European Community regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals Reportable accidents and incidents Table 4 REACH is managed by the Groups REACH 2015 Change 2014 Steering Committee which continues to 1 address the risks associated with the Reportable accidents and incidents 40 11% 36 2 Reportable accident incident rate 369 9% 337 potential obsolescence of chemicals used by aerospace manufacturers.
We 1 Reportable accidents and incidents are those directly reportable to a regulatory authority.
continuously track substances regulated 2 Accident Incident rates are the number of reportable accidents incidents per 100,000 employees.
indd 44 07 03 2016 17:50 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 45 authorities under applicable laws and In 2015, we provided training across the compliance programme at facilities in the regulations.
We have implemented Group on the following topics:Crack the US and the UK.
measures including behaviour-based Code: Maintaining Integrity: Anti-Bribery safety training at these sites as part of Principles: and Professional Behaviour: Local communities and our goal to achieve zero incidents, Mutual Respect.
We held two in-house charitable donations including reportable cases at any site.
ethics conferences in the UK and US, Meggitt has a policy which underpins our where facility-based ethics coordinators In 2015, we modified the criteria used in our approach to charitable giving and participated in live training on new Meggitt Safety Star award programme to charitable sponsorship which was directions for the business and reinforced include accident prevention measures approved in 2014.
We are committed to the importance of the Ethics through leading indicators as a measure of being good corporate citizens, and Programme.
During the year, we improved health and safety performance.
continue to support the communities in published and distributed our new Ethics During the year, 91% of our manufacturing which we operate.
Yearly reports reveal Guide in seven languages to all facilities achieved at least a Meggitt Gold the exceptional generosity of many employees and directors.
The Guide is Safety Star award.
Of those, 18 facilities employees who give time and money to a available on our website.
We also achieved a Platinum Safety Star, the wide range of national and local launched a Gifts Register to track gifts highest level of achievement that can be initiatives.
Activity in 2015 included: and hospitality given and received.
Meggitt US businesses and employees We have a highly-developed trade have donated over USD 1 million in the compliance programme, based on Ethics and business conduct past five years to the United Way, a guidelines issued by the regulatory and trade compliance US-based non-profit organisation authorities and the Nunn-Wolfowitz Task Our ethics and business conduct focusing on resolving local community Force Report of 2000 the influential programme commits us to conducting issues through partnerships with local report on export compliance best business fairly, impartially and in schools, government agencies and practice.
During 2015, we continued to compliance with laws and regulations voluntary and neighbourhood implement our global trade management andacting with integrity and honesty associations.
Several Meggitt US software solution to enhance our trade inour business relationships.
businesses hold annual United Way compliance programme and continued drives to encourage employee implementation of our enhanced import Training the next generation When 22-year-old Benjamin Broch from our Fribourg facility came to Meggitts UK Data Centre to train the IT team on a new set of tools, they were surprised at his age.
Once the session was over, they were even more surprised at how much he knew.
I did start working at Meggitt when I was 15, he smiles.
Apprentices get a good head start.
Ensuring there are enough skilled young people who have had the chance to develop their practical talents is as important for Meggitts future as it is for society in general.
Each year about ten teenagers join Meggitt Sensing Systems apprenticeship scheme in Switzerland, specialising in one of five areas: electrical or mechanical engineering, IT, commercial and logistics.
The three or four-year programme combines rigorous on and off-the-job training at Meggitt with as many as eight academic subjects at school.
Second-year apprentice Daniel Fonseca is rotating through the key engineering departments this year and will specialise over the next two years.
Having moved from Portugal only three years ago, he a lot of opportunity but that means expectations are high too.
Youve spent an additional year at school to build up his language skills and got to get the work done.
get to grips with the Swiss curriculum.
Combining theory and practise in a commercial setting from a young This year, in addition to spending time in production, quality control, age not only helps apprentices get a head start.
Once theyre maintenance and prototyping to learn the basics, he has had the finished, theyre also ready and willing to train the next in-take.
opportunity to design and build assembly stands for his colleagues My time is now split 80 20 between Group and Fribourg projects, in operations.
I was an apprentice not long ago so when it comes to training, I know whats helpful to pass on and when.
I chose Meggitt because its global and its a technology leader.
That means I can practice my languages here and I get to train on machines that many of my classmates dont get access to.
indd 45 07 03 2016 04:15 46 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Corporate responsibility continued engagement in local community set up a manufacturing training provider of donor advisory and grant activities and initiatives designed to services which acts as an advocate at programme at the local high school, improve education, financial stability national and regional level for Dorsets engaging with local business, and health care for local families.
In voluntary sector, and Julias House, a community leaders and the McMinnville Economic Development Partnership.
2015 our businesses raised over childrens hospice charity in Dorset USD200,000.
dedicated to helping life-limited Meggitt devised a training syllabus with children and their families across the school, donated equipment for For more than a decade, our MPC Dorset and Wiltshire.
student training and trained the high facility in Rockmart, Georgia has held school manufacturing shop teacher.
an annual toy donation drive for needy Although our Policy allows a broader children in local communities.
Through range of charitable activity, the Groups Our employees these donations, hundreds of children priority is to support charities or have received toys during the holiday community organisations which focus on Equal opportunities season.
Similar Toys for Tots drives education initiatives.
The Arkwright The Group supports equal employment have been held annually at several of Scholarships and Akron bursary opportunities and opposes all forms our other US facilities.
apprentice programmes are highlighted ofunlawful or unfair discrimination.
Other activities MABS Akron US Women in Leadership ItisGroup policy to give full and fair include: group won the Corporate Service consideration to job applications from Award Champions for Children given The Royal High School in California has disabled people, to provide opportunities by the local county childrens services an arrangement with our corporate for their training, career development organisation for their leadership and office in Simi Valley to provide interns andpromotion and to continue participation in community charitable in support of the Regional Occupational whereverpossible to employ staff events during the year including raising Program.
Each year, at least one whobecomedisabled.
funds for over 200 Easter baskets for student from that secondary school We require all Meggitt employees, under-privileged children in the last five spends eight hours a week at the reinforced through our ethics training years.
Meggitt-USA office, learning about programme and its values, to treat all business and undertaking specific Our Piher facility in Spain held two fund colleagues fairly and with respect.
We projects that earn academic credits raising events involving employees recognise the value of diversity amongst towards graduation.
which resulted in 2,000 Euros being our employees.
Table 6 shows the number donated to a local food bank.
Some Our facility in McMinnville, Oregon, of women employed at all levels of the 6,000 Euros were donated to the School driven by a shortage of skilled workforce.
The Boards approach to CPI-ETI to equip a new technology manufacturing labour in the diversity is discussed in the Nominations classroom with new computers in community and surrounding area, Committee report see page 59. recognition of its collaboration with Piher over several years to provide engineering and technical education.
Table 6 Meggitt PLC has for many years funded % of females at annual excellence awards for staff at Level 31 December 2015 Number of females Number of males the local Poole Hospital NHS Board of Directors 22% 2 7 Foundation Trust and during 2015 our Group Executive Committee 14% 2 12 Executive Director, Commercial & Senior executives 9% 24 252 Corporate Affairs joined its Board.
All employees 28% 3,324 8,602 Meggitt PLC regularly supports the Dorset Community Foundation, a 1 Analysis of employees Table 5 Employees by division Employees by length Employees by region of service years Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees 11,926 11,926 11,926 Aircraft Braking Systems 1,322 11% Less than 5 5,550 47% USA 6,045 51% Control Systems 1,789 15% Between 5 and 10 2,330 20% UK 2,999 25% Polymers & Composites 2,916 24% Between 10 and 15 1,300 11% Rest of Europe 1,562 13% Sensing Systems 3,373 28% Between 15 and 20 1,014 8% Rest of World 1,320 11% Equipment Group 1,755 15% Between 20 and 25 419 3% Cross-Group functions 771 7% Over 25 1,313 11% 1 As at 31 December 2015.
indd 46 07 03 2016 04:15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 47 Human rights meetings on shop floors, monthly Strategic report We confirm our commitment to the all-employee Town Hall meetings, team This 2015 Strategic report on pages human rights of our employees in our briefings and works councils.
We respect 1 to47 is hereby signed on behalf of Corporate Responsibility Policy, which all employee relations regulations.
weapply across all our businesses.
Corporate communications take a variety Our updated Policy included a new of forms, including presentations from commitment to uphold our employees the Chief Executive via audio-visual human rights and support the Ten media, global web-enabled conferences, Principles outlined in the United Nations top-down strategy dissemination from the Global Compact, relating to human Chief Executive, publications such as the Stephen Young rights, labour, the environment and Meggitt Review and a variety of anti-corruption.
We are reviewing our  newsletters.
Chief Executive processes as a result of the recent Results presentations are disseminated 22 February 2016 modern slavery legislation enacted across the Group, which enhance our in the UK and expect to make the employees understanding of the financial required statement in 2017 for the and economic factors affecting its 2016 financial year.
The directors encourage employees to Employee consultation become shareholders to improve active The Group regards employee participation in, and commitment to, the communication as a vital business Groups success.
This policy has been function.
Communication and consultation pursued for all UK employees through is carried out at facilities by operations the Share Incentive Plan and the directors and other line managers using Sharesave Scheme.
avariety of formats including daily Inspiring young engineers Engineering has a long, proud history in the UK but with energy, aerospace, manufacturing and the technology sectors all playing a key role in the economy, the demand for young engineers outweighs the supply.
To help turn the tables, Meggitt joined leaders such as Thales, Korean firm Doosan and Lockheed Martin to mentor young engineers in partnership with the Arkwright Scholarships Trust, one of the UKs leading engineering education organisations.
It works with more than 800 schools across the country to identify and inspire the next generation of engineers.
In 2014, graduate engineer Tom Newman started mentoring Calum Mills, one of three Arkwright teenagers Meggitt has worked with over the past two years.
We spoke regularly on the phone and I helped organise work experience at Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems.
We set what I thought was a tough assignment to design a landing gear shock absorber.
But they really applied themselves and completed it in just a few days.
strengths of leading engineering universities and suggest Im very grateful, says Calum, who recently earned a place at extracurricular activities to strengthen applications.
Loughborough University, a leading UK engineering school.
The Mentoring is an important part of my own professional work experience really helped me make my mind up about my future development as I work towards becoming a Chartered Engineer, career.
And Tom was very helpful in advising me on a design project I says Tom.
But its been very rewarding on a personal level, too.
undertook, looking at the design and build of a drone for surveying Its great to have an opportunity to give back to the engineering disaster areas and delivering emergency supplies.
industry even though Im only just getting started myself.
Students on the scheme also benefit from advice on university selection and application.
Mentors are generally recent graduates who draw on their own experience to advise on the respective 156768.01 Text 001-047-NEW-06.03.16.
