Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 36 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Whilst Melrose supports and monitors the corporate social responsibility policies, practices and initiatives across its businesses, the Group operates on a decentralised basis.
Consequently, responsibility for the adoption of policies, practices and initiatives sits at a local business unit level.
This ensures that rigorous and targeted policies and procedures are implemented that meet local regulatory requirements and guidance, whilst also taking into account the size and nature of the businesses.
Following the divestment of Elster on 29December 2015, the Melrose Group consists of Brush and, consequently, the information set out in this Corporate Social Responsibility Report focuses on the initiatives taken by that business during 2015.
However, Melrose will implement the policies, practices and initiatives set out in this report within any new business it acquires, where appropriate.
Employee involvement, consultation and development 3.
Human rights and ethical standards Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 37 1.
Employment policies Furthermore, as a Group-wide policy and so far as particular disabilities permit, The Group recognises its responsibilities Melrose and each of its businesses will, for the fair treatment of all its current where practicable, make every effort and potential employees, in accordance to provide continued employment in the with legislation applicable to the same role for employees who are disabled territories within which it operates, during their period of employment or, together with relevant guidance on where necessary, provide such employees good practice where appropriate.
with a suitable alternative role, together with appropriate training.
As part of the Groups decentralised approach, each of Melroses businesses It is the Groups policy that in recruitment, is responsible for setting and measuring training, career development and its own employment and employeepromotion, the treatment of disabled related KPIs and, as such, these can persons should, as far as possible, be vary throughout the Group.
However, identical to that of other employees.
such measurements will generally include Melrose is proud to be a member of the absenteeism, punctuality, headcount and Business Disability Forum, a not-for-profit employee relations issues.
Any concerns member organisation that works with or adverse trends are responded to in the business community to understand a timely manner.
the changes required in the workplace in order that disabled persons are Equal opportunities for appropriate treated fairly, so that they can contribute training, career development and to business success, to society and to promotion are available to all employees economic growth.
within the Group regardless of any disability, gender, religion, race, nationality, sexual orientation or age.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully and fairly considered by the Group and are considered on merit, with regard only to the job-specific requirements and the relevant applicants aptitude and ability to carry out the role.
Where reasonable to do so, arrangements will be made to enable disabled persons to carry out a specific role.
The Group recognises its responsibilities for the fair treatment of all its current and potential employees.
Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 38 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued 2.
Employee involvement, Extensive training is available to all staff 3.
Employee initiatives and is actively encouraged to ensure that consultation and development During 2015, Brush implemented a a high standard of skill is maintained across range of employee-related initiatives.
The Group places great importance the Group.
Inter-departmental training Some of these are listed below: on good labour relations, employee programmes are also put in place across engagement and employee Brush US initiated a Tuition the Group to ensure that skills are shared development.
The responsibility for Reimbursement Program to all full-time between operations.
The importance of the implementation and management employees.
The Group believes that training extends beyond on-the-job training of employment practices rests with by supporting its employees in selfand also focuses on enhancing personal local management, in a manner development and educational efforts, development.
In addition, apprenticeship appropriate to each business.
through partial reimbursements for programmes help to assist with training expenses associated with continuing a new generation of employees and A culture of clear communication and education courses through accredited to ensure knowledge is retained within employee consultation and engagement institutions of learning or certificated the businesses.
Employees across the is inherent across the Group.
Employee programmes, it will help to secure Group are encouraged to think innovatively briefing sessions with employee increased responsibility and growth and to have regard for both financial and representatives are held on a regular basis within an individuals professional career, economic factors affecting the Group.
to communicate strategy, key changes, as well as enhancing the businesss financial results, achievements and other ability to meet customer needs.
An The Group regards employee training important issues to employees, and to employee is eligible for participation and advancement as an essential element receive feedback from them on these in this programme providing they have of industrial relations.
Regular appraisals, employee completed at least six full-time months surveys, notice boards, team meetings, of employment and the courses are suggestion boxes and newsletters are job and or industry-related.
also used to communicate and engage Brush US also introduced interwith employees, and to solicit their departmental training throughout feedback on issues of concern to them.
Among other things, the training covers: operations, human resources, project management and health and safety.
Through this training, employees have the opportunity to increase their knowledge of the whole of the business, which assists with inter-departmental communication.
It also affords employees the opportunity to apply for vacancies within other departments or divisions.
The Group places great importance on good labour relations, employee engagement and employee development.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 39 Brush employees charitable achievements Mud run for Cancer Research Brush UK has continued to invest in its apprentice programme, with 41 Supporting victims of cancer, Alison Barker, from apprentices taken on during 2015.
The Brushs Harrington Generators International, took part business has concentrated on enhancing in the Race for Life Pretty Muddy run, a 5km mud-filled the development of its apprentices by obstacle course.
With the support and encouragement working in partnership with the Princes of colleagues, friends and family, Alison successfully Trust.
The apprentices were asked to completed the course and raised over 600 for raise funds for the Princes Trust through Cancer Research.
a project management orientated initiative Wolf Run which resulted in them raising around A team of colleagues from across Turbogenerators, 2,000.
This initiative assisted with their Transformers and Switchgear recently took part in personal development and leadership the Wolf Run, a 10km off-road challenge which involves skills as well as raising the profile of Brush running, climbing, jumping, crawling and swimming and the Princes Trust.
through the obstacles on the course.
The team raised Following the launch in 2014 of the 1,650 for the MS Society, a charity dedicated to helping Brush Leadership and Development people who suffer from multiple sclerosis.
Programme, accredited to the Institute of Leadership & Management ILM, Brush UK decided to build on this success by running the programme again in 2015.
The programme was delivered across the business and included qualifications such as: Level 2 Certificate in Leadership and Team Skills, Level 3 Certificate in Leadership and Management and the There was a real sense of Level 4 Diploma in Leadership and achievement completing the Management.
Im so grateful During 2015, Brush UK continued to to the rest of the runners for raise the profile of its graduate scheme by reviewing and refining its existing taking part and to everyone programme and attending an increased who supported and number of graduate fairs.
Brush takes the health and well-being Sarah Allen, Wolf Run team member, of its employees very seriously and Generator Development Manager has continued to develop and enhance its Occupational Health Service, which is available to employees five days a week.
The service can make referrals to doctors, physiotherapists or counselling services, as required, ensuring that the business supports its employees throughout any periods of absence or illness.
Health promotion is a key feature of the service, which is continually developing through awareness campaigns and has had a positive impact on both the employees and the business as a whole.
Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 40 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued 4.
Health and safety There were no issues or concerns identified by the Board during 2015.
The charts below show the total number The Board is committed to minimising While no corrective measures were of males and females working within the health and safety risks that each deemed necessary, the Board continues the Group as at 31 December 2015.
Group employee is exposed to by to encourage management to remain promoting the effective use and vigilant where employee and third-party The Board continues to pursue diversity, management of business-specific safety is concerned.
including gender diversity, throughout policies and procedures.
However, given the Groups For more information on Brushs health strategic business model and the frequent The Group has a policy to ensure that the and safety KPIs, see the key performance turnover of businesses, the Group does Directors are made aware of any serious indicators section on page 19 of the not think that setting and committing health and safety incidents, wherever they Strategic Report.
to specific diversity targets in relation occur in the world, without delay, to ensure to the composition of the Board, senior that suitable investigations and corrective Brushs manufacturing locations in management and the workforce in the action can be organised.
Current events both the UK and the Czech Republic Groups businesses is correct for Melrose.
and issues relating to health and safety hold ISO 18001 certification, the The utmost priority, across the Group, is to matters are also discussed within the  assessment ensure both Melrose and its businesses Group at quarterly Board meetings of standard for occupational health and employ the best person for each role.
safety management systems, with the Netherlands plant hoping to achieve Brush is responsible for setting its certification in 2016.
Divisional managers own detailed arrangements concerning within Brush are responsible for ensuring health and safety policies and procedures, that health and safety remains a key focus in accordance with local health and and that active procedures and monitoring safety legislation.
As a general rule, Brush systems are in place.
Detailed health and strives to achieve best practice in terms safety plans are set by Brush management of what is suitable and practical for the each year to determine annual targets size and nature of its operations.
Since and business-specific health and safety commencement of operations in March key performance indicators are also used.
2015, Brushs factory in China has Reports detailing Brushs performance operated with zero lost time incidents.
in relation to three health and safety KPIs major accident frequency rate, accident frequency rate and accident severity rate are presented to the Melrose Board and reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting.
1 Melrose Industries PLC Senior managers Other Group employees Total Group employees Board Male 7 Male 8 Male 2,033 Male 2,048 Female 1 Female 0 Female 295 Female 296 Total 8 Total 8 Total 2,328 Total 2,344 1 Defined as senior head office employees of Melrose, located in the London, Birmingham and Atlanta offices.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 41 Brush also has health and safety committees, which meet on a regular basis and are made up of representatives from both management and shop floor level personnel.
Each of the committees has wide-ranging responsibilities which vary between operations and include the review of reported incidents and the monitoring of incident trends.
These committees are also responsible for ensuring that corrective measures are implemented when accidents occur and that all incidents, whether or not they are deemed reportable under local legislation, are given due attention.
One of the key responsibilities for these committees is to carry out regular tours of the premises in which they operate, in order to ensure compliance with local policies and procedures.
These tours also identify potential hazards, for which counter-measures can be identified to 6.
Health and safety initiatives Following these initiatives, among others, prevent accidents from happening.
Each Brush has recognised the following During 2015, Brush implemented a committee recommendation is followed benefits: range of health and safety initiatives, up at the next divisional board meeting some of which are listed below: a 40% reduction in accident frequency to ensure that issues are resolved.
rate based upon the number of all During 2015, the behavioural safety Additionally, operations are audited by lost time accidents per 200,000 hours programme implemented by Brush UK the committees at least annually and worked compared to 2014, with the in 2014 continued to improve the already reports of performance and recommended accident severity rate based on the strong health and safety culture within improvements are prepared and circulated average number of days employees have the business.
The programme focuses on to the divisional senior management taken off work following work-related developing a proactive approach among teams.
Divisional managers are provided accidents also being reduced by 40% Brush employees so that they increase with detailed health and safety reports over the year: their responsibility and accountability on a frequent basis to ensure that such for their own, and their working groups, matters are given high visibility and that a workforce engaged in matters relating actions while ensuring they intervene at improvements are authorised and to health and safety: the earliest opportunity to stop hazardous implemented quickly.
a clear demonstration of the Brush acts or correct any unsafe condition.
managements intentions to continually During 2015, Brushs operations in improve the standard of health and safety the Czech Republic focused its health within the business: and and safety efforts on working at heights.
a recognition that a strong health and It installed a fall protection system onto safety culture can have a positive impact crane runways and thereby significantly on the growth and brand value of the decreased the dangers associated business.
with falls during regular maintenance activities.
In total, Brushs operations in the Czech Republic implemented more than 100 health and safety improvements during the year.
The Board is committed to minimising the health and safety risks that each Group employee is exposed to by promoting the effective use and management of business-specific policies and procedures.
Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 42 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued 7.
The environment The Melrose Board fully understands the importance of the Groups environmental responsibilities and is committed to ensuring that operations have the minimum possible adverse effect on the environment.
Although there are no standardised environmental KPIs currently used within the Group, the Group ensures businesses understand the importance of monitoring the impact of their operations on the environment.
A range of KPIs are used as environmental measures, including energy consumption, CO emissions, 2 water consumption, water contamination, waste disposal, solid and liquid waste generation, recycling and volatile organic compound emissions.
These KPIs are then used to plan for ongoing improvements.
Greenhouse gas emissions The reported emissions cover all During the year, the Company continued continuing operations of the Group as to comply with the ongoing annual The Group is required to measure at 31 December 2015.
Emissions from reporting requirements of the UKs and report its direct and indirect entities disposed of during the financial Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy greenhouse gas GHG emissions year ended 31 December 2015 are not Efficiency Scheme.
pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 accounted for in the reported GHG data.
Strategic Report and Directors Therefore, for example, the data from the Reports Regulations 2013.
Environmental initiatives Elster business has not been included During 2015, Brush implemented a within the reported GHG data, as this The GHG reporting period is aligned to range of environmental improvement business was divested during the year.
the Companys financial reporting year.
Some of these are listed below: The data has been prepared in accordance Brush UK focused on making further with the principles and requirements of energy savings, including in gas and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate electricity consumption.
Lighting initiatives Accounting and Reporting Standard across the Loughborough site have Revised Edition 2004 for Scope 1 and continued to generate savings in certain Scope 2 emissions and the Department working facilities.
for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs DEFRA guidance on how to measure Brush UK introduced the use of reusable and report on greenhouse gas emissions, plastic pallets to minimise the use of as first published in 2013 and subsequently wooden pallets, packaging and waste updated.
We have reported on all emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These emission sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
Strategic Report Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 43 1 Global GHG emissions data tonnes CO e unless stated 2 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2 2 Emissions sources: 2015 2014 Change Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 8,825 11,351 22 % Electricity, heat and steam purchased for own use 4,053 5,119 21 % 3 Overseas electricity 8,719 9,002 3 % Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions 0.083 0.079 5% reported above normalised to tonnes per 1,000 turnover 1 CO e carbon dioxide equivalent, this figure includes greenhouse gases in addition to carbon dioxide.
2 2 Excluding emissions from discontinued operations.
3 T he emissions associated with overseas electricity are presented in tonnes carbon dioxide only as per the DEFRA guidance.
All material emissions from within the 10.
Supply chain assurance organisational and operational scope and Opportunity Scheme Owing to the geographical and boundaries of the Group are reported.
The operational diversity of Melrose and Article 8 of the EU Energy Efficiency emissions from owned vehicle transport Brush, and therefore its supplier base, Directive EED 2012 27 EU requires i. e. Group-owned cars and vans, lorries there is no single over-arching Group large organisations to carry out and fork lift trucks and the emissions policy currently in use in relation to energy audits at least once every associated with refrigeration have been suppliers.
four years to help achieve the EUs excluded from the report on a fide minimis target of 20% improvement in energy basis.
The GHG emissions from these However, the security, assurance and efficiency by 2020. sources have been estimated to account ethical compliance of business supply for less than 1% of the total Melrose Group chains is very important to Melrose.
In the UK, Article 8 of the EED was emissions reported on an individual basis Responsibility for the implementation and transposed into the Energy Savings and as a combined total to account for management of all supplier-related policies Opportunity Scheme ESOS Regulations less than 2% of the total Melrose Group rests with local management.
Such 2014, which came into force on 17July GHG emissions reported.
policies are used in a manner appropriate 2014 and which require qualifying to the size and complexity of the business organisations to measure energy The financial reporting year of 2014 was and also take into account the nature consumption, evaluate energy efficiency, the second year in which the Company and geographical representation of key identify management opportunities, store had been required to disclose its GHG suppliers.
A supplier approval process data and confirm to the UK Environment emissions data within the Annual Report exists within Brush, which is linked to Agency by 5December 2015 that and represents the baseline against specific and tailored supplier assessments an ESOS compliance audit has been which subsequent emission data sets and due diligence requirements.
Other EU Member states are expected to be based.
The main have imposed their own interpretations change in the data compared to the of Article 8, but generally have similar baseline data, as presented in the table requirements.
above, is due to the divestment of the Elster business units in 2015.
The Elster During 2015, Melrose worked with group represented approximately 52% a specialist energy consultancy, CMR of the total GHG emissions previously Consultants Limited, to ensure that the reported in the Annual Report for the year Group fully complied with its EU EED ended 31 December 2014.
Energy audits were changes have resulted from the closure carried out at Group sites across Europe and relocation of activities from some and compliance was achieved through sites and general efficiency savings and submission of reports, data and improvements at a number of other sites.
information to the relevant authorities, as appropriate.
Given that the Melrose business model is to acquire and divest businesses over a three-to-five-year time frame, there may be significant year-on-year changes in the reported emissions data which may not reflect the underlying GHG performance of the Groups businesses.
Sound business ethics and integrity are core to the Groups values and a high importance is placed on dealings with all employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Melrose Industries PLC Strategic Report 44 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 02 to 44, has been approved by the Board.
On behalf of the Board Simon Peckham Chief Executive 3 March 2016 12.
Human rights In addition to the Melrose Code of Ethics, each Group business is expected to have and ethical standards its own code of ethics dealing with matters The decentralised nature of the Group such as human rights.
All business-specific means there is no single over-arching employee policies are prepared locally policy currently in place with regard within each business in order to ensure to human rights.
compliance with local laws and standards as a minimum.
Responsibility for the However, sound business ethics and communication and implementation of integrity are core to the Groups values such policies rests with the relevant senior and a high importance is placed on managers within the Groups businesses.
dealings with all employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Melrose Finally, in advance of the need for the is committed to good practice in respect Company to report in accordance with of human rights.
Employees across the Modern Slavery Act 2015, the Group the Group are required, at all times, to is taking steps to put in place effective exhibit the highest levels of integrity and and proportionate procedures to ensure to maintain the highest ethical standards that there are no forms of modern slavery in business affairs.
The full text of the in the Groups business or supply chains.
Melrose Code of Ethics, which all It is expected that a full statement will be employees of the Group are required prepared and published on the Groups to familiarise themselves with, can be website following the end of the current found on the Companys website at financial year.
net about-us code-of-ethics Governance Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2015 45 Governance Governance overview 46 Board of Directors 48 Directors Report 50 Corporate Governance Report 54 Audit Committee Report 58 Nomination Committee Report 62 Directors Remuneration Report 64 Statement of Directors responsibilities 82
