Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Corporate social responsibility Micro Focus continues to be a member Micro Focus is committed to complying the CSR program is developing to address of the FTSE4Good Index, the responsible with relevant corporate social responsibility this change.
investment index calculated by global index CSR legislation across its global provider FTSE Group.
operations and strives to achieve standards During the year ended 30 April 2015 the over and above required levels.
CSR committee met three times to agree During the year, Micro Focus was awarded priorities and progress activities and the Carbon Trust Standard re-certification CSR activities are monitored and planned CSR program was reviewed at two board for the second period in succession as in four key areas: the environment, charity meetings during the year.
Karen Slatford, a result of continued progress to reduce and community support, the marketplace the senior independent non-executive environmental emissions and as part of an and suppliers, and employees and ethics.
director, is responsible at board level for ongoing commitment to the Carbon Trust.
The Corporate Responsibility Policy can CSR and also participates in CSR committee be found on the Micro Focus website meetings.
Tom Virden, a non-executive Outlined below is the CSR progress www.
director, has recently joined the CSR committee to provide additional board that Micro Focus has made in the year level input.
ended 30 April 2015 across the four focus On 20 November 2014, Micro Focus areas, with additional focus this year completed its acquisition of TAG.
TAG was Micro Focus products can help customers on the Greenhouse Gas Emissions approximately three times larger than Micro to reduce their IT carbon footprint and reporting requirements.
Focus in terms of employee numbers and these benefits feature in conversations with approximately 2.2 times as large in terms existing customers, prospects, partners and of revenues generated on an annual basis.
Employees regularly participate in This corporate development has had a CSR initiatives and internal communications very significant impact on the scale of the regularly feature CSR topics.
Companys operations and consequently CSR progress in the year ended 30 April 2015 Environment Micro Focus continues to strive for disclosure.
Therefore, for the 2015 financial Sixth year of commitment to the energy efficiencies to drive down our year, Micro Focus is disclosing relevant Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, total energy consumption.
We consider information relating to the base Micro Focus underlining our commitment to this to be the true measure of energy business, and will move to total Group further promote and manage emission conservation the less we need, the reporting in the year ending 30 April 2016. reductions across our global facilities: less we consume.
Awareness of energy consumption is raised by sharing our data Key points for the 12 months to 30 April 2015: Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and seeking employee guidance on how reported to CDP: to reduce our consumption within the Recognition of Micro Focus continued boundaries of our operational control.
success in reducing environmental Scores have improved year on year In this reporting year we have extended emissions, resulting in the award of the since joining in 2009.
In this reporting our partnership with the Carbon Trust re-certification of the Carbon Trust period Micro Focus will be reporting a and entered into the UK Energy Savings Standard for a second consecutive period: 1% absolute reduction in year on year Opportunity Scheme ESOS as early consumption within this years CDP adopters to ensure we maximize the Establishing processes to enable a submission, and Micro Focus response benefits that an ESOS Audit can produce.
submission for Certification of Waste will be extended to include Supply We will use the audit findings in our and Water, where eligible to join the Chain and Water measures: energy roadmap for driving down our scheme.
Currently, consumption of carbon output as we move forward.
water levels are below the threshold for Ongoing commitment to promote reporting, but consumption monitoring electronic product distribution has Micro Focus products and services will be put in place in FY16 as part of seen Micro Focus hit an all-time help customers to reduce their carbon an environmental dashboard for internal average high for the year at 97.7% footprint and adopt carbon friendly IT reporting.
The Carbon Trust externally of all distribution, with only 2.3% strategies by enabling greater efficiency verifies Micro Focus data within its delivered to customers via physical and longer life from existing technology certification assessment processes: distribution of products: and equipment.
In addition to offering organizations alternative strategies to At the time of writing, the Carbon Trust Continued program of positive global rip and replace IT policies, Micro Focus is in the process of compiling the results procurement in sourcing, replacing continues to develop its own policies of our ESOS audit we will integrate this and refurbishing facility energy to record, monitor and achieve into our energy roadmap for FY16 once systems in accordance with energy improvements in its own carbon evaluated and a strategy is in place: efficiency standards EN656 : footprint.
TAG, acquired by Micro Focus in this financial year, did not collect the data required for environmental Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Corporate social responsibility continued Environment continued Scope of reporting emissions Further improvements across all We have also put procedures in place to As referenced above, during this locations either by moving to modern enable us to measure elements of our Scope reporting year Micro Focus acquired more efficient office environments 3 emissions.
However, as anticipated, the TAG.
Consequently, our operational or by improving the assets already increased business travel required to complete infrastructure approximately trebled in deployed.
Part of Micro Focus decision the acquisition of TAG and to manage the size.
On a like for like basis Micro Focus making process when sourcing integration of new operations has seen an energy consumption was lower than the locations is to identify LEED ratings increase in Scope 3 emissions.
We consider previous reporting year by 1.5%.
In recent years this years data to be a good year zero for intention is to utilize the same best four premises moves have been from Scope 3 emissions and will benchmark based practice across the entire real estate buildings with no LEED rating to sites on this going forward.
We will continue to monitor and develop our plans in FY16.
in FY16 and staff will once again be with Silver, Gold and Platinum ratings: Business travel will be minimized as targeted to reduce emissions.
appropriate, using collaboration tools across Continued landlord performance our organization to deliver less need for travel TAG had no environmental reporting monitoring in all locations where and by default, less carbon emissions.
requirements or tools to monitor and Micro Focus operations are sited measure energy consumption.
We are in multi-tenant premises: This section includes Micro Focus now working to implement the same mandatory reporting of GHG pursuant systems and processes that Micro Focus Further work has been undertaken to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic has been using to have these operational to continue the consolidation of Report and Directors Report across the entire organization.
The our data-centre power optimization Regulations 2013 objective is to have these in place for thereby improving efficiencies and a full year of reports and year on year reducing cost and consumption.
Reporting year comparisons for the next reporting year.
With the acquisition of TAG, this The GHG reporting year is the same as work will be further enhanced to Micro Focus fiscal year being 1 May 2014 We are already working on boundary reduce the quantity of dedicated to 30 April 2015 to align with Financial improvements to help reduce the server environments across the Reporting and the relevant Carbon merged Companys carbon footprint wider Group to significantly reduce Disclosure Project Reporting timeframe.
by reducing the overall real estate of the footprint: and the wider Group by integrating locations Organization Boundary & Responsibility wherever possible.
This work will During this reporting year Micro Focus In accordance with the definitional continue into FY16 and beyond.
has continued the roll out of recycling requirements of the regulations, in respect across the organization and processes of emissions for which Micro Focus is Micro Focus reports emissions data on are being adapted to monitor, measure responsible, emissions data is reported all locations where available, irrespective and report these results in future.
using an Operational Control approach of the size of the Micro Focus facility.
to define the Organizational Boundary.
For smaller locations where no such Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG data is available from managed serviced Our aims remain consistent in our All material emission sources which Micro offices, or where Micro Focus is part of approach to GHG to reduce our Focus deems to have operational control a multi-tenant occupancy building, or emissions year on year.
At the time of over are in scope.
These sources are defined where staffing levels are less than 10, the writing this report we have just received as the purchase of electricity, heat, steam mean average per head is extrapolated our ESOS Audit report and look forward or cooling for the operation of facilities and out from all other locations.
Locations to implementing its findings to assist the combustion of fuel for that operation where this approach has been taken are: us with this challenge, embracing ESOS of facilities.
Processes are being established early, to maximize the benefit from the to track other sources of emissions such as Actual emissions data used Newbury audit and to comply with legislation.
commercial flights for business travel, which UK, Belfast Northern Ireland, is not presently covered in this data.
The following For this reporting year we have maintained locations are out of scope due to size our methodology for reporting Scope 1 Methodology and or lack of availability of information: and Scope 2 emissions.
On a like for like The methodology used to calculate emissions basis Micro Focus achieved a 3.7% is based on the most current set of regulations Average UK CO reduction in energy consumption for this 2 head multiplied by published by the Department for Environment reporting year.
On an actual basis, due headcount Ismaning Germany, Hanau and Rural Affairs DEFRA dated June 2013. to organizational boundary changes, in Germany, Haifa Israel, Dublin Ireland, Wherever possible, the energy companies Singapore, Australia, Linz and UK, the Madrid Spain, Sofia Bulgaria, Atlanta most current Energy Fuel Mix calculations decrease in emissions from the previous US, Santa Clara US, Chicago US, Austin have been utilized, with DEFRAs conversion period reduces to an overall decrease US, Tokyo Japan, Melbourne Australia, factors being applied on to the remainder, in of 1.2%.
Troy US, New Delhi India, Mumbai order to calculate total global GHG emissions.
India, Hong Kong China, Shanghai China, Beijing China, Seoul Korea, Paris France, Schiphol Netherlands, Brussels Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 30 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Environment continued Belgium, Oslo Norway, Rome Italy, 2016 Targets Although we have listed the inherited Milan Italy, Linz Austria, Sydney In this reporting year Micro Focus TAG properties as out of scope for Australia and So Paulo Brazil.
expectation was to achieve a 1% reduction this reporting year, we have attributed a in emissions for FY15.
This has been carbon figure to the Group for the period Where the data is not available, the exceeded and the results show a figure based on the total headcount at the end same intensity ratio is used for the of 1.2% was achieved on a like for like basis.
The focus for FY16 will continue with a similar approach to achieve a target of 1% During this reporting year we have The following locations that have been reduction across the organization, comparing continued our commitment to both inherited as part of the TAG acquisition it on a like for like basis, to negate the impact CDP and the Carbon Trust, achieving are out of scope for this years report: of further organizational boundary changes.
recertification with the Carbon Trust based on our continued absolute Melbourne Australia, Sydney Australia, reduction in energy consumption.
So Paulo Brazil, Zrich Switzerland, We have maintained our capital budget Beijing China, Guangzhou China, Praha for investment in energy saving initiatives Czech Republic, Dsseldorf Germany, to help us drive further reductions.
Munich Germany, Nuremberg Germany, Copenhagen Denmark, Madrid Spain, Paris France, Bracknell UK, Hong Kong China, Bangalore India, Mumbai India, New Delhi India, Dublin Ireland, Ennis GHG Emissions Tonnes e-CO2 Ireland, Galway Ireland, Milan Italy, Tokyo Japan, Seoul Korea, Alphen Rockville 14 59.0 aan den Rijn Netherlands, Rotterdam 15 62.5 Netherlands, Taipei Taiwan, Bellingham Singapore 14 49.9 US, Cambridge US, Houston US, Provo 15 94.0 US, Raleigh US, Seattle US, Vienna Sydney 14 22.0 US, Johannesburg South Africa, Buenos 15 6.1 Aires Argentina, Brisbane Australia, Linz 14 111.1 Braslia Brazil, Brussels, Belgium, 15 66.1 Montreal Canada, Toronto Canada, UK 14 519.9 Shanghai China, Shenzhen China, Lyon 15 482.0 France, Edinburgh UK, Luxemburg Tonnes e-CO2 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 Luxemburg, Rome Italy, Kuala Lumpur Malaysia, Oslo Norway, Auckland New Zealand, Lisbon Portugal, Stockholm Total Energy Consumption Metered KWhrs Sweden, Istanbul Turkey, Brighton, US, Lisle US, Plano US, South Euclid US, Rockville 14 119,307 Loveland US, St Louis US, Cape Town 15 126,357 South Africa.
Singapore 14 100,918 15 190,166 Intensity ratio Sydney 14 44,581 To achieve a global picture of emissions, 15 12,414 whilst recognizing that not all of locations Linz 14 224,861 can be in scope, an intensity ratio of CO2 15 133,718 per tonne per head has been used.
As UK 14 3,090,662 not all entities are revenue generating 15 3,075,574 and not all can calculate emissions, KWhrs 0 500,000 1,000000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 3,500,000 this ratio should demonstrate a more comprehensive assessment.
Year on Year Comparisons for Energy Consumed and Carbon Emissions Change in FY15 FY14 % GHG Emissions Tonnes e-CO2 710.70 761.90 -6.7% Estimated Total GHG Emissions Ktons e-CO2 2.50 3.50 -27.5% GHG Emissions per employee Tonnes e-CO2 0.80 0.81 -2.1% Total Energy Consumption Metered MWhrs 3,538.20 3,580.3 -1.2% Energy Consumed Metered KWhrs per employee 5,838.70 5,594.30 4.4% Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Corporate social responsibility continued Charity and community support Micro Focus continues to support its The local project grants initiative was Global charity fundraising in the first six employees charity and community continued for the third year and in the last months was focused on Doctors Without involvement in two ways: 12 months just under $38,000 supported Borders raising a total of $13,000 to 14 charity or community organizations with support the work done in West Africa in Firstly, on a funds-matching basis wide geographic spread across Micro Focus response to the Ebola crisis.
An additional for selected charity initiatives: and Group operations around the world.
corporate donation of $10,000 was Projects included: granted to boost the efforts required.
Secondly, by allocating a number of An additional crisis donation of $25,000 employee days per month by teams The Harbor in Detroit, US, is a once was committed in the second half of the or individuals to directly benefit a abandoned, now restored school year to contribute to the aid required to support the disaster in Nepal.
chosen charity or community initiative.
transformed into a recreational facility which provides children with a safe place During the second half of the year Employee engagement is actively to learn and stay off the streets of Detroit fundraising covered a broad range of encouraged, along agreed criteria and after school: local charities and initiatives supported guidelines.
A global charity was selected around Micro Focus operations in seven by the charity committee for the first half The Rabboni Mercy Trust contributing countries, selected within the guidelines of the year, with the focus in the second to the education and welfare of of education and community support.
six months turning to a number of local impoverished children in India: charities to achieve a balance between Throughout the 12 month period, international and country level fundraising Supporting a local Soup Kitchen in employee communications initiatives initiatives.
All initiatives follow core North America: have promoted and publicized charity themes of education and local initiatives including regular updates on community support.
Providing educational tools and sports the charity page and the front page equipment to a charity working with of the Companys Intranet.
The total level of funds raised and fostered children in North America contributed was more than $100,000.
helping to get children off the streets: and $39,700 on local causes across seven countries, $49,600 on international Providing new IT equipment, desks causes and $12,800 on national causes and chairs for a local orphanage in in UK, USA and Italy.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 32 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Marketplace and suppliers International Share Save roll-out Micro Focus products and services can Key HR metrics at 30 April 2015: continued.
Following the TAG help organizations lower their energy acquisition, the scheme has been impact and customers often benefit Total number of employees made available to an additional 2,461 from a lower carbon footprint.
worldwide 4,295 4,264 full time employees, with 419 17% choosing equivalent FTE : to participate.
This low take-up of the Suppliers to the Group are sent Micro Total workforce worldwide 4,787 initial offer by the larger number of Focus Corporate Social Responsibility including temporary contractors new TAG employees diluted the overall charter and are encouraged to follow 4,709 FTE : participation rate compared to 2014. carbon responsible practices.
In addition, Percentage of women employees At 30 April 2015 Share Save was the Company currently operates a worldwide 27.9% 2014: 27.9% : available to 78.3% of employees, Supplier Review Program and part of Percentage of women senior with participation at 27.4% of eligible that program is to request the details of management 162 employees: employees in 22 countries worldwide the suppliers Environmental credentials.
13.2% 2014: 14.8% : and compared with 96.0% and 34.5% At initial engagement with all suppliers Percentage of women governance at 30April 2014 : information is requested to improve body 30.0% including Company understanding of their environmental Secretary, three out of 10 2014: An updated Professional Charter, position and policies.
which outlines how employees behave Program is being rolled out across the professionally when dealing with Enlarged Group during FY16.
Micro Focus continues to strive for a diverse range of candidates for new roles: both internal and external customers, was launched following the acquisition Employees and ethics A second Micro Focus Sales Academy was of TAG: During the year ended 30 April 2015, held in June 2014 the first was launched Micro Focus has continued to develop in 2013 to hire and train graduate level A Compliance Charter was launched a culture that provides a rewarding recruits with identified potential for sales publicly, which sets out the principles by and enjoyable working environment roles.
This year, 29 new trainees enjoyed which the staff engage with customers for employees who in turn are able to an intensive 13 week training program, regarding licence compliance: develop their careers in a professional and graduates were deployed into sales and successful organization.
The teams worldwide: Expanded employee communications development of talent delivers an essential activities were introduced following base from which the Group can achieve Following the success of the Sales the acquisition of TAG, with broader its objectives.
During the year, recruitment Academy, Micro Focus launched a sharing of All Hands meetings, and retention programs have continued Development Academy, with 13 new increased email updates and to develop through comprehensive graduates from around the world being intranet features: training and performance management hired as product development trainees initiatives across the organization.
They enjoyed an The Group maintained excellent record intensive eight week program of product, in health and safety matters for all The acquisition of TAG in November development and process training, along employees no reportable incidents 2014 transformed the size of the with soft skills and cross department in the last 12 months : and organization.
Integration of the business education, before returning to take was deferred until the start of the new up new roles in their home countries: There has been continued commitment financial year beginning in May 2015 to ensuring compliance with antiand integration of teams and culture A half year bonus was paid to 743 bribery, data protection and market in the forthcoming year will give new eligible Base Micro Focus employees.
abuse and insider dealing laws.
A full year bonus was paid to 742 eligible has included our Global Anti-Bribery, Base Micro Focus employees and 2,383 Corruption, Market Abuse and Fraud eligible TAG employees: Awareness course being completed by all employees of TAG and also the For Base Micro Focus comprehensive continuance of ongoing compliance six monthly and full year performance checks during the period.
management reviews of all non-sales employees.
95.9% of employee population completed a half year performance management plan PMP and PMPs are on-going for the full year.
It is intended to roll this PMP program out to the Enlarged Group in FY16: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 34
