Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report 26 Corporate responsibility For the year ended to 31 December 2015, As a leading hotel chain, we remain is designed to engage both colleagues and the Group employed an average of 10,870 committed to operating our business guests on an emotional level, encouraging people worldwide in over 20 countries in an economically, socially and a genuine connection and creating true 2014: 10,257 environmentally responsible manner.
We believe that each hotel plays an The Group maintains a code of high Employees by gender Male Female active role in its local community, creating ethical standards, to which all employees Directors 8 1 jobs, stimulating economic opportunity are required to adhere.
Our Code of Ethics 1 Senior managers 181 97 and managing its environmental impacts and Business Conduct Code requires Other employees 5,789 4,794 in a responsible way.
Our aim is to develop that we comply with all laws of general new and better ways to build and run our application, all rules and regulations that Note: 1 This excludes 36 subsidiary directors who were external hotels, which create sustainable value for are industry specific and proper standards non-independent independent appointments of which 29 our brands, business and stakeholders of business conduct.
The Code prohibits were male and 7 female.
as well as addressing our social and the giving or receiving of illicit payments The average number of employees environmental responsibilities.
and requires all colleagues to be treated employed by the Group including the fairly, impartially and with respect.
It also Companys Directors during the year The Board is responsible for the Groups requires that all managers must be fully analysed by category was as follows: corporate responsibility with the Group aware of their obligations under the Code Chief Executive Officer taking the lead.
and must establish procedures to ensure To support our commitment to corporate compliance at all levels within their 2015 2014 Number Number responsibility, the Board supports a number organisations.
Further guidance in specific Hotel operating staff 8,399 7,954 of policies, collectively referred to as areas is provided through related corporate Responsible Hospitality which are designed and regional policies and guidance, such Management to recognise and manage the Groups as our Anti-Bribery policy and the Business administration 1,385 1,253 wider impact on the communities in which Hospitality and Gifts policy.
Sales and marketing 466 464 we operate.
The Board recognises the need Repairs and maintenance 620 586 to review these policies regularly and these Procedures are also in place by which 10,870 10,257 are updated as necessary.
A list of these colleagues can raise, in confidence, policies can be found on our website at matters of serious concern in areas such A safe workplace http: www.
com as financial reporting or compliance.
Providing a safe and secure environment for corporate investors policies.
html our guests, employees and subcontractors We support and protect human rights is essential.
To ensure their protection and wherever we can.
As a responsible Building our team well-being, our health and safety functions company with operations across the Our employees are an essential part of our ensure that comprehensive processes and world, we believe that strong ethics and business and we aim to foster an inspiring, procedures are in place at all properties good business go hand in hand and we diverse and collaborative work environment and comply with relevant legislation.
Such are committed to complying with the where our people know they are measures also support our hotels to identify laws and regulations of the countries and appreciated, valued and respected.
Upon hazards, assess risks and implement jurisdictions in which we operate.
The commencement with the Group, new appropriate controls to reduce occupational Group has adopted a human rights policy colleagues are provided with an extensive injuries, accidents and fatalities.
which is designed to communicate and induction which gives them an update on enhance awareness of our values and the business and introduces them to our Health and safety is a principal risk commitment to certain fundamental unique company culture and brands.
and as part of our risk management human rights principles which are aligned effective training, supervision and regular with those of the International Labour Suitable training and personal developcommunication on health and safety Organisation and the United Nations ment opportunities are provided to our matters is regularly provided to our Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
employees and we use a number of ways employees.
To support this, a comto engage them, which helps promote team prehensive schedule of audits, inspections The Group has also adopted a formal building and create a better understanding and drills is carried out both internally slavery and human trafficking statement of the Company.
and by independent bodies to check which is available at http: www.
awareness, compliance and readiness millenniumhotels.
html Consistent with our Responsible Hospitality to deal with emergencies.
approach, we also have in place our brand defining Outstanding Service The Group continues to be fully committed For example, our UK region has pubExcellence programme where colleagues to equality of opportunity and more lished and launched health and safety are empowered to adapt and deliver information can be found on page 38 management policies and procedures personalised service to each guest.
certified to OHSAS 18001 externally This inspiration-based service approach audited by the British Standards Institution.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic Report 27 Management is currently in the process of and cuts to their carbon emissions.
Global tonnes of CO e 2 rolling out the system across the remaining Although we were not successful in 2010 UK hotels which is designed to ensure achieving an award, our contribution Base 2015 2014 year robust and comprehensive risk assessment helped the government to develop a 1 and recognition across the business.
These better understanding of energy Scope 1 60,543 59,200 73,309 efforts are supported by new compliance efficiency in London.
2 Scope 2 296,906 262,918 235,916 management software resulting in tighter Scope 1 and 2 carbon control of statutory mandatory activities, Our UK business also participated in intensity inspections and creation of audit trails.
the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme, tonnes of CO e room.
2 a UK mandatory energy assessment Includes scope one, two Quarterly reports covering health and safety scheme for large organisations.
As part and three emissions but not travel 13.44 12.38 13.32 matters are also presented to the Board.
of the scheme, energy audits were carried 3 These provide statistics on accidents, out at a selection of our hotels.
The energy Scope 3 31,808 27,323 19,214 incidents and progress in fulfilling targets audits identified energy efficiency measures No.
of rooms 28,744 27,925 24,658 linked to continuous improvement, reporting which we are considering in terms of cost 4 4 Total gross emissions 389,257 349,442 328,439 and review of health and safety matters.
Notes: 1 Direct emissions from activities owned or controlled by our organisation that release emissions into the atmosphere.
Details of our total carbon footprint are Caring for the environment 2 Indirect emissions that are a consequence of our summarised in the table on the right.
The We understand that sustainability impacts organisations activities but which occur at sources we do base year was set as 2010 being the first not own or control.
nearly all aspects of our hotel operations, 3 Other indirect emissions that are a consequence of our year the Group reported greenhouse gas so we embrace it as a means to preserve activities which occur at sources which we do not own or emissions.
This year our carbon footprint our environment, to provide increased control and which are not classed as scope 2 emissions.
guest comfort and to engage and inspire our colleagues.
We encourage our hotel Absolute emissions for the year have managers to seek new ways to reduce and To calculate our emissions, we have increased due to the opening of a number manage emissions and energy use across used the Greenhouse Gas GHG of new hotels.
However, if newly opened our hotel estate by adopting environmental Protocol Corporate Accounting and hotels were to be excluded, overall group best practices and optimising efficiency.
Reporting Standard methodology and emissions would show a decrease of 5% the operational control approach to compared to 2014.
Emissions per unit floor For example, as part of an ongoing determine what properties are included.
area have decreased by 15% since our Franchise hotels and investment hotels process, our hotels have been converting base year of 2010.
Emissions per room has that are managed by third party operators incandescent light bulbs to LED.
As increased slightly by 1% since our base have not been included in the data collation.
LEDs are extremely energy efficient, year of 2010.
This is due to hotels opened consuming up to 90% less power than since 2012 being larger in size but with a incandescent bulbs, significant benefits are smaller number of rooms and being located being derived in terms of reduced power in hot climates where there is a higher air together with savings on maintenance and conditioning requirement.
replacement costs due to their longer lifespan.
Other energy saving projects have included installation of new energy efficient Relative: Carbon Emissions by Source m floor area Room equipment, use of renewable energy technology and optimising the performance kgCO e m tCO e Room 180 18.0 of existing equipment.
170 17.0 164 162 A number of our hotels in Asia and the US have also participated in a soap recycling 160 16.0 programme set up through a nonprofit 148 organisation called Clean the World that 150 15.0 143 collects partially used soaps and other 139 hygiene amenities.
Collected items are then 140 14.0 hygienically recycled and distributed globally 129 130 13.3213.29 13.44 13.0 to communities in need.
12.66 120 12.2812.38 12.0 During 2015, our London hotels took part in the Mayor of Londons Business Energy 110 11.0 Challenge awards which provides an excellent opportunity for businesses to 100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 10.0 showcase their drive for energy efficiency Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Strategic Report 28 Corporate responsibility continued Measuring our carbon emissions against encourage every hotel to get involved The Heritage Hotel Manila sponsored relative metrics gives us the opportunity in its community in ways that make the 30 runners to participate in the Million to improve the efficiency of our operations most of their skills and for causes about Volunteer Run organised by the Philippine through the implementation of new which they are passionate.
Our colleagues Red Cross to raise funds for those affected technologies and initiatives.
It also allows are encouraged to participate directly, by disasters.
us to focus on reducing the consumption whether through volunteering, fundraising of natural resources including through or coordinating events for local charitable Copthorne Hotel London Gatwick reuse and recycling to work towards causes.
continues to support the local community a lower carbon business.
by providing desserts for a homeless shelter Below are a few of the community on Christmas initiatives from our hotel colleagues, who day.
This contribution was part of a local Sourcing responsibly are helping to build a brighter future in their Operation Santa appeal by the local press In order to affirm our commitment to communities.
in Crawley and involved businesses sourcing responsibly, we continually contributing items to help feed over 70 develop unique opportunities for sustainable Orchard Hotel Singapore supported homeless people at Crawley Open House sourcing in each aspect of our daily the Adopt a Wishing Star foundation by in Stephenson Way, Three Bridges over operations with a specific focus on food collecting handwritten wishes from children Christmas.
The hotels pastry department and beverage ingredients.
Our focus of low-income families of Thye Hua Kwan baked over 70 desserts for the shelter.
includes reducing food miles and using Moral Charities Limited and Sengkang Other staff at the hotel also helped by suppliers with a demonstrable commitment Family Service Centre and encouraging collecting toothbrushes and toiletries to to sustainable production methods.
For hotel staff and guests to fulfil the wishes.
give as Christmas gifts for the homeless.
example, our UK main food supplier has introduced best practices and investment Millennium Hotel Sirih Jakarta, held in Copthorne Hotel Rotorua organised programmes with goals to reduce CO 2 2015 a golf tournament in conjunction with a Can for Can initiative which involved emissions, minimise energy consumption the Jakarta Hotels Association which raised colleagues donating a canned food item and waste to landfill.
nearly 8,000 for Habitat for Humanity and the hotel matching the total number Indonesia.
The money was used towards of cans donated which were divided equally In 2015, our US properties worked with building homes for five families with children between a local womans refuge and the a national food distributor to develop at Desa Bojongkoneng, Sentul in Indonesia.
programmes around sustainability which support positive change in fisheries and Our hotels also help young people from agriculture.
Millennium Corniche Hotel Abu Dhabi disadvantaged backgrounds by providing joined hands with Brightpoint Royal employment skills training and vocational Moreover, new standards and protocols Womens Hospital during the month of opportunities.
For example, our ONE UN have been set up in the US which identify October, known internationally as Breast Cancer Awareness month, to raise New York hotel provided training and products that meet an established set of awareness of the disease.
Ladies who hands on work experience to students sustainability standards, such as products attended a coffee morning session at from the New York University.
Similarly, that have been Bovine Growth Hormone the hotels bar Cristal were given a 50% Maingate Lakeside Resort teamed up free and Humane Farm Animal Care discount card for a mammogram test.
with a mentoring organisation called Junior certified, which help our hotel procurement Representatives from Brightpoint Hospital Achievement and provided seven weeks teams to source responsible products.
explained the importance of routine of instruction to high school students on examinations and early detection to beat Career Success and Getting Hired.
In the UK, we have also started to the disease that remains a global killer.
optimise the frequency of land trucking deliveries so as to reduce our overall Looking forward pollution and emissions.
Our project of Millennium Hotel Cincinnati employees We will continue to commit time and zero waste being transferred to landfill, have been collecting childrens books for resources to our corporate responsibility which commenced in 2014 and piloted Adopt-A-Book, a non-profit organisation programme, refine our practices and by two of our UK hotels, continues.
dedicated to providing underprivileged contribute to our communities in a children with books of their own.
was to collect 500 books, however the Supporting local communities hotel team were so passionate about the We fully embrace the communities in cause that they exceeded the target with which we operate and we are committed a total of 1,539 childrens books.
to conducting our business in ways that have a positive impact on society.
