26 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate social responsibility At Mitchells & Butlers we are committed to earning the trust and respect of our customers, employees and neighbours.
Whether thats Our guests trust us to through supporting people in the communities around our pubs, ensuring our team members have a great career path, or working closely serve good food that with food and drink suppliers on nutrition and waste, we are committed to improving the way we do business year on year.
represents good value for Food sourcing We work closely with a network of trusted money, which is safely suppliers to source the best quality ingredients for our menus.
When buying our food we ensure our high food safety standards are met, prepared and cooked.
we are sourcing quality products, and we are taking into account provenance and price.
All our food suppliers are required to comply with the British Retail Consortiums technical standard which requires their staff to be properly trained and supervised and for the supplier to meet high standards of food safety.
We are proactively working with our suppliers to improve the quality and range of products available within the Mitchells & Butlers supply chain.
We continue to strengthen our relationships with UK growers, working direct where possible to remove the wholesalers margin and delivering fresh seasonal products to our kitchens.
For example, we use British Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 27 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 strawberries when in season and all our fresh potatoes in Toby and Crown Carveries are British.
We have also begun a trial to grow our own potato crop through a direct supply contract at Brechin in Scotland.
Our Cattle Scheme continues to develop and we are now working with 21 farmers, rearing around 2,000 calves under our direct contract agreements.
Since Spring 2015 the scheme has supplied Miller & Carter with beef steaks from around 20 animals every week, all traceable from farm to fork.
We take responsible sourcing extremely seriously and recognise concerns about the sustainable sourcing of fish.
We are committed to working with our supplier base to ensure well managed and sustainable fishing practices In 2015 Miller & Carter were awarded the title of serving Englands Best Sirloin Steak are in place.
For example, we source line within the Foodservice sector, the result of an independent assessment by the English caught cod for our menus in a number of Beef and Lamb Executive.
We have an annual spend cost value of over 19m on beef and poultry products that are covered by Red Tractor accreditation, the UKs largest food assurance scheme.
These products are endorsed on our menus using the Red Tractor logo.
For example, we use British chicken in Harvester: all our beef in Toby Carvery and Harvester is of British and Irish origin: and we use 100% British beef in Miller & Carter.
In addition, we buy more than 32 million free range eggs a year.
Good food Our guests trust us to serve good food that represents good value for money, which is safely prepared and cooked.
They also trust us to source food that is both sustainable and ethical, with due regard for high standards of both workers and animal welfare.
This is an integral part of our strategy of developing For the third year running we won the award for Food Service Operator of the Year superior brand propositions as detailed on at the 2015 British Turkey Awards, demonstrating our commitment and support for page 16.
British farming and support for the British turkey industry.
Nutrition We continue to look for the most effective way significantly in technical processes and Salt to present nutritional information to our guests systems to incorporate the requirements In the Autumn of 2015 all our brands replaced across our portfolio of brands.
By using our of Regulation EU No.
1169 2011 on the standard salt used in salt shakers on the tables guest insight to understand better our guests provision of food information to consumers and to season food back of house, with a preferences and priorities, we can develop EU FIC.
We follow both regulatory and best mineral salt containing 15% less sodium than our nutritional messaging to ensure it remains practice advice, to ensure the information is standard salt and which is high in magnesium, effective.
We believe our focus should be on as accurate as possible and helps our guests thereby delivering on our commitment to the communicating ingredients, healthy cooking make the most informed choice to suit their Government Responsibility Deal pledge to techniques, the freshness of our food and dietary needs and preferences.
support and enable consumers to reduce providing healthier options to enable our their dietary salt intake.
guests to make an informed choice when It is now a mandatory requirement for all eating with us.
suppliers to Mitchells & Butlers to provide This will remove over 16.8 tons of salt from us with nutrition information for every food our guests diet.
We publish the nutritional information for product, and to follow Company policy on our menus on our websites for Harvester, the provision of accurate nutrition data.
This Magnesium has no less than 10 authorised Toby Carvery, Crown Carveries, Ember Inns, enables our chefs to have the detail required health claims including contributing to the Sizzling Pubs, ONeills, Oak Tree Pubs, Vintage to design and improve dishes that meet the maintenance of normal teeth and bones.
specific nutritional requirements of our guests.
Signposting of healthier options Nutritional information is provided as a guide Allergens In April 2015, in partnership with Campden BRI and values are calculated using detailed We are compliant with the new EU legislation, we developed a guide to help position our brands recipes that include weights and measures, which came into effect in December 2014, as leaders in the industry for healthier options manufacturers nutrition data and lab data concerning the availability of information and enable guest communication that is on trend, where required.
We have invested about 14 common food allergens.
truthful, substantiated and legally compliant.
28 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate social responsibility The standards incorporate best practice and recommendations from leading health continued charities such as Soil Association and have been developed with consultation of the School Food Standards, Government This best practice guide translates the less: Sizzling Pubs guilt-free curries and Buying Standards and established dietary regulations and relevant codes of practice burgers containing at least 30% less fat and recommendations for children.
into user-friendly language to support the saturated fat per 100g compared to the classic development and communication of curries and burgers: Harvester restaurants They have been designed to help all our commercially viable healthier options that which all contain menu options between 250 brands improve the nutritional profile of their comply with all relevant regulations and and 500 calories: and All Bar Ones range of childrens food and drink offering, so that all do not mislead the guest.
calorie controlled options, with the energy menus provide variety, controlled levels of published on the menu copy, and dishes high public health sensitive nutrients and make The guide also includes practical advice for in protein, omega-3, antioxidants and lighter healthy eating easier for our guests, whilst suppliers and our development chefs to help options are also signposted.
still maintaining the feel of a treat occasion.
reduce calories, sugars, fat and saturated fats, with the focus on adopting healthier cooking Responsibility Deal partnership Food safety methods, selecting alternative ingredients We are committed partners of the One of our Key Performance Indicators and technical solutions for designing healthier Governments Responsibility Deal, and have detailed on page 22 is our Net Promoter options that deliver on taste and quality.
signed up to delivering pledges relating to Score and as part of this we have made a artificial trans fats and salt reduction.
commitment to increase the number of our Several of our brands have increased their businesses that achieve a 4 or 5 star food range of healthier options, and supported In addition, this year we have signed up to hygiene rating, taking a zero tolerance these with nutrition and health claims to make pledges, and submitted delivery plans to the approach to anything below.
We continue them easily identifiable to the health conscious Department of Health, in respect of fruit and to strive for a score of 5 in each business and guest.
Examples include: Toby Carverys vegetables Crown Carveries, Toby Carvery, conduct independently commissioned audits signposting of a range of menu options which Harvester and calorie reduction Harvester.
in all of our businesses at least twice per year.
are low in saturated fat and 500 calories or We will support and enable our customers to We have rigorous checks and policies in place eat and drink fewer calories through product and we consult regularly with Government and menu reformulation, reviewing portion and local authorities to ensure we maintain sizes, education and information.
the highest standards in food safety.
We are currently investing significantly in upgrading Childrens Menus our safety training including Food Safety, In response to the growing concern over Fire Safety and Health and Safety training.
1,400 childhood obesity, we have developed In addition, we have increased the internal Last year we created 1,400 new our own Childrens Food Standards that supportive resource available to our jobs by opening new retail sites will be implemented across all brands operations teams.
across the UK from Spring 2016.
Serving alcohol responsibly Our individual businesses and ultimately our business as a whole, rely on our ability to operate within the terms of our licences and the law and, as a responsible operator, we are determined to build, promote and maintain a culture of responsible retailing across the Company.
Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility policy promotes good practice in the responsible retailing of alcohol through our employee training, safe operational practices and responsible pricing and promotions.
We have produced a Prevention of Underage Drinking policy, which includes our use of Challenge 21.
This forms a fundamental part of our employee training programme and includes regular refresher training to help ensure that our retail teams are fully aware of their licensing responsibilities and not serving alcohol to anyone underage.
We do not operate any 24 hour licences.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 29 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 As part of our commitment to promote a responsible approach to retailing alcohol, we support and work in partnership with a number of organisations including Drinkaware Trust, Pubwatch, Best Bar None, the British Institute of Innkeeping Awarding Body BIIAB and the Association of Licensed and Multiple Retailers ALMR.
We encourage our brands to promote responsible drinking messages, where appropriate, to our guests through our websites, social media pages and in-house promotional materials.
Working with us Our strategy page 16 includes recruiting, retaining and developing engaged people who deliver excellent service for our guests.
With over 100 years experience in the hospitality industry, we offer our current and future employees a huge range of career opportunities.
Through our people strategy Mitchells & Butlers achieved Top 100 Graduate Employer status in 2015 for the we are striving to attract, develop and retain third year running and moved up the ranking against other hospitality employers.
Everything we do as a business is built on the enthusiasm and professionalism of our people.
The policy confirms that there will be no In 2015 we launched a new three year direct or indirect discrimination in respect Hospitality Management Development O ur story is one of heritage, of passion, of age, disability, religious belief, gender, programme which targets attracting 18 year development and our people.
This is a story sexual orientation, race, colour, marital olds and accelerates these candidates to which helps to bring our business and our people status, political belief and nationality, or higher level leadership positions.
We currently who work within it to life.
To learn more visit: https: youtu.
be Mwky6Y6bUH8 any other category defined by law in all have c. 100 recruited to these roles, with a aspects of employment including recruitment, target for a further 250 young people during Our Retail team member turnover has reduced promotion, and opportunities for training, FY 2016.
We also launched our new youth from 78% in FY 2014 to 76% in FY 2015. pay and benefits.
attraction strategy which targets young people from the age of 16 to gain transferable skills and Men Women Listening to our people build a sustainable career with us.
Additionally, Company Directors 8 1 Every year we circulate our employee we are working in partnership with Believe Other senior managers 38 15 engagement survey, Your Say to understand in Young People, offering over 200 work All employees 21,298 22,034 better what is important to our employees.
experience places for 14 to 18 year olds who People told us they like the kind of work wish to explore a career in hospitality, with a they do and can see where they add value to Attracting the best talent natural lead into our apprenticeship scheme.
Focus areas for improvement Last year we created c. 1,400 new jobs by include the planning and implementation opening new retail sites across the UK.
We pride ourselves on having accessible of future initiatives, ensuring appropriate career pathways and around 1,500 learners resources are allocated and people living the Nurturing and developing our people have completed a vocational or apprenticeship PRIDE Passion, Respect, Innovation, Drive, This year we have created new and robust programme with us this year.
As part of this Engagement values.
Feedback showed the high potential programmes which are aimed commitment we have enhanced all our Orchid Managers responded very positively at helping develop our house managers skills-based apprenticeships, which now about the integration into Mitchells & Butlers.
to area managers, and the latter to retail follow a comprehensive capability framework, directors which utilises our network of and cover all levels to Foundation degree.
This Diversity internal accredited coaches.
Alongside framework focuses on giving 16 to 24 year olds Mitchells & Butlers is committed to providing this, we have also created an enhanced on-the-job skills complemented with credible equal opportunities for all of our employees.
programme for graduates that accelerates transferable commercial skills, which take them During the year the Board adopted a Diversity them to area manager positions.
from the equivalent of a GCSE qualification Policy, details of which are set out on page 46. through to a degree level a true alternative to Our employee Diversity Policy ensures that the traditional academic education route.
every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
30 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate social responsibility Harvester restaurants have been fundraising for Make-A-Wish UK by participating in continued the Bake-A-Wish initiative.
With over 200 restaurants on board, the brand successfully smashed its fundraising target of 20,000 Rewarding and recognising our people Over the last year through our Good Cause by donating over 46,000 to the charity Pickaperk, our benefits platform, continues Fund, to help our pubs boost their local making it the largest donation Harvester to be popular with our employees, with a fundraising and our employee donations has ever made to Make-A-Wish.
spend on discounted goods of 1.3m in the programme, we have raised or donated nearly last 12 months, a c. 50% increase on the 20,000 to a large number of deserving Environmental awareness previous year.
We continue to successfully manage our energy, waste and water in a manner which Many of our employees continue to enjoy the During the year our businesses worked is not only cost-effective for the business but Dine with Us programme, where they can together to support the Marie Curie Great reduces our impact on the environment.
access their employee discount digitally and Daffodil Appeal.
All of our restaurants and receive 20% off when they eat in one of our pubs sold daffodil pins during March and Energy and greenhouse gas emissions businesses.
On two occasions this year the raised almost 19,000 for the charity, which Our proactive management of energy discount was raised to 33% as an additional will provide one full time nurse for a whole consumption, procurement and carbon thank you to our employees.
year or 940 hours of home nursing care.
Since emissions continues to deliver significant fundraising began in 2010 Mitchells & Butlers benefits to our business against a backdrop c. 12,800 employees have received an award has donated over 157,000 to Marie Curie of increasing food sales volume.
During recognising their service to the business.
the 2014 15 tax year our greenhouse gas Awards are made to employees for achieving emissions per m turnover reduced by service milestones between one year and In FY 2015 our Heartland estate, including 0.26% through a combination of behavioural 45 years.
Sizzling Pubs, Crown Carveries, Oak Tree change programmes and investment in Pubs, and ONeills continued to raise funds making our buildings and equipment Our communities for Cancer Research UK, and has raised more energy efficient.
Were committed to being a good neighbour 165,000 for the charity this year.
As a result by supporting our communities with both this brings the Heartland team fundraising A full disclosure of our greenhouse gas our time and expertise.
By supporting our total to a staggering 235,000 in less than emissions can be found on page 41. employees and businesses across a spectrum two years.
of charitable activity and fundraising, we Back of house lighting continue to build strong relationships with Crown Carveries offer Armed Forces We have successfully concluded the roll our guests and neighbours and give back personnel active or veteran, as well as all out of new energy-efficient fluorescent to the communities in which we trade.
emergency service crews 10% off their fittings to back of house areas across food bill all year round at their restaurants the estate.
This has helped us to make nationwide.
The promotion has been run in considerable savings on energy consumption conjunction with Defences Discount Service as well as improving lighting levels for and Blue Light Cards, Savings for Life Savers.
Our restaurants and pubs once again Smart heating controls 76% supported the Royal British Legion Poppy We are in the process of rolling out smart Our Retail team member turnover has Appeal, selling thousands of poppies and heating controls to compatible sites that allow reduced from 78% in FY 2014 to 76% raising around 132,000 to support thousands for better time and temperature control of our in FY 2015 of serving and ex-Service people.
This is helping us to cut down on wasteful heating costs whilst ensuring customer comfort.
Orchid conversion sites The installation of a range of energy efficiency technologies continues for our Orchid conversion sites including energy efficient LED lighting in trade areas and fluorescent fittings in back of house areas, intelligent timers on the glycol chiller systems, free air cellar cooling and automated kitchen extraction where appropriate.
Water consumption We have concluded the roll out of appliances to reduce water wastage in our toilets and have generated an annual consumption saving across the estate of 13.9 million litres.
We will build on the success of our CSR activities during 2015 and continue to develop our programmes and activities to further support our businesses, employees and guests in the future.
