Corporate Responsibility Report 4 peak challenge 19 employees took part in the Four Highest Peaks in North Africa Charity Challenge to raise funds for the National Autistic Society.
Employees The Board considers that the Moneysupermarket Group wants to be a great place to work.
Passion, innovation and performance are key assets for the management of safety, health, Group and its future success.
The Group has clear priorities for how it: environment, social and ethical engages with its employees, recognising the different needs matters forms a key element of they have: creates sustainable employment opportunities that attract a effective corporate governance talented and diverse range of new people into all levels of the business: which in turn supports the strategy, invests in the future to ensure each individual can perform to the best of their ability: and long-term performance and ensures it is constantly seeking to do the right things, particularly in how people are treated throughout the Group.
The Group actively encourages employee involvement and consultation.
It places considerable emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the Groups activities via formal business performance updates, regular update briefings, regular team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, and the circulation to employees of relevant information including corporate announcements.
This helps to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
32 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General Gender diversity The Group has invested 270,000 in employee training programmes in 2015, with online training now available for all employees for our Customer First programme.
Employees Executive management team Male The Group has a wide-ranging performance management Female system, designed to ensure that all employees are able to fulfil their potential and contribute as much as possible to 58% 89% the achievement of the Groups goals whilst applying the Groups values.
42% 11% 363 of our employees are male and 259 female.
In our executive management team, 8 members are male and 1 is female whilst on our Board, 6 of the Directors are male and 2 female.
Board of Directors The Group recognises the importance of health and safety and the positive benefits to the Group.
The Group has a health and safety policy which is communicated to all employees through a 75% health and safety handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
25% Supporting students In order to build links between the Group and local schools and colleges, work experience and placements are offered to a number of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to make A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place work placements positive, challenging and relevant to to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation participants current studies and their future job prospects.
and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
76% of staff completed the 2015 survey with 88% Business ethics of those respondents confirming they were committed to the Behaving ethically is an essential part of working for our Group.
Groups goals and 84% of respondents stating they would It is fundamental to how we do business and is vitally recommend the Group as a great place to work.
important to the reputation and success of our Group.
We have a code of conduct which applies to all employees.
Our three The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
principles of ethical business conduct are: The Group aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated we are honest, transparent and trustworthy in all our against, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, dealings both within the Group and in all our external ethnic and national origins, sexual orientation or gender, business relationships: marital status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or we respect the privacy of individuals and other on the grounds of age.
organisations with whom we work: and we investigate reports of potential breaches of the code The Group offers a range of benefits which help employees of conduct.
share in the success of the Group.
These include both an employee Share Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
We also have anti-bribery, competition law and whistleblowing The Groups full range of benefits reflects the differing needs policies which incorporate the Groups key principles and and interests of its employees.
Particular focus is given to standards governing business conduct towards our key contributing towards employees wellbeing.
We believe we should treat all of these the opportunity to buy additional holidays, medical cover, groups with honesty and integrity.
gym memberships, as well as benefitting from discounts on products and services for the home and family life.
Recognising that employees can require advice and support for a range of personal and professional reasons, a free comprehensive employee assistance programme is also available.
The Group also has a wide variety of flexible working arrangements in place.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 33 Corporate Responsibility Report continued Employees tackled the Tough Mudder to raise money for the National Autistic Society.
Total donated to National Autistic Society Communities and charities by the Group and its employees The Group seeks to make a positive difference by being an active contributor to the communities that it operates within.
Community initiative was launched in 2008 and has continued to develop during 2015.
The initiative is focused on 57,789 providing support to charities and community groups located within a few miles of the Groups office in Ewloe, so support is targeted primarily in Flintshire and Cheshire.
A volunteer group of employees meets regularly to review requests for donations and to allocate funds according to agreed donation guidelines.
Employees are also active in researching and seeking out local good causes that the Group can help support.
The initiative has been effective at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of the Groups employees to benefit the communities within which it operates.
In 2015 the Group made 6,000 per quarter available for the.
This funding has been channelled via the Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross donations to registered charities.
Over the course of the year the Group has supported over 30 charities and community groups including: Barnados Flintshire Young Carers Flintshire Deaf Childrens Society Ty Nos Homeless Shelter Deeside North Wales Crusaders RL Wheelchair & Disability Sports Association CAB for Flintshire North Wales Super Kids Wepre PTA City of Salford Volley Ball Team Mold Alex U8s Football Team 34 Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements General In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its Greenhouse gas GHG emissions employees continue to select and support a Charity of the Year This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas on an annual basis.
emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The methodology used to The 2015 Charity of the Year was the National Autistic Society.
calculate our emissions is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate The charity provides help and support to those affected by Standard.
Emissions reported correspond with our financial year.
Over the course of the year the Groups employees We have included emissions from both our owned and leased raised 48,660 for the National Autistic Society with the Group assets for which we are responsible.
Emissions are predominantly also donating 9,129 bringing the total donated to the National from gas combustion and electricity use at our offices and data Autistic Society during the year to 57,789. centres.
We have reported on all material emission sources which we deem ourselves to be responsible for.
Emission factors are In addition to this, in September 2015, MoneySavingExpert from UK government conversion factor guidance current for the donated 50p per new recipient of its weekly email to the Red year reported.
Cross to assist with the Europe Refugee Crisis, which was rounded up to a total donation of 6,000.
MoneySavingExpert Total CO e by emission type in 2015 2 Total CO e by emission type in 2015 has also continued to donate to The MoneySavingExpert 2 Total CO e by emission type in 2015 2 Charity, which is a grant giving charity dedicated to improving Electricity, heat, Electricity, heat, steam and cooling information and education about debt, money and consumer purchased for steam and cooling Electricity, heat, own use purchased for issues with 60,000 donated in 2015. steam and cooling Combustion of fuel and operation own use purchased for of facilities 92.34% own use The National Autistic Society will continue to be our Charity of Combustion of fuel and operation the Year in 2016.
7.66% Combustion of of facilities fuel and operation of facilities The Group launched a volunteering scheme in October 2011 through which the Group supports a total of 60 volunteering days per year to help those who are less fortunate, and thereby make a valuable contribution to our local community.
During the In order to express our annual emissions in relation to a year employees volunteered in a diverse range of activities and quantifiable factor associated with our activities, we have used also took part in the sponsored Four Highest Peaks in North revenue as our intensity ratio as this is a relevant indication of Africa Challenge.
our growth and is aligned with our business strategy.
Environment Greenhouse gas emissions data The Group is committed to reducing energy and raw material For period from 1 January to 31 December usage to support environmental and financial performance and has implemented the following initiatives to support this aim: the installation of solar panels at the Groups Ewloe office resulting in energy savings of approximately 40,561 kwh Tonnes of CO e 2 during 2015: 2015 2014 the continued replacement of energy efficient bulbs with Emissions from: higher efficiency LEDs: Combustion of fuel and changes to our air conditioning and ventilation timings to operation of facilities 72.0 26.4 minimise unnecessary usage: the replacement of our water boilers with industry-leading Electricity, heat, steam and ECO boilers to help minimise electrical usage: and cooling purchased for own use 867.6 968.6 the recycling, via one of our suppliers, of waste oil from our Companys chosen intensity on-site catering into useful products such as biofuels.
measurement: tonnes of CO e 2 per m revenue 3.33 4.01 The Group estimates that during 2015 it recycled on average over 70% of its commercial waste.
Moneysupermarket Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35
