Corporate governance report Mondi Limited social and ethics committee Meeting schedule and attendance The committee met twice during the year.
How the committee spent its time Corporate Labour and Consumer Environment, citizenship employment relations health and 30% matters 15% public safety 15% 10% Employment Equity and Broad Based Black AntiEconomic Empowerment corruption I am pleased to report that, in 20% 10% monitoring Mondi Limiteds Composition activities referred to in Regulation Members Committee Meeting attendance 43 of the South African Companies throughout the year member since two meetings in the year Act, the committee noted the 1 Stephen Harris, chairman February 2012, chairman 2 high level of compliance and the since October 2015 many social-upliftment initiatives undertaken during the period David Hathorn February 2012 2 underreview.
2 Imogen Mkhize, chairman February 2012 1 Stephen Harris 3 Fred Phaswana October 2015 1 Chairman of the Mondi Limited social and ethics committee 1 Stephen Harris took over as chairman of the committee on 1 October 2015.
2 Imogen Mkhize resigned from the committee on 30 September 2015 and had attended all meetings up to this date.
3 Fred Phaswana was appointed a committee member on 1 October 2015 and attended all meetings held following his appointment.
The composition of the committee is in accordance with the requirements of Section 72 8 of the South African Companies Act 2008 and its associated regulations.
Other regular attendees Non-executive directors who are not members of the committee Executive management who present on relevant topics There are areas of overlap between the remit of the committee and that of the DLC audit committee and the DLC sustainable development committee.
In order to prevent duplication, the committee considers reports to these two committees relating to environmental, labour, human rights, product responsibility, risk management, whistle blowing, fraud and business integrity, and monitors compliance by Mondi Limited on those matters as they pertain to the responsibility of the committee.
108 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements During the year the committees key activities included: Corporate citizenship Considered community development and corporate social investment initiatives: 2,800 jobs were created by Mondi during the period under review Employment Equity and Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE Reviewed progress made against the employment equity targets set for the period 2013 to 2017 Monitored the BBBEE status.
The date by which Sector Councils, including the Forestry Council which Mondi Limited is aligned with, had to get approval for its Sector Codes following the amended Broad Based Black Economic Empowerment Codes of Good Practice was extended to October 2015.
Prior to this date Mondi Limited had an independent assessment performed which confirmed its status as a level 3 contributor.
This status will apply for a period of 12 months Labour and employment matters Reviewed compliance by Mondi Limited with South African labour legislation which incorporates the decent work requirements prescribed by the ILO.
The committee noted specifically the various areas of employer employee interface and the development of action plans aimed at addressing focus areas arising from the last employee survey Considered training and development.
Based on nearly 1,500 training initiatives embarked on during 2013, 83% of Mondi Limiteds employees received training during the year under consideration Considered various initiatives and procedures in place to achieve Mondi Limiteds transformation and diversity management objectives Consumer relations Reviewed Mondi Limiteds customer relations initiatives as well as the levels of certification of its products used for food packaging Reviewed Mondi Limiteds advertising policy aimed at ensuring compliance with the Code of Advertising Standards enforced by the Advertising Standards Authority of South Africa Environment, health and public safety Reviewed Mondi Limiteds good progress against its 2015 targets with regard to Effluent Load COD, Organo-chlorines AOX, Malodorous Gas TRS, Specific Contact Water, Waste to Landfill and Hazardous Process Waste to Landfill Reviewed Mondi Limiteds environmental indicators relating to CO emissions, carbon- 2 based energy consumption, renewal resource for primary energy and electrical self-sufficiency Anti-corruption Reviewed the requirements of the King III Code of Good Practice with regard to the principles relating to ethical leadership, and Mondi Limiteds activities relating to the eradication of corruption with specific reference to the UN Global Compact and the OECD Recommendations Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 109 Corporate governance report DLC executive committee and company secretaries David Hathorn, 53 Andrew King, 46 Peter Oswald, 53 Chief executive officer Chief financial officer Chief executive officer: Europe See full biography See full biography &International Division on page 74 on page 74 See full biography on page 75 Ron Traill, 61 Experience Ron has over 35 years experience in the paper industry.
He began his career as an industrial engineer with Chief executive officer: DRG Packaging Group, working in its Scottish paper mill.
He went on to hold a succession of posts within the South Africa Division company, leading ultimately to his appointment as general manager.
Following DRGs acquisition by Sappi in Appointed 1990, he worked for 10 years in a number of general management roles.
January 2008 He has also held senior operational positions with Fletcher Challenge and with Tullis Russell.
Committee membership Executive Ron joined Mondi in 2003 as managing director of the tt pulp and paper mill in the Czech Republic, also Qualifications assuming responsibility for the Mondi packaging paper business in Ruomberok Slovakia.
He then relocated Graduated in mechanical to South Africa, being appointed chief executive officer of the South Africa Division in January 2008. engineering and management from Dundee Colleges in External appointments Scotland in 1980 None.
John Lindahl, 56 Experience Between 1985 and 2000 John had an extensive career in the forest industry, working in different operational Group technical director managerial positions in Finland, the US and France in companies including M-real, Myllykoski and UPM.
Appointed At UPM he then moved on to roles within corporate technology and investment coordination.
August 2011 Committee membership From the industry he moved on to consulting and engineering company Pyry, where he held a number of Executive executive positions in the forest industry business group, being involved in advisory services, pre-engineering Qualifications studies and major implementation projects for the global Pulp and Paper Industry until 2011 when he Graduated in pulp and paper joined Mondi.
engineering from the Technical University of Helsinki in 1985 External appointments and an MBA from Jyvaskyla None.
University in 1996 Philip Laubscher, 60 Experience Philip Laubscher, who holds BProc and LLB degrees and is an attorney of the High Court of South Africa, Company secretary Mondi Limited wasin-house counsel with national power utility Eskom for 15 years before joining Mondi in 1999 as head oflegal services.
He was appointed company secretary of Mondi Limited in January 2001.
Carol Hunt, 54 Experience Carol Hunt, a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries & Administrators, spent 15 years with The BOC Company secretary Mondi plc Group plc, holding various roles in the company secretariat, the last six years as deputy company secretary.
She joined Mondi in November 2006 and was formally appointed company secretary of Mondiplc in May 2007.
Philip and Carol work together on the coordination of Mondis DLC structure.
110 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015
