22 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy VAluES, STRATEGy AnD TOnE FROM ThE TOP DOInG BuSInESS ThE RIGhT WAy, EThICAlly AnD SAFEly, IS FunDAMEnTAl TO ThE WAy WE DO BuSInESS.
IT IS ThE TOP PRIORITy FOR ThE GROuP.
CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy IS InTEGRAl TO ThE Pete rAby MORGAn GROuP: IT MEAnS A COMMITMEnT TO ChIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER BEhAVInG WITh InTEGRITy AnD hAVInG A POSITIVE IMPACT On EMPlOyEES, STAKEhOlDERS AnD ThE COMMunITIES In WhICh ThE GROuP WORKS.
morgan values tone from the top The Core Values Statement is the guiding The Board is ultimately accountable for principle for the Groups global approach corporate responsibility and receives to corporate responsibility.
This underpins regular reports on RBP, EhS and global the Groups commitment to doing business talent management.
in the right way: limiting the impact of its operations on the environment: protecting The senior management team recognises the and developing its people: and supporting need to lead by example.
The Chief Executive the communities in which the Group works.
Officer CEO takes the lead on doing business in the right way, whilst the Chief Financial Officer CFO is responsible for the Groups morgan strategy approach to EhS.
They are supported by the This firm commitment to doing business in the Regional executive teams and functional heads right way is integral to the Group in continuing with specific responsibility for environment, to be one of the worlds very best advanced health and safety, legal compliance and human materials companies, where corporate resources.
Tone from the top was demonstrated responsibility is a differentiator.
The Groups in 2015 by the attendance of Regional and Responsible Business Programme RBP, Group executives, as well as a number of the Environment, health and Safety EhS non-executive Board Directors, at face-to-face programme and the approach to Morgans RBP training sessions across the Group.
people, all support the aim of creating long-term sustainable shareholder value.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 23 CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy doing business in the right way training implementation The RBP is the Group-wide ethics and Raising awareness of and educating employees How are the policies cascaded?
compliance programme, launched in 2010, on the Group compliance policies and the The RBP policies and procedures are mandated providing a policy compliance framework applicable laws and regulations is a fundamental across the Group and apply to all employees.
underpinning the Groups commitment, part of the RBP.
There are a number of and ensuring a common approach, to doing challenges in delivering a programme of The Group intranet, Morganet, is the primary business in the right way.
this nature across more than 30 countries, means of making each of the policies, manuals including language, culture and logistics.
and guidelines available to employees.
It is The core elements of the RBP are policies acknowledged that not all employees can guidance, training education, compliance Feedback is sought from all attendees to ensure access Morganet, so hard copies are also risk assessments, monitoring and assurance that the programme develops year on year and made available locally.
through certifications, internal audit and site is relevant to each Region and its employees compliance visits.
rather than being a one size fits all approach.
Education on the RBP policies is also built into each of the RBP elearning modules and all Since 2010, annual training has included: face-to-face materials.
Policies The RBP policies are the Ethics, Ethics hotline, elearning modules for human rights, How is the training given?
Competition Anti-Trust, Trade Compliance anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and In 2015, 14 face-to-face train the facilitator and Donations and Sponsorships policies.
contract risk management, each of sessions were held in a number of locations which requires a 100% test score in around the world.
These were attended by 290 These and related manuals and guidelines order to pass.
people, including local General Managers, and are each available in 13 languages and oblige Train the facilitator training of local both Regional and Group executives.
Two of the employees to operate in accordance with managers and site-based compliance Groups non-executive Directors also attended applicable laws and regulations, for example officers and subsequent cascaded sitesessions in luxembourg and in the uK.
to comply with rules and internal reporting level training.
requirements relating to gifts and entertainment Site level training by the Group RBP The focus of the training was anti-bribery, and donations and sponsorships.
team at higher risk sites.
competition, contract risk management and trade compliance.
All training presentations These policies also apply, to the extent This has been further supplemented by the and supporting materials were provided appropriate, to Morgans business partners provision of RBP training in Group induction in 13 languages to facilitate the cascade of including agents, joint ventures and third-party processes: reinforced in 2015 with revised core elements of this training to more than representatives.
In particular, the Responsible guidance and materials for hR teams globally 2,000 employees.
Business Guide for Representatives summarises to ensure that this is standard practice around the ethical principles the Group requires its the Group.
What have the risk assessments shown?
representatives to adhere to in order to act The Group-wide bribery risk assessments, on behalf of the Group.
risk assessment run since 2013, take into account a number of Annual compliance risk assessments across factors including location of business, location All policies, manuals and guidelines are subject the Group help to identify those businesses of customers, the market sector and whether to annual review.
which have a higher risk of a compliance third-party agents were used.
The results of breach, often associated with high-risk these assessments at the end of 2014 created territories.
These high-risk businesses receive internal bribery risk rankings that were used additional focus and support including further to focus additional support, monitoring and training, guidance and site visits.
During 2015, training which was delivered in 2015 to a certain of the Groups businesses in China, number of the Groups businesses including Mexico, the uK, the Middle East, Turkey those in China and South America.
A similar and Guatemala received such support.
assessment informs the programme going into 2016.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 24 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy continued effectiveness Internal audit During 2015, 17 reports were received via Annual certification Internal audit monitors adherence to key RBP the hotline in respect of 13 matters compared Regional presidents and all functional heads are processes including completion of site-level with 31 reports relating to 14 matters in 2014 required on an annual basis to certify that the training, RBP in induction processes, compliance from the uK, the uS, Germany, Brazil, businesses functions they are responsible for with key elements of RBP policies and the filing Venezuela, Mexico and Guatemala.
Each have implemented and complied in full with of reporting forms.
Internal audit also ensures of the calls related to local human resource the Group policies or declared any exceptions.
that the availability of the Ethics hotline is grievances or the style behaviour of local The CEO and the CFO then certify to the adequately promoted at site level.
The reports were subject Board on a Group-wide basis.
to investigation, with the results and During 2015, internal audit identified a number recommendations then presented to the This certification forms an integral part of the of immaterial breaches of i competitor contact Audit Committee for approval.
no material Groups system of internal controls.
no material and trade association membership reporting, issues were discovered.
exceptions were declared in respect of 2015. and ii timely completion of RBP induction training by new employees.
These matters The Audit Committee annually monitors This is further supplemented by annual site-level have been addressed in the compliance visits and reviews the effectiveness of the hotline certification, where relevant employees certify commentary above.
and of the follow-up investigation processes that they understand and are compliant with the by considering the number of calls, which RBP and related policies and manuals.
Ethics Hotline countries they came from and the results of The Ethics hotline, operated by the the investigations: for 2015 it was satisfied that independent third-party company Expolink, the hotline and investigation processes were Compliance visits was in place throughout the year.
It enables operating effectively, but requested that a In 2015 the RBP team made compliance visits employees who are aware of, or suspect, review and refresh of the hotline be carried to higher risk businesses in Mexico, China, the misconduct, illegal activities, fraud, abuse of out in 2016. uK, Turkey, the Middle East and Guatemala, Group assets or violations of any Group policy meeting with local management to discuss and to report these confidentially without fear The RBP going forward assess compliance practices, processes and of retribution should they feel they cannot use During 2016, the Group plans to further issues.
These visits are a means of monitoring a local channel.
The hotline includes local develop the RBP in a number of ways including: and obtaining assurance on the efficacy of the free-phone numbers in each of the countries RBP at business level and provide an Introduction of new elearning modules.
in which the Group operates, with real-time opportunity to support the business through Introduction of webinar training updates.
local training and face-to-face dialogue.
Further development of third-party risk Throughout 2015, nine compliance visits were management.
Issues raised through the Ethics hotline or via carried out, with common issues identified other channels are followed up by the Regional including the requirement for i RBP induction President or the Company Secretary as materials to be used universally around the appropriate.
Further investigation may be Group, and ii competitor contact reporting conducted through the Audit Committee as requirements to be re-communicated.
Where appropriate, disciplinary action induction materials were reviewed, revised up to and including dismissal is taken and or and re-issued during 2015 and further training additional guidance and training provided.
on competitor contact awareness and reporting is scheduled to take place in the first quarter of 2016.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 25 Morgan Advanced Materials is committed to EnVIROnMEnT, hEAlTh AnD SAFETy conducting all of its activities in a manner that achieves high standards of health and safety for employees and others affected by its operations.
This commitment is reflected in the Groups core health and safety values set out below.
They are adopted Group-wide and are available in 17 languages.
MORGAn ADVAnCED MATERIAlS EnVIROnMEnT, We are committed to creating a culture hEAlTh AnD SAFETy EhS POlICy AnD IMPlEMEnTATIOn and environment that is zero harm PROGRAMMES SuPPORT ThE GROuPS STRATEGy AnD with no related accidents or illness due to our activities.
EhS PERFORMAnCE hAS We encourage and expect our A DIRECT AnD SIGnIFICAnT EFFECT On OPERATInG employees and contractors to be PERFORMAnCE AnD IS ThEREFORE A KEy FOCuS FOR passionate about safety.
RISK ASSESSMEnT AnD OPERATIOnAl MAnAGEMEnT We are dedicated to creating a positive safety culture based on openness, ACROSS ThE GROuP.
We support a safe working culture through investment and training.
Participated in the Carbon Disclosure 2015 highlights We engage with our people to Project 2015 and achieved a disclosure Reviewed and updated the Groups EhS continuously improve safety knowledge, score of 97 and a third place ranking in strategy, setting out a road map for the reporting and performance through our the CDPs FTSE 350 Industrial sector.
Group over the period 2015-17. commitment to our thinkSAFE This recognises the depth and quality Rolled out Morgan thinkSAFE, the programme.
of the climate change data disclosed by Groups safety performance improvement the Group.
This The Group is also committed to minimising the health and safety performance improved top-down behaviour-based safety impact of its business on the environment and in the year with a 20% reduction in the programme is led by the Chief Executive maximising the positive environmental benefits number of lost Time Accidents to 91 and Officer and the Executive team.
Examples of Morgans products a 17% reduction in the lost time accident Over 98% of Morgan employees and which help enhance the environment-related frequency rate.
The percentage of working a number of key contractors have performance and efficiency of the products time lost due to accidents and work-related attended thinkSAFE training more and operations of the Groups customers are ill health was also reduced by 32%.
A small than 1,300 senior operational staff included in pages 2 to 3 and 10 to 13 of this number of sites reported a disproportionate and management attended a two-day Report.
number of lost Time Accidents in the year workshop with a further 8,500 employees and Group and local management are attending a one-day training session.
This Report includes a summary of the Groups already taking action to address these.
These were held in 15 different languages.
EhS Policy and its effectiveness as demonstrated Environmental performance improved through its EhS KPIs and training and other thinkSAFE safety corners installed at with a 5% reduction in CO e intensity, 2 programmes.
each Group facility to help build a greater a 7% reduction in energy intensity, awareness of health and safety and to a 5% reduction in water intensity, under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic provide an interactive focus for safety a 1% reduction in waste intensity Report and Directors report Regulations information.
and a 2% improvement in the recycling 2013, the Group is required to report its Adopted a set of safety-related leading rate from 2014. however, the Group annual greenhouse gas emissions for the year indicators to help drive future is behind the rate of improvement in its Directors report.
This information is performance across the Group.
These required to achieve its waste intensity shown on page 90 and includes the CO 2 indicators include the monitoring of visible reduction target for 2014-16. due to energy use which is further analysed safety leadership activities and near misses.
in this section, as well as other sources of greenhouse gases.
CO e. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent the amount of 2 Carbon Dioxide or the amount of non-CO greenhouse 2 gas with the equivalent global warming potential.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 26 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy continued Morgans Group-level EhS management ehS policy ehS policy effectiveness processes include: Morgans EhS policy applies to all Group Morgan Advanced Materials monitors the businesses worldwide: it forms the basis for effectiveness of its EhS policy through the EhS The EhS Compliance Audit Programme, Executive and management oversight and Compliance Audit Programme, the review of which is carried out by external EhS implementation and has been communicated performance against a series of Group-wide consultants in all regions worldwide.
across all sites within the Group.
The Policy KPIs, its external assurance programme and by This programme reviews the EhS is published on the Groups website.
participating in a number of external initiatives management at each site and helps as further described below.
ensure compliance with local regulations ehS policy implementation and good management practice.
The EhS The summary charts on pages 27 to 31 Morgans EhS governance procedures are Compliance Audit Programme also covers represent the Groups EhS performance, centered on its EhS policy, which forms the EhS management systems and the covering all production sites during the year.
the basis of the Groups EhS management EhS KPIs reported by each site.
All of the systems and processes.
The policy requires Groups manufacturing facilities are Environmental intensity KPIs are reported high standards of EhS management at all sites.
reviewed on a three-year rolling cycle.
at constant currency and, where necessary, This is implemented through performance Accordingly, 25 sites were audited during historic EhS data is updated to reflect changes monitoring, risk assessment and the 2015.
The audit reports are reviewed in reporting methodology and to ensure management and mitigation of identified risks by the Director, Environment, health year on year consistency.
to help provide continuous improvement and Safety and by the Regional Presidents.
in EhS performance in support of the Groups Action items are tracked through a formal In 2015, the independent external assurance strategic priorities.
performed by PwC covered the Groups lost Formal training as an integral part of the time accident frequency rate, CO e intensity, The Group is committed to providing effective 2 implementation of the Groups EhS Policy.
energy intensity, waste intensity, water intensity leadership in pursuit of an injury-free and This is undertaken at a regional level and waste recycling rate.
The Assurance Report environmentally responsible work place and according to business-specific risks and from PwC is set out on page 32. the Chief Executive Officer and the operational opportunities, with Group-level support management team are responsible for EhS and oversight.
The Group participates in a number of performance, with each site having a point of Monthly performance reporting to Group external initiatives that help to benchmark accountability.
There are EhS leaders in each and regional executives against the Group policy effectiveness and progress.
This global network of specialists reports KPIs by all Group sites.
The data is subject include the Carbon Disclosure Project in to their respective regional management team to regular review and challenge at Group respect of the Groups climate change-related and is responsible for improving the standards level with reporting of performance to the strategies, risks, management and performance.
of EhS management and performance across Executive Committee and the Board.
In 2015, Morgan achieved a score of 97 the Groups businesses.
for disclosure and B for carbon-related Taking site openings and closures into account, performance.
This reflects the depth and As described below, in 2015 the Group again in 2015 environmental management systems quality of climate change data the Group commissioned external assurance on selected were in place at 98 sites worldwide, including has disclosed to investors and the global EhS data from  47 sites certified to ISO 14001.
certifications were achieved at sites in the uSA, Guatemala and Venezuela in 2015.
These new Morgan Advanced Materials plc has made certifications are in addition to the ongoing filings in respect of the Groups uK facilities programme of re-certifications.
Worldwide, under the uK governments Carbon Reduction 105 sites have health and safety management Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
systems in place, with 15 sites certified to or The Group has also made submissions to working towards OhSAS 18001. comply with the requirements of Article 8 of the European unions Energy Efficiency Directive that will apply to certain of the Groups businesses in Europe.
In the uK, this is being implemented by the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS introduced by the uK Governments Department of Energy and Climate Change.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 27 In absolute terms, total CO e emissions due environmental performance 2 to energy use in 2015 were 372,700 tonnes, CO e DUE TO ENERGY USE As reported above, the Group is committed 2 Tonnes down by 6% from 397,400 tonnes in 2014. to environmental responsibility and works Energy use was some 1,222 GWh, down by to minimise the impact of its business on the 2015 372,700 8% from 1,333 GWh in 2014. environment and to maximise the positive 2014 397,400 environmental benefit of its products.
Taking into account the decrease in the 2013 383,300 Groups sales at constant currency compared Morgan Advanced Materials plc monitors the 2012 393,900 with the baseline year of 2014, CO e intensity impact of its operations on the environment, 2 was down by 5% versus 2014.
Thus the as measured by its Scope 1 CO e and Scope 2 2 2011 436,500 Groups 2015 performance is ahead of the CO emissions, energy, waste and water 2 rate required to achieve its target to reduce intensity per million of revenue.
CO e INTENSITY DUE TO ENERGY USE the CO e emissions intensity due to energy 2 2 Tonnes CO e m revenue 2 use by 5% over the two-year period 2014-16.
The Group sets two-year targets for the Energy intensity in 2015 was down by 7% improvement in these environmental metrics 2015 409 compared to 2014.
All regions achieved and the Groups 2015 performance is an 2014 431 their energy intensity targets for 2015. interim report against the current targets for the two-year period 2014-16.
2013 423 As shown in the five-year performance charts 2012 395 on this page energy and CO e intensity has During the year, the Group undertook a 2 been reduced since 2011 and the Group series of regional environmental programmes 2011 426 continues to have a number of production to address key opportunities and risks.
These improvement projects which include energy included energy awareness and site-specific ENERGY USE efficiency programmes.
These are planned environmental target setting.
These initiatives GWh to help reduce energy intensity in 2016 and are designed to reduce energy use and beyond and to ensure the Group achieves its 2015 1,222 related CO emissions and to enhance 2 improvement targets.
business and environmental performance 2014 1,333 and competitiveness.
2013 1,295 These programmes helped place the Group 2012 1,319 ahead of plan to achieve its environmental 2011 1,439 intensity targets for the period 2014-16 in all areas apart from waste intensity.
These intensity targets and KPIs relate environmental impacts ENERGY INTENSITY to revenue and include the impact of the 1.2% MWh m revenue decrease in revenue at constant currency 2015 1,340 compared to 2014, the baseline year for the Groups intensity targets.
2014 1,445 2013 1,429 2012 1,323 2011 1,403 The 2011-2015 CO e intensity, energy intensity, water intensity and the 2012-2015 waste intensity and waste recycling 2 rate information has been subject to assurance by PwC.
For further details of the assurance provided see the Independent Assurance Report on page 32.
Further details of the 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011 assurance provided are included in the Independent Assurance Reports on page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report, page 31 of the 2013 Annual Report, page 25 of the 2012 Annual Report and page 41 of the 2011 Annual Report.
Scope 1 CO e emissions from fossil fuel usage and Scope 2 CO using country-specific electricity factors 2 2 as O e factors are not consistently available for electricity use in all countries.
2 Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
CO e. Carbon Dioxide Equivalent the amount of Carbon Dioxide or the amount of non-CO Greenhouse Gas 2 2 with the equivalent global warming potential.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 28 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy continued Total waste reported in 2015 was 48,300 2016 priorities for environmental WASTE tonnes, down by 2% from 49,400 tonnes Develop the energy awareness and Tonnes in 2014.
Waste intensity was down by 1% resilience programme for worldwide versus 2014.
Thus the Group is behind the implementation, focused on the Groups 2015 48,300 planned rate of improvement to achieve its energy intensive operations.
2014 49,400 target to reduce waste intensity by 5% over Review environmental target setting with the two-year period 2014-16.
Whilst many 2013 44,600 a view to increasing ownership and sites reduced waste and waste intensity during delivery at both site and regional level.
2012 48,700 the year, the product mix at a small number of Review opportunities to benchmark sites sites shifted towards products that have higher 2011 48,400 with similar production technologies and waste intensity.
In addition, certain sites set site and business improvement plans increased waste output due to one-off waste accordingly.
Focus on specific environmental Tonnes waste m revenue improvement projects at sites with The proportion of total waste which was 2015 52.9 the biggest environmental impact.
Thus the Group is on plan to achieve its target which is to 2013 49.2 increase the proportion of total waste which 2012 48.8 is recycled over the two years 2014-16.
Water WATER USE use intensity was reduced by 5% versus 3 million m 2014.
This improvement is ahead of the target 2015 2.34 to reduce water intensity by 5% over the two years 2014-16.
The improvements were led 2014 2.50 by ongoing significant reductions in the water 2013 2.27 intensity at key sites in the Asia Rest of World Region, where water is a limited resource.
2012 2.52 2011 2.77 WATER INTENSITY 3 m m revenue 2015 2,564 2,710 2014 2013 2,506 2012 2,522 2011 2,705 The 2011-2015 CO e intensity, energy intensity, water intensity and the 2012-2015 waste intensity and waste recycling 2 rate information has been subject to assurance by PwC.
Constant currency basis and updated to reflect changes in reporting methodology.
hazardous and non-hazardous waste, including recycled material.
Water from all sources, including process, irrigation and sanitary use.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 29 MORGAn thinkSAFE WIll MORGAn thinkSAFE OVERVIEW PROVIDE ThE KnOWlEDGE AnD SKIllS TO EnABlE EVERy thinkSAFE IS A BEhAVIOuRAl BASED PROGRAMME EMPlOyEE TO lOOK AT ThEIR BuIlT AROunD MORGAnS SAFETy VAluES AnD FOuR OWn BEhAVIOuR AnD ThAT KEy COMPOnEnTS OF ThEIR COllEAGuES TO EnSuRE WE CARRy OuT morGAn thinkSAFe All OuR TASKS In A SAFE AnD COnTROllED MAnnER.
incident behavioural Safety corners Portal reporting System training MORGAn thinkSAFE is the Groups global thinkSAFE Portal: is a dedicated area safety performance improvement programme.
on the Groups intranet providing health It is a top-down programme that is led by the and safety information, resources and Chief Executive Officer and the Executive learning.
It is constantly updated with fresh team.
It has four key components: information and has a quarterly safety e-brochure in multiple languages.
Every Behavioural training: this includes two employee is able to access the Portal key programmes.
The leading thinkSAFE though the screen in the safety corner programme two-day workshop at their site.
which covers all leaders, managers and supervisors.
The main objectives of this Global Incident Reporting system: where workshop are to enable leaders to play all lost time incidents are reported and a specific visible safety leadership role and shared globally so all employees can learn that is to influence the attitude to safety from them.
and behaviour of their direct reports and the wider work force.
The second Around the world, the regional management programme is the thinkSAFE in action teams implemented a series of initiatives to programme one-day workshop which promote and reinforce the Group-wide is for all the other employees.
These included the objective of this workshop is to help third annual Safety Week across the Asia employees on how they can be a role and Rest of World region and a number of model for safety and positively contribute region-wide programmes and competitions to a safer environment.
to proactively identify and promote near-miss reporting, to identify and manage risks and Safety corners: These are installed at to work towards a zero-harm work place.
every site worldwide and are used to build greater awareness of health and safety, to act as a focal location for safety training, and to promote local initiatives.
They contain the Groups safety values and have a screen that provides access to the thinkSAFE Portal.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 30 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy continued The Groups 2015 health and safety health and safety performance LOST TIME ACCIDENTS performance improved compared to 2014 Morgan Advanced Materials plc is committed Number of LTAs and so the Group achieved its objective of to adopting and implementing its health and improving performance compared with the safety core values with the long-term aim 2015 91 prior year.
Aggregating manufacturing sites and of an injury-free workplace and to conducting 2014 114 sales offices, the Group has over 130 locations all its activities in a manner that achieves high worldwide and overall the majority performed standards of health and safety for all employees 2013 97 well with no lTAs reported during the year.
and others affected by its operations.
The 2012 114 The actions taken in 2015 through roll out Groups long-term objective is zero harm of the thinkSAFE programme, supported and it seeks to achieve year on year 2011 132 by a focus on underperformance identified improvements in performance as it progresses following the adverse safety performance towards this objective.
LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY reported for 2014, helped to deliver this LTAs 100K hours worked improved performance.
The Groups health and safety policy statements are clear and communicated 2015 0.45 In 2015, the Groups lTA frequency was throughout the Group and health and safety 2014 0.55 down 17% at 0.45 per 100,000 hours metrics receive a high degree of focus at all worked 2014: 0.55.
The number of lTAs levels of the business.
The policy statements 2013 0.46 # reported was down 20% to 91 2014: 114. are supported by site-level assessment and 2012 0.52 Several sites had no lTAs and other sites monitoring of risks.
improved on their accident frequency rates 2011 0.58 from 2014.
A small number of sites reported In 2015, the Groups accident prevention and a disproportionate number of lTAs in the year training programmes were ongoing, with the lost Time Accident lTA : accident or work-related and Group and local management are already objective of reducing accident numbers and illness which results in one or more days lost time.
The 2013, 2014 and 2015 lost Time Accident taking action to address these.
the time lost per lost time accident.
Particular Frequency information has been subject to focus is placed on those sites with belowassurance by PwC.
For further details of the average performance, as measured by their assurance provided see the Independent Assurance health and safety KPIs and through the EhS Report on page 32.
Further details of the 2014 assurance provided are included in the Independent Compliance Audit Programme.
Assurance Report on page 30 of the 2014 Annual Report and further details of the 2013 assurance The Groups health and safety KPIs include are on page 31 of the 2013 Annual Report.
accident frequencies, causes and related lost working time.
These are used to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups health and safety policies and related systems on a monthly basis.
In 2015, the independent external assurance performed by PwC covered the Groups lost Time Accident lTA frequency rate.
# The 2014 health and safety report has been revised to include three incidents which subsequently resulted in lost time and or lost time accidents which were reported to the Group after the 2014 year end.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 31 Reported lost time due to accidents and 2016 Priorities for health and Safety work-related illnesses as a percentage of To reinforce the Morgan thinkSAFE HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME working time decreased from 0.13% in 2014 programme with visible safety leadership Days lost due to LTAs to 0.09% in 2015.
As shown in the charts through all levels of the organisation.
2015 2,135 opposite, the number of days lost during 2015 To further progress the introduction of was down by 35%.
The number of hours 2014 3,261 leading indicators as measures and drivers worked decreased by 4%.
This performance of future performance.
2013 2,650 reflects the fact that the lost time incidents that Introduce a new EhS framework with 2012 3,174 occur are on average less serious than previously, focus on high severity incident causes resulting in the decrease in the number of lost 2011 2,771 including working at height, lock out days.
This is in part due to the focus on risk tag out, flammable gas safety, guarding and awareness through the increase in near and driving.
HEALTH AND SAFETY-RELATED LOST TIME miss reporting Group wide.
Accordingly, the Review the audit process for both internal % of total working time reported average number of days lost per lTA and external auditing.
reported in the year decreased by 18% from 2015 0.09% 28.6 to 23.5 days per lTA.
2014 0.13% The inquest into the previously reported 2013 0.10% employee fatality that occurred in 2012 at the 2012 0.12% Groups site in Ruabon, uK, returned a formal verdict of accidental death.
On 13 november 2011 0.10% 2015, Morgan Technical Ceramics ltd was fined 180,000 plus 23,000 of costs in LOST TIME PER LTA relation to this incident.
Days per LTA 2015 23.5 2014 28.6 2013 27.3 2012 27.8 2011 21.0 lost Time Accident lTA : accident or work-related illness which results in one or more days lost time.
Total time lost due to health and safety in the year divided by the number of lost time accidents reported in the year.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 32 Strategic report InDEPEnDEnT ASSuRAnCE REPORT independent limited Assurance report to the directors of morgan Advanced materials plc The Board of Directors of Morgan Advanced Materials plc Morgan engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in Morgans Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2015. our conclusion Our work was carried out by an independent our responsibilities based on the procedures we have performed team with experience in sustainability reporting We are responsible for: and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has and assurance.
planning and performing the engagement to come to our attention that causes us to believe obtain limited assurance about whether the Understanding reporting and measurement that the Selected information for the year ended Selected Information is free from material methodologies 31 december 2015 has not been prepared, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: The Selected Information needs to be read and in all material respects, in accordance with the forming an independent conclusion, based understood together with the Reporting Criteria, reporting Criteria.
on the procedures we have performed and which Morgan is solely responsible for selecting the evidence we have obtained: and This conclusion is to be read in the context of what and applying.
The absence of a significant body of reporting our conclusion to the Directors we say in the remainder of our report.
established practice on which to draw to evaluate of Morgan.
and measure non-financial information allows for Selected information different, but acceptable, measurement techniques This report, including our conclusions, has been The scope of our work was limited to assurance and can affect comparability between entities prepared solely for the Board of Directors of Morgan over the information marked with the symbol and over time.
The Reporting Criteria used for in accordance with the agreement between us, in the Morgan Annual Report for the year ended the reporting of the Selected Information are as to assist the Directors in reporting Morgans EhS 31 December 2015 the Selected Information.
at 31 December 2015. performance and activities.
We permit this report to be disclosed in Annual Report for the year ended The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria work done 31 December 2015, to assist the Directors in against which it was assessed are summarised We are required to plan and perform our work in responding to their governance responsibilities below.
Our assurance does not extend to information order to consider the risk of material misstatement by obtaining an independent assurance report in in respect of earlier periods or to any other of the Selected Information.
In doing so, we: connection with the Selected Information.
To the information included in the Morgan Annual Report made enquiries of Morgans management, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept for the year ended 31 December 2015. including those with responsibility for EhS or assume responsibility to anyone other than management and Group EhS reporting: the Board of Directors and Morgan for our work The Selected Information consists of: evaluated the design of the key structures, or this report except where terms are expressly CO e and CO e intensity scope 1 and 2 2 systems, processes and controls for managing, agreed between us in writing.
scope 2 emissions due to energy use : recording and reporting the Selected  LLP Energy and energy intensity: Information.
This included analysing 10 sites, Chartered Accountants Water and water intensity: and visiting 5 of these, selected on the basis of london their inherent risk and materiality to the group, Waste and waste intensity: 23 February 2016 to understand the key processes and controls Recycling rate: and 1 The maintenance and integrity of Morgans website is the for reporting site performance data to the number of lost time accidents and lost time responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does group EhS team: accident frequency rate.
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, performed limited substantive testing on a we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting selective basis of the Selected Information We assessed the Selected Information using Criteria when presented on Morgans website.
to check that data had been appropriately Morgans Reporting Criteria as set out at: 2 We have complied with International Standard on Assurance measured, recorded, collated and reported: http: www.
com Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance Engagements other 1 and than Audits and Reviews of historical Financial Information and, responsible-business  in respect of the greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance with considered the disclosure and presentation International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410Assurance 2 Professional standards applied and level of the Selected Information.
Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Standards, issued by the 3 of assurance International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
3 A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope We performed a limited assurance engagement morgan responsibilities than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both in accordance with ISAE 3000 Revised and, in The Directors of Morgan are responsible for: the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding respect of greenhouse gas emissions, in accordance designing, implementing and maintaining internal of internal control, and the procedures performed in response with ISAE 3410. to the assessed risks.
controls over information relevant to the 4 We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England preparation of the Selected Information that is and Wales ICAEW Code of Ethics which includes our independence and Quality Control free from material misstatement, whether due independence and other requirements founded on fundamental We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants to fraud or error: principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
We apply in England and Wales ICAEW Code of Ethics establishing objective Reporting Criteria for International Standard on Quality Control uK & Ireland 1 and and the International Standard on Quality Control preparing the Selected Information: accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control 4 uK & Ireland 1. measuring and reporting the Selected including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards Information based on the Reporting Criteria: and and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
the content of the Annual Report 2015.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 33 CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy continued Morgan Advanced Materials plc has c8,800 The bi-annual succession and talent review PEOPlE employees, working across the globe in all process continues to ensure that planning major markets and regions.
The Groups takes place for succession for key roles and employees are critical to its success and the that future strategic and individual needs TOTAL LOST TIME workforce is built upon people with highly are assessed.
Talent development is also % of working time unique skills and abilities.
Set out below are focused to emphasise capability in business 2015 2.7 the Groups people policies, how they have development, sales, technology innovation, been implemented, together with a review and commercial leadership.
2013 3.1 The Group continues to strengthen existing relationships with leading universities working People Policies and their implementation 2012 2.7 in materials science, providing information, The Group supports the universal Declaration 2011 2.9 materials and opportunities for existing of human Rights, and the Groups human Morgan employees as well as undergraduate rights policy commits the Group to protect the and postgraduate students.
This includes EMPLOYEE TURNOVER rights of everyone who works for it and all % per year a joint development agreement with The those who have dealings with it.
The principles university of Manchester, aimed at scaling of the policy cover child labour, forced labour, 2015 13.6% up a new process for manufacturing graphene, health and safety, freedom of association, 2014 13.8% where a Morgan graduate and another discrimination, discipline, working hours and Morgan employee are currently seconded.
compensation and the policy is published 2013 13.8% on the Groups website.
Morgan Advanced 2012 13.4% Materials plc does not unfairly discriminate and recruitment respects human rights.
Our employee policies During 2015, the Group has further developed 2011 13.7% are set locally to comply with local law within recruitment channels and processes to recruit the overall Group framework.
The Morgan the right people in the most effective ways TRAINING Advanced Materials plc Ethics hotline enables possible.
These include developing our online Hours per employee employees who are aware of or suspect issues presence and assessment processes.
We also under the Groups human rights policy to continue to use formal assessments at senior 2015 17.8 report these confidentially.
levels to help inform recruitment decision- 2014 13.9 making.
Whether recruiting internally or externally, selection is based on many factors 2013 15.1 talent including relevant education, work experience, One of the Groups key priorities is to 2012 13.3 competencies, potential, and performance recruit, retain and develop our people record.
The Group does not unfairly 2011 12.9 to build commercial, technical and discriminate and it respects human rights.
The Group has operated its global graduate The Group has continued to develop and programme model for a fourth successive implement its talent strategy during 2015, year.
Graduates initially join our businesses building on previous years achievements.
in Asia, Europe and north America and take high-quality internal and external appointments part in a common development programme have been made during 2015 in business that builds current and future capability, and unit leadership teams.
These have included gives access to international assignments and appointments in sales, technology innovation, opportunities.
The Chief Executive Officer commercial leadership and finance.
and other members of the Group Executive personally take part in the development Morgan believes it is essential to develop programmes.
its people in order to grow its business.
Talent reviews and action planning, resulting The new Chief Executive Officer, Pete Raby, in internal promotions, development was also appointed in 2015. opportunities and targeted recruitment are examples of the initiatives taken this year.
The Group also continued to prioritise the global graduate development programme.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 34 Strategic report CORPORATE RESPOnSIBIlITy continued training and development The principle of pay for performance is applied People policy effectiveness Overall training hours per employee have to the Groups compensation approach and At the end of the year, Morgan Advanced increased by over 35% to 17.8 hours per the Company sets compensation levels Materials plc employed c8,800 people.
Substantial investment has been using external benchmarking and relevant The Group additionally contracted with made during 2015 in Morgans thinkSAFE commercial considerations that are both c850 people on short-term arrangements programme, which is a behavioural safety competitive in the countries in which they to provide the flexibility for the Groups initiative.
It is aimed at making a major shift in operate and affordable.
Morgan Advanced businesses to react quickly to changes in how all employees think and act on safety at Materials plc offers short-term performance market conditions.
The Groups employee work, and also includes modules on effective incentives globally to managers, technical turnover was 13.6% in 2015, excluding leadership.
The Group Executive has been and functional experts.
1.4% of the personally involved, including at the beginning and senior management also have long-term workforce was made redundant during of the rollout of the training, which first took incentives tied to personal and commercial the year 1.7% in 2014. place within the Asia region.
At plant level, most sites offer a significant undertaking in 2015 with over incentives to their workforce that result in The Groups geographical spread of people 1,300 leaders, managers and supervisors being payments based on meeting locally-set is as follows: trained in addition to train-the-trainer sessions performance targets.
Geographical spread and workshops for operations employees in the year.
This programme is covered in further Morgan Advanced Materials plc regularly 2015 2014 detail in the Environment, health and Safety reviews bonus arrangements and benefits uSA 30% 29% section on pages 25 to 32. to ensure they encourage and reward uK 14% 14% commercial and personal performance.
China 15% 15% Group-wide and regionally-based Other Europe 18% 19% development programmes are provided Communication where appropriate.
For example, in Asia, Other north America 7% 7% Morgan again ran its Employee Survey in 2015, two development programmes are provided following the actions planned from the 2014 South America 4% 5% at different levels of management to address results.
In particular the Regional businesses ROW 12% 11% specific needs across that Region.
Europe has aimed to improve communication, ensure identified the need for specific management supervisors more frequently recognise good breakdown of staff by gender skills and has piloted a programme for all work and employees received appropriate at 31 december 2015 European managers of people which is being support to learn new skills.
In north America rolled out across the Region in 2016. and Europe this is done through a local total workforce 8,809 approach to action planning and each site For the Group, the new global Advanced Male 6,378 develops its own plans based on local needs.
leadership Programme has been launched, Asia took a Regional approach, drawing 72% for high-potential and high-performing upon feedback and key requirements to Female 2,431 managers.
This programme complements develop a Regional plan that also works with 28% the Senior leadership Programme, with the local sites.
Senior managers 15 both being run in conjunction with Cranfield universitys Centre for Management Male 13 As a result, across the Group there have been Development.
Both programmes require increased employee briefings and forums 87% participants to undertake cross-functional covering business results, business strategy, Female 2 projects on Group-wide commercial issues.
business improvement, safety and employee 13% The Responsible Business Programme RBP survey follow-up.
Videos, poster campaigns directors 8 is the Group-wide ethics and compliance and newsletters have also continued to be programme, launched in 2010, with the core Male 7 a strong feature of communication activity elements comprising policies, training, risk in 2015.
These included quarterly newsletters 87.5% assessments, monitoring and assurance.
from the Asia Region, which had a particular Female 1 The training content covers human rights, emphasis on safety, and in north America 12.5% anti-bribery and ethics, anti-trust and contract some local sites now lead meetings with safety risk management and is refreshed on an annual focused bulletins.
lost time as a proportion of total working time basis.
This programme is covered in further increased to 2.7% 2.4% in 2014, with lost detail on pages 22 to 24.
Morgan Advanced Materials plc continues time due to accidents in the workplace at to have formal and informal consultative 0.09% of total working time 0.1% in 2014.
Should existing employees become disabled, arrangements globally, according to local the Groups policy is to provide continuing requirements and regulations.
The 19th annual During the year, 19 employees around the employment and training wherever practicable.
European Employee Forum was held in June world celebrated 40 years of loyal service 2015, and was attended by site employee with Morgan Advanced Materials plc, with 416 reward, recognition and awards representatives from France, Germany, employees celebrating anniversaries of 20, The Group recognises the accomplishments of hungary, Italy and the united Kingdom.
The Group is pleased its people individually and as teams, and makes with the number of employees who remain awards to acknowledge achievement, loyalty, with the Group for significant periods of their and innovation.
In 2015, recognition awards careers, and whose experience the Group continued to be made across local businesses has retained.
as well as to senior management, with awards linked to business performance.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERnAnCE FInAnCIAl STATEMEnTS Strategic report 35 MORGAn lEADERShIP PROGRAMMES RECOGnITIOn FOR MORGAn DEVElOPMEnT PROGRAMMES PREPARInG OuR PEOPlE FOR SuCCESS In CuRREnT AnD FuTuRE ROlES One of the areas of focus for the Groups people strategy is on Our graduates, meeting a minimum standard of qualification which building a pipeline of future leaders for the global business.
increasingly includes postgraduate or doctorate qualifications, are employed across the world in real jobs which are designed to build We build skills and capabilities that we have recognised are essential on the technical skills they developed at university and expose them for the continued performance of the Groups leaders, we facilitate to opportunities both to learn and grow and also to deliver real networking opportunities to build the networks people need to find business outcomes.
answers to complex problems and get people working on projects that are genuinely needle-moving for the organisation.
Middle and senior leaders come from commercial, functional and technical backgrounds and from all across the global Morgan business.
We have focused on supporting the development of graduates and people in the early stages of leadership to accelerate their impact Morgan has won the EEF Regional Award for Talent Management and potential to take on new roles, as well as senior leaders whom three years in a row and has been recognised by our own we can challenge and move their thinking to new levels.
graduates in The Job Crowd awards, moving to second in graduate engineering jobs.
I hAVE lEARnT ThAT ThERE ARE MAny TAlEnTED AnD DRIVEn InDIVIDuAlS ACROSS ThE MORGAn GROuP.
nETWORKInG WITh EACh OF ThEM hAS BEEn ThE BEST PART OF ThE PROGRAM.
deVin StAUFFer SITE MAnAGER AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
