Sustainability at Mondi Looking back, moving forward As an international business, major employer, steward of ecosystems, supplier, community member and producer of goods, we believe sustainable development is fundamental to our success.
Our strategic approach enables us to better respond to the key risks and opportunities associated with global challenges such as climate change, degradation of ecosystems, resource scarcity andpopulation growth.
A selection of our highlights and achievements 2012 Odour abatement project at Richards Bay South Africa We are very pleased with the Established the Mondi Zimele Jobs progress weve made and the Fund South Africa lessons weve learnt by working collaboratively as a business Sector leader in the Forest Footprint andwith our stakeholders to Disclosure initiative scaleup our positive impact.
John Lindahl Group technical director 2011 Launched Inspire a programme to strengthen our culture Started the Mezen River Project with Silver Taiga Russia Published the Groups first Read more in our online Sustainable development report 2015 integrated report www.
com sd15 44 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2014 Launched three-year global partnership with WWF Exceeded our 10-year climate commitments, achieving 29% cut inspecificcarbon emissions Focus on Top 5 Fatal Risks to eliminate fatalitiesand life-altering injuries 2013 2015 100% of mills CoC-certified Significantly reduced waste to landfillatwiecie Poland and Tailored our SEAT process to better Merebank South Africa assess our social impact and add valueto communities Launched Social Sustainability Network for a more strategic approach Water Impact Assessments completed to community development forallmills andforest operations Developed Growing responsibly model and SD commitments up to 2020 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 45 Sustainability at Mondi Looking back Achieved Progress against our 2015 commitments Progress made 1 2 In 2011 we defined 35 sustainable development commitments to be achieved by 2015.
Not achieved Material issue Progress against a selection of commitments Overall progress 100% of owned and leased land FSC-certified Securing access to sustainable fibre 66% of wood CoC-certified with the balance meetingour in the short, medium and long term company minimum wood standard thatcomplies with the Wood is one of our most important raw materials and sustainable standard for Controlled Wood FSC-STD-40-005 5 forestry practices are fundamental to our success.
We focus on commitments improving certification systems, procuring wood from responsible sources and increasing sustainable fibre inthe supply chain.
Advanced Level reporter at the UNGC, andactive Maintaining our licence to trade by making member of WBCSD a real and lasting contribution to the 100% of forestry operations and all but three of our smaller communities in which we operate pulpand paper mills have community engagement plans 10 CEPs in place.
Socio-economic assessment toolbox SEAT We believe in transparency, engagement and partnerships to commitments succeed as a business, and seek to make a genuine contribution reviews were conducted at Merebank mill South Africa and Syktyvkar loggingoperations Russia in 2015.
SEAT reviews to our communities.
Were a member of the UNGC and work with WBCSD and WWF among others to promote responsible business were carriedout regularly at our mills and forestry operations in the 2011-2015 period, as appropriate.
conduct and contribute to solutions to global sustainability challenges.
103% electricity self-sufficiency across our pulp Understanding and minimising our and paper mills contribution to climate change 59% of fuel consumed by our pulp and paper Climate change is a pressing global challenge, and we believe our mills from renewable energy sources 2 industry has a role to play in reducing emissions and mitigating its commitments impact.
Were committed to reducing our emissions by improving energy efficiency and self-sufficiency, and replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy sources where feasible.
We also promote the role of sustainable forests in mitigating climate change.
524,000 hectares of HCV areas identified Operating in a world of constrained resources 25% of managed land set aside for conservation and recognising concerns regarding biodiversity, forests, water and ecosystem Launched our global partnership with WWF in 2014 andcontinued support of WWF-Mondi Wetlands Programme 7 services commitments WWF-MWP and WWFs New  NGP platform Safeguarding the health of freshwater ecosystems, maintaining water security and preserving the biodiversity of landscapes Continued to co-chair the HCV Resource Network aresignificant global challenges.
Were working in partnership with stakeholders to preserve the natural resources on which wealldepend.
0.70 TRCR Safeguarding the wellbeing of employees and however one fatality and three life-altering injuries in2015 contractors and securing key talent and skills We need a skilled and diverse workforce and a safe workplace for 5 a successful business, and we invest in our peoples development commitments and training.
We believe all incidents are preventable and that everyone must learn from them.
3 22% reduction of waste to landfill Increasing the eco-efficiency of our products 3 5% reduction of specific contact water consumption We develop sustainable products that use material, water and 3 33% reduction of TRS emissions energy efficiently.
This is achieved through innovation and working 6 together with partners to reduce the environmental footprint of our commitments production processes, such as emissions and waste.
Developing smart packaging and paper products can help address global challenges such as climate change and food waste.
1 Excluding an additional two climate-related commitments for the period 20042014.
Read more about our full progress against commitments at www.
com sd15 46 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Issues in focus Forests and ecosystems Safety and health Operational excellence Our aim is to meet the increasing Mondi has an industry leading safety The fundamental principle behind demand for products from sustainable record, as evidenced by our TRCR operational excellence at Mondi is the forests that maintain HCV areas and of 0.70.
This is a function of a safety desire to do more with less.
Our pioneering culture that promotes listening, this through optimising our processes work with conservation partners on trust and respect: and is backed by and products, and promoting forestry and freshwater stewardship clear policies and compliance with recycling, reuse and the substitution over the past decade has helped international safety management of resources to reduce our waste and transform forest management and standards such as OHSAS 18001. emissions toair and water.
wetland conservation in South Despite a strong long-term performance, In 2011, we committed to reduce the Africa and we are exploring how the we experienced one fatality and three waste we send to landfill by 20% by landscape approach can be applied life-altering injuries in 2015.
By considering our waste streams to other production landscapes and investigation and a comprehensive as potential sources of secondary raw countries around the world.
response has led to changes to controls materials, weve found new ways to recycle Our partnership with WWF on the to prevent reoccurrence and reinforce our and reuse them.
This has subsequently WWF-MWP and WWFs NGP platform commitment to zero harm in the workplace.
reduced the total amount of waste sent to in South Africa, as well as our WWFMeasures taken include a simplified Task landfill by 22% since 2010.
Boreal Forest Platform work in Russia, Risk Management Methodology and we Thanks to effective monitoring, investment demonstrates our landscape approach.
are on track to update all risk assessments in closed-loop systems and improved We also partner with NGOs, universities by 2018. recycling processes, our specific contact and multi-stakeholder organisations Eliminating fatal and life-altering injuries water consumption per tonne of saleable to develop scientific solutions that is a top priority.
In 2014 and 2015, we production has reduced by 5% in our improve forestry and ecosystem committed 17 million to engineer the pulp and paper mills since 2010.
Top 5 Fatal Risks out of our mills, forests investing in the modernisation of our waste Despite current limitations, we believe that and logging operations and manage the water treatment plants at Syktyvkar and certification is the most reliable indicator residual risks through robust controls wiecie.
We are also using water impact for sustainable forestry and assures and procedures.
Over this period, over assessments to identify potential impacts our stakeholders that we meet globally- 95% of the Top 5 Fatal Risk actions have and implement actions that will reduce our accepted standards for responsible, been completed.
All of Our occupational health programmes our 2.4 million hectares of owned and are designed to eliminate risks to health, leased forests are FSC certified.
25% of prevent illness and provide a high-quality our owned and leased land is set aside working environment.
They focus on using for conservation.
We are not party to engagement tools to optimise ergonomics, deforestation or illegal logging.
reduce noise impact and prevent injuries.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 47 Sustainability at Mondi Issues in focus continued 1 Energy and climate change Total specic CO e emissions 2 Tonnes per tonne of saleable production We recognise the significant role In 2015, our pulp and paper mills scope 3 S pecic scope 1 Specic scope 2 Total specic CO2e thatbusiness can play in reducing 1 GHG emissions were 4.4 million climate impact and promoting a tonnes CO e 2014: 4.2 million tonnes, 0.87 0.87 2 0.83 0.82 0.81 low carbon future.
At Mondi, weve while specific scope 1 emissions invested significantly to reduce were 0.71 tonnes per saleable tonne our carbon footprint over the past of production 2014: 0.67 tonnes.
decadeand have launched a new Additionally, our converting operations commitment to 2030. scope 1 emissions were 0.1 million tonnes 2014: 0.1 million tonnes.
2014 marked the end of our 10-year carbon 4 Our pulp and paper mills scope 2 reduction commitment.
In that period we 1 emissions amounted to 0.8 million achieved a 29% reduction in specific 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 tonnes CO e in 2015 2014: 0.9 million GHG emissions.
Our new long-term 2 1 From our pulp and paper mills.
tonnes, while specific scope 2 emissions climate commitment is to reduce specific 2 were 0.12 tonnes per saleable tonne CO e emissions from our pulp and paper 2 of production 2014: 0.15 tonnes.
mills by a further 15% by 2030 against a Additionally, our converting operations 2014 baseline.
scope 2 emissions were 0.2 million tonnes We have improved our energy efficiency 2014: 0.2 million tonnes.
through our manufacturing plants, as well as utilising the role of sustainable forests to We report our GHG emissions according mitigate climate change and store carbon.
to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, published In 2015 we continued to invest in new by the WBCSD and the World Resources technology, including the commissioning of Institute, and have reported our scope 1 a new recovery boiler and biomass boiler at and 2 GHG data in compliance with ISO our wiecie mill.
ERM CVS has provided reasonable assurance on our scope 1 We also continued to generate biomassand 2 GHG data in accordance with ISO based renewable energy in our pulp and 14064:3-2006.
See their full statement at paper mills, and overall we are selfwww.
sufficient in electricity across our pulp andpaper mills.
1 Specific: calculated in tonnes of CO2e per tonne of saleable production.
2 GHGs are often compared on the basis of their estimated potential to cause global warming.
CH4 and N2O emissions are the most relevant for the pulp and paper industry.
Every gram of CH4 is equivalent to 21 grams of CO2 and each N2O gram is equivalent to 310 grams of CO2.
Total GHG emissions can be calculated as the sum of several GHGs expressed as the equivalent amount of CO2, abbreviated as CO2e.
3 Scope 1 emissions: Total GHG emissions from sources owned or controlled by Mondi and its subsidiaries of the Group boundaries.
This includes CO2e from fossil fuels and processes, Group leased owned vehicles, waste and waste water treatment, from make-up chemicals, and from other GHG gases.
4 Scope 2 emissions: Total GHG emissions from sources that are related to generation of purchased energy outside the Group boundaries no other GHG considered but CO2.
48 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Communities Supply chain As a direct and indirect employer, Securing access to sustainable purchaser and manager of resources sources of fibre is one of our most we seek to make a positive significant challenges.
We promote contribution to local livelihoods responsible and legal forestry and the economy.
Our ongoing practices, from the sustainable engagement and investment in management of our own forests to the communities over the last five years procurement of our wood and fibre has helped our business develop throughout the supply chain.
All fibre more open and trusting relationships and non-fibre materials are governed with stakeholders.
by Group procurement requirements for raw materials and services and Our community investments are informed guided by the 10 UNGC principles.
by local priorities and aligned with our business objectives.
Weve invested over We source credibly certified fibre and 68 million in community initiatives since support initiatives to increase its availability.
2010 2015: 7 million, with a special This is why we are working with certification focus on education, employment and systems such as the FSC and PEFC as part enterprise support, health, infrastructure of a multi-stakeholder engagement process and development.
to make these systems more effective.
66% of our wood is from CoC-certified sources, We assess our impact using SEATs and the balance meets our company and CEPs.
Our businesses develop minimum wood standard that complies CEPs with key stakeholders and we with the standard for Controlled Wood make all SEAT reports available on our FSC-STD-40-005 as well as the European website.
In 2015, we launched our Social Union Timber Regulation EUTR and the Sustainability Network, with the aim of USLacey Act requirements.
sharing learning and best-practice to allow local teams to continue to address local We conduct regular assessments of priorities using our global framework and our keysuppliers, working with local strategic approach.
This allows us to evaluate the quality of service and reliability of supply, as well as environmental and social practices.
Our sustainability criteria are clearly stated in the Group Code of Conduct for Suppliers which includes human rights and labour aspects and we report annually on compliance with the principles of the UNGC.
com suppliers code of conduct Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 49 Sustainability at Mondi Issues in focus continued 1 People Gender diversity 2015 Male % Female % Directors 7 78 2 22 With around 25,000 people working We have a zero tolerance policy towards Senior managers 259 91 25 9 across more than 30 countries, our discrimination and provide equal Employees 19,300 78 5,400 22 success depends on inspiring a opportunities for all employees.
In 2015, 1 As at 31 December 2015. global workforce, developing people 22% of our employees were female to achieve their full potential and 2014: 22%, including 9% of female senior instilling a sense of pride to meet managers 2014: 8%.
At board level, two our goals.
of our nine board members are women and one of the three South African-based We launched our Inspire programme in board members is from an historically- 2011 to develop our people and culture.
The percentage It has guided our approach towards of South Africa Divisions management from engaging and motivating our people previously disadvantaged individuals was and contributing to their development.
As of 2015 we have provided training and development programmes to around 7,000 We consider applications for employment people through The Mondi Academy over by disabled persons in a fair and balanced the past five years.
Overall, 827,000 hours way, and seek to cater to individual of training were provided across the Group requirements and needs.
It is Group policy in 2015 2014: 871,000. that training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as Mondi has formal and informal processes to far as possible, be consistent with that of communicate with and engage employees other employees.
In the event of employees across the Group.
In addition to electronic incurring life-altering or life-threatening communications and publications, regular injuries at work, we ensure they receive local briefing sessions by managers focus the necessary medical treatment, facilitate on safety, operational objectives and access and transportation to and from performance, financial performance and the hospital for their families, and support the Groups values and culture.
We also them during their rehabilitation if required.
conduct regular Group-wide employee Every effort is made to ensure that their surveys.
In 2015, 90% 2013: 89% of our employment continues and necessary employees participated in the survey, a very support is provided.
high response rate that is well above the High Performing Companies Norm.
We use The Group has a number of performancethe survey to consult employees so that related pay schemes that reward their views can be taken into account, employees for the pursuit and achievement track progress against our actions from the of business objectives, and the majority last survey and check that we are making of our employees participate in progress on our Inspire journey.
1 A UN policy initiative that aligns businesses with 10 universally The Fundamental Rights Convention of acceptedprinciples in the areas of human rights, labour, environment andanti-corruption.
the International Labour Organization 2 1 Ensuring that wages paid for a standard working week shall and the UNGC guide our approach to at least meet legal or industry minimum standards and shall employment.
Although labour and collective always be sufficient to meet the basic needs of our employees and to provide some discretionary income.
bargaining practices differ from country to country, basic rights and fair employment 2 standards including fair wages apply throughout the business, and are managed locally, guided by Group policies and standards.
50 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Moving forward Our 2020 action areas and commitments Weve engaged with our businesses, partners and external experts to define our next set of sustainable development commitments to 2020.
We developed these action areas following a comprehensive review of the macro trends that influence our global context.
We worked closely with our businesses to understand the risks and opportunities facing them and to gain their commitment.
We engaged with our stakeholders to better understand their expectations and be able to respond to their needs.
We also benefited from working with partners and international organisations to align our thinking with the global sustainable development agenda and to scale up our impact.
This inclusive process has strengthened our approach and will help our business and stakeholders to secure a sustainable future.
In short, it will help us grow responsibly.
10 action areas 16 commitments by 2020 In 2016 we launch Avoid work-related employee and contractor fatalities Employee and our new commitments Prevent life-altering employee and contractor injuries contractor safety to 2020 across 10 action Reduce TRCR by 5% compared to 2015 baseline, areas, guiding our including new acquisitions sustainable development commitments and Engage with our people to create a better workplace A skilled and shaping our approach committed workforce for the next five years.
Promote fair working conditions in the workplace Fairness and diversity in the workplace Maintain 100% FSC certification and promote sustainable Sustainable fibre management of our owned and leased forestry operations Procure a minimum of 70% of our wood from FSC or PEFC CoC-certified sources with the balance meeting our company minimum wood standard that complies with the standard for Controlled Wood FSC-STD-40-005 1 Reduce specific CO e emissions from our pulp and paper mills by 2 Climate change 15% by 2030 against a 2014 baseline 1 Reduce specific contact water consumption by 5% compared Constrained resources to a 2015 baseline and environmental 1 Reduce specific waste to landfill by 7.5% compared impacts to a 2015 baseline 1 Reduce specific NOx emissions from our pulp and paper mills by 7.5% compared to a 2015 baseline 1 Reduce specific effluent load to the environment by 5% measure COD compared to a 2015 baseline Promote ecosystem stewardship in the landscapes where we Biodiversity operate through continued multi-stakeholder collaboration Read more about our commitments and ecosystems and how they align with the UN Sustainable Development Goals Encourage supply chain transparency and promote fair working Supplier conduct and www.
com sd15 conditions together with our key suppliers responsible procurement Enhance social value to our communities through effective Relationships stakeholder engagement and meaningful social investments with communities Encourage sustainable, responsibly produced products Solutions that create value for ourcustomers 1 Measurement based on tonnes per tonne of saleable production.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 51
