Corporate Governance Safety & Environment Committee Report Strong and effective, with the highest levels of leadership commitment independent review of the effectiveness With respect to the management of the Dear shareholder, ofthe Groups corporate governance Companys environmental responsibilities, Safety is our highest priority as a arrangements implemented throughout Iam pleased to report that, for 2015, the Boardand is embedded throughout thecourse of the year, together with Group continued to have zero prosecutions, ourbusinesses asone of our Values: we recommendations for development.
As enforcement notices or violations.
The onlydo what is safe and stop any unsafe Committee Chairman, Iam pleased to Group received external recognition by the behaviour.
The management of the report that the conclusion they reached Carbon Disclosure Project for its significant Groups environmental impact on the was that governance of safety continues improvement in environmental performance communities it serves also forms a key to be strong and effective and has further and sustainability as a UK public company: component of our Community Value.
developed over the last 12 months.
Their for 2015, our disclosure score rose from TheSafety & Environment Committee independent view was that governance of 85to 95, representing a 36 rating point theCommittee, comprised solely safety continues to be driven down through movement in just two years.
The Committee ofNon-Executive Directors, plays to the divisions by the Group Chief also welcomed managements presentation afundamental role in reviewing and Executives strong and effective safety on the Groups Environment Strategy challenging the structure, content and leadership, enhanced by regular checks of Review forming part of the Vision and operation of the safety management divisional progress and performance.
This strategy has the aim arrangements which have been put in Group Safety Director is highly regarded of developing and embedding a consistent placeby the Executive and in monitoring both by Board members and in the set of processes and procedures across environmental performance and targets.
divisions for supporting safety governance theGroups businesses for environmental I am pleased to report that in 2015 we through reviewing progress, undertaking performance to support areduction in continued to make progress in oursafety specific interventions following accidents, operating costs, delivery ofenvironmental performance with a further reduction in the reporting upwards and engaging with commitments and extension of asset life.
Fatalities and Weighted Injuries index FWI divisions.
The Committee was also pleased which provides a meaningful measure of Membership to note the results of external maintenance responsible harm for our businesses.
The membership of the Committee during inspections over 30 locations in our North Further details on this KPI can be found on the year ended 31 December 2015 is set America School Bus business undertaken page 27.
During theyear, in line with our out below.
Three meetings were held during by SGS, the worlds leading inspection, Global Standard onSafety Audit and the year with attendance by members verification, testing and certification Management, we commissioned safety shown on page 58.
Subsequent to the year company.
SGS considered the results to be consultants, Arthur D Little, to conduct its end, Dr Ashley Steel was appointed tothe very good with a noticeable improvement annual audit of corporate governance of Committee from 1 January 2016. over the inspections carried out in 2014. safety in order to provide an expert Members biographies appear on pages 54 and 55 Position Appointment date Chris Muntwyler Committee Chairman 11 May 2011 Sir John Armitt CBE Company Chairman 1 January 2013 Jorge Cosmen Deputy Company Chairman 14 December 2005 Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 1 June 2011 Joaqun Ayuso Independent Non-Executive Director 1 June 2011 Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director 9 November 2004 until 6 May 2015 Jackie Hunt Former Senior Independent Director 13 September 2012 until 6 May 2015 Jane Kingston Independent Non-Executive Director 26 February 2014 Matthew Crummack Independent Non-Executive Director 6 May 2015 Mike McKeon Independent Non-Executive Director 3 July 2015 Other attendees at Committee meetings: Attendee Company Secretary as Secretary totheCommittee Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Safety Director Group Property & Environment Director External advisers: Arthur D Little Full minutes are kept by the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
70 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION The Committees terms of reference specific safety management issues are reviewed annually and are available relating to the Company or any ontheCompanys website, subsidiarycompany.
Reviewing and monitoring the Companys environmental performance and targets.
Role and responsibilities The Companys detailed mandatory report The Committees key responsibilities are on greenhouse gas emissions in all of its summarised below: businesses during 2015 can be found on Responsibility for reviewing and pages 23 to 25. challenging constructively the structure, content and operation of the safety Committee effectiveness management arrangements put in Feedback from the annual performance placeby members of the Executive evaluation of the Board and its Committees, management of the Groups which was conducted internally this year operatingcompanies.
as described earlier in this report on pages Reporting, after every Committee 60 and 61, confirmed that the Safety & meeting, to the Board on its observations Environment Committee continued to on the safety management arrangements be effective in fulfilling its duties with no in place and reviewing and making particular areas ofconcern identified for recommendations to the Board on any development.
Conclusion The safety of our employees and customers Safety & Environment is of critical importance to the Board, as Committee activity isthe responsible management of our The key areas of Committee activity during environmental obligations.
I would like to the year, and through to the date of this thank Dean Finch and his team for the report, included the following: leadership they show in these areas and, inparticular, their personal engagement Reviewed the findings and approved the with safety matters across the Group over recommendations of the comprehensive the course of the past 12 months.
It is external annual Audit of Corporate apparent that, increasingly, divisions are Governance of Safety undertaken by living and breathing the desirable safety Arthur D Little in line with our Global culture and tone as set from the top.
Reviewed the findings and approved therecommendations from the 2015 independent review of the Groups Driving Out Harm programme.
Monitored progress of the divisional action plans arising from the Driving Chris Muntwyler OutHarm review.
Safety & Environment Committee Chair Approved the world class driver training 25 February 2016 programme forming part of the Groups Vision for 2020.
Reviewed the independent findings of an external maintenance audit undertaken at 30 locations in the North America School Bus business by SGS.
Monitored safety practices and procedures across the Group.
Reviewed activity in health and wellbeing in the Divisions.
Reviewed environmental policy, strategy, management and key environmental performance indicators across the Groupwith particular emphasis on theenvironmental Vision and ambition for2020.
