Strategic Report We believe that a crucial and important strict adherence to Anti-Bribery, Corporate social criterion of how an organisation operates Anti-Corruption, Gifts and responsibility and how its success and development Entertainment Policy by having a zero is measured is the way in which it fulfils tolerance to such behaviour regardless its responsibilities both within and outside of the identity or position of the its businesses, its Corporate Social originator or recipient of a bribe: Responsibility CSR.
The level of an welcoming patients from all segments organisations CSR can be gauged by of society, nationalities and income studying a companys impact in five levels: and areas, namely environment, community, having environmental policies and profession, marketplace and workplace.
practices that protect our society and environment.
THE CSR PRINCIPLES Since our Group was founded, NMC has We are also committed to active social been committed to practising a strong responsibilities that go beyond legal professional and social responsibility to its obligations and general ethical standards.
The NMC Healthcare vision We actively pursue the interests and statement reflects our fundamental values of individuals and the local and desire to be the trusted healthcare global community and environment.
provider in UAE and abroad.
Our original These moral obligations include: strong sense of community has developed a strong social responsibility actively promoting preventive health and has helped us to become the largest programmes designed to improve the and leading private healthcare provider in health and quality of life of residents: the UAE.
funding and making publicly available the annual Health Index for the UAE: This tenet is also reflected in the UAE by and His Highness Sheikh Khalifa Bin Zayed, introducing best practice President of the United Arab Emirates, environmental management.
in the desire to mobilise and direct efforts to promote the social responsibility These all contribute to the common concept, so it can become an officially good of people, the community and the sanctioned approach, culture and environment.
OUR DIVISIONAL FOCUS ON CSR NMCS GENERAL APPROACH TO CSR At NMC we deliver quality healthcare NMC takes very seriously its social based on evidence-based international responsibility and supports the report of best practices and we provide a targeted the International Bioethics Committee preventive healthcare programme of UNESCO on Social Responsibility and designed to prevent medical conditions Health.
This report interprets social and chronic diseases.
The health of our responsibility and healthcare delivery patients and residents of the UAE is our as both passive and active in how to core business, and underpins our CSR manage internal operations and the programme.
impact of activities on the community and environment.
NMC Trading, our distribution arm, also resonates this focus on CSR as it At NMC we engage in passive social continues on its journey to establish responsibilities by complying with all businesses that enhance stakeholders regulatory requirements and general prosperity while continuing to fulfil social ethical standards, such as: obligations of the nation.
NMC Tradings efforts towards being a responsible respecting human rights: corporate citizen were recognised by the non-discriminatory work practices: Dubai Chamber at their CSR Ceremony protecting privacy rights that improve in 2015. society: 28 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RESPONSIBILITY TO THE GLOBAL We address these challenges positively Vehicle fuel usage is based upon AND LOCAL ENVIRONMENT with a number of new and continuing purchase invoices.
Where NMC is not THINK GLOBAL, ACT LOCAL initiatives to reduce our emissions and directly billed for the consumption of We have made good progress in the care for our environment.
power and therefore does not have full consideration of our local and the visibility of the data, an estimation using global environment, and our particular INITIATIVES IN 2015 average consumption from other similar emissions challenges, in 2015.
We have started and continued sites has been applied.
a number of emission and waste OUR ENVIRONMENT AND ITS reducing initiatives in 2015: NEW FACILITIES CHALLENGES Given the abnormally high power fuels The extremely hot and humid weather Pilot Environmental Management consumption per patient in our new leads to the UAE being one of the highest Committee: facilities as described below, and the per capita greenhouse gas emitters Installation of GPS trackers in our number of newly acquired entities that globally.
The use of gases and refrigerants distribution fleet: and have joined the Group in 2015, we have is extensive, not only in the UAE as More regular reporting and review made the following decisions in our policy a whole, but also to ensure the most of our emissions.
for emissions reporting to ensure that we appropriate environment within which to monitor like for like emissions performance: treat and care for our patients, maintain GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS our food and pharmaceutical stocks OUR GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Since Q3, 2014, three developed safely and to care for the welfare of Our greenhouse gas reporting covers the facilities became operational: our employees.
12 month period of 1 October 2014 to NMC General Hospital, DIP: 30 September 2015.
This reporting period Al Wadi Medical Centre: and Our strategic expansion program is also enables us to collate and review the data Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital.
providing challenges for us in relation in timely manner ahead of the annual to our reported emissions.
Due to our report and accounts.
We have included in our reported data new healthcare businesses becoming above our emissions both including operational for the first time, the low We have applied an operational and excluding these entities.
The occupancy rates in these new facilities control approach in presenting our GHG primary reason for this is due to the during their ramp-up phases, results emissions, and have reported on all average patient occupancy rates being in abnormally high average power fuels material emission sources within scope 1 much lower during the ramp-up phase consumption per patient.
This produces combustion of fuel from operation of of these entities which results in some emissions spikes as highlighted in facilities and usage of vehicles and scope significantly higher average emissions our reported numbers and discussed below.
Gas per patient intensity ratio than would and electricity usage information has be expected when sites are more been obtained from purchase invoices.
Comparable data for 2015 excludes the newly opened facilities detailed in note 10 below as well as any entities acquired during 2015.
Reported data includes the new opened facilities as detailed in note 10 below but excludes any entities acquired during 2015.
Scope 1 direct emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes.
At our facilities this takes the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet and diesel for generators.
Scope 2 indirect emissions from the generation of purchased electricity and cooling.
The GHG emissions reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, and additional guidance issued by the UK Government Department for Energy, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
The emissions have been calculated using carbon conversion factors published by DECC DEFRA in May 2015.
The total Scope 2 emissions have been reported in accordance with the location based method which uses grid average emissions factors of the UAE where all entities under the reporting scope are located.
There are no energy certificates or supplier-specific information available, therefore, the market based method is not applicable here.
Conversion factors applicable to the UAE for Scope 2 have been obtained from the publication IEA CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012 edition.
A conversion factor for Sevoflurane was not available from DEFRA so an epa.
gov greenhouse gas reporting figure was used.
We have restated the 2014 emissions data to take account of the change in reporting period from 31 December to 30 September and also changing from estimated consumption to actual data.
In summary Healthcare scope 1 emissions for 2014 increased by 228 tonnes CO e, Distribution scope 1 emissions 2 decreased by 166 tonnes CO e and Distribution scope 2 emissions increased by 897 tonnes CO e. 2 2 10.
During Q3-2014 and the 2015 period, a number of entities became operational.
These entities include: NMC General Hospital, DIP, Al Wadi Medical Centre and Brightpoint Royal Womens Hospital.
The exclusion of these entities from our total emissions provides a comparable position to the prior year data as the average patient occupancy rates during the start-up phase is low.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 29 Strategic Report CONTINUINGLY IMPROVING OUR As a result our overall greenhouse gas Corporate social ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE emissions intensity has decreased well responsibility As most of our operations are in the UAE, during the year in both our Distribution we are actively progressing initiatives business and, on a like for like basis, continued to reduce our emissions to align with in our Healthcare businesses.
We take the UAE Vision 2021 a green economy our role as a corporate citizen seriously for sustainable development.
The primary and therefore we continually review our sources of our GHG emissions relate operations and the impacts they have to the use of fuels in vehicles in our in the communities we operate.
distribution business and electricity consumption in our hospitals and some WASTE MANAGEMENT, REUSE of our initiatives focus on these areas AND RECYCLING and are set out below: Environmental Management and Environmental Procurement Policies We believe that this is an appropriate Environmental Management and Action Plans have been prepared and transparent way to report our data Committee: In 2015 we established to manage hospital wastes and so as to show a more accurate like for a pilot Environment Management consumption of resources according like comparison to the prior year.
Committee within our more to Best Practices.
Patients are also established Abu Dhabi Specialty being educated in safe ways of disposing Any new facilities and businesses Hospital with specific responsibilities of medications.
The Environmental acquired during the year under review for developing emission reduction Procurement Policy gives preference are not included in reporting for that initiatives and having oversight of to products that: year.
Therefore we have not included their implementation.
We will be reduce Greenhouse Gas Emissions: any of the acquisitions which the considering the development of are more energy efficient: Group has made in 2015.
All of these similar committees in other facilities reduce the use of chemicals that facilities have commenced data during 2016. are hazardous to the environment: collection and monitoring with effect Tracking and monitoring: Fuel use reduce air and water pollution: from 1 October 2015. in our vehicles, especially in NMC reduce waste: Distribution, is a major source of are re-usable: EMISSIONS REPORTING WORKSHOPS carbon emissions scope 1.
We have have multiple functions: and We have held the following workshops installed GPS trackers in our extensive are recyclable or biodegradable.
for our businesses during the year: vehicle fleet during 2014 and 2015 so that we can route them efficiently as NMC is also keen to stimulate new local For those businesses operational at possible without having an adverse green waste management and recycling the start of the reporting year, we held impact on customer delivery schedules.
industries that are emerging in the UAE.
workshops to discuss: Awareness and training: All our drivers the data reporting process and are being provided with training sessions NMC has also provided an online to share good practice between on managing fuel consumption and platform on our intranet portal known the businesses: identifying inefficiencies.
Furthermore as classifieds for staff to sell personal requested changes to the detailed we are replacing our older vehicles belongings.
This initiative facilitates the data reporting procedure manual with newer models that are more re-use of personal possessions, such as put in place in early 2015: and environmentally efficient.
household goods, furniture and equipment.
Initiatives that the different Greenhouse gas emissions reporting: businesses have in place to reduce We continue to collate and evaluate NMC Trading has also been contributing emissions.
our energy consumptions and towards waste management by ensuring greenhouse gas emissions across that the waste disposal activities are For new businesses opened or all our businesses.
The information carried out in coordination with Registered acquired during the year, the focus is collated and reviewed on a regular Waste Transporters.
Besides this, of the workshop was: basis as are the various emission employees are constantly educated Orientation to the greenhouse gas reduction initiatives that are being as to their impending responsibility to emissions reporting program: developed and implemented.
the environment by recycling of waste, A review and launch of the new New Facilities: As noted above, when on-going awareness campaigns, procedure manual in the respective our new healthcare businesses participation in Clean-up drives and businesses: and become operational for the first time, quarterly environmental newsletters.
To share the experiences of our the average power fuels consumption other businesses at the per patient can be high due to the low commencement of our emissions occupancy rates in these new sites.
We are now looking at ways to make improvements to these operations so that consumption at low occupancy facilities can be reduced.
30 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL NMC HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIP Health Index Key Findings MANAGEMENT PROVITA WITH THE UAE GOVERNMENT The physical health index has ProVita has a dedicated Environmental NMC has a close partnership with the remained broadly consistent, and and Social Management E&S resource UAE government.
In 2015, NMC worked many of the aspects we use to provided by E&S Consults, a third party closely with humanitarian organisations measure physical health such as Body consultant who supervises the within the UAE Government to provide Mass Index, levels of physical activity, integration of E&S aspects and ensures medical aid to countries like Libya, Yemen diet consumption of fruit, vegetables that E&S issues are identified, monitored and Malawi.
NMC also provided surgeries and soft drinks and levels of sick and addressed.
ProVitas approach to E&S for under privileged individuals in the UAE.
leave have also remained consistent is based on promoting sound with 2014. environmental and social practices while PROMOTING SOCIAL INCLUSION PROVITA Three in ten 31% residents in the UAE contributing to positive development ProVita cooperated with local charity have been diagnosed with one or impacts through adopting and complying organizations like Zayed Humanitarian more non-communicable diseases with globally recognized standards and Organization and Red Crescent to which is broadly consistent with guidelines such as those of International encourage the integration and 2014 26%.
acceptance of people with special needs As in 2014, the most common diseases at the community and national level.
are high blood pressure 10%, obesity CLEAN-UP UAE CAMPAIGN NMC TRADING 8%, raised cholesterol 7% and Type 1 AND AL AIN SPECIALTY HOSPITAL SOCIAL ACTION CAMPAIGNS Diabetes 6%.
NMC Trading and Al Ain Specialty Hospital, CLINICA EUGIN As in 2014, one third 33% of UAE in association with the Emirates Clinica Eugin partners with the Fundacin residents have visited their doctor in Environmental Group, conducted the Esclerosis Mltiple FEM, a Spanish the last three months.
Three quarters Clean-Up UAE Campaign.
In Al Ain over foundation that aims to improve the quality 74% have seen their doctor at some 500 people from schools and corporations of life of patients with multiple Sclerosis.
point in the past year up from 69% participated in the event, which was Eugin has participated in fund raising in 2014. conducted in the Al Ain desert activities for the foundation by organising Half of women in the UAE 51% have and participating in campaigns like Apple undergone a blood pressure test in the RESPONSIBILITY TO THE GLOBAL for Life and Swim & Run for Sclerosis.
last six months: smaller proportions of AND LOCAL COMMUNITY women have had general physical NMC Health has always been at the FOR THE JUNIORS CLINICA EUGIN exams, pelvic exams and breast forefront of building a healthier society Eugin received three high school students exams in the same period.
Four in ten and a safer future for generations to for the program Partners for one day.
women 41% have never had a breast come.
This section focusses on some key The goal was to show these students our examination and over one third 36% examples of how the Group is continuing working day in order to help them in have never had a pelvic examination.
NMC HUMANITARIAN AID TO NEPAL Eugins employees participated in a toy In April 2015, Nepal suffered one of the collection campaign for Sant Joan fide most severe earthquakes in recent times Deus Hospital Foundation.
Maria is one that had a devastating effect on the of the children that received the toys capital Kathmandu.
donated US$ 500,000 worth of medical supplies that were airlifted into NMC ANNUAL HEALTH INDEX Kathmandu in May 2015.
The aid included FOR THE UAE antibiotics, painkillers, general antiseptics, The NMC annual Health Index for the UAE first aid kits, surgical equipment and is one of the most important and unique rehabilitation material such as crutches initiatives of our CSR programme that and braces.
NMC employees additionally strengthens our efforts to create a donated foodstuff and clothing to a relief healthier society.
The Health Index profiles program organised by the Emirates Red the health of UAE residents and provides Crescent for Nepal.
Clinica Eugin also trending data for the development of participated in a fund raising campaign hospital and public policy.
The Health for the victims of the earthquake in Nepal.
Index assesses the physical, social and emotional wellbeing of UAE residents and provides an overall index of the health of a nation.
The findings of the Health Index allow NMC to provide the most appropriate public health education and screening programmes that best benefit the health and lifestyles of UAE residents.
The Health Index also provides information that facilitates the formulation of a strategy that addresses the perceived and actual health issues in the UAE.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Strategic Report GOING ABOVE AND BEYOND MEDICAL Corporate social CARE PROVITA AND AMERICARE responsibility NMC does not restrict itself to providing medical care to its patients but always continued tries to ensure that the patients can lead fulfilling lives ahead.
Over the years we have enabled our patients to lead extraordinary lives after recovering from life threatening situations.
ProVita fits very well with our legacy of enabling cardiac patients to run marathons, and stroke survivors to climb mountains.
Long-term residents need Diagnosis with non-communicable more than medicine they need physical, diseases psychological and social care.
This is why ProVita provides a holistic approach a multifaceted care programme that % of respondents who say they have been diagnosed with 74% incorporates social services, physicians, 69% nurses, therapists, family and social interaction.
Every resident is approached as a unique individual to understand the deeply personal and social needs of each resident because the social and psychological aspects of care are an 13% 10% important part of everyday well-being.
8% 7% 7% 7% 6% 4% 4% 3% 3% 3% 2% 2% Some patients greatly benefit from being 1% 1% 1% 1% outdoors or in the community, whilst High Obesity Raised Diabetes Diabetes Heart High Cancer Glaucoma None others often prefer the comfort of a close blood cholesterol Type 1 Type 2 Disease blood of the family environment or the stimulation pressure glucose above of music or peaceful prayer.
ProVitas 2014 2015 approach has helped patients who were bound to ICUs to pursue their education and interests and develop into artists and Lifestyle Choices identified through These expectations have been contributing citizens.
the Index incorporated into the design and 24% smoke tobacco.
development of BRWH and into the way Americare follows a similar approach to 35% of residents get the recommended the hospital delivers its healthcare healthcare by providing holistic services 7-8 hours sleep each night.
HalaBaby is the that encompass health promotion 33% of residents exercise less than result of a comprehensive consultation and teaching, curative intervention, once a week.
and research programme and is designed rehabilitation support and maintenance, 3% eat the recommended five or more to exceed the expectations of motherssocial adaptation and integration and portions of fruit and vegetables per day.
to-be and healthcare Best Practices and support for the patient and family and 82% of residents consume carbonated to improve the chances of a healthier appointed caregivers.
or sugary drinks on a weekly basis.
Two in five 43% say they drink 1-2 PREVENTIVE HEALTHCARE AND such drinks a week, while 8% consume Other NMC Hospitals throughout the AWARENESS PROGRAMMES AND THE seven or more drinks per week.
UAE also offer the MamaCare Prenatal USE OF SOCIAL MEDIA programme free of charge to mothersCommunity outreach and preventive HALABABY AND MAMACARE PRENATAL to-be.
This programme started at NMC health programmes are one of the ways EDUCATION PROGRAMMES Specialty Hospital, Abu Dhabi and NMC contributes towards enhancing the HalaBaby is Brightpoint Royal Womens proved so popular that it has now been health of our society and nation.
Quality Hospitals BRWH award winning prenatal expanded to Al Ain and Dubai Specialty healthcare is always a priority, and we education programme.
The programme actively seeks undertook over 200 community initiatives means welcome.
The Halababy participant input and has been improved during 2015 including, blood donation programme is offered free of charge to to reflect patient suggestions, such as camps, health awareness programmes, mothers-to-be from their first prenatal being more interactive and hands-on.
free health screenings and hygiene visit through to the delivery of their baby.
The Brightpoint HalaBaby Maternal BRWH became an innovative reality for Education Programme was awarded the In the UAE, 37% of deaths are caused by the women of Abu Dhabi as the first Best Customer Education programme cardiovascular diseases which are due private womens hospital when it opened in the UAE.
to poor diet, exercise and smoking.
These in July, 2014 and had its first delivery in medical conditions are preventable by May 2015.
Since its inception BRWH has modifying lifestyle choices.
The 2015 NMC put women and children at the centre Health Index shows that 68% of residents of the planning process in a consultation believe they have only some, little or no programme designed to identify the control over their lifestyle.
32 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements NMC uses social media platforms to GLOBAL HEALTH AWARENESS EVENTS World Heart Day September 2015 promote accurate healthcare information Prevention is always better than cure.
NMC observed various community and patient empowerment.
NMC actively supports global public health outreach screening programmes for awareness campaigns such as: cervical, preventive cardiac diseases throughout Our Facebook page provides interactive breast and prostate cancers, vaccinations, the month of September.
A cardiology information relating to health and breast feeding, dental care, obesity, kidney Continuing Medical Education program wellbeing such as the Diabetes Risk stones etc.
NMC conducts these health for doctors was also organised.
A special Assessment, Stress Assessment and awareness campaigns throughout the programme on Thalassemia in association NMC Health Index Survey.
With a pan-UAE presence, NMC with the Dubai Health Authority was Our YouTube videos promote awareness covers a wide demographic profile in conducted in Latifa Hospital to create about health and wellbeing and the raising awareness in health campaigns.
awareness on cardiovascular ailments information is presented in a format Throughout the year, NMC and Dr Sunny on Thalassemia patients.
Dr Sunny that is easily consumed and beneficial Healthcare have conducted radio talks Healthcare played their part during the to the users.
and TV shows by our Doctors on various World Heart Day campaign by providing Our Twitter account provides an local channels on medical subjects to special packages to the residents.
interactive real time social media create and spread awareness.
channel to connect users directly with Breast Cancer Month October 2015 healthcare professionals and the Cervical Cancer January 2015 During October NMC conducted more customer experience team.
Cervical cancer awareness month was than 40 camps to create awareness on Our LinkedIn account provides a social observed in the month of January.
These camps were networking platform to distribute this time NMC undertook various activities planned at various corporates, female information about NMC as an to raise awareness regarding the second groups, associations and colleges.
Users can connect with the most common cancer in females.
Doctors delivered talks in corporates NMC brand and browse the available Furthermore, NMC conducted educational to raise awareness and provided them job opportunities.
lectures and seminars in various with the techniques to do self-breast corporate organisations.
COMMUNITY SCREENING AND OUTREACH PROGRAMMES World Brain Injury Awareness Month World Diabetes Month November 2015 Each year NMC actively undertakes March 2015 UAE has one of the highest number of screening programmes.
In 2015 we ProVita provided educational sessions diabetics per capita in the world.
As part of reached over 25,000 UAE residents.
The to help improve knowledge of residents, the World Diabetes Campaign 2015, NMC basic cardiovascular CV screening families and staff to raise awareness Hospitals conducted a diabetes screening programme includes screening of Blood about the causes, symptoms, prevention programme and identified 1076 patients Glucose Levels, Blood Pressure and Body strategies, and available treatment for diabetic retinopathy screening where Mass Index for overweight obesity and options related to brain injury.
These simple tests can images were examined by the NMC diagnose or predict the risk of developing World Immunization Week April 2015 optometrists and vitreo-retinal surgeons the three major chronic diseases of ProVita educated residents, their families following which appointments were hypertension, diabetes and obesity which and the wider community on the benefits provided for further evaluation and are the precursors to cardiovascular of vaccination through a campaign during treatment.
The campaign was promoted disorders.
Preventing or slowing down the World Immunization Week.
to the public through radio, SMS, internal the progress of these diseases saves TV signage, social media and rolls ups in lives and improves Quality of Life.
World Hepatitis Day July 2015 the hospitals.
Sunny Healthcare conducted several NMCs preventive healthcare programme outreach programs during the month To further celebrate World Diabetes in the UAE extends to providing free and provided special packages for Month, NMC gave away 600 Abbott health checks and screenings with investigations to raise awareness Glucometer Starter Kits on Facebook.
regulatory bodies, insurance companies about hepatitis.
and corporates, such as polio, diabetes, UAE National Breast Feeding Week cancer, immunizations and blood World Breastfeeding Week Celebration NMC Trading collaboration donations.
1 7 August 2015 with Government Hospital Every year breast feeding week is On the occasion of National In line with the parent company, our celebrated to raise awareness on benefits Breastfeeding Week NMC Trading acquisitions have also taken an active of breastfeeding and promote healthy collaborated with Corniche Hospital, part in conducting community outreach habits.
This year Brightpoint Royal Abu Dhabi Government hospital and programs.
Dr Sunny Healthcare Womens Hospital took up various hosted a Breastfeeding Support Walk conducted seven free medical camps activities to raise awareness and promote on the Corniche on 11 November.
The during the year, reaching out to more breastfeeding, such as, awareness theme of this years celebration was than 15,000 residents.
postings on Facebook, patient education Breastfeeding, winning goal for life brochure About Breastfeeding and radio focused on raising awareness about interviews with health professionals the benefits of breastfeeding.
answering breastfeeding questions on air.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Strategic Report Another major achievement from our HEALTHCARE RESEARCH, ACADEMIC Corporate social CME programme is how they help create ARTICLES AND GUEST SPEAKERS AT responsibility NMC as a desirable workplace for INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES healthcare professionals.
NMC enjoys an The quality of healthcare that NMC continued excellent reputation among the primary deploys today is built upon decades of care physicians in the UAE as their efforts by healthcare professionals.
This is encourages staff to continually review evidenced by the high number of doctor and research their respective fields.
UAE Health Index is an example of a major research project which is published Dr Sunny Healthcare has also played an and made publicly available free of active role in contributing towards the charge by NMC on a yearly basis.
Health medical profession and conducted research has a lot of value to society.
It seminars on Glaucoma awareness and provides crucial information about Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation Rheumatoid Arthritis.
The CMEs disease trends and risk factors, outcomes CPR Sessions conducted by the group saw the of treatment or health interventions, During 2015, Brightpoint Royal Womens participation of nearly 2,500 professionals.
functional abilities and patterns of care.
Hospital conducted seven CPR sessions They have also conducted several internal NMC believes research and development for the general public providing training sessions to keep their doctors is an integral part of pushing the entire information and hands-on-experience updated with the latest happenings in healthcare industry forward.
As such, NMC on how to save babys life during critical the fields of Orthopaedics, Neurology and has a legally constituted and registered conditions such as choking.
The response Cardiology to name a few.
Research Ethics, authorised to undertake to the sessions was overwhelming with human subjects research in accordance more than 150 families attending the NMC ANNUALLY HOSTS INTERNATIONAL with International Conference on informative sessions.
CONFERENCES FOR UAE HEALTHCARE Humanitarian Good Practice ICHGP PROFESSIONALS guidelines.
The NMC Ethics Committee RESPONSIBILITY TO THE Each year NMC organises and hosts an comprises of a multi-disciplinary team HEALTHCARE PROFESSION International Conference for NMC staff including a mandatory physician and is NMC Healthcare has a responsibility to and UAE Healthcare professionals to HAAD licenced.
Members of the Ethics contributing to the future of the medical attend.
In April 2015 the subject was on Committee have undergone research profession.
We are committed to Emergency Care.
ethics training and received certification investing in the professional development from the University of Miami.
of both NMC and non NMC healthcare INTERNATIONAL NURSES DAY professionals throughout the UAE.
We 12 MAY 2015 In 2015, NMC medical staff undertook a promote a learning culture, we procure International Nurses Day is celebrated broad range of research and are prolific state-of-the-art medical equipment and around the world on 12 May of each year, writers of scholarly articles in international we help foster research, innovation as the anniversary of Florence Nightingales journals such as the International Journal well as providing for NMCs planned birth, to mark the contributions nurses of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck expansion and succession.
NMC is proud to celebrate Surgery, Indian journal of Otology.
NMC the role nurses play in delivering the health professionals also present papers CONTINUING MEDICAL EDUCATION CME highest level of quality care to their at International Conferences, such as the PROGRAMME FOR NON NMC DOCTORS patients.
The theme during Nurses Week Scandinavian Society for Head and Neck Our CME programme ensures we meet 2015 was the importance of ethics in Oncology in Iceland, the European Society our Vision and Mission statement.
In 2015, nursing care and acknowledging the of Cataract and Refractory Surgeons NMC conducted over 60 CMEs free of strong commitment, compassion and Conference in Barcelona, the World charge across the UAE to facilitate care nurses display in their practice and Congress and Expo on oncology and attendance for health professionals from care.
It is also an opportunity to recognise Radiology and the Middle East different parts of the country.
and reward individual nurses for Otolaryngology.
outstanding performance in the delivery Our 2015 CMEs were attended by over of care and for articles that have been Our EyeCare Centre of Excellence nurtures 5,300 NMC and non NMC health published in professional literature.
researchers who in 2015 published professionals.
Approximately 90% of the numerous articles in journals such as, doctors attending were non-NMC doctors British Medical Journal, International providing a different perspective on the Journal of Refractive Surgery, Journal of CME programme which therefore also Optometry, Acta Ophthalmologica, assists us to innovate and improve our Cataract and Refractory Surgery Today customer service experience.
CME Europe CRST Europe, International programmes provide us with a distinct Ophthalmology, Clinical and Experimental advantage over other healthcare facilities Optometry, Current Eye Research, Journal since our employees and patients of Ophthalmic and Vision Research, Middle understand the tangible benefits of East African Journal of Ophthalmology professional collaboration.
34 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements EUGIN FOUNDATION RESPONSIBILITY TO NMC EMPLOYEES The Eugin Foundation was established AND THEIR FAMILIES in September 2007.
Its aim is to create One of our key strengths has been a very a framework for teaching and research loyal employee base, which has been carried out by the centre.
In order to do so, associated with NMC for decades.
Our the foundations main objective is the annual employee turnover percentage study of fertility and human reproduction, is minimal.
A well-defined performance with regard to its personal and social management system, transparent aspects as well as the procedures that compensation model and effective take place in the clinic and the promotion career paths helps NMC retain this loyal of health.
All of the aforementioned is employee base.
It is with great pride that achieved through analysis, research and many of our original staff and vendors are popularization of knowledge obtained.
still with us today and that our healthcare professionals are now treating the The potential beneficiaries of the grandchildren of original patients.
foundations activities are all those individuals who might be interested VIPASSANA MEDITATION in the study of fertilization and human AT NMC SPECIALTY HOSPITAL reproduction.
Vipassana meditation event was held on 9 December 2015 at NMC Specialty One of the most important actions the Hospital.
Organisers of Vipassana foundation has carried out has been to Meditation from the UAE were invited organize a basic course on assisted to introduce the unique techniques reproduction aimed at people working for stress management and to help within the health care sector who want productivity of staff.
to enhance their medical knowledge on human reproduction, as well as SPONSORSHIP TO PURSUE with regards to the various assisted SPORTS INTERESTS reproduction techniques available.
Eugin sponsors Daniel Llambritch, who has been working at Eugin since 2007, to Eugin conducts research with the pursue his sports career in Paralympic universities of Barcelona, Milan, Cardiff, swimming.
Daniel has participated in Leeds and Ghent in order to gain better four Olympic Games as a Paralympic knowledge of fertility and help more swimmer Barcelona92 bronze medal, women achieve their dream of Atlanta96 finalist, Athens2004 silver motherhood.
However, the work is not medal and Beijing2008 finalist.
Now, restricted to pregnancy itself and studies Daniel continues his sports career in a that concern our patients emotional very hard discipline: Paralympic triathlon.
state are also carried out to understand the best possible ways to support them NMC Trading sponsors Manjula Guruge, throughout treatment.
a member of the UAE National Cricket Team who in 2015 played in the World Furthermore, our research also focuses Cup.
NMC also sponsors a NMC cricket on the health of children born through team that plays in the UAE League.
Not only is their birth very important but so DIVERSITY, DISCRIMINATION AND GENDER is growing up.
Our commitment to diversity and anti-discrimination policies are reflected The collaborations with these universities in the profile of our employees.
and other professional schools also create a channel to hire future laboratory NMC has an anti-discrimination policy technicians or systems administrators.
in place to ensure that there is no In 2015, Eugin welcomed nine trainees discrimination or harassment of any spread across several departments as person employed or seeking employment a result of these collaborations.
on the basis of their race, colour, religion, gender, age or nationality.
These policies are also implemented in the businesses acquired in 2015.
In accordance with Spanish Law, Eugin also works to stimulate the social and labour integration of disabled people.
Eugin currently employs five people with more than 33% disability.
Eugin also supports Centros especiales fide empleo, special work centres that employ disabled people by purchasing their products and services.
Eugins purchases from these centres exceeded US$ 57,000 during the year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Strategic Report RESPONSIBILITY TO THE GROWTH The award is conferred by His Highness Corporate social AND LONG TERM FUTURE OF NMC Sheikh Hamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, responsibility HEALTHCARE Chairman of Abu Dhabi Crown Princes QUALITY MANAGEMENT Court and a member of Executive Council continued EFQM EXCELLENCE MODEL of Abu Dhabi.
The NMC Healthcare Vision Statement reinforces our commitment to achieving THE WAY FORWARD excellence in the delivery of healthcare Going forward, our adoption of the EFQM to society.
Excellence model is helping us exceed normal performance and achieve To be the trusted healthcare provider in outstanding results that can be the UAE and abroad driven by excellence sustained.
We are always seeking through innovation, quality, team work, opportunities to improve and to be advanced technologies, patient safety innovative.
EFQM allows us to identify As at 31 December 2015, our Group has and customised care.
our strengths and opportunities for grown its employee base across all its improvement, compare and benchmark business operations to over 9,000 In line with our vision statement NMC internally and externally so we continually employees.
We employed individuals Healthcare is strengthening its quality are challenged to improve our performance from 79 different nationalities.
In addition management framework beyond ISO and and remain the most trusted private 47% of our workforce is female and JCI accreditation requirements.
As part of healthcare provider on the UAE.
We believe that this this process NMC Specialty Hospital, Abu widespread cultural and balanced Dhabi participated in the Sheikh Khalifa gender mix is testament to the effects Excellence Award SKEA for the first time of our discrimination policies and the in 2015 in the Appreciation Certificate multi-cultural nature of the UAE, our category.
NMC Specialty Hospital primary market.
exceeded all expectations by being awarded the Silver Award in its first year A comparison of the split of employees of participation.
The award is based by gender within the different business on the European Foundation for Quality groups and different levels within the Management EFQM model and NMC Group is set out in the table below: recognises processes and systems that promote business excellence and adopt innovative world class Best Practices in Excellence.
GENDER COMPARISON STUDY 31 December 2015 Gender Percentage Total Male Female Male Female Facilities Categories Board of Directors & Senior NMC Board of Directors 12 8 4 67% 33% Management Team Senior Management Team 6 5 1 83% 17% Grand Total 9,197 4,908 4,289 53% 47% Corporate Office Total Corporate Office 363 239 124 66% 34% Corporate Management 80 67 13 84% 16% Corporate Staff 283 172 111 61% 39% Reliance Infotech Total Reliance Infotech 75 66 9 88% 12% Reliance Management 8 7 1 88% 12% Reliance Staff 67 59 8 88% 12% Healthcare Total Healthcare 6,805 2,926 3,879 43% 57% Healthcare Management 121 72 49 60% 40% Doctors 828 520 308 63% 37% Staff Nurses 2,289 446 1,843 19% 81% Technicians & Pharmacists 794 351 443 44% 56% Healthcare Others 2,773 1,537 1,236 55% 45% Distribution Total Distribution 1,948 1,676 272 86% 14% Distribution Management 154 139 15 90% 10% Distribution Staff 1,794 1,537 257 86% 14% R&D Eugin 6 1 5 17% 83% Corporate Management includes six Senior Management Personnel, three of whom were Executive Directors also, but excludes Non-Executive Directors.
36 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
