com stock code: NTG Corporate social responsibility The AFRs reported are as follows: Our corporate responsibility Health & safety We understand that we have a wider Our approach to health & safety is 2015 2014 obligation to run our business in a simple: to ensure that no harm comes to responsible and sustainable way for anyone engaged with Northgate.
We believe that Spain 2.2 3.4 We realise that excellence in health & supporting the communities in which Group 1.5 2.2 safety can only be achieved if it forms we operate and providing a safe part of every individuals responsibility environment for our employees is Ethics within the Group.
Our Safe & Sound integral to the overall performance of Northgate holds the highest levels of programme was established to create the Group.
ethical standards and communicates an environment of openness and this to all employees by way of the awareness, where all colleagues feel How we manage corporate Groups Code of Business Conduct, able to identify and raise concerns about responsibility which covers bribery, competition, working practices and conditions.
Taking corporate responsibility and conflicts of interest, inside information, sustainability seriously is of the confidentiality, gifts and entertainment, The Group provides training for utmost importance to Northgate.
discrimination, harassment and fair employees in a wide range of health Sound and robust health & safety and dealing with customers and suppliers.
& safety disciplines, most of which is environmental HS&E arrangements and carried out internally by the Groups risk controls therefore form a key part of In addition, the Groups Whistleblowing HS&E department, which in the UK is the Groups overall business strategy.
Policy and Procedure enables every accredited by the British Safety Council.
Group employee to have a voice and The Groups arrangements for HS&E a means by which they may draw During the year the Groups HS&E governance and management systems concerns to our attention.
department carried out formal audit are monitored by the Audit and Risk reviews to measure performance of Committee, who have designated the Our employees our HS&E management system at all Chief Executive as the person ultimately As a Group we value our employees as locations and where necessary identified responsible for implementing best we understand that they are the key improvements and subsequently practice throughout the Group.
resource required to deliver the high monitored compliance.
The main levels of customer service that maintain objective of the HS&E department is to Common and consistent standards in our competitive advantage.
At 30 April ensure continuous improvement across accordance with legislative and best 2015 we had 2,971 2014 2,833 the Group and provide pragmatic and practice requirements are applied across employees across the Group, 2,057 in practical solutions to the operational all Group operations.
Risks, controls and the UK 2014 1,968 and 914 in Spain risks within the business to all levels procedures are continually assessed to 2014 865. of employees with a strong focus ensure that everything is being done to on behavioural safety and employee meet the highest possible standards of We recognise that our employees involvement.
HS&E requirements using comprehensive depend on us and we continually work and robust HS&E operating controls.
on improving their engagement and The main way that health & safety motivation as the key to delivering across the business is monitored is by The Group is committed to all of its high levels of customer service.
Our the Accident Frequency Rate AFR employees acting ethically at all times employees are rewarded through a during the course of our work.
The AFR and has a Code of Business Conduct combination of competitive pay and is calculated as the number of accidents which communicates expected incentive programmes which enable reportable under the Reporting of behaviour on a range of subjects.
them to share in the progress towards Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous the Groups objectives.
Occurences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR We recognise that employees are the per 100,000 employee hours worked.
key resource required to deliver the high The Groups policy is to recruit the Although the legislation in Spain defines levels of customer service that maintain best available people who are aligned reportable accidents under different our competitive advantage and we with and embody our core values of rules to the UK, the data reported is in remain committed to equality.
professionalism, teamwork and canline with RIDDOR.
do attitude and these values apply As a business we seek to limit our throughout the Group regardless of impact on the environment and aim to seniority of position.
be a good neighbour and member of our local community.
23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts REPORT for the year ended 30 April 2015 36 37 are undertaken across the business to achieve this and our communication strategy has enhanced our employee engagement, as we look to maximise the use of channels available.
Our emphasis is placed on monthly briefings, face-to-face meetings, talks and discussions between managers and their teams.
This is supported by developments in technology and communication training.
Northgate is committed to equality, business continued throughout the judging applications for employment year.
The MAP competency based We understand that communication neither by race, nationality, gender, age, assessment is now supported internally and engagement is critical, so we are disability, sexual orientation or political by the LEAD Learn, Engage, Apply, constantly improving and evolving to bias.
Develop management development ensure everyone lives our core values programme.
LEAD, using a blended and feels part of Northgate in order for As at 30 April 2015, the gender learning approach, with one to one us to achieve our Group objectives.
breakdown of the workforce across the support from the L&DBPs, has in excess Group was: Human rights of 180 managers now completing this Given the territories in which we operate Institute of Leadership and Management Male Female and the nature of our business no endorsed programme.
specific human rights information is Directors 6 1 The Northgate Sales Academy will contained here.
Information on equality Senior Managers 18 launch in September 2015.
Dedicated is contained above and our corporate All Employees 2,092 879 Sales Academy learning partners will responsibility policy information can be give training and development to further found on our website.
Throughout the year we have support our commercial team.
find out more about our corporate continued to invest in the learning responsibility policy at: and development of our workforce.
com To up-skill colleagues we offered the This investment will continue to assist opportunity for all UK employees to Environment in enabling us to improve the quality complete the nationally recognised level For all environmental matters our and standard of our service delivery two NVQ in customer service.
To date policy is to promote and operate and continue to increase the level 274 colleagues have begun their journey processes and procedures, which, so of customer retention, by ensuring and expect to qualify by 2016. far as is reasonably practicable, avoid or all colleagues contribute to their full minimise the contamination of water, potential.
In September 2014 20 young air and the ground.
We manage the apprentices successfully achieved the waste streams which are generated During the year we introduced an prestigious Technical Certificate, for through our activities responsibly and online Personal Development Plan completing the level 3 framework as we aim to dispose of waste properly PDP appraisal programme in the part of the Technical Apprenticeship in ways which minimise the likelihood UK business.
The PDP enabled all programme.
We are currently recruiting of harming the environment.
Waste is colleagues to recognise and fulfil their for 24 further apprentices who will separated at source and stored until potential by focusing on individual, commence training in September 2015. specialist contractors can dispose of it departmental and organisational goals.
This continues to demonstrate our in the most appropriate and effective Feedback from the PDPs also resulted commitment to supporting colleagues manner.
This includes recycling and in the introduction of regionally based in their growth and development within reducing the amount of waste being Learning and Development Business the Group.
sent to landfill across our locations.
The Partners L&DBPs, to help and support Group continues to work closely with its the management population across the Regular and consistent communication waste management partners to improve business.
and engagement with everyone across performance and continually monitors the business is vital to our success, these aspects and the impacts our The Managerial Assessment of ensuring we all share in our values, operations have on the environment.
Proficiency MAP programme for vision and goals.
A number of activities the management population in the 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Corporate social responsibility CONTINUED In both the UK and Spain, Northgate Consolidation approach and organisational boundary have maintained the internationally The emissions data presented has been derived using the operational control recognised Environmental Standard ISO approach, required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors 14001.
Each facility under operational control has been included within the figures.
Northgate has used the principles of the GHG Protocol Corporate During the year the Group has chosen Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, ISO 14064-1. to engage with the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP for the first time and is Methodology also working with a third party to fulfil Defras conversion factors have been used in arriving at the information supplied our Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme below.
All six greenhouse gases are reported as appropriate.
Greenhouse gas emissions figures The UK business has introduced a new Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 printing league to measure printer Greenhouse Gas Emissions Source 2015 2014 usage across the business as we seek to Scope 1 Combustion of fuel and operation of reduce the volume of paper we use.
facilities 5,865 5,980 Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling 4,343 4,348 During the year, we were able to recycle or recover 100% of all waste streams Intensity ratio: Tonnes of CO e per m of revenue 22.3 23.4 2 generated and collected from our The above data has been verified by an independent, UKAS accredited, third party vehicle repair workshops in the UK.
were able to recycle or recover 80% of all waste streams generated and The Group is a member of the British Our customers and suppliers collected from our Spanish operations.
Safety Council and the Royal Society for Northgate recognises the need to We continue to work closely with our the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA, support our customers in managing a waste management partners to improve which supports our commitment to sustainable business.
We work with our waste management arrangements and corporate social responsibility.
During suppliers to make a fleet available to our performance across the Group.
2015 we received a Silver Occupational customers comprised entirely of modern Health & Safety award for our health & vehicles, achieving the highest levels of As at 30 April 2015, the UK business safety arrangements from RoSPA.
In Spain we operated from a total of 91 locations are one of the first businesses to offer including 76 rental sites.
The Spanish The Group encourages employees to hire of electric vehicles to our customers.
business operates from a total of 38 partake in activities in aid of charities locations including 23 rental sites.
The and the UK business publicises such As at 30 April 2015 the UK fleet of vast majority of these sites are located activities on the Company Intranet.
56,100 vehicles had an average age of on industrial estates, so our activities During the current year examples of 21.1 months.
The total fleet in Spain was have minimal impact on the local such activities are: donation of a van 39,400 vehicles with an average age of community of the areas in which we to carry equipment for a sponsored 23.7 months.
All vehicles purchases in operate.
bike ride in aid of cancer and dementia the year ended 30 April 2015 met the sufferers: a branch taking part in the latest Euro V standards.
Greenhouse gas emissions Movember campaign: a booksale in This section incorporates the mandatory aid of Oxfordshire Air Ambulance: and Our community reporting of greenhouse gas emissions an employee cycling from London to We must be a responsible employer, required by the Companies Act 2006 Newcastle in support of the Meningitis neighbour and member of the local Strategic Report and Directors Report Research Foundation.
Engaging with community and therefore operate our Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
charities at a local level helps the business in a way that continuously business to reinforce that we are an improves our relationship with Reporting and baseline year active member of our local community.
employees, customers, neighbours and The information presented covers the the environment.
period from 1 May 2014 to 30 April David Henderson 2015.
The base year for calculations is Secretary the year ending 30 April 2014.
29 June 2015 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7 GOVERNANCE Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2015 38 39 40 Board of Directors 42 Report of the Directors 45 Remuneration report 63 Report of the audit and risk committee 66 Corporate governance 69 Directors responsibilities 70 I ndependent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc 23963.02 17 July 2015 3:08 PM Proof 7
