Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 People Values 13.
Our People Were Value in it each together person diverse range of stories in a tone of voice thats We Value Our People relevant to our people.
Were also developing our We are a business that values our people.
We online communications with employees through listen to their opinions on customer service, Love We can the development of mobile apps and social operational efficiency and what it means to be what be even media.
we do better an Ocado employee.
We aim to understand We also encourage formal two-way our employees as well as we understand our communication through our annual employee customers and innovate and change together survey and our employee representative body, to match the pace of growth and diversification the Ocado Council, both of which help us identify required in our markets.
areas where we can improve as an employer and All Employees We Recruit Talent encourage participation and consultation in the decisions we make.
Five years since the Councils Our business is built on innovation, on finding inception, weve refreshed our solutions, and on delivering world class service.
Charter to ensure it reflects Our recruitment team has been effective in the business we are now and meeting the significant challenge of hiring the new continues to be fit for purpose employees needed for our continuous growth.
In November 2015 we reached a significant Ocado maintains a voluntary milestone total employee numbers crossed union recognition agreement 10,000 for the first time, cementing our place as a with USDAW, which significant employer and creator of new jobs.
is integrated with We opened three new spokes in 2015 and moved our Ocado Council, another to new premises, increasing our spokes to voice the views Number of employees as at period end.
This makes our delivery driver of our hourly paid team the largest in the business.
our Customer Service Team Members, and their Case Study job title describes how they are essential to the We Develop Our People Kristina Krikscikaite, Operations success of Ocado.
Training and developing employees is a vital part Manager, Hatfield CFC With our third CFC opening in Andover and more of enabling them to forge their career with Ocado.
expansion planned across our network in 2016, We place strong emphasis on developing our I joined Ocado in November 2008 as a personal we plan to create even more opportunities for talent across the business and further embedding shopper in the CFC warehouse.
I grasped existing and new employees in the coming year.
Using talent things quickly and my managers spotted my matrix mapping we also identify potential successors potential.
I worked hard and soon applied Diversity for every middle and senior management role.
Six months We value diversity and through our equal into this new role I wanted more so I was Through our Apprenticeship and Graduate opportunities policy we are dedicated to creating offered a trial as a Stand-up Section Manager, Programmes we attract a valuable source of an environment that is free from discrimination, followed quickly by a Flow Managers job.
Its a great way to get bright harassment and victimisation.
Everyone at year in this role gave me a lot of operational but inexperienced people into the business, and Ocado is treated equally regardless of age, colour, experience and I really enjoyed taking on more instil in them the knowledge and experience they disability, race, gender, sexual orientation, marital and more responsibility.
I put my heart into need to fulfil their potential.
status, political views or religious belief.
what I was doing which my line managers Developing people is exciting, but also a challenge The charts opposite show a breakdown of the appreciated and from there my colleagues when growing a business as fast as we are.
We number of people who were on the Board, Senior encouraged me to apply for an Operations now have an in-house management training Managers and employees of the Group at the end Managers role.
curriculum including more than 300 e-learning of the period by number and gender.
Im now in this role and would only change it for modules and over 30 different workshops, team my bosss chair!
Its challenging, absorbing and Engaging Our People building days, a learning library and individual no day is ever the same.
More importantly, I get to coaching.
This extends beyond keeping colleagues informed work with many interesting people from different of the Companys performance and issues that parts of the world, with varying backgrounds, and affect them day to day.
Through communications different motivations driving them.
What most of channels such as face to face briefings, rolling us have in common is commitment, appreciation plasma screens in communal spaces, our intranet and love of what we do.
the Grapevine and our in-house magazine Juice, we deliver a variety of messages on a 46 slugline 2012: 5,536 2013: 6,709 2014: 8,589 2015: 10,181 Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report There is also a range of traditional benefits and Retaining Our People All Employees an industry-leading 15% employee discount on We invest a significant amount of time and all shopping with Ocado, and our destination resources in recruiting the right people and Male: 8,491 sites Fetch and Sizzle.
We have a commitment to developing their skills, so retaining our employees Female: 1,690 ensuring that all employees share in the Groups is vitally important to the business.
Employees are able to buy Ocado shares designing work environments and benefits with pre-tax income, and we have a Save As You packages that are in tune with what different Earn scheme that allows employees to save up groups of employees want.
Warehousing as an to buy Ocado shares at a pre-set price.
For the industry has a high labour turnover rate, but we second year running we also gave free shares are working hard to manage this across our CFCs.
equivalent to 1% of basic pay to all employees Initiatives range from incentive and retention with six months or more service.
schemes to healthy eating programmes and In 2016 we will be celebrating the 15th anniversary subsidised cafes.
of our first online deliveries, and a significant Recognition and Reward number of our original employees are still with Senior Managers Ocado.
To make Ocado an employer of choice our comprehensive employee benefits package Male: 8 Strategic Report includes pension schemes with employer Female: 1 contribution, life assurance, private medical The Companys Strategic Report is set out on insurance, income protection and an employee pages 8 to 47. assistance programme.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neill Abrams Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Ocado Group plc Case Study 2 February 2016 Will Bronson, SD Council Rep and CSTM at Leeds spoke Directors I made myself available for the post of Council Case Study Rep to support and help my colleagues and Claude Willis, Damages & Quality Male: 9 to be part of the management structure at the Manager, Hatfield CFC Female: 2 spoke.
That means I get calls at 6am in the morning on days off when drivers are having I joined Ocado back in 2003 as a personal a problem, or when Im on days out.
Just shopper and have not looked back.
Ive because you have a day off, it doesnt mean worked in various roles, and have moved that the people who elected you do and Im through the ranks into management positions quite happy with that.
I have a great working relationship with the The experience and the personal development management team.
I know that I can raise I have gained through these roles has been issues with them and have no qualms that Im 1.
Number of employees as at period end.
I give credit to those that gave me not being listened to.
Ive never had a situation the support and opportunity to progress but to deal with where I havent believed that I 2.
Senior Managers means the Management Committee excluding Executive Directors.
also to my own drive to work hard and achieve have their full support.
Every day I learn something new and My way of looking at the role is that hopefully my current role has opened my eyes to a Read more about Board Diversity I can take away some of the pressures and on page 58 whole different side of our business.
I have the questions being asked on the frontline privilege of working with an even bigger team because I know the answers.
Colleagues feel now, including almost all departments in the confident coming directly to me as they know company.
Ocado has a huge abundance of Ill listen and will do all I can to resolve their talented and gifted individuals and I am proud problems.
I feel that Ive really accomplished to have been a part of Ocados history, and something in the year that Ive had this role.
