Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 12.
Corporate Responsibility During the period we continued to implement The Ocado Way: 2020 Vision across the business, and achieved a number of significant deliverables which are described below.
The four strategic pillars of Education, Entrepreneurship, Environment and Eating Well continue to drive the direction of our Corporate Responsibility strategy, and we have placed the recently launched Ocado Foundation at the heart of our employee engagement.
The Ocado Way: 2020 Vision Education Entrepreneurship Environment Eating well 2015 also saw the launch of the Ocado Foundation.
The Ocado Foundation The Ocado Foundation was established We target our to support our employees in their personal, eorts at a local, charitable fundraising and volunteering eorts, and also be the vehicle for all Ocado fundraising.
personal level We are focused on We believe that many actions where the small actions make a results can be measured big dierence We focus on areas where we have a related interest or expertise We look after the many over the few 42 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Beating off stiff competition from hundreds of has continued to grow significantly, highlighted by entrants, the 2015 winner was Manfood, founded a rise in order volumes of more than 30% at both by Andre and Jon Dang in Cambridgeshire, who Ocado.
Education produce a chunky pickle made entirely from local The carbon efficiencies implemented however, ingredients.
Using our knowledge and expertise to benefit has meant that despite our substantial growth schools and colleges continues to be a key Staying close to our entrepreneurial roots, we have successfully achieved a three-year trend driver for Ocado, demonstrated by our strong the competition further demonstrates our of improving energy efficiency, culminating in a commitment to technology and road safety.
commitment to doing more for small, British 11.9% efficiency gain relative to our 2013 baseline suppliers and encourages other retailers and year.
Our progress is illustrated in the table below.
PwC has carried out a limited assurance engagement on selected GHG emissions data table below in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Environment Assurance engagements on greenhouse For the 2015 financial year, we partnered with gas statements ISAE 3410, issued by the Ecometrica, a sustainability consultancy, to International Auditing and Assurance Standards develop our data management systems and Board and, in respect of the intensity measure, in improve the transparency of our carbon footprint.
accordance with the International Standard on As a result, we have strengthened our position to Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance Code for Life effectively maintain accuracy and accountability engagements other than audits or reviews of September 2015 saw our Code for Life for our impact on the environment.
historical financial information ISAE 3000 programme turn one year old.
A copy of the limited assurance report Greenhouse Gas Emissions than 44,000 users are taking advantage of the is available in the Our Responsibilities section of For the reported period, our CO emissions free resource Rapid Router, aimed at teaching 2 the Companys corporate website.
increased relative to the previous year.
As primary school children across the UK how to illustrated throughout this report, the business code.
The programme has been extremely well GHG Emissions Tonnes CO e 2 received in UK schools and is also being used globally in schools across the US, Australia, Spain, 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Portugal and Guatemala.
Using Intensity measures: this position, we continue to support other Tonnes CO e 100,000 orders 823.4 815.1 725.4 2 companies in their development of employee road safety strategies.
Our strong relationship with both BRAKE and the Road Victims Trust continues to flourish with Ocado repeatedly invited to speak at a number of industry events throughout the year.
Entrepreneurship Britains Next Top Supplier 2015 We launched our annual search for Britains Next Top Supplier in January 2015.
Backed by Chairman Lord Rose and Chef Tom Kerridge, the competition sets out to find the next big British success story in food and drink.
Britains Next Top Supplier 2015 43 slugline Strategic Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 12.
Corporate Responsibility continued The largest share of our emissions are attributable Waste Case Study: Ocado Foundation to vehicle usage 62%, followed by the operation London to Paris bike ride We continue to monitor our waste closely and of our premises 37% : mirroring the findings of our we remain confident that our waste volumes are previous two years greenhouse gas reports.
As a very low when compared to the industry.
The result, developing the fuel-efficiency technologies A team of six cyclists from Ocados Planning & partnership with Ecometrica includes analysis of within our operation and addressing the energy Supply Chain Department were able to enjoy waste, and we look forward to reporting on this in efficiency of our CFCs continues to be the focus of springtime in Paris when they completed the more detail in future years.
300 mile London to Paris bike ride and in the process raised over 12,000 for Macmillan Bag Recycle Bonus Scheme With regard to minimising the environmental Cancer Support.
The Ocado Foundation impact of the fleet, we are continuously Recycling has always been a key driver for Ocado.
added a further 2,000. evolving the design of our vehicles to improve Our business model is built around efficiency aerodynamics, capacity, and trialling fueland low waste and for many years weve been The team, led by Director of Planning & Supply efficient technology developed in-house.
operating a plastic carrier bag recycling scheme.
Chain, Mark Watson said: Im extremely Further, our strategic geographical expansion Since 2007, Ocado has been collecting plastic bags proud of our achievement in completing the is in part designed to alleviate the use of fuel from customers, and recycling them into carrier challenge and for raising such a huge amount in our operations, opening new spokes to bags to be used again.
This all takes place within of money for Macmillan Cancer Support.
As reduce the overall mileage of our delivery vans.
the UK, keeping supply chain miles and carbon well as supporting one another as a team, it  customers may also emissions to a minimum.
was great to have the backing of Ocado and Id select green van slots, saving fuel and reducing like to thank everyone who sponsored us.
This September saw Ocado continue its commitment emissions by having a delivery at a similar time has been a phenomenal experience and one to recycling by introducing the Bag Recycling to another customer local to them.
Through that I will never forget.
It was quite wet when Bonus Scheme, a scheme incentivising customers implementing a range of initiatives, investments we got over to France which made things a bit to recycle more bags by paying them 5p for every in our fleet have positively contributed to our more challenging but we all got through it in bag they hand back to us.
We do this for both substantial company-wide improvement in energy one piece.
I think the highlight for me though, Ocado and other retailers bags.
was cycling into Paris and trying to compete With our aim of becoming the UKs greenest, most with six lanes of traffic as we went around the The Groups reported emissions have been innovative and best value grocery retailer, this Arc fide Triomphe it certainly gets your heart prepared and calculated with reference to scheme seeks to reward customers for helping us beating a bit faster!
environmental reporting guidelines 2015, issued to help the environment.
by Defra and using conversion factors published by DECC Defra May 2015.
For further details about data and preparation go to ocadogroup.
com Case Study Ocado Foundation April 2015 saw the launch of The Ocado Foundation.
This was established to support our employees in their personal charitable fundraising and volunteering efforts and also to be the vehicle for all Ocado fundraising.
In its first seven months, 17,570 of match-funding was provided to charities across the country, as a result of employees undertaking all manner of fundraising efforts.
More than 22,000 has also been fundraised for the Ocado Foundation in the same seven months, this money has been distributed across the Ocado network amongst local charities in the communities where employees live and work.
44 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Strategic Report Fresh Fruit Vegetables on Promotion Each Month Eating Well 600 Food and nutrition is at the heart of the Eating Well pillar.
We use sustained promotions on fresh fruit and vegetables to try and encourage healthy 400 eating and become a positive nutritional influence on our customers.
At the start of the financial year, we committed 200 to always having at least 100 different fruit and vegetables on promotion at any one time, and during the period, we consistently exceeded this 0 target.
At the start of the financial year we also launched Donate Food with Ocado.
This scheme has been incredibly popular with customers, donating 96,913 during the 2015 financial year.
This scheme differs from others in the industry, as customers make a Items on promotion Target items on promotion 100 financial donation that is matched with groceries from Ocado.
We work closely with our food bank partners to discuss their needs, and then tailor the Case Study food we donate on a week by week basis to meet the Eating Well and Reducing Food Waste requirements of the different people they support.
No donations were made by the Group to any political party, organisation or candidate during Having received generous donations from Ocado Ocados support has also freed us up to use the period 2014: nil.
every Christmas for the last ten years, we were our other charitable funds to provide much approached by the Ocado Corporate Responsibility needed 1:1 support to our residents and to Ocado is committed to the upholding of human team who asked if they could extend their support.
provide them with opportunities to take part rights.
We require our suppliers to operate in a fair We worked together to find a way of delivering fresh in confidence and skills-building activities and honest way towards their employees and with food to our foodbank clients along with food parcels to help prepare them for future independent those whom they do business.
We ask all our Own of non-perishable items.
DENS have since opened living.
Brand suppliers to be members of Sedex, a global The Elms so we have been able to extend the support supplier ethical database, and to ensure that they Sharon Boyall, DENS Food Bank Manager further by using the food donations to provide meals have an ethical auditing programme in place.
at both the Elms and our Day Centre.
Through sales of fruit and vegetables, we continue Ocado have been generous supporters of both to support farmers in South Africa and Kenya by projects providing weekly donations of fresh food, donating to the Waitrose Foundation.
We made including meat, vegetables, bakery and other donations totalling 30,000 during the period of assorted food stuffs.
This donation has provided this report.
fantastic fresh quality produce which enables our During the period we also made a donation residents to enjoy a healthy diet.
During the period of 145,000 to the Prince of Waless Charitable May to November 2015, a total of 6,308 meals have Foundation, through sales of Duchy branded been cooked for vulnerable, homeless people.
