Performance Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility CR is about the manner in which we approach maintaining our reputation and the trust of our stakeholders, as well as completing our operations in a safe and environmentally responsible way.
Our commitment to CR will both protect NAV Net Asset Value and create the right conditions for it to grow.
Corporate Responsibility is a key part of our Company.
After much consideration, we have decided that we will embed the TheCorporate Responsibility Committee, a sub-committee of principle of creating shared value throughout all of our operations.
theBoard, provides oversight into all of our activities in this area.
The central premise behind this is that the competitiveness of Ourfocus is on having an appropriate framework in place to acompany and the health of its stakeholders are mutually preserve our reputation, manage risk, build strong sustainable dependent.
Recognising this and capitalising on the connections relationships with our internal and external stakeholders and between societal and economic progress can allow Ophir to create conduct our operations in a safe and responsible manner.
value for itself and all its stakeholders.
We already have some examples of where we are successfully creating shared value and we CR underscores the principle that it is vital to explore for, and will be making this a central part of our planning process in future.
produce oil and gas responsibly, to the highest international standards.
At Ophir, we have established a clear set of guidelines A strong approach to CR also involves transparent communication.
interms of how we expect our people to behave.
These were We engage regularly with stakeholders including employees, enhanced in 2015 when a new Code of Conduct was launched governments, local communities and shareholders through a andour Values were rolled out across the Company.
combination of, amongst other things, meetings and written communication.
We recognise a need to enhance our reporting However, we recognise that we have a responsibility to review our inthis area and this year have expanded our HSE Health, Safety, approach to CR in light of the Paris Agreement at the end of 2015. and the Environment reporting to include a number of new metrics.
Board visit to Ophirs platform in the Gulf of Thailand 30 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information We strive to be an open and transparent company, which is why we Environment highlights have made a commitment to report to CDPs 2016 Climate Change Prior to every new activity in the field, we carry out appropriate Questionnaire.
We are also implementing systems to gather more Environmental Impact Assessments EIA to assess the current data from across the Company so that, from next year, we can begin baseline environment and identify potential environmental risks.
to report in line with the GRIs Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
Following the risk assessment, effective mitigation measures are then designed and implemented.
The implementation process applies to all our operations, including those carried out by Environment contractors and sub-contractors.
For example, prior to acquiring We have a responsibility to protect the environment and recognise 3Dseismic offshore Myanmar in 2015, we conducted an extensive that we all need to address the effects ofclimate change while programme of stakeholder meetings with local communities, we meet all applicable standards inmanaging environmental risks.
informing and educating those potentially affected by the seismic Ophir is in the process of expandingits emissions reporting standards planning and operational activities.
and seeking ways toreduce carbon emissions.
Our ultimate aim is These local environment engagement processes are part of to minimise theenvironmental impact of operations, reduce waste, ourCompany-wide HSE policy.
Our environmental planning conserve resources and respectbiodiversity.
andperformance are routinely scrutinised by local governmental agencies and NGOs before and during activities.
We repeat these assessments at various stages of the project using qualified consultants and professional service providers.
All aspects of our environmental performance are monitored during operations and then, when theoperations are completed, the findings are reported back to localagencies to ensure transparency and compliance.
Group-wide environmental KPIs 1 CO emissions tonnes 82,904 tonnes 2 CO emissions tonnes per 144 In 2014 the average upstream figure was 134 source: OGP, therefore 2015 2 2 thousand tonnes production was slightly higher than average.
This is due to our mix of business activities that focus more on exploration activities than production.
Flaring No flaring reported from Ophir assets in 2015 Venting MMscf 1.16MMscf At the Bualuang field a small amount of gas is produced along with the oil.
This gas is vented to the atmosphere.
Venting tonnes per 0.04 In 2014, OGP average was 0.9 tonnes CH4 per thousand tonnes oil production: thousand tonnes of production our low figure is due to minimal associated gas with the oil we produce.
Oil and chemical spills None Oil and chemical spills None released to the environment Produced water No produced water discharged tonnes discharged in 2015 All water at the Bualuang field is re-injected into the reservoir.
Oil in produced water None discharged tonnes 1 Compiled from data from individual locations.
2 Based on full year Bualuang production.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 31 Performance Corporate Responsibility continued Emissions data Across the business, indirect emissions from passenger air travel We are committed to improving our transparency and scope of andoffices make up the remaining data.
In Thailand, the combined reporting on emissions data and are ever mindful of the necessity activities of drilling and production made this asset the producer tominimise emissions of greenhouse gases GHG and to encourage ofthe majority of emissions for the Company followed by Myanmar energy efficiencies wherever possible.
Emissions data is collected in second place due to the extensive offshore seismic acquisition from every location where we operate.
Where actual measured programme in 2015. datais not available, estimates are made.
The measuring system is In 2014 Ophir reported the emissions data as an intensity ratio, defined in the Ophir Health Safety and Environmental Management calculated by dividing the emissions total by the number of System HSEMS.
In 2015 this metric is no longer meaningful Ophir records and reports on Scope 1 and 2 and certain Scope 3 following the shift from being a pure explorer to a combined emissions.
Scope 1 emissions are those over which Ophir has direct explorer and producer.
Therefore in 2015 we are reporting the control via ownership of activities, such as emissions from figures as absolute totals.
combustion in production facilities, contracted offshore drilling rigs, Reporting criteria: seismic vessels as well as Company vehicles.
Scope 2 emissions are Office energy Calculated average annual electricity use from indirect emissions, for example emissions from Ophir-chartered actual invoices or estimates for all office and aircraft and electricity used in offices and logistic bases.
Scope 3 logistics base locations emissions are also indirect emissions from sources not directly Ground transport For all office locations, collected data for owned or controlled by Ophir, an example being emissions from actual fuel used for vehicles passenger air miles from business flights.
Exploration & For our offshore and onshore operations Production activities calculated fuel use rate which includes The emissions figures are provided as an absolute total figure production-related fuel as well as drilling rigs, Scope1 3 of estimated CO production for the Companys helicopter support, seismic vessels, PSVs 2 worldwide activities during 2015.
This includes data from Ophir as service boats covering the operations period for each country with activities in 2015 well as full-year data for Salamander Energy including the period Air transport Estimated total number of long haul prior to its acquisition by Ophir in March 2015.
This is the third year passenger flights in 2015, booked and paid for emissions data are reported for the Company.
Total emissions by Ophir includes employees and contractors during 2015 Salamander and Ophir combined were estimated at 82,904 tonnes of CO.
This compares to 66,046 tonnes Ophir only 2 of CO in 2014.
The increase in emissions in 2015 compared with 2 Health and safety that of 2014 is due primarily to the inclusion of Southeast Asia We strive to achieve the highest standards in health and safety, emissions from Ophirs newly-acquired Salamander assets.
ensuring that everyone working for the Company does so in a safe 2015 marked a major shift in Ophirs activities, from being a pure and healthy environment.
All activities are carried out in accordance explorer in 2014 to becoming a combined explorer and producer in with applicable local and international health and safety best practices.
This shift affects the character of the emissions we produce.
Strict health and safety procedures are applied to all aspects of our Our emissions relating to exploration activities were produced operations, from simple everyday office activities to highly complex primarily by third-party contracted services: such as drilling units subsea technical drilling risk assessments, vessel operations and e. g. Bualuang, Thailand, seismic vessels e. g. 3D seismic in emergency response planning.
All employees and contractors have Myanmar and service boats working offshore.
GHG emissions a duty to ensure their activities are compliant with the rules and fromproduction operations Thailand come primarily from crude standards that apply.
oil combusted offshore to fuel generators and equipment used inthe production processes.
32 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee page 54 It is part of our duty of care to ensure our subcontractors and suppliers provide a safe and healthy working environment for theiremployees and to provide appropriate training, support and protective equipment.
In order to confirm compliance with the appropriate health and safety practices, subcontractors and suppliers are subject to regular checks.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee meets regularly to review these standards, and is responsible for monitoring Health, Safety, Security and Environmental HSSE practices.
The Committee is alsoresponsible for planning appropriate independent HSE audits across the range of our activities to assess our progress.
Corporate Responsibility team developments In 2015 the Corporate Responsibility management with respect to health and safety continued to evolve and in January 2016 weappointed a Group Head of HSE and Operational Excellence.
We continued to concentrate our health and safety focus on those areas with the highest risk.
In2015 that meant targeting the new producing assets and associated drilling programme offshore Thailand.
Each project wasprovided with full-time, on and offshore, HSE professionals toensure HSE compliance and foster operational excellence.
Health and safety highlights During 2015 our employees and contractors recorded zero LTIs.
There were only two recordable incidents during the year, giving Ophir a Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR of 0.83.
In early 2015, prior to contracting the drilling company engaged tocarry out the Thailand drilling campaign, we carried out extensive health and safety assessments, audits and held integration sessions with the service company personnel to ensure health and safety alignment and compliance before and during the campaign.
The 2015 Thailand drilling campaign ended on a very positive safetynote having had the fewest safety related incidents of all kinds of any Ophir drilling campaign in the history of the Company.
Overall, we are proud of our excellent health and safety record, especially bearing in mind the Companys shift into more operationally complex production activities with the acquisition ofSalamander in 1Q 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 33 Performance Corporate Responsibility continued To continue this progression, we conducted a gap analysis of our Security current approach to community development.
This highlighted During 2015 we continued to operate in several challenging a need for greater corporate governance and a more strategic environments in both East and West Africa, and from March approach to the selection and implementation of projects.
We have onwards had responsibility for a number of additional assets reviewed the International Financial Corporation IFC guidance to in Southeast Asia.
Our assessments have evaluated the various help us more closely align our strategy for community development physical risks our personnel and sites could be exposed to during with our core business and to concentrate our efforts on sustainable ouroperations.
There were no security incidents during 2015. projects that have a greater and longer lasting benefit to the communities in which we operate.
Community projects We are very aware of our responsibility towards the communities where we operate as an international oil and gas operator.
These responsibilities include aiding the development of the economic and social conditions of local communities.
This year we have focused on improving access to education primary and vocational, on water provision and supporting health initiatives through donations.
When selecting projects, we adopt a collaborative approach, conducting varied stakeholder engagement and needs assessments in order to identify projects that most positively contribute to the requirements of the local communities in the long term, as well asthe Company itself.
Community development highlights In 2015 we continued two corporate Key Performance Indicators KPIs in line with community development: 1.
At least one project to be started or in progress in each of our O-NET Tutor Camp in Thailand key operational assets.
The completion of two projects or phases in separate countries.
Over 600 Thai students took part in a successful education scheme in 2015 Our Asset Managers performance was judged against these KPIs In 2015 we worked in partnership with the Koh Samui which reinforced our positive commitment to the initiation and municipality and the Koh Pha-Ngan Tourism Association to completion of community projects in Tanzania, Seychelles, Kenya, sponsor the O-NET Ordinary National Education Test Tutor Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Thailand and Indonesia.
665 students in Koh Samui and Koh Pha-Ngan attended tutoring sessions aimed at preparing them for Thailands national education tests.
School children in Thailand are required to take this test and if they do not pass, are unable to continue on to the next level of education.
The Tutor Camp provides tips and useful suggestions to help the students understand the key subject areas that will enable them to attainhigher scores in the O-NET examination.
34 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Clean water provision in Indonesia Water filtration systems installed to help local communities The clean water project in Indonesia, near our Kerendan operations, is an excellent example of creating shared value.
Weworked in partnership with communities in the villages of Kerendan, Luwe Hulu, Muara Pari and Haragandang along the Barito River.
Through our stakeholder mapping and engagement, we identified a need for a regular supply of clean water.
A filtration system was installed by which water is taken from theriver and then filtered and purified using a Floating Filtration System.
The filtered water is then stored in a tower and piped tothe houses in the villages.
The local community has seen improvements in the health of its people due to having access toclean water.
As a number of our employees come from these villages, Ophir has therefore benefited from a more productive and reliable workforce.
2015 Community projects by location In 2015 in Thailand we provided funding for a number of Fishing Fishery Observer training in Gabon Aggregation Devices for the Chumpon and Ban Chalokelum communities on the islands of Koh Samui and Koh Pha-Ngan.
52 fishery training sessions took place in 2015 The devices attract marine wildlife and provide a vital source In early 2015 we began working with international NGO the offoodand income for these fishing communities.
Wildlife Conservation Society WCS to provide funding for a Fishery Observer Training Programme initially for 30 Gabonese In Equatorial Guinea we continued to provide funding for the nationals.
The programme provides vocational training in order National Technical Institute, which provides valuable training todevelop the observer competencies of the students who, and development for the local communities.
oncequalified, will be offered full-time employment as Fishery In Gabon, we financed the training of 50 Gabonese students at Observers, working on 25 trawling vessels off the coast of Gabon.
theSodexo Training Centre in Libreville.
The training helps trainees The Fishery Observers assist with the regulation of the fishing to gain skills in catering and hospitality, and helps young people industry: improving the biodiversity of Gabonese oceans and move into the working world.
thestate of national food security.
Continuing work from the previous year, in 2015 we also sponsored By December 2015, 52 training sessions had taken place, with 23 two Petroleum Geoscience Masters students in London, and offered people having completed their first on-board mission.
15 of the trainees a number of internship opportunities throughout the year to were employed as Industrial Observers as of December 2015. students or recent graduates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 35 Performance Corporate Responsibility continued The prevention, detection and reporting of bribery and corruption Business ethics isthe responsibility of all those working for and on behalf of Ophir, We must comply with all applicable local, national and international who are expected to: laws and regulations in all locations in which we operate and have interests.
This is crucial to both our sustained commercial success understand their responsibilities and act with fairness, honesty and our reputation.
All staff are accountable for the way they and integrity at all times: conduct themselves in the course of their work.
Managers have comply with all anti-corruption laws and regulations, no matter additional responsibility to set the tone and foster best practices where they are working.
This includes, but is not limited to, within their teams.
theUKBribery Act 2010: avoid doing anything which gives even the appearance of In 2015 we materially strengthened our Ethical Compliance processes violating anti-bribery laws, as this can damage our reputation: to reflect changes to the corporate risk profile and scope of our activities.
and We have launched a Code of Conduct the Code clearly defining our report any suspicions of bribery, including requests for bribes, expectations of staff and key stakeholders in relation to business integrity.
We have also introduced enhanced Ethical Compliance processes, Our people and our Values notably an Anti-Corruption Policy the Policy and a suite of Personal We continue to evolve as a leading international company, and Conduct Standards the Standards.
All staff are required to confirm ourbusiness plans are ambitious and require people with superior at the start of each calendar year that, in relation to the prior performance to deliver them.
Our people are therefore key to success year, they complied with the Code, the Policy and the Standards.
and we continue to build an experienced, resourceful and globallyThe Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Ethical diverse employee base.
In 2015, we undertook a Company-wide Compliance programme and receives regular reports.
Employee Engagement Survey to ensure an understanding of our The Ethical Compliance processes also introduce an enhanced expanded workforce.
The Survey was very successful with a higherrequirement for Anti-Corruption Reporting, for example any third than-average industry response rate.
Since the survey closed, party request for a facilitation payment is reported to a designated management have been reviewing all the feedback and have Compliance function which takes up the matter further on behalf alreadyimplemented targeted responses to the data received.
ofOphir, and there is clearer guidance around seeking corporate Integral to our Companys success will be the combined efforts approvals for gifts and hospitality given and received, and the ofour people, who must be led and managed by an inspired and declaration of employee conflicts of interest.
Gifts and Hospitality, highly competent senior management team, comprising technical Conflict of Interest and Anti-Corruption Reporting Registers specialists supported by professional functional experts.
As part aremaintained by assets and functions and monitored by the ofawider corporate initiative to further strengthen our Company Compliance function.
inline with the outcomes from the Employee Survey, we are Due diligence on third parties including intermediaries, suppliers, investing in leadership development as a critical factor in support prospective business partners and social investment counterofour strategic objectives.
partiesis supported by a set of improved processes enabling We provide exciting opportunities and challenging work earlyidentification of red flags and appropriate risk management assignments for people to gain wider experience across the business measures to be applied prior to contract award, contract execution to enhance their skills.
This culture allows us to successfully attract and during the life of any contract.
and retain the best in our industry.
Our performance review philosophy is designed to encourage robust feedback conversations to take place and for individual performance to be aligned to deliver corporate performance and create value.
36 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Respect for human rights We recognise the importance of respecting and promoting human rights, both internally and externally.
At Ophir we are committed tomaintaining the fair and equal treatment of all of our employees and contractors, without discrimination.
We support human rights and encourage our joint ventures, partners, suppliers and contractors to do the same.
We comply with all applicable human rights laws and regulations and use the UN Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights forguidance.
Equality and diversity We are an equal opportunities employer and have a stated policy aspart of our Global Code of Conduct to deal fairly and equitably with all of our employees in the workplace.
We are committed to equal opportunities in recruitment and succession planning policies and continue to welcome the current emphasis on diversity in general.
We remain dedicated to encouraging diversity at all levels of the business, acknowledging that a more diverse workforce, with the right mix of skills, experience, culture, ethnicity, nationality, gender and knowledge, can make avaluable contribution to the Company.
We have a commitment to extend equal employment opportunities to all, irrespective of race, colour, gender, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, religion or belief, age, nationality, ethnicity, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, or disability.
As at 31 December 2015 the Company has two female Directors representing 25% of the Board, 7.7% of the senior management are female and throughout the Company, women represent 27% ofourworkforce.
We have six key Values which underpin our business and capture the essence of Ophirs identity.
They form the foundation on which we all perform and conduct ourselves and the Company expects all of its people to demonstrate these Values in their daily working lives.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Performance Corporate Responsibility continued We have six key Values which underpin our business and capture the essence of Ophirs identity.
They form the foundation on which weall perform and conduct ourselves and the Company expects all of its people to demonstrate these Values in their daily working lives.
Ophirs Values Grounded Integrity Respect down-to-earth, never arrogant act in an honest and ethical way for our people and our partners A grounded individual conducts themselves in A person who has integrity demonstrates the Treating those around you with respect means apragmatic and practical way.
They are down to Values every day in their relationships with that through your behaviour you demonstrate earth and display no airs and graces in terms of colleagues and stakeholders.
Honesty and a strong that you have regard for them, their thoughts their approach or how they interact with others.
sense of ethics are central to integrity.
It is imperative that this is shown, They welcome comments and interactions and, demonstrate integrity draw others to them not just within the Company but also to external though confident, do not display traits of arrogance.
because they are trustworthy and dependable.
parties, as it is a core driver of our reputation and therefore our licence to do business.
Collaborative Dynamism Excellence work in partnership positive, energised and innovative in everything we do A person who collaborates is open to the input A dynamic person will help drive forward the Striving for excellence is a key component of of others and welcomes alternative views to Company agenda by making quality decisions, a job at Ophir.
We aim to continue to have a their own.
They look to partner with colleagues, acting as a positive force in their team and wider significant presence in the industry, which can internal and external to Ophir, to deliver the best function.
They will contribute to a dynamic only be attained through the efforts of everyone possible outcome for the Company.
organisation where there exists energy, internally to create and deliver excellence in all enthusiasm and determination to succeed.
This Strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Nick Cooper Chief Executive Officer 9 March 2016 38 Ophir Energy plc
