Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Report of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Dear Shareholder The Corporate Responsibility Committee is mindful that as wegrow, continued success depends on our ability to work Bill Schrader, responsibly and to deliver safety and environmental performance Corporate Responsibility which is best in class.
Ophirs philosophy is based on the Committee Chairman fundamental objective of keeping people, the environment andour assets safe in order to protect our reputation.
Membership and attendance The values underpinning Ophir define the choices we make The members of the Committee, all of whom are independent ascorporate citizens.
We strive to maximise the benefit to Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their individual stakeholders in an accountable, transparent, responsive manner: attendance at meetings held during the year ended 31 December central to our operations is working effectively with local 2015, are set out below: businesses, communities and governments in order to achieve Meeting success together.
Committee members attendance The Committee is very proud of the top quartile safety record Bill Schrader Committee Chairman 4 4 achieved by our staff and contractors during 2015.
As we look Alan Booth 3 4 tocontinually improve safety, we recommended the introduction Vivien Gibney 4 4 1 of a comprehensive leading indicator KPI system to help predict Lyndon Powell 2 2 and prevent potential incidents or accidents before they occur: 1 L yndon Powell resigned from the Committee on leaving the Board on 20 May 2015 and this will be operational in 2016.
A key improvement was the attended two Committee meetings prior to his retirement from the Board.
advancement of Ophirs incident management framework.
On 30 April 2016, Nicholas Smith will retire from the Board and Our environmental record in 2015 was excellent, with zero willbe succeeded by Bill Schrader as Chairman of the Company.
Our operations are environmentally compliant Onthat date Bill Schrader will resign as the Chairman of the with local regulations and industry best practice.
Corporate Responsibility Committee but remains a member of thisCommittee.
Dr Carol Bell joined the Corporate Responsibility The security and safety of our staff and contractors is strongly Committee on 27 January 2016 and will replace Bill Schrader linked to our Ophir Values and I am pleased to say we asChairman with effect from 30 April 2016. experienced no Lost Time Incidents and only two minor recordable injuries classed as TRIRs over the year.
The Company Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer have an open invitation to attend all Committee In 2015 Ophirs community project efforts expanded in a number meetings as guests.
In addition, the Companys Director of HR, of areas.
We operate these programmes in all jurisdictions and General Counsel & Company Secretary, Corporate Responsibility are compliant with local requirements.
Ophir is well aware of its Manager and the Director of Security and Surface Risk are invited continuing need to maintain its licence to operate as well as the toattend each meeting to present their reports to the Committee.
importance of supporting sustainable initiatives to increase local Other senior members of staff and external advisors may be invited capacity and opportunities.
54 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information In March 2015 the acquisition of Salamander Energy was an Role and responsibilities of the Corporate important event for the Company and the integration of the  Corporate Responsibility systems and procedures of the two The Committee is responsible for evaluating the effectiveness of the entities has been one of the major undertakings the Committee Groups policies and systems for managing health and safety, the has overseen in 2015.
Immediately following the acquisition, environment, security, community projects and business ethics, including Ophircarried out a comprehensive gap analysis covering the human rights and matters relating to equality and diversity and nontwoorganisations.
It was evident that Salamander had robust financial risks across the Groups operations.
The Committees revised Corporate Responsibility systems in place and developed full Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website noticeable strengths in its social licence to operate.
com about-us corporate-governance year we have been able to effectively implement Ophirs business board-committees .
ethics and compliance policies and standards across all assets.
TheCommittee is pleased to report that the culture of the two organisations has been aligned successfully and we will continue to focus our efforts in this area to maintain the positive momentum we have achieved.
The Committee ensured that Ophir continued to maintain the highest ethical performance in its activities during 2015.
The Code of Conduct was enhanced early in the year and a comprehensive employee engagement survey was carried out to help measure how well the Ophir values were being applied across the business.
In order to demonstrate compliance and continuous improvement in the areas of Corporate Responsibility, the Committee has supported the development and implementation of the highest standards measured using meaningful KPIs.
To ensure the Committee is effective and providing maximum value we reviewour Committee Terms of Reference annually.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to my fellow Committee members for their support, commitment and effectiveness over the past 12 months.
Finally, both the Committee and I would like to recognise the significant contribution Lyndon Powell made over the last seven years as Chairman of this Committee.
Lyndon retired in May 2015 and we wish him well for the future.
Bill Schrader Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman 9 March 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Report of the  continued Corporate Responsibility Committee activities In December 2014 Ophir carried out an independent HSE During 2015, significant progress was made by the Corporate management system gap analysis and the results were analysed Responsibility Committee covering many areas.
The Committees during 2015. key focus and outcomes are set out below: The scope of the study was to carry out a gap analysis of the existing HSE management system and how it stands up against Corporate 2015 Responsibility Corporate Responsibility industry best practice.
function Committee highlights The Corporate Responsibility Committee was presented with the Health No major incidents top quartile TRIR including and Safety the safest-ever Ophir drilling campaign Vantage summary findings: Emerald Driller, Thailand The HSE management is a  Health and safety continuous improvement management system.
developed and introduced a leading indicator system to expand and improve how we measure Further Group-wide implementation is required.
HSE performance Efficiencies and continual improvements can be made.
Business continuity continuous improvement streamlined and updated incident management In response to the gap analysis findings, the newly appointed procedures and training GroupHead of HSE and Operational Excellence will continue to Successful integration of Southeast Asia assets develop and expand corporate-level HSE audit processes.
We are Salamander and Niko Resources acquisitions adopting leading, as well as lagging, indicators this year, and this Environment Zero recordable spills.
All operations compliant willencourage auditing processes.
In addition, Ophir has recently with relevant standards acquired a web-based, real-time HSE management system.
The roll Security Zero security incidents all field operations preceded by risk assessment and security plans out of this system will greatly help to enforce global standards and put in place as appropriate efficiencies, as well as continuing to ensure all parts of the Group Community Supporting successful sustainable initiatives with work using a single integrated HSE management system.
projects local capacities Further information on the Companys approach to Corporate Ethics Ophir Values developed a list of Company Values which were communicated throughout the Group Responsibility and HSE matters can be found in the Corporate Code of Conduct established and deployed across Responsibility report on pages 30 to 38. the Company Employee Engagement 2015 Employee Survey Greenhouse gas emissions Reducing energy consumption and associated emissions of greenhouse gases remains a priority of the Company.
The Groups energy consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions during 2015 are set out on page 32.
