Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Sustainability environmental, economic and social We aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive economic, social and environmental impact on thecommunities in which we operate Pennon Group recognises it has a responsibility to contribute positively towards communities affected by its operations.
In addition to investing in high quality water, waste water and resource recovery services, we create local employment, use local suppliers, provide financial support to community projects and protect and enhance the environment.
Pennons subsidiaries support communities and charities within their operational areas.
In 2014 15 South West Water provided more than 106,000 in community sponsorship and charitable donations.
Surf Lifesaving GB, Cornwall Wildlife Trust, Devon Wildlife Trust, Cornwall Heritage Trust and the South West Coast Path Association were among the organisations to receive funding for various community-focused projects and initiatives.
Viridor distributed 12.8 million of funding in total to environmental, amenity and community projects across the UK, of which 12.6 million was distributed via the Landfill Communities Fund and the remainder by way of sponsorship and charitable donations.
In addition, Pennon, South West Water and Viridor employees fundraise for their preferred charities including WaterAid and the Childrens Air Ambulance.
co. uk 2015 41 Strategic report | Group Sustainability environmental, economic and social Continued Environmental impact South West Water Viridor From sustainable abstraction and award-winning catchment Viridors stated strategic purpose is to give resources new management schemes to the investments made in life and its business strategy clearly focuses on transforming wastewater treatment and the steps taken to reduce waste into quality recycled materials and into essential carbon emissions, South West Water plays a critical role in renewable energy.
This is aligned with key long-term UK and protecting and enhancing the regions natural environment.
global trends in policy, business and customer demand towards greater resource efficiency, energy security and The companys source to sea approach to the associated environmental benefits.
management of water and wastewater favours innovation, the use of sustainable solutions and an emphasis on Recognising the importance of stewardship, since partnership working to deliver positive outcomes for the 2008 Viridor has also sought to restore and manage its regions ecosystems and habitats.
substantial landholdings notably at closed landfill sites in accordance with the Wildlife Trusts Biodiversity Benchmark As one of the three pillars of South West Waters strategy, Scheme BBS.
an overview of the companys Pure Environment vision is covered in the Chief Executives strategic review, on The BBS provides a framework within which an organisation page 18.
This section of the report includes information on can ensure that its impact is as positive as it possibly can progress made with Upstream Thinking, the companys be by providing robust, independent verification of planning catchment and water storage programme: bathing and implementation of land management practices.
The water quality: pollution prevention: and wastewater benchmark is a standard for assessing and certifying an treatment standards.
organisations systems for achieving continual biodiversity protection and enhancement on its landholdings and the implementation of those systems.
By the end of 2014 Viridor had a total of six sites that had achieved and retained the Biodiversity Benchmark.
These include sites of notable habitat importance such as two heathland restorations Tatchells and Warmwell in Dorset and a grassland restoration Beddingham in Sussex.
Viridor currently has the fourth highest number of BBS sites in the UK and is the leading company in its sector for BBS certifications.
It has set itself a target of achieving three further accreditations, in line with its five year biodiversity plan.
42 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Economic impact South West Water Viridor Through the services it provides, the people it employs and Viridors committed investment programme totalling the suppliers it commissions, South West Water plays a 1.5 billion in energy recovery and materials recycling large and vital role in the regional economy.
facilities included 242 million of capital investment in growth projects in 2014 15.
During the year 217 million The company has around 1,400 employees, including was invested in vital energy recovery infrastructure and engineers, scientists, customer service advisers, office staff 25 million was invested in leading-edge glass and plastics and other skilled workers.
It also supports a further 6,000 recycling facilities at Newhouse and Rochester.
jobs in the wider economy through the use of contractors and other third party labour and support services.
These projects continue to create significant direct and indirect employment and training opportunities, including With around eight million visitors to the region annually, construction jobs and supply chain opportunities.
As tourism is a significant industry which relies on a safe projects move from construction into operational phases, and healthy environment.
The company is committed to long-term relationships are built with local companies delivering improvements to reduce its environmental impact, supplying services and contracts, which benefit the and this year has focused on delivering bathing water local economy.
improvements ahead of new standards in 2015.
As an example, businesses in and around Glasgow have South West Water continues to operate a mixed economy already accessed 16 million in contracts and are set to supply chain model that uses smaller specialist companies benefit from 9 million more due to the construction of alongside larger strategic partners.
A culture of innovation Viridors Glasgow Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre and sharing of best practice is encouraged, not least through GRREC in Polmadie.
Small and medium-sized enterprises the companys supplier forum and annual supplier awards.
SMEs and social enterprises are being encouraged to take advantage of the opportunities on offer via a series of South West Water provides dedicated and essential services business breakfasts and capacity building sessions in the to the regions 74,000 business and other non-household local community.
The GRREC facility, incorporating recycling, customers and therefore has a crucial role to play in the anaerobic digestion and gasification technology, is due to be success of the local economy.
This is underpinned by a completed in 2016. focus on helping individual customers make the best use of the water they pay for, ensuring they receive a level of service tailored to their needs and maintaining a reliable service with minimal disruption.
The companys economic impact is set to expand with the opening of the non-household retail market in 2017, which will present opportunities for growth outside the South West.
co. uk 2015 43 Strategic report | Group Sustainability environmental, economic and social Continued Social impact South West Water South West Water aims to have a positive impact on the people and communities it serves.
In addition to the social benefits that stem from its operational and service improvements, the company prides itself on being a good neighbour and conducting itself in a socially responsible way.
This includes support for recreation and leisure activities at its reservoirs through the South West Lakes Trust, an independent charity : the provision of opportunities for members of the public to visit operational sites: and support for education by providing educational content, work experience opportunities and talks for various schools, colleges and higher education centres around the region.
The company sponsored Keep Britain Tidys Beach Care project and employees were also encouraged to participate in a series of volunteer days which included beach cleans and support work at the CHICKS retreat on Dartmoor, which provides respite breaks for disadvantaged children.
Through its speaker network, South West Water provided 28 presentations to schools and 11 talks to various community groups and organisations.
Over 200 customers were given a chance to explore behind the scenes at Brokenbury Waste Water Treatment Works in Brixham, Pynes Water Treatment Works in Exeter and Roadford Dam as part of the national Heritage Open Days initiative.
South West Waters customer caravan also attended a variety of events such as county shows and festivals, offering a one-stop shop for customer advice and support.
South West Water recognises that some customers struggle to pay their bills.
The company offers a range of advice and support services and was among the first to roll out a social tariff to support the most vulnerable customers.
Further information on affordability can be found on page 17.
44 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements The company will continue to offer and utilise its education Viridor programmes and activities for maximum community benefit A new community strategy has been adopted setting out and engagement.
This will include ensuring community Viridors commitment to delivering lasting community benefit access, quality, consistency and the sharing of best practice and to meeting community priorities in service areas.
The throughout the Viridor visitor centres and educational strategy has been developed following consultation with its activities.
This commitment is demonstrated at new community stakeholders and therefore reflects the views and interactive centres at its Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs in priorities of the communities in which Viridor operates, and Cardiff and Ardley, and via its Go4SET flagship educational of which it is part.
Clear progress was recognised with the partnership with the Engineering Development Trust award of a three star ranking in Business in the Communitys in Scotland.
This is a rigorous and robust benchmarking tool which has helped hundreds Viridor also offers structured and transparent programmes of community investment, linked to the companys core of companies measure and manage the progress they are making to integrate responsible business practice into their business.
Such activities include an annually reviewed programme of targeted charitable giving and sponsorship, mainstream business at all levels.
For Viridor, the award marks a further milestone in its drive Viridors achievement of a three star ranking in Business towards sustainability.
The three star ranking two stars in in the Communitys CR Index recognises strong company 2013 14 also recognises the companys significant progress progress in relation to the business considering social and in a broad range of key areas including procurement, environmental issues when making strategic decisions partnerships, people, health, safety, energy, and such as investments, research and development, selection environmental management.
of business partners and addressing the priorities of the Feedback indicates that community stakeholders communities in which Viridor operates.
Moreover, Viridor was priorities and expectations of Viridor are broadly in areas recognised for moves to link executive directors and senior of employment, training and apprenticeships: community managers remuneration and bonuses to CR objectives and funding: youth opportunities including education and sport : targets, and for providing relevant CR training for employees, and reducing the risk of potential local impacts from Viridor senior managers and board members.
operations such as traffic, noise and odour.
Among its strategic community objectives, Viridor commits to be a good neighbour at all of its operational facilities through the maintenance of quality operations and services, and via high levels of compliance and community engagement.
It aims to apply similar principles and standards of customer care to community stakeholders as it does for its customers.
VIRIDOR STREET TREES, MANCHESTER Viridor Street Trees is Viridors flagship sponsorship project in its Northern region.
As part of the partnership with the environmental charity Red Rose Forest, launched in 2011, Viridor seeks to reward its key recycling customers in Greater Manchester and the North West by helping them to give something back to their local communities.
The partnership also supports the Governments national tree planting campaign, The Big Tree Plant, which saw one million trees being planted in the UK over the past five years.
Individual trees between three and eight metres tall are planted on residential streets, with a plaque or marker to recognise the support of Viridor, Red Rose Forest and the recycling customer.
Where practicable, these projects are undertaken in the vicinity of the recycling customers business activities, maximising awareness for Viridor and its customer.
co. uk 2015 45 Strategic report | Group Sustainability environmental, economic and social Continued We aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that contribute to climate change and we develop climate change adaption strategies 1 Pennon Group Plc greenhouse gas emissions tCO e 2 2014 15 2013 14 Scope 1 1,105,242 1,069,257 Scope 2 148,917 136,536 Scope 3 56,966 55,691 Total gross emissions 1,311,125 1,261,484 Green tariff electricity offset 1,018 0 Exported renewable energy reduction up to total amount of electricity 147,899 136,536 purchased and consumed by organisation Total annual net emissions 1,162,208 1,124,948 Biogenic emissions outside of scopes 1,214,455 1,089,605 Intensity measure: tCO e gross scope 1 2 100,000 revenue 92 tCO e 100,000 91 tCO e 100,000 2 2 2 revenue revenue Scope 1 direct emissions Activities owned or controlled by our Quantification and reporting organisation that release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for We have followed the Governments environmental reporting example the combustion of fuels in company owned and controlled guidelines for mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting stationary equipment and transportation, emissions from site based published by DEFRA in June 2013.
In calculating our emissions we processes and site based fugitive emissions.
have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and the web based conversion Scope 2 indirect emissions Emissions released into the factors provided by DEFRA.
atmosphere associated with our consumption of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
These are indirect emissions Organisational boundary that are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources As explained above, the emissions listed here cover the Pennon we do not own or control.
Group of companies using the financial control approach, with the exception of Viridor, which uses the equity share approach.
Scope 3 other indirect emissions Emissions that are a consequence of our actions, which occur at sources that we do not Operational scopes own or control and that are not classed as Scope 2 emissions.
We have measured our Scope 1 and 2 emissions and certain Scope 3 emissions where information is available.
Notes Intensity measurement Change in emissions We have chosen an intensity measure of Scope 1 and 2 gross Our overall net emissions increased by 3.3% between 2013 14 and emissions in tCO e per 100,000 revenue.
2 2014 15, largely as a result of the addition of Viridors new Energy External assurance statement Recovery Facilities that became fully operational during the course Our greenhouse gas emissions data has been independently verified of the year.
We also calculated a marginal increase in our emissions by Strategic Management Consultants who tested the assumptions, intensity measure of tCO e 100,000 revenue as a result of the 2 methods and procedures that are followed in the development Groups emissions growing at a faster rate than its revenue.
of the reported data and audited that data to ensure accuracy Methodology and approach and consistency.
We have modified the methodology we use for calculating our Carbon offsets emissions for 2014 15 by adopting the equity share approach for We rely on self-generated renewable energy to reduce our overall Viridor companies.
Under the Environmental Reporting Guidelines Scope 2 emissions.
We supplement this with power purchase published by the Department for Environment and Rural Affairs in contracts from third party renewable energy suppliers through June 2013, the equity share method reflects the extent of the rights private wire arrangements where opportunities exist near our sites.
a company has to the risks and rewards from an operation based on its equity interest.
For Viridor, this means that emissions from Renewable energy export joint venture operations can be accurately attributed to the company Pennon Group self-generates more electricity than it uses and much in proportion to the percentage of Viridors equity holding.
The of its renewable electricity generation is exported to the grid.
We remaining companies within the Group continue to use the financial account for this exported renewable electricity in our net emissions control approach.
This is the conventional method for parent measure where we subtract emissions credits up to the limit of our companies and subsidiaries within a group that have the ability to gross volume of Scope 2 emissions.
direct financial and operating policies and retain the majority of the organisations risk and rewards.
In order to maintain comparability between reporting years, we have rebased our 2013 14 reportable emissions to reflect the equity share methodology for Viridor.
1 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
46 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements South West Water Viridor South West Water continues to focus on reducing its carbon Viridors 2020 goal is to reduce its carbon footprint by 35% emissions through a combination of asset optimisation, from a 2013 baseline.
This is particularly challenging for the renewable energy generation and energy-saving initiatives.
company as it continues with a programme of wind-down and aftercare in the operating landfill business while bringing Overall energy use for 2014 15 at 260.68 GWh was a fleet of ERFs into operation.
Recycling facilities are also marginally lower than the previous year 2013 14 264.5GWh energy intensive.
despite the drier than average summer in 2014 which increased the need for energy-intensive water pumping.
The increase in emissions between 2013 14 and 2014 15 Although South West Water recorded a reduction in its is primarily as a result of the addition of new ERFs that energy usage, the companys carbon emissions rose became fully operational during 2014 15.
This was largely as a result Viridors landfill operations decreased between 2013 14 of an increase in the Governments electricity grid average and 2014 15. emissions conversion factor which is used to calculate Key trends in Viridors operational carbon footprint include: emissions from electricity usage.
recycling and energy consumption the companys Renewable energy usage during 2014 15 was 18.5 GWh, aspiration is to become 20% more efficient than its an improvement on the companys output from the previous 2013 baseline in terms of the fossil fuel-based energy year 2013 14 17.4 GWh.
A number of renewable energy used, and Viridor continues to lead the sector in the installations were taken offline for essential maintenance implementation of the ISO 50001 Energy Management during 2014 15.
The improvements made to these sites, Standard.
As Viridor continues to invest in recycling along with investment in new installations, means the technology, its energy consumption, mainly electricity, has company is now able to generate 25 GWh around 10% of continued to grow.
Although energy intensive for Viridor, its annual energy needs.
the displacement of virgin materials in manufacturing Furthermore, South West Water is building links with supply chains with recycled material contributes to a number of third party renewable energy providers in significant reductions in embodied carbon across product order to increase the proportion of energy it draws from lifecycles although of course outside reporting scopes renewable sources.
transport emissions road and rail these continue to be reduced through fleet management activities and greater use of rail movements where possible landfill the largest contribution to Viridors carbon footprint, these continue to decline as inputs reduce, biodegradable waste is diverted and sites close energy generation ERF and anaerobic digestion although biogenic emissions over 60% of ERF inputs are out of scope, with an increasing fleet of ERFs this will continue to become a more significant proportion of the companys carbon footprint.
Measured using tCO e per tonne of waste input, ERF treatment delivers a 2 step-change improvement over landfill in the long term.
co. uk 2015 47 Strategic report | Group Sustainability environmental, economic and social Continued We aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention and resource efficiency Renewable energy generation GWh Viridor South West Water 2010 11 752 13.8 Pennon is delivering solutions for society to address the environmental challenge of depleting natural resources by 2011 12 760 14.7 maximising the value of residual materials, transforming 2012 13 820 19.3 waste and improving energy efficiency.
2013 14 778 17.4 2014 15 933 18.5 South West Water recycling volumes Viridor recycling volumes traded tonnes of dry solids million tonnes 2010 11 2010 11 52,400 1.7 2011 12 54,612 2011 12 1.8 2012 13 45,304 2012 13 1.9 2013 14 34,918 2013 14 1.8 2014 15 41,300 2014 15 1.7 South West Water Viridor Resource efficiency is critical to the success of South West Viridor works closely with its clients and with communities Waters operations.
First and foremost, the company does to help educate and inform residents and businesses everything it can to make the best use of the raw water it about waste prevention and best practice in recycling and treats and then distributes.
The companys achievements in resource efficiency.
this area, which include 18 consecutive years without water In Greater Manchester, an updated communications plan for restrictions, are covered in the Chief Executives strategic 2015-2018 has been developed to drive behavioural change review on page 16. and increase recycling.
The communications plan will be Where appropriate, the company favours the use of focused strongly on campaigns, education programmes and innovation and new technologies to deliver an efficient use online support communications to enable waste prevention of resources.
This spans everything from the implementation and higher levels of recycling in targeted residential areas.
of remote technologies to better manage assets and These activities are all based on auditable, tested and employees to the adoption of low-cost sustainable proven techniques, including extensive EU-funded activities techniques in areas such as urban wastewater management conducted between Viridor and its partner local authorities Downstream Thinking.
The companys K6 investment that have further established best practice in this area.
The programme includes a new water treatment works for programme includes the ongoing and award-winning Right Plymouth and its surrounding area, which will use less Stuff, Right Bin campaign.
energy and chemicals than its traditional counterparts.
This In Somerset, Viridor has closely supported The Somerset will be achieved through the use of cutting edge treatment Waste Partnerships ongoing waste awareness campaigns, technologies that were piloted during K5.
aimed at raising participation and quality levels in recycling There are inevitable by-products of South West Waters schemes.
This has included a widely recognised incentive operations and the company does its best to recycle and scheme to encourage people to bring waste electrical reuse where this is feasible.
Sludge is recycled for use and electronic equipment WEEE items to Household as fertiliser on agricultural land.
Strict regulations on this Waste Recycling Centres HWRCs, and has also included practice continue to be adhered to.
South West Water also establishing an award-winning and successful reuse shop works with its contractors to ensure that any waste materials at Priorswood HWRC.
This programme continues to be from construction work are recycled or disposed of in a supported and augmented by the Carymoor Environmental responsible way.
Education Centre of which Viridor is the major sponsor, which delivers a model of excellence for environmental and waste awareness programmes for schools and community groups.
With regard to Viridors own waste awareness, prevention and recycling programme, recycling systems have been established at 21 of its biggest sites.
Roll-out to further sites will begin later in 2015.
48 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic South West Viridor Group Governance Financial overview Water statements Energy efficiency at Pennon Group The Group has large energy requirements so energy efficiency plays a key role in reducing costs.
In addition to its large-scale energy business, Viridor is keen to promote energy efficiency internally and last year invested in a low-energy lighting solution.
This has slashed energy consumption from illumination across 26 sites.
As well as saving money, boosting light quality and reducing maintenance requirements, Viridors investment in new LED lighting has further advanced its overall commitment to improving resource efficiency and will be paid back within just two years.
Moreover, the company is planning a second phase of the project to install further low energy lighting across 10 of its sites in Manchester.
Renewable energy generation by South West Water, primarily for its own use, continues to grow through a combination of wind, hydro, solar and combined heat and power.
20% of the power needs for Restormel water treatment works the largest water treatment works in Cornwall were met using renewable energy during 2014 15.
In-house energy-saving initiatives and the promotion of energy efficiency in the workplace also play their part.
Like Viridor, South West Water is moving to LED lighting, with installation at the companys headquarters due for completion in the coming year.
