Strategic report | Group Customer and stakeholder satisfaction We aim: to engage with all stakeholders and foster good relationships with them to be a good neighbour, and consult with our stakeholders in order to understand and respond to their priorities.
South West Water Viridor From the efforts made to reduce the impact of construction Viridor provides high quality recycling, recovery and waste or roadworks on local communities to the steps taken to management services to over 100 local authorities and provide information in a proactive and easily understandable over 32,000 customers across all sectors throughout the way, South West Water strives to improve the relationships it UK.
An increasing proportion of our customers continue to has with its customers and stakeholders.
Progress made in seek a zero waste to landfill service and to maximise waste the Pure Service pillar of the companys strategy is covered reduction, recycling and recovery from their own waste in in the Chief Executives review, on page 17.
Of particular a cost effective manner.
The company looks to form close note is the significant increase in the companys customer partnerships with its clients and continuously improve its satisfaction score, a result of operational improvements and services to meet their aspirations.
a focus on improving the customer experience.
Viridors customers want assurance of a reliable and quality South West Water continues to build relationships with local service, financial integrity and high standards of compliance.
communities through a number of  Increasingly they require both detailed auditing and reporting initiatives delivered alongside local councils, housing of resource and carbon management practices and a associations, voluntary organisations and carers commitment to ongoing improvement and engagement as associations.
In specific areas of economic deprivation, part of their own supply chains.
Viridor is pleased to be able community engagement events and face-to-face to continue to offer a progressive and collaborative approach activities are used to provide a platform for engaging with to service and sustainability in these challenging times.
This helps to Viridors achievement of a three star rank in Business in the ensure they are receiving the right advice and support on Communitys annual benchmark of responsible business, issues such as water efficiency, overdue payments and the Corporate Responsibility Index see page 45, marks benefits entitlement.
a further milestone in its drive towards productive and sustainable partnerships with community stakeholders.
REGULATORS AND POLICYMAKERS BOTH SOUTH WEST WATER AND VIRIDOR ENGAGE ACTIVELY WITH ENVIRONMENTAL AND REGULATORY STAKEHOLDERS AND TRADE ASSOCIATION BODIES.
FURTHER INFORMATION CAN BE FOUND IN THE RESPECTIVE STRATEGIC REVIEWS OF THE SOUTH WEST WATER AND VIRIDOR CHIEFEXECUTIVES ON PAGES 19 AND 27.
40 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2015
