Corporate responsibility A safe, ethical, responsive business that is driven to deliver Good engineers have consummate technical ability, but great engineers are also aware of the political, social and economic environment in which they work.
A disciplined approach to corporate responsibility is therefore an important competitive strength for Petrofac.
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive What matters most to our stakeholders Petrofac materiality matrix and issues for 2015 How we report: Over the past few years we have engaged with a range of internal and external stakeholders to Information on the issues listed can identify the corporate responsibility CR issues that are most relevant to our business.
In 2015, be found in the sections shown below.
we repositioned some of these issues based on further stakeholder feedback during the year.
Environmental incidents management B. In-country value B.
Supplier and contractor mgmt H A C. Human rights E. Major accidents process safety Environmental Ethics H. Trade sanctions E. Worker safety fatalities protection P66 H. Revenue and E. Contractor safety P64 tax transparency and management C. Worker welfare F. Emergency preparedness G B G. Diversity and equality People and Economic H. Bribery and corruption resourcing performance H. Ethical conduct P56 P62 H. Governance C E F B.
Energy and climate C. Social licence to operate Social Safety, A.
Water management change C. Industrial relations disputes performance asset integrity A. Legacy soil A.
Waste management F. Security risks P59 and security contamination A.
Materials G. Learning and development P52 C. Indigenous populations A. Biodiversity habitat protection G. Succession and career planning C. Land acquisition and D. Well-being and H. Whistleblowing resettlement stress management C. Social investment D. Disease prevention community investment Key: Issues by group A Environmental protection B Economic performance C. Employee volunteering C Social performance G. Employee retention D Health G. Employee recruitment E Safety F Security Low Medium High G People and resourcing Importance to Petrofac H Eth ics Key Changed position Same position as 2014 Emerging issue 50 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Importance to external stakeholders Low Medium High Strategic report In 2016, we will also increase the quality and volume of CR reporting at www.
com At Petrofac, we believe that sustained commercial success and a commitment to corporate responsibility CR go hand-in-hand.
More specifically, we see that our CR capability helps us to: Maintain strong employee engagement Build productive relationships Bid for challenging projects Optimise the performance of our assets Manage our risks During 2015, we continued to formalise our approach to CR, with more rigour and improved reporting standards.
Progressively raising our reporting standards To bring more discipline to our CR programmes, we continue to work towards the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G4 guidelines.
As a commonly used framework for reporting on social, environmental and governance matters, the GRI guidelines help us to: At Hassi Messaoud training facility, more than 850 Algerians have been trained Identify and address the material issues that matter the since 2010.
See page 63 for more information.
most to our stakeholders including investors, clients, staff and NGOs Based on this work, we have developed an authoritative materiality Prioritise areas for improvement and track our progress matrix.
To give us a balanced view and take account of changing over time stakeholder attitudes, this is updated on an annual basis.
It is used Benchmark our performance against our peers by the Leadership Team and the Board to inform our management approach to CR.
It is also used by the wider business to help improve In 2016, we will also increase the quality and volume of CR the quality of our CR programmes and feed through to our reporting.
Improving our performance and providing Understanding what matters most to our stakeholders a fuller picture For the past few years, we have worked to develop our reporting in We also conducted a benchmarking and good practice review line with stakeholder and investor expectations.
of our 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
In this, we compared our CR reporting with the reporting from several of our peers, The process dates back to 2012 when, working with representatives and identified several opportunities for improvement.
from across our business, we identified those CR topics we believed to be most relevant.
Drawing on this analysis, we will continue to raise our standards.
For example, we have refined our reporting around social performance, In subsequent years, we conducted a series of in-depth interviews ethics and environmental performance.
with several of our most important stakeholders including clients, suppliers, investors, NGOs, government representatives and industry associations.
These enabled us to validate our initial assumptions and understand changing expectations.
In 2015, we continued the process.
For example, we engaged with several external stakeholders in the Middle East, enabling us to understand those issues that are most relevant in our key geographies.
We also engaged with a number of large institutional investors to understand more fully the views of large shareholders.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 51 Corporate responsibility continued Safety, asset integrity and security Safety, asset integrity and security are fundamental Highlights include: disciplines for Petrofac enabling us to protect our people, our clients and the communities we 20 million LTI-free man-hours and the Best Contractor Safety work in, as well as the assets we design, build, Initiative award at the Upper Zakum, UZ750 field development in operate and maintain.
Abu Dhabi 28 million LTI-free man-hours across all of our Offshore Projects As we shift the emphasis of our business, and undertake the & Operations OPO projects across Middle East, North Africa construction phase of many large new projects, we are taking steps and the Commonwealth of Independent States to maintain our safety performance.
We continue to enhance our 15.5 million LTI-free man-hours and an HSSE award for the well-established programme of health, safety, security, environment second consecutive year at the Kuwait Oil Company KOC and integrity assurance HSSEIA measures.
Pipelines project 8 million LTI-free man-hours at the Satah Al Razboot package Safe a core Petrofac value SARB3 project off the coast of Abu Dhabi Reflecting on our safety performance 5 million LTI-free man-hours at the Sohar refinery project in Oman Across Petrofac, our aspiration is for zero safety incidents, as 9 years without a single LTI at the Point of Ayr Gas Terminal in reflected in the name of our Horizon Zero global safety campaign.
the UK 5 million LTI-free man-hours at the Gdansk shipyards in Poland We are proud to say that, much of the time, we do live up to 1 million LTI-free man-hours on the Berantai operations in Malaysia this goal and, in 2015, we were able to recognise several 4 years without a single LTI for Petrofac Training Services encouraging developments.
In terms of our actual performance, an important measure is what Despite a busier year for Petrofac when the number of man-hours we term HiPos, or incidents that could have resulted in a fatality or worked increased by almost 60% to 183 million, we nonetheless serious injury had the situation been slightly different.
Compared achieved a reduction in High Potential HiPos and Lost Time with 2014, the number of HiPos recorded reduced from 77 to 58.
And, across many of our operations, we have now gone a considerable length of time without a single LTI reported.
We measure our wider safety performance according to the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA rules.
In every category, the results were encouraging: Total man-hours worked million Million man-hours completed by employees and subcontractors Our recordable incident frequency rate remained level at 0.16 per 160 2013 200,000 man-hours.
This is well below the industry norm of 0.31 as extrapolated from the figures published by the International 115 2014 Association of Oil and Gas Producers.
183 2015 Our LTI frequency rate was 0.019 per 200,000 man-hours, compared with a rate of 0.044 in 2014.
Again, this compares Lost time frequency rate well with the industry norm of 0.072 as extrapolated from the per 200,000 man-hours International Association of Oil and Gas Producers figures.
0.046 2013 The driving incident frequency rate was 0.34 per million kilometres driven.
This is down from a rate of 0.58 in 2014.
0.044 2014 In January 2016 the International Association of Oil and Gas 0.019 2015 Producers published a report of vehicle accident rates in the oil and gas industry.
Petrofac is currently reviewing this data Recordable incident frequency rate to establish if this can be used as an appropriate external per 200,000 man-hours performance benchmark.
0.14 2013 We are pleased to report that, for the second consecutive year, 0.16 2014 no fatalities were recorded at any of our operations.
0.16 2015 Driving incident frequency rate incidents per million kilometres driven 0.02 2013 0.58 2014 A c alculation error in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts resulted in the vehicle accident rate being quoted per 200,000 kms rather than the correct and stated per 0.34 2015 1,000,000 kms.
The figure of 0.58 is correct on the per million kilometres basis.
52 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report During the year we established and began to implement a new Control of Work Standard, which covers construction, maintenance, demolition, remediation and other such aspects of safety control.
Strengthening our safety culture Making our Golden Rules of Safety accessible When a company enjoys a good safety record, complacency and understandable can sometimes set in.
Throughout 2015, we therefore sought Our analysis reveals that, in more than 75% of our reported HiPos to maintain a strong safety culture and to prepare the Company in 2015, the root cause is a failure to observe our Golden Rules for a progressive increase in the number of man-hours due to be of Safety.
As in previous years, we therefore worked hard to raise worked in 2016 and beyond.
awareness of these Rules and their importance.
For example: For example, the executive leadership team and the Board We continued to roll-out our Golden Rules of Safety e-learning shifted the focus of our internal safety reporting from LTIs to HiPos.
Using clear illustrations and graphics, this clearly The intention was to emphasise those near misses that could articulates the Rules and our expectation that they should have had the most serious consequences.
In each case, we always be followed.
By the end of 2015, this had been provide details on the circumstances, the mitigating actions and completed by 880 employees.
We sought to make the Rules more accessible and understandable to all onsite personnel, irrespective of their native language In a similar spirit, we added three new leading indicators to our or level of literacy.
Using vivid pictograms, we created a suite safety reporting, namely: of materials, including posters, reference cards and pictorial learning guides.
The number of leadership visits to site The extent of active monitoring of safety on site The effectiveness of closing-out actions intended to improve Confined space Management safety at site entry of change Experience suggests that these measures can have a direct impact Ground disturbance Lifting operations on our safety performance.
So, by routinely monitoring and reporting on them, we can become more proactive in our approach.
Energy isolation Permit to work Meanwhile, in gearing up for a progressive increase in construction projects, our OEC business ran a Safety Seven campaign, comprising seven key initiatives intended to contribute to its Driving safely Working at heights safety performance namely contractor management initiatives such as: our Contractor Safety Forum: our HSE Boot Camp training programme: Supervisor Competency Assessments: our Stop, Think, Evaluate, Perform STEP programme: our Keeping our entire policy framework relevant Short Service Employee SSE programme: the roll-out of HSE and consistent Management software: and the implementation of the Petrofac During 2015, we conducted a root and branch review and Assurance Index PAI system.
refresh of our entire Health, Safety, Security and the Environment HSSE Framework, covering each of its constituent policy documents, namely: Health and Safety Policy Environmental Policy Security Policy Asset Integrity Policy For each of these, we ensured the content was up to date, compliant with current regulatory requirements, and consistent.
The new Framework is due for roll-out in 2016.
We also established and began to implement a new Control of Work Standard, which covers construction, maintenance, demolition, remediation and other such aspects of safety control.
The Petrofac delegation, including Andy Nickerson HSSE Director of our OEC service line and Mohamed Shanan Project Director of KOC Pipelines, receives the award from the KOC CEO, Hashem S. Hashem.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 53 Corporate responsibility continued Empowering our most senior people to lead by example Across the Group, we are responsible for managing and assuring When it comes to safety, we expect all of our senior executives the integrity of 21 operating assets, and we seek to apply the to lead by example.
For example, during 2015: underlying principles across all of our operations.
We continued to emphasise the importance of site visits by In 2015 we continued to tighten up our everyday processes.
senior managers, and the opportunity for them to reinforce the A particular focus for 2016 will be on the changes we anticipate importance of safety to onsite personnel.
Again, the frequency in the coming years, when several assets may be divested, and of such visits has become a safety performance indicator for several others may come under our control, while key personnel all of our sites.
and roles and responsibility changes are likely.
Experience suggests We once again held our annual safety conference attended that, during times of change, attention to asset integrity can suffer.
by 130 of our most senior leaders, including our Group Chief So, we are working proactively to protect our performance by Executive and all Service Line Managing Directors.
The theme taking action that keeps a focus on asset integrity, and ensures that was emergency response and the event included a live crisis the valuable activities developed over recent years are maintained management exercise.
Extending our commitment to our suppliers and partners A rigorous, consistent process All Petrofac safety policies and procedures apply equally to our Every month, each of our 21 operating assets is obliged to report suppliers and partners as well as our own employees.
To underline against 20 key performance indicators, which are derived from this principle, we held our second annual Contractor Safety Forum the UK Health and Safety Executives guidance on Developing in Sharjah in 2015.
These comprise: Following the success of the inaugural event, we scaled up the Lagging indicators relating to the physical condition of our assets Forum.
It was open to contractors from across our business, and and the status of their respective maintenance programmes we also invited several of our clients, bringing the total delegate Leading indicators relating to the quality of our management numbers to almost 200.
The key aim of the event was to develop processes and the degree of compliance with our Asset Integrity a statement with three clear safety actions for all the companies Management Policy present to take away and implement.
The statement was then signed by each company to demonstrate their commitment.
Drawing on this data, an asset integrity dashboard is published monthly and distributed to more than 100 people across the Sharing best practice across the industry Group.
Additionally, our Asset Integrity Review Board, consisting We continue to share expertise across the industry by collaborating of senior representatives from each operating asset, holds monthly with our peers.
For example, we remain an active member of the teleconferences to review performance, discuss integrity issues UK Oil Response Forum, and the Step Change in Safety initiative, and receive challenge and support from their counterparts.
including its Asset Integrity Steering Group, the Helicopter Safety Steering Group, and the Behavioural Safety Workgroup.
Working quickly to address integrity issues During 2015 we received an Improvement Notice from the UK Health Asset integrity fundamental to our business and Safety Executive regarding the Kittiwake Platform in the UK At Petrofac, we design, build and operate assets that are safe, North Sea.
This related to the failure of small-bore gas tubing due reliable and meet or exceed their specified purpose.
Key to to a combination of vibration and fatigue.
Following completion of this is our Asset Integrity Framework, which enables us to take an action plan, we had complied fully with the requirements by early a structured and consistent approach to integrity across all November, and actively shared the learnings among our design Petrofac operations.
This Framework comprises: teams as well as our operating teams across the Petrofac Group.
Our Asset Integrity Management Policy Seeking continuous improvement Our Asset Integrity Standard, comprising We seek continuously to improve our approach to asset the 12 Elements of Asset Integrity management.
Enhancements in 2015 included: Related guidance documents and a toolkit of supporting processes Updating our Asset Integrity Management Policy as part of a wider review of our HSSE Framework Audit programmes to assure compliance Implementing a Tank Survey Programme performing a and continuous improvement systematic review of the 180 storage tanks that Petrofac operates across the world and establishing improvement programmes 54 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Conducting a series of audits across our portfolio Making technical improvements to our security systems of assets including A focus for 2015 was to improve the quality of our threat assessments, Milestone audits, to assure the integrity of projects taking better account of the diversity in the size and duration of through engineering and construction our respective projects.
As part of this process, we introduced new Operations phase integrity reviews, to assure control access control systems at many of our offices and sites.
As well of hazards and safe operating performance as improving physical security, this has enhanced our related Hull integrity audits of all our marine assets management information.
Establishing an improved understanding of well integrity across all our high consequence wells The process will continue in 2016, as we seek to bring more global Implementing our new Group-wide Asset Integrity consistency and integration to our access control systems.
e-learning package which, by the end of 2015, had been completed by more than 2,000 technical employees Improving maritime security Improving consistency across the Group via new During 2015, we conducted a full review of the security of our standards and guidance documents including issue maritime assets.
This has given us a better understanding of the of Technical Due Diligence Guidance, Operations in Projects related security implications and helps us to monitor our assets in Guidance, Pressure Systems Repair Guidance, Technical compliance with the International Ship and Port Facility Security Authority Standard, and development of new Management ISPS Code.
of Change and Control of Work Standards Conducting monthly project asset integrity status Respecting human rights reporting together with successes and lessons learned Where necessary for example, where we have a contractual shared across all major projects requirement to engage with armed public or private security providers, we conduct security and human rights risk assessments.
Plans for 2016 include: In 2015, we did this in Algeria, Mexico and Tunisia.
Such audits enable us to demonstrate to our clients and other stakeholders Implementing a Pipeline Survey Programme to follow-up that we follow good practice in reducing the risk of inadvertent on the success of 2015s Tank Survey Programme human rights violations.
Revisiting learning from previous incidents and refreshing awareness and vigilance in attention to asset integrity hazards in all areas of our work Security protecting our people and assets Petrofacs security team works closely with the business to protect our people and assets and ensure that our operations proceed smoothly.
In 2015 we continued to enhance our already robust security management systems, reflecting the volatile social and political environments in which we work.
Implementing a stronger security focus in the Middle East and North Africa During 2015, dedicated security specialists were assigned to our North African projects, and our security teams became more closely involved with our operations across the Middle East.
With a stronger regional focus, our security teams have become better informed and more responsive in our core markets.
They are also able to engage more closely with our project teams from the very early stages of business development through to bidding and delivery.
Appointing more local security managers In IES, we implemented a security localisation programme, including the appointment of local country security managers in Malaysia, Mexico and Tunisia.
As well as providing effective security support, the provision of employment opportunities helps us to maintain productive relationships with the communities in which we operate.
Safe is a core Petrofac value.
At many of our projects we have delivered tens of millions of man-hours without a safety incident.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 55 Corporate responsibility continued People and resourcing Petrofac is a people-based business.
Our people, their attitude and their skills are key to our distinctive, delivery focused culture.
By living our values, they set us apart from our competitors, allow us to attract and retain clients, and enable us to earn differentiated margins.
For the next phase of our development, we aim to bring more efficiency, consistency and effectiveness to the way we recruit, develop and manage our people while also enabling and encouraging employees from around the world to progress in their careers.
In a company with such a strong culture, we need everyone to understand and live up to our values.
Our HR teams are therefore working closely with their colleagues from across the business to reflect these values in our recruitment processes, our performance management systems, and our continuous learning programmes.
Our values underpin all that we do and, during the current challenging period, are helping the Company to maintain its The North Kuwait New Distribution Network Project was one of our 2015 EVE Award winners.
focus on disciplined cost containment.
Pursuing a business-focused HR strategy In light of the challenges faced across the oil and gas sector, Throughout the Group, we employ HR professionals with expertise jobs have become scarce and voluntary turnover levels within in a number of disciplines.
They are based in each of our key the industry are thought to have reduced commensurately.
Here locations and, together, they deliver a business-focused HR at Petrofac, voluntary staff attrition measured in terms of those strategy.
The guiding principles include: leaving the Company by choice reduced to around 6% compared with 8.5% in 2014.
Developing all of our people viewing current employees as the natural candidates for tomorrows roles and equipping Adapting to an uncertain business environment them to progress in their careers As covered elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Group is adapting Identifying and developing those with leadership to an uncertain business environment, in which oil prices may potential with effective talent management and succession remain low for a sustained period of time.
There is a renewed planning identifying the next generation of senior leaders and focus on operational excellence and disciplined cost control.
providing the support they need Strengthening our leadership capabilities developing Fortunately for Petrofac and our employees, much of the Group the skills of those responsible for others is well positioned in the most robust segments of the oil and gas Driving high performance cascading consistent and industry and we enter 2016 with our largest ever year-end backlog.
aligned performance measures to enable us to achieve our However, some parts of the business are not so well insulated business plans from lower oil prices, such as our IES operations and also our Attracting and developing the right graduates evolving operations in the UK Continental Shelf UKCS.
So, in effect, our graduate programmes to create a global cohort who are we are now managing two types of businesses: closely networked and highly collaborative Encouraging people to join our journey portraying a The operations concentrated in the Middle East and North Africa consistent employee value proposition that helps us to compete and our centres of excellence in India, which are continuing to see for and retain talent growth but are nonetheless facing increased competitive intensity Getting the HR fundamentals right seeking greater The more cost-constrained operations located elsewhere efficiency, integration, consistency and effectiveness across all our HR activities To reflect these circumstances, the Group has been preparing for a reorganisation, which took effect from early-2016, where the HR In 2015, the total number of employees and long-term contractors team has taken a central role.
As a result, we have had to manage decreased by around 4% to reach 19,000. our cost base tightly and implement reductions in our headcount in a number of locations.
56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report During 2015, we climbed more than 100 places to 174 in the Guardian UK 300 listing, which ranks the countrys most popular graduate employers.
In our UK-based operations, which have been hit particularly visiting the Sharjah office to welcome 2015s graduate intake to hard by falling oil prices, we took the opportunity to establish a the Group by attending an interactive event, which linked via video, UK-wide consultation forum, to act as a conduit for two-way graduates based in Sharjah with those based in Mumbai, Chennai communications with our UK-based employees.
With the decision and Malaysia.
This joined-up approach helps our graduate cohort to reduce our UK headcount, this forum played an important role become closely networked and highly collaborative, accelerates the in employee engagement, under very challenging circumstances.
acquisition of skills, and allows our young professionals to achieve In our other locations, such as Mexico and Malaysia, the business autonomy more quickly.
has also been restructured and reductions in workforce have been implemented.
We are proud that our graduates reflect the level of diversity we enjoy across the wider Group.
They represent almost 50 nationalities A clear focus on growing our own talent and females continue to make up around 20% of the total.
We also In the past, Petrofac typically relied on external recruitment to fill benefit from high levels of retention among the 1,000 graduates key roles.
Now, as part of our HR strategy and our talent management recruited since 2004, the retention rate remains around 70%.
programmes, we want our existing employees to benefit from career progression opportunities that may open up across the Group.
During 2015, we climbed more than 100 places to 174 in the Guardian UK 300 listing, which ranks the countrys most popular With this emphasis on identifying, developing and progressing graduate employers.
our own talent, we aim to be seen as an attractive employer, offering tangible opportunities for career progression and A commitment to continuous learning and development personal development.
Achievements include: Again, the central ethos of our HR strategy is to develop our own people.
We are now regarded as one of the worlds most in demand employers We want to enable all employees to progress professionally.
Back in 2014, we developed an employee value proposition, We also want to help those employees who are responsible encouraging potential job applicants to Join our Journey.
We for others to improve their management and leadership skills.
also introduced a new online recruitment and application-tracking Irrespective of their role or seniority, we want to help our system, designed to improve the experience of potential employees, employees to live the Petrofac values.
streamline our recruitment processes, and bring more rigour to the planning and evaluation of our recruitment advertising.
Individual development We offer a growing range of programmes and resources to help We recognise LinkedIn as a key channel to position ourselves individual employees develop their respective competencies.
Our presence and strength of brand continues to grow and we experience high levels of engagement During 2015, we conducted a review of our e-learning resources, with content on our page.
This contributed to our appearance in order to provide more flexibility for employees and ensure on LinkedIns 2015 list of 100 Most InDemand employers for that programmes developed in one part of the Group can be Europe, the Middle East, and Africa EMEA.
In 2015 we were accessed by colleagues elsewhere.
Going forward, we intend also named, for the second successive year, as one of to implement an integrated, Group-wide learning management LinkedIns top 20 most influential UK brands.
system, which makes better in-house use of the technologies and tools developed by Petrofac Training Services.
This will We are a popular career choice among todays graduates give us more consistent means of identifying training needs, Attracting and developing the right graduates is one of the delivering learning, assessing competence and tracking principles of our HR strategy.
Regrettably, conditions in 2015 forced us to pause our UK Management and leadership development graduate recruitment programmes.
But, elsewhere in the world, As in previous years, we continued to develop the skills of those the graduate programme continued unabated.
In Sharjah for responsible for others.
As well as improving their capabilities, example, our graduate intake for the year was around 140 this helps us to cascade the right behaviours through the people a slight increase from 2014 and, in India, we recruited organisation.
An important component is our Leadership around 90 new graduates.
Excellence Programme, which around 200 of our most senior To reflect our emphasis on graduate recruitment and development, leaders have participated in.
The programme comprises a we brought greater Group-wide alignment to our induction and leadership event, skills modules and alumni workshops.
The Petrofac Academy, which is Another focus for 2015 was to implement and embed our newly located in Sharjah, for example, is becoming responsible for developed Leadership and Management Competency Framework.
continuous learning initiatives across the Group.
In addition, Group Chief Executive Ayman Asfari took the opportunity whilst Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 57 Corporate responsibility continued We set out clearly what we expect of all our managers, A disciplined approach to succession and career planning from first line supervisors right through to our most senior A focus of our HR strategy is to develop the Groups leaders.
The framework covers four dimensions: leadership capabilities.
Driving performance Back in 2014, we conducted a thorough talent review of our Developing people most senior managers, and we continue to review and update Delivering for clients succession plans for all our critical roles.
Being a role model for our values In 2015, we extended our talent reviews further into the organisation, To live up to these expectations, we operate an all-embracing with a focus on emerging talent, focusing on around 1,600 young management and leadership development programme, which professionals.
In doing so, we assessed their progression to date, we call the Petrofac Pathway.
During 2015, 420 managers went and how best to support their future development.
A priority for 2016 is to continue to embed the Petrofac Pathway across the Group, and to support Going forward, we will continue to look at ways to gain more value local offices with its implementation.
from the combined knowledge and experience of our most talented people, such as more internal secondments and appointments.
Forever emphasising the importance of our values The aim is to ensure that we can always place our most effective It is important that all employees understand the importance people into our most important roles.
of the Petrofac values and the role they play in our distinctive, delivery-focused culture.
Global mobility where it makes business sense Wherever possible, Petrofac delivers locally, by employing local Our values are therefore integrated into everything we do and people, working with local partners and developing local capabilities.
we explain their importance to employees at each stage of their However, in some instances, it makes good business sense for us Petrofac career.
This enables everyone to understand what is to facilitate international moves.
expected of them, the behaviours we value, and the contribution they make to the success of their teams.
In addition, our values By mobilising some of our key people, we can supplement local are linked to our Group-wide performance management process skills.
We can also strengthen our global culture and add to the and therefore play a part in setting employee objectives and experience of our managers and leaders.
By drawing on our conducting mid-year reviews and year-end appraisals.
in-house HR expertise, we are able to advise local business leaders, support assignees and follow consistent processes.
This helps us drive a high performance culture across the Group, whilst also maintaining a focus on how our people should work At the end of 2015, around 50 of our employees were covered in partnership with the wider Petrofac team.
by our global mobility programmes.
Given our order backlog, we anticipate an increase in the number of short-term and Each year, we also celebrate employees and teams who embody rotational assignments and expect assignees to be drawn from our values through the EVE Excellence, Values, Energy Awards.
As in 2014, we received around 320 entries from across the Group, demonstrating a significant level of interest and enthusiasm.
An engaged workforce with a sense of ownership Our aim is to monitor formally employee engagement levels across For 2016 we will ensure that our values are even more visible Petrofac.
In the past, we have conducted a biennial employee to employees, at every stage in their career journey, including survey, PetroVoices.
However, given the impending restructure the initial recruitment and induction, and also the learning and of the Group, we chose not to do so in 2015 but will endeavour to development programmes.
reintroduce the survey once the restructuring has been embedded.
Meanwhile, we actively encourage employee share ownership, believing that it builds commitment to the Companys goals and rewards our people for their contribution.
In 2015, 32% of our employees participated in at least one of the Petrofac employee share schemes.
The 2015 EVE Excellence, Values, Energy Award winners.
58 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report In 2015 our spending on social investments amounted to US$3.5 million, contributing to tangible benefits for those we support and also for Petrofac.
Social performance For many of our projects, we have a regulatory, In 2015, we conducted a review of some of our key engineering, contractual or other requirement to manage the procurement and construction EPC contracts to identify areas impact both positive and negative our business where we have contractual requirements and or regulatory may have on the communities where we are active.
responsibility for implementing any elements of social performance.
This is enabling us to identify how social performance is relevant to Where this is the case, we are becoming ever this aspect of our business, and to ensure that it is implemented more rigorous in the way we work with our effectively across all relevant projects.
clients to understand and manage these impacts.
This means we are becoming better able to reduce Integrating social performance into our wider risk and create value for the Company, our clients business processes and neighbouring communities.
During 2015, we continued to raise awareness of social performance issues across the Group and incorporate them into We describe our approach to this as social performance.
For example, social performance considerations are incorporated into: Our management framework Our Social Performance Framework governs how we manage The Petrofac Enterprise Risk Management System PERMS social performance across the Group.
Our Social Performance The risk assessment phase of pre-bidding and bidding Standard and associated guidelines set the expectations and processes in order, for example, to anticipate potential requirements that enable us to meet the commitments set out community relations considerations in the Petrofac Ethical, Social and Regulatory Policy as they relate Our approach to security to understand and address any situations to social performance.
where community relations could constitute a security risk The Social Performance Standard is designed to be consistent For 2016, we will continue to increase the social performance with relevant international standards, such as the International awareness and capability across the Group and continue to Finance Corporation IFC Performance Standards on implement the Framework.
In 2015, as part of a three-yearly review process, we refreshed the Standard and reviewed the related guidelines.
The Framework is significant in four main ways: 1.
I t sets out our minimum expectations and requirements for those contracts where we have a regulatory or contractual accountability for managing social impacts 2.
It provides consistent guidance across the Group on how we have decided to manage the various elements of social performance 3.
It demonstrates to clients our approach to social performance and indicates our related credentials 4.
It indicates to all stakeholders that we have a coherent approach to working in sensitive locations, and are capable of fulfilling internationally recognised social performance requirements Implementing the Social Performance Standard We implement our Social Performance Standard in countries where we are contractually responsible for managing community relations, such as Mexico and Tunisia.
In both of these countries, we have completed social assessments and have mitigation measures in place to address identified issues.
We also have dedicated community relations teams to manage our social performance commitments and engage regularly with our neighbouring communities.
Petrofac supports local fishermen and the mangrove conservation project in Tabasco, Mexico.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 59 Corporate responsibility continued Social investment programmes About our community development initiatives Our social investments fall into two categories: Where we operate assets and are directly accountable for managing social impacts, we implement community Community development spending on initiatives that benefit development programmes.
neighbouring communities in our areas of operation.
They are In recent years, we were particularly active in Mexico, where based on needs assessments to help local communities meet we have been contractually committed to spending 1% of our their long-term priorities.
total annual expenditure on sustainable initiatives 75% of which Strategic corporate giving spending on philanthropic initiatives is cost-recoverable.
With the renegotiation of our Mexican that have altruistic aims but nonetheless contribute to Petrofacs contracts, the level of capital expenditure has reduced and, reputation.
They are managed by our local offices, and are therefore, the amount invested in community development has moving towards a focus on our Group-wide theme of science, decreased from US$3 million in 2014 to US$2.6 million in 2015. technology, engineering and mathematics STEM education.
Our focus is currently on finalising the implementation of existing initiatives as we prepare to work under new contract terms.
In 2015, our spending on these social investments amounted to US$3.5 million.
This was down from US$4.1 million in 2014, Similarly, in Romania, where we are exiting from our operations, in part due to reduced expenditure in Mexico, where we have we have been closing out our existing social investment programme.
been renegotiating our contracts as part of the countrys energy Meanwhile, in Tunisia, we continue to face a challenging social sector reforms.
context, including some instances of civil unrest resulting, for example, in a 37-day shutdown at our Chergui concession Although the amount we spend may have decreased, we believe during 2015, and our investment in community development our approach is becoming progressively more rigorous and therefore initiatives has dropped 27% to US$334,000.
However, as we more effective in contributing to tangible benefits for those we prepare for a future drilling campaign, we remain engaged in an support and also for Petrofac.
For example, we have strategic active community consultation process, and continue to target plans in place for all our IES assets, and a growing number our community investment programmes on improving local of our corporate centres are involved in strategic corporate livelihoods and education.
A recent success in Tunisia was our work with the local agriculture association to invest in an oil press, which is the first on Kerkennah Island.
This allows local farmers to process their olives without the need to transport them to the mainland, resulting in a saving of around 45%.
During the last harvest, the press was used by over 450 farmers, who processed 650 tonnes of olive oil around 40% of the islands total olive production.
About our strategic corporate giving programmes Petrofac has a formal corporate giving strategy, focusing on initiatives that promote STEM education and or improve access to education and employability for young people from marginalised groups.
We believe this focus fits well with our business while addressing global development priorities.
Although guided by a Group-wide strategy, our related programmes are typically selected and implemented at a national or regional level and managed by local offices.
Our strategic corporate giving also covers initiatives intended to enhance employee engagement.
For example, we support matched-funding programmes, and often make donations to charities that are relevant to our employees or are located near to our offices.
One of our community meetings in Mexico.
60 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report Examples include: The Royal Academy of Engineering, UK In the UK, we have a long-standing partnership with the Royal Academy of Engineering and our Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari, is a Fellow of the Academy.
Each year since 2009, we have supported the Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship Programme, which provides funding for graduate engineers to pursue a one-year Masters programme in applied technical roles in the oil and gas industry, and has now benefited 31 fellows.
In 2015, we also extended our support of the Academys STEM Teacher Connectors project, which employs an expanding network of Teacher Coordinators, who provide local STEM teachers with training, resources and networking opportunities.
During the most recent academic year, an estimated 1,100 Some of the graduate engineers from the Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship Programme.
The Kincorth Academy Partnership, Aberdeen During 2015, to become more explicit about our expectations, we For several years, we have enjoyed a partnership with Kincorth updated several areas of our policy framework.
For example, we Academy, a local secondary school in Aberdeen.
We support developed a policy statement on child labour, which states that we will: various projects including STEM outreach programmes, CV writing and interview skills coaching.
Our support involves a mix Not employ anyone under the age of 15 in accordance with the of financial, in-kind and employee volunteering contributions.
ILO Conventions relating to child labour Adhere to minimum age provisions of any national labour laws and regulations which specify a higher minimum working age Managing and monitoring our human rights performance Work with suppliers and contractors to ensure that they comply Petrofacs Ethical, Social and Regulatory Policy prevents us with this policy from engaging in any business activities that could implicate the Company either directly or indirectly in the abuse of human We also updated our Social Performance Standard to reflect our rights or the breach of internationally recognised labour standards.
policy commitments to human rights.
As such, we respect human rights as set out in the United A priority for 2016 is to ensure that Petrofac complies with the Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as well as the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery Act.
In particular, we core conventions of the International Labour Organization ILO.
intend to enhance our due diligence process to demonstrate We also support the United Nations Guiding Principles on our commitment to eliminating the risks of modern day slavery Business and Human Rights.
Most human rights protections are covered in a range of Company policies and standards, such as our Code of Conduct, Social Performance Framework and HR policies.
In line with the GRI G4 reporting requirements, and in response to stakeholder expectations see the materiality matrix on page 50 we continue to recognise the need to: Become more explicit in our reporting on human rights issues Enhance our due diligence in relation to human rights issues, with an emphasis on the concerns that are most relevant to our sector such as the management of large temporary workforces, particularly those working on projects that entail large numbers of contractors and subcontractors Ensure that all related risks are appropriately monitored and managed Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 61 Corporate responsibility continued Economic performance As a global business, Petrofac operates in many Total amount paid to governments in tax different countries and we seek to make a positive and tangible contribution to their respective economies.
US$605m Quantifying and maximising our in-country value 2014: US$720 million Local delivery has always been key to the Petrofac model employing local people, working with local suppliers, and Value of goods and services ordered for developing local capabilities.
key projects in ECOM The concept of In-Country Value ICV seeks to formalise and quantify the net contribution Petrofac makes to the economies US$2.2bn in which we operate.
2014: not reported Across many of our projects, we have started to evaluate our Number of jobs supported at key ECOM impact.
In future years, we aim to become more consistent in the project sites way we set and monitor targets and to share the lessons learnt across the Group.
55,000 Working with local suppliers 2014: not reported Through the procurement of goods and services, we have an important opportunity to contribute to local economies and we always aim to work with local vendors and suppliers.
This enables us to meet our contractual and regulatory obligations regarding Many of these subcontractor jobs are held by local people.
It also helps us to reduce costs and enhance in order to understand the total number of people who are hired relationships with clients and other local stakeholders.
locally, we aim to analyse further and report on the make-up of our subcontractors workforces, as well as the employees at our In 2015, just taking into account the key projects listed on page 37, country offices and other assets.
we purchased more than US$2.2 billion worth of goods and services, more than 25% of which was supplied by vendors located within Examples include: the country of operation.
Investing in Omani content For various reasons, the level of local content varies significantly Petrofac has a strong heritage in Oman dating back to 1988. by country.
For example, in Abu Dhabi, where we are delivering Today, we continue to provide engineering, procurement and projects worth US$4.1 billion, more than 72% of our procurement construction EPC services, and are also extending our local was through locally registered vendors, and the equivalent figure capabilities in engineering consultancy services ECS, which for Saudi Arabia exceeds 66%.
enables us to support the development of local service providers and vendors.
In addition, our recently expanded country office In 2016 we aim to harmonise the way that we gather data relating in Muscat demonstrates our commitment to working as an to local content, which should enable us to report our contributions integral and sustainable part of the Omani market.
We are currently delivering four strategic projects in the Supporting local employment country the Khazzan gas field project, the Yibal Khuff project, We are also working towards gathering consistent data to report the Rabab Harweel Integrated Project, and the Sohar refinery how many jobs are created and sustained on our key projects.
improvement programme with a combined value of more than Our goal is to understand the total number of jobs created, as well US$5 billion.
In partnership with Takatuf Oman, we are also as the ratio between expatriate and local workers to indicate the developing a state of the art vocational training facility to train level of the local content of our workforces.
Omani school-leavers to international standards for careers in the oil field industry.
As of December 2015, just taking into account the key projects At the end of 2015 we directly employed over 600 staff at our listed on page 37, we supported over 55,000 jobs at our project Muscat office and project sites, and more than 40% of them sites.
The vast majority of these, 93%, were through our subare Omani nationals.
In addition, more than 14,500 people contractors, with a smaller number of expatriate and local Petrofac are employed through our contractors and work on our sites, employees and contractors.
many of whom are Omani nationals.
62 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report As required by the government of Oman and in support of our For example: clients respective ICV targets, we report regularly on our ICV spending.
To date, on the four strategic projects mentioned We supported the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative above, we have invested over US$1 billion in ICV.
Of this, 85% EITI, which introduced country-by-country reporting on tax has been spent through local goods and services providers, as and non-tax payments made to governments in respect of well as on supplier development and training support initiatives.
companies extractive activities, and were actively involved in developing the related policies.
The first submissions under Developing local capabilities in Algeria this initiative will be made in 2016.
Building on a 15-year track record in the country, we are In 2015, we continued to contribute to research into the structure currently delivering three major projects in Algeria, with a of business taxation and its economic impact by participating combined value of more than US$3.1 billion namely, the in the OECDs public consultations into tax transparency, the In Salah Gas Southern Fields development, the Alrar Gas issues surrounding base erosion and profit shifting BEPS, Compression plant and the Reggane North Development and other proposed legislative initiatives.
In addition, we have an ongoing engineering services We continue to maintain memberships of a number of industry agreement with the In Salah Gas joint venture, and have groups that proactively participate in the development of future entered into two further strategic agreements with Sonatrach, tax policy and transparency initiatives.
the Algerian state owned energy company.
Our worldwide contribution to public finances In combination, these assignments are benefiting the Algerian total taxes paid economy in several ways.
For example, as of December 2015, The total amount that we pay is not confined to the corporate we employed directly and through third parties over 800 people income tax disclosed within the financial statements.
The total in the country, 56% of whom are Algerian nationals.
Through our tax collected includes payments made in respect of: corporate subcontractors, an additional 6,650 people are employed, 6,000 income taxes, employee and employer taxes and social security of whom are Algerian nationals.
In combination, this equates to payments, VAT and sales taxes and other taxes such as a ratio of over 86% in local content.
withholding, property and other indirect taxes.
The total taxes Meanwhile, on the three major projects mentioned above, collected shows the contribution made by Petrofac in payments we spent a total of US$60 million in 2015 through local vendors.
to governments, so includes those taxes which are borne by In addition, we have invested more than US$7 million in establishing Petrofac, as well as those collected by Petrofac but recoverable a world-class training facility at Hassi Messaoud which, from tax authorities or customers and suppliers.
VAT and sales since 2010, has trained more than 850 local people.
taxes are shown on an accruals basis, which is not expected to be materially different to a paid basis.
Making a significant contribution to public finances Through the taxes we pay, Petrofac makes a significant financial contribution to the public finances of the local economies in which 1 we operate.
Our worldwide tax contribution total taxes paid US$m In 2015, the total amount paid to governments in tax was 912 2013 US$605 million, comprising corporate income tax, employment 720 2014 taxes, other forms of tax and social security contributions.
2015 605 Bringing more transparency to our tax reporting 1 Total taxes collected have not been subject to audit.
Across the world, there are a number of new and proposed initiatives relating to increased transparency of companies reporting on tax arrangements and tax payments, as well as disclosure of tax policy, strategy, governance and risk management.
We are fully supportive of such initiatives and, in many cases, are actively contributing to their development.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 63 Corporate responsibility continued Environmental protection We are committed to operating our business in an To provide an accurate and consistent estimate, we have adopted environmentally responsible manner and aim to the following principles: make continuous reductions to the intensity of the Our emissions data is calculated in line with the principles of the environmental footprint of our global operations.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, produced by the World Resources Institute and In 2015, we continued to bring increased rigour and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development consistency to the way that we measure and manage a globally recognised standard our environmental performance.
Greenhouse gas emissions and our corporate carbon footprint report are based on: Improving consistency across our operations For fuels and electricity use emission factors published by the UK During 2015, we developed a new Group Health, Safety, Security, Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and Environmental HSSE Framework, which brings more rigour For gas flaring The American Petroleum Institutes SANGEA to our existing standards.
With an integrated approach to managing methodology using the chemical composition of the gas HSSE, we also benefit from greater consistency across our operations, For those operations that are jointly owned, we use an equity and become better able to make organisational improvements.
share approach to account for emissions Those operations that are wholly controlled by third parties To support the new HSSE Framework, our Group Environmental are excluded from our reporting Data Reporting Guide as developed in 2014, was rolled-out All Petrofac operational sites are included in this report across the organisation.
The content of this guide is aligned with recognised international reporting standards, such as the To take into account the recently updated Greenhouse Gas Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the Global Reporting Initiative, the Protocol Scope 2 Corporate Accounting guidance, we are Petroleum Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, reporting our emissions using the location-based method.
and the UKs Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Reporting Guidelines.
As well as calculating our own emissions, we also monitor and With an enhanced reporting system, we can monitor and report on air emission data to our clients for the facilities we compare the performance across our operations more accurately, manage on their behalf.
We monitor the compliance of our North and manage and reduce our environmental footprint.
Sea operations in line with the Oslo-Paris Convention standards.
Thanks to our new reporting methodology, Petrofac achieved a In accordance with the European Environmental Emissions disclosure rating of 92 out of 100 for our response to the Climate Monitoring System, we measure: Disclosure Projects CDP climate change questionnaire.
This All discharges of hydrocarbons, heavy metal and radiation rating indicates a comprehensive response to the questionnaire, contamination as well as sound understanding and management of climate All air emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and volatile change-related issues including greenhouse gas emissions organic carbons relevant to the Company.
In addition to greenhouse gas emissions data, we also collect data Our reporting principles and procedures on the waste that leaves our facilities, which is typically segregated, Petrofac discloses greenhouse gas emissions in line with the measured and reported by category.
mandatory GHG reporting requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 Our environmental data collection and analysis enables us to on a voluntary basis.
monitor and improve our energy use and waste management, which helps to minimise our related environmental impact.
In 2014, we commissioned Ricardo-AEA, a specialist consultancy, The data is also made available to various stakeholders to to assure and validate our greenhouse gas emissions data collection demonstrate that we comply with all related requirements, processes.
In 2016, we plan to undertake a more extensive and to show our commitment to environmental protection.
data assurance programme, consisting of field visits to various operations and in-depth surveys of our data collection processes.
Emissions and spill performance We have been monitoring and reporting our carbon emissions since 2008.
In 2015 we saw a slight increase in our carbon emissions.
This was primarily due to an increase in the production of crude oil at our Malaysian operations, and a consequential increase in energy consumption.
64 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report With an enhanced reporting system, we can monitor more accurately and compare the performance across our operations, and manage and reduce our environmental footprint.
We report an intensity metric for our GHG emissions in line with Continuing improvements in our energy efficiency the GHG reporting requirement of the Companies Act 2006, For many years, energy efficiency has been an area of focus for with which we comply on a voluntary basis.
We have chosen the Company, as indicated by a large number of local initiatives.
to use tonnes million US$ revenue as this metric is the most During 2015, we gave the subject more prominence by including representative across the entire business.
it in the Policy Vision of our Environment Policy which is intended to guide all our activities.
Our commitment is demonstrated through the way that our teams Our combined scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions Tonnes of carbon emissions 000 tCO2e often go beyond client requirements as they seek to optimise the energy efficiency of the facilities we design, develop and operate.
285 2013 264 2014 Examples include: 2015 Our operations team at the Santuario field in Mexico identified 281 the potential to use a low energy Electric Submersible Pump Breakdown of the greenhouse gas emissions ESP system for pumping crude oil.
This newly installed system 000 tCO2e consumes around 30% less energy than its predecessor and has the potential to save 1,120Mwh of power per annum.
Year Scope 1 Scope 2 For the analyser package at the Mina Abdulla Refinery project 2013 253 32 for the Kuwait National Petroleum Company, our design team 2014 242 22 saw an opportunity to exceed the clients original energy 2015 260 21 efficiency specifications.
By optimising the number and positioning of analysers used in the project, the new design Greenhouse gas intensity could reduce the associated cooling requirements.
This is set tCO2e per million US$ revenue to save the equivalent of 2,372Mwh of energy per annum.
44.9 2013 At a construction project for the Kuwait Oil Company, our design teams convinced the client to accept several finished grade 42.4 2014 levels for the pipe racks instead of the original plan of achieving 41.0 2015 a single finished grade level.
In doing so, they eliminated the need to dispose of 442,000 cubic metres of soil offsite, thereby In 2015, we participated in the first phase of the UK Governments avoiding thousands of truck trips and saving the associated fuel.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS, and a qualified Lead Assessor was appointed to ensure compliance with the criteria.
Finding new ways to reduce our environmental footprint We continue to raise awareness of environmental issues among We encourage all of our employees and subcontractors to report our employees, and encourage them to implement local initiatives.
even the smallest of oil spills.
During the year, we experienced a Examples from 2015 include: 10% reduction in the total number of spills.
Most of these occurred We introduced smart printing solutions among the 4,000 onshore and involved less than one barrel of hydrocarbon or employees based at our offices in Sharjah, Abu Dhabi, Aberdeen saltwater with traces of oil, and had a minimal environmental impact.
By deploying sophisticated new printers and software, which default to double-sided, black and white printing, Regrettably, we experienced 41 hydrocarbon spills involving we have reduced the use of paper and toner by more than 18%.
One of these took place in Malaysia and At our Pnuco site in Mexico, the local team stopped using a one in Oman, with all of the others occurring in Mexico and solvent-based oil conditioning compound and replaced it with a Romania.
In each case, the appropriate spill-response measures plant-based equivalent derived from the locally grown species were implemented and a full investigation was conducted.
As well as being safer and more environmentally friendly, the new compound has superior viscosity reduction To improve further the way we respond to spills, we developed capabilities, which has reduced operational costs and enhanced an Oil Spill Response Plan self-assessment tool, drawing on pipeline delivery capabilities by 50%.
the international guidelines and recommendations published At the Reggane Nord Development project in Algeria, our teams by IPIECA the global oil and gas industry association for worked with local communities to devise and implement an environmental and social issues, ARPEL the regional association innovative waste management programme.
This involved the of oil, gas and biofuels sector companies in Latin America and segregation of waste, at source, using a colour-coded system, the Caribbean, the International Oil Spill Conference IOSC, and enlisting locally-based companies to assist with its removal and the International Union for Conservation of Nature IUCN.
As part of the programme, 60 of the colour-coded This tool enables our teams to evaluate their spill response plans waste bins have also been donated to local schools, and Petrofac and identify opportunities for improvement.
has provided training to pupils on responsible waste management.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 65 Corporate responsibility continued Ethics Ethical is one of the six Petrofac values.
Updating our Standard for the Prevention of Bribery and Corruption Our Code of Conduct the Code sets out our In 2015 we updated our Standard for the Prevention of Bribery expectations of everyone who works for and and Corruption the Standard, and introduced several with Petrofac.
We aim to make all employees and new safeguards.
third parties who work with and for us aware of the Code and its content.
If anyone is concerned that The Standard is now more explicit in its language, has fewer the Code may have been breached, we encourage exceptions, explains when such exceptions may apply, simplifies them to report their suspicions without fear of existing compliance processes and mandates competitive retaliation and there are several ways to do so.
tendering processes across the Group.
It also incorporates a new due diligence procedure and mandatory completion of e-learning In order to achieve our business ambitions, it is important for and related training.
Petrofac to be and to be seen as an ethical Company.
The launch commenced in 2015 with face-to-face discussions We therefore aim to make all of our employees and partners aware with our most senior managers.
As we continue the rollout in 2016, of our commitment to ethical behaviour, and we continue to improve our focus will be to reach managers in the higher risk positions, the scope and reach of our compliance programme.
The completion of the associated e-learning course will be required amongst more than 3,000 Giving clear guidance to employees and business partners employees and selected third parties.
The Code gives explicit guidance to our employees and business partners.
Using clear, easy-to-follow language, it provides a series Enhancing our certification process of examples of the types of behaviour we expect of those who Whilst following the Code is an obligation of all employees and work with and for Petrofac.
It also states clearly the types of contractors, upholding the Code and being alert to suspected behaviour that would constitute a violation of our Ethical value.
breaches is a key accountability of all Petrofac managers from first-level supervisors through to our executive leadership team.
The Code was last reviewed in 2013.
Printed copies were subsequently distributed to all employees and it is routinely In 2015, we continued to refine our Code of Conduct Certification provided to all new employees and newly contracted third parties.
process an annual exercise that provides the opportunity for By the close of 2015, more than 23,000 copies had been distributed.
all managers to raise any possible Code violations that may have occurred in the preceding 12 months.
For 2016, we plan a further review of the Code, to ensure that it reflects new legislation.
In particular, we plan to provide new guidance on anti-money laundering, trade sanctions and the UKs Modern Day Slavery Act.
Embedding the Code across our business During 2015, we continued to draw attention to the Code and its requirements.
For example, all employees and contractors are expected to complete an e-learning programme that explains the Codes principles through a range of everyday examples.
The process began in 2014 with the launch of a web-based compliance portal that can be accessed via any connected device such as a PC or tablet by both Petrofac employees, contractors and, at our invitation, third parties who want to do business with us.
During 2015, a further 2,000 employees completed the e-learning programme, bringing the total number to more than 16,000.
Employees can access the web-based compliance portal and Code e-learning programme via any connected device.
66 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 Strategic report In 2015, some 2,500 managers were required to confirm that they Leaders required to certify compliance with the Code had read and understood the Code and observed its requirements in all of their business dealings.
Again, we use a web-based system to make the process accessible, and to track participation levels which is usually close to 100%.
2,500 During the year, we tightened up a number of questions, making them more rigorous, such as mandating the disclosure of any Employees who completed the Code possible conflicts of interest.
For this certification cycle we plan e-learning training in 2015 to implement a process whereby employees who do not have a valid reason for non-certification, will see a reduction in their bonus entitlement.
2,000 16,000 since 2014 Speaking Up about any breaches of the Code We encourage everyone involved with Petrofac to raise any concerns regarding unethical behaviour, or any questions regarding the Code.
Furthermore, we have and implement a non-retaliatory policy against those who raise issues of concern in good faith.
Reports can be made to line managers or their supervisors, or to the HR, legal or compliance teams.
We also draw attention to Speak Up our multi-language phone, online and email service, which enables any employee or third party to report suspected breaches of the Code.
In 2015, 49 suspected breaches were reported to Speak Up, each of which was assessed independently and, where warranted, investigated or are in the process of being investigated.
All confirmed violations are reported annually to the Audit Committee.
Individuals who are found to be in breach of the Code may have their employment terminated.
As a result of feedback from many investigations we plan to refine our Investigation Guidelines, bringing a more consistent approach to investigations that take place locally, and also more oversight to the way we scrutinise any suspected breaches of the Code and communicate outcomes.
Screening third party suppliers and business partners We continue to refine the way that we screen our third party suppliers allowing us to assess their level of technical, financial and reputational strength, and enabling us to mitigate the risks that they may pose to Petrofac.
In 2015, for example, we piloted an online Due Diligence tool which gives Petrofac better visibility of the compliance related risks that third parties may represent to us and allows for timely mitigation steps to be adopted where appropriate.
The interactive process, to be adopted across the Company in 2016, comprises a series of questionnaires and external assessments and puts the onus on potential suppliers to confirm that their ethical standards are consistent with our own.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2015 67
