Pets at Home Group Plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible retailing is at the heart of our business Committee, specifically to help ensure that Our Pets Environment we maintain the highest possible welfare Increased the amount of waste standards for all pets in our care.
diverted from landfill to 90%: Reduced the amount of electricity We have been developing our CSR strategy we use in our stores by 4% kWh sqft.
for some time and CSR is reflected in If you would like to see more examples our colleagues roles and responsibilities, of our CSR strategy in action then in our strategy development processes please visit our website: and in our reporting structures.
com the implementation of our CSR strategy Tessa Green CBE throughout the Group we have recently Independent Non-Executive Director Looking forward, we will continue to focus formed a CSR Operations Board made up on the four pillars of our CSR strategy of the key members of our team, reporting Introduction and which you can read about in the directly into the CSR Board Committee.
This coming year we I am proud to introduce will also undertake a detailed strategy 2015 has been a year of considerable our 2015 Corporate Social review across each area, setting ourselves progress.
Some of the developments that challenging longer-term targets that will Responsibility CSR report.
we are most proud of include: guide our journey year on year.
Behaving responsibly is Our Pets People I hope that you will enjoy reading our integral to how our business Entered Great Places to Work survey report and be as excited as we are about and gained 15th place: operates and fundamental to our plans for next year and beyond.
Increased colleague engagement to 94%: delivering across our PawPrint.
Heart of the community Yours sincerely, Our customers expect us to live our values, Over 20,000 pet workshops carried out our investors see the strength of our with school children in our stores: practices as a key driver of our business 1.4m worth of lifelines donated by VIP model and our pets certainly rely on members to customers chosen charities: us to deliver on our principles.
Setting Sourcing with integrity the highest standards and the clearest The RSPCA inspected all of our primary expectations about the way we engage Tessa Green pet suppliers: with our colleagues, communities, Chairman 100% of Pets at Home branded and suppliers and environment is therefore Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Pets at Home registered branded critical to our ongoing success and makes Pets Before Profit Committee suppliers managed by PAH Asia us the unique business that we are today.
3 June 2015 have now received and passed an independent ethical audit: At Pets at Home, we have a long history of successfully driving our CSR values throughout our business and we are Board of Directors committed to living the values which are important to our colleagues, customers and broader stakeholders.
At the start of the year we formally Strategic Direction, established our CSR Board Committee.
Pets objectives & CSR Board The role of the Committee is to advise the Before profit Group targets Committee Committee Board on the development and direction of the Groups CSR objectives and strategy and to ensure that it is aligned with and supports our values whilst simultaneously innovating and helping to drive our Strategy, detailed business forward.
To ensure that we live targets and CSR our number one value, Pets Before Profit, implementation Operations Board we have also established a second Board Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 51 Overview | Strategy | Performance Our vision Green Paws Our vision is to be the best pet shop in the world Responsible Retailing people pet planet and we use our Green Paws PawPrint to highlight the four pillars of our strategy which will help us to achieve this.
Heart of the Community Our Pets People Sourcing with Integrity Our Pets Environment To be the best pet shop in the world Visualising our CSR strategy: Our CSR strategy has been developed over time, with its key objectives driven by the feedback we have received from a wide range of stakeholders, as well as aligning with our broader business objectives.
Our pillars Our Pets People Heart of the Community Sourcing with Integrity Our Pets Environment Be a great place At the heart of Pets Before Profit Efficiently using and Our vision to work every community respecting all resources Exceptional Colleague Leading the way All suppliers meet our Eliminating waste Our objectives Engagement in responsible pet stringent standards sent to landfill ownership World-class training Promoting the highest Using less energy Rehoming pets in possible animal welfare Keeping Our Pets Rethinking need of new families standards People healthy our packaging and safe Providing lifelines Identifying new and Becoming more to local and national more sustainable fuel efficient charitable causes products for our customers Pets at Home Group Plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued World-class training Our Pets People Our commitment At Pets at Home, the role that highly trained and engaged colleagues 5, 5 46 play is fundamental to becoming the best pet shop in the world.
colleagues completed Steps 1 and 2 What we have achieved this year Target FY16 Exceptional Increased colleague engagement Maintain Colleague Engagement At the heart of the training we provide colleague to 94% from 93% at 94% and increase strongly for our store colleagues is our earn as you engagement agree measure to 80% from 77% learn steps programme.
Steps 1 and 2 Achieved 15th place in the UK Great Maintain top 20 place in the provide the knowledge we believe is Place to Work survey UK Great Place to Work survey essential for our colleagues to deliver a World class Increased highly trained store colleagues Steps 1 and 2 to achieve consistently high level of customer service training to 5,546 from 4,732 last year external accreditation and are compulsory.
At the end of the year, we had 5,546 89% colleagues who Groom Room Salon Manager Training Every Groom Room to have embedding the practical skills, a Level 3 City and Guilds have completed both Step 1 and 2.
Step 3 knowledge and understanding of the Certified Colleague provides more specialised knowledge in City and Guild Level 3 Professional nutrition, aquatics, reptile, small animals, Diploma for Grooming Stylists dog and cat.
Following feedback from colleagues who told us they really wanted Keeping 30% reduction in Colleague Reduce Colleague Accident our pets Accident Rate Rate by a further 5% an opportunity to develop their knowledge people and skills further, we have opened up healthy opportunities for colleagues to gain Step 3 Gained a merit for the British Achieve a Distinction and safe qualification in up to three specialisms Safety Councils International in the British Safety Councils Safety Awards International Safety Awards and actively encourage colleagues to take that next step.
As a result of that feedback, the numbers studying for Step 3 have risen to 421 at the end of this year from Exceptional colleague engagement In addition to our own internal survey, 366 at the end of the previous year.
this year we have also taken part in the independent external Great Place Two years ago we also launched Step 4. to Work survey, giving colleagues further This Step is specifically targeted at opportunities to tell us what they like 9 4% colleagues who want to develop a career about working for Pets at Home and how with pets rather than into management colleague engagement we can become even better.
We achieved and enables them to complete a year-long 15th position.
programme on their area of speciality.
Listening to our colleagues is a key part Once qualified, they are given a pay Throughout the business we hold regular of the Pets at Home culture and we do increase equivalent to that of an Assistant focus groups listening groups and this in several ways.
Were all Ears is our Managers salary.
feedback sessions at all colleague levels.
In 2015, 96% of colleagues, 6,643, took part and We also have a detailed three steps We also believe its important that we we received some great feedback.
However, training programme in our Groom Rooms say thank you to all of our colleagues who the survey is only the start and the real called Prep It, Snip It and Clip It.
have really gone above and beyond for us work comes once we have the results Each part of the steps is supported by in the year.
Last Christmas we re-launched and move into Were all Action mode, a grooming portfolio of evidence which our Values Challenge and encouraged proactively responding to the feedback includes text and supporting photographs colleagues to recognise each other for we have received.
which cover all aspects of grooming that living our values.
In December 2014, more the colleagues complete in the salon.
than 12,000 thank yous were received The steps take nine months to complete by colleagues.
following nine practical assessments, three underpinning knowledge work books, three pet pawtal tests, three CPD courses and over 1,400 hours of training.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 53 Overview | Strategy | Performance In addition, our Groom Room salon manager Training with Pets at Home training now embeds the practical skills, knowledge and understanding of the City and Guild Level 3 Professional Diploma for Grooming Stylists.
With over 60 Groom Although Step 3 is voluntary, I wanted Room managers already enrolled to this to do it to gain more pet care expertise level, we plan for every salon to have and so I decided on a course in Aquatics.
a colleague qualified to this level.
These The work was quite intense and it takes will be trained through our three training about a year to complete it.
Pets at Home academies which will provide this also gave me another pay increase to say qualification.
well done and to recognise my expertise.
For colleagues wishing to develop their Last year, Step 4 was launched and management careers, we also have I decided to go for that one too.
Again, programmes to support them as they I specialised in Aquatics.
It has taken I joined Pets at Home in August 2004 move through the business.
Our Rising Star me another year to complete it but I was and immediately started my training with programme supports our store colleagues really pleased to hear that I passed it Step 1.
It was great to feel that the as they rise to Assistant Manager level, on 8 May 2014. business was investing in me as a person our Moving on Up programme supports and I was really excited to complete the them through to Deputy Manager level For me, the training that Pets at Home first Step because it then meant that and our Fast Track programme supports provides to its colleagues is really I was able to start selling pets.
This is them through to becoming Store Manager.
Its given me the chance to something you cant do until the Field Pet We are proud that more than 50% of our learn, improve my skills and build my Manager has signed off the training and Store Managers have come through the expertise in the areas that I am interested is happy that you have all of the skills Fast Track system.
It means that when a customer necessary to be able to advise customers comes into my store and needs to know on the best pets for them and, more about Aquatics, Im the man who can importantly, how they should look after really help.
them once they have got them home.
5,546 421 Joel Collict completed completed I then started Step 2, which focused Pets at Home Steps 1&2 Step 3 in more detail on areas such as Leicester Fosse Park expertise in cats, dogs, fish and reptiles plus specialist areas such as nutrition, parasites and other pests.
Because of the extra skills I had learnt I also received a pay increase when I had finished.
166 completed Step 4 91 64 completed completed Rising Star Moving On Up 231 completed Fast Track Pets at Home Group Plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Total RIDDOR accidents Stores Practices Keeping Our Pets People Our health and safety handbook has been revised and re-launched to bring together healthy and safe 13 10 48 41 the Groups standards on health and safety.
It includes the fundamental safety systems in all parts of the business that colleagues and visitors are expected to follow.
30% This year for the first time, our two Reduction in colleague accident rate distribution centres applied for the British 13 14 14 15 13 14 14 15 Safety Councils International Safety Total number Total number We are committed to providing a safe Awards.
The of customer of colleague and healthy environment for all of our RIDDOR accidents RIDDOR accidents award is marked out of 60 points and to colleagues, customers and third party Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 gain a merit a score of between 48 and 59 contractors and we have robust control must be achieved.
Our distribution centre, measures in place to minimise the risk of Accident rates Stores Practices in Stoke, achieved 58 and our distribution incidents.
We actively encourage a positive centre, in Northampton, achieved 57.
1.5 1.29 11.68 8.17 health and safety culture throughout our In addition, we also won the Best in Sector stores, veterinary practices, groomers, Award for Wholesale and Retail services distribution centres and support offices.
being one out of only 11 organisations that won a best in sector award.
We continue to benchmark the Group Accident Incident Rate which also includes the accidents which have taken place in our 13 14 14 15 13 14 14 15 joint venture veterinary surgeries.
During Customer accident Colleague accident the financial year, total accidents across rates per 100,000 rates per 1,000 the Group increased by 0.5%, due to the transactions colleagues expansion of the Group across all areas.
However, there has been a significant Distribution accident rates reduction in the Colleague Accident We continue to promote health and safety 0.43 0.45 0.82 0.58 Rate from 11.68 to 8.17 accidents per through the Group to all of our colleagues 1,000 colleagues, and a reduction in the and promote a Stay Safe culture.
Customer Accident Rate from 1.50 to 1.29 per 100,000 transactions.
The number of RIDDOR accidents decreased by 15% in our Stores Practices during the year.
In Distribution, there was a slight increase 13 14 14 15 13 14 14 15 of 0.02 accidents per 100,000 hours Distribution colleague Distribution RIDDOR worked but a 0.24 decrease in RIDDOR accidents per 100,000 accident rates per 100,000 accidents for the year.
hours worked hours worked FY 14 15 Accident Causation 1.
Contact with electricity 1 or an electrical discharge 1% 11 3.
Cut or scratch due to sharp object 14% 3 4.
Exposed to or in contact with a harmful substance 2% 4 5.
Hit by a moving, ying or falling object 11% 6 7.
Hit something xed or stationary 7% 10 8.
Injured due to handling, lifting or carrying 4% 7 9.
Injured while using knives 8 hand operated equipment 2% 9 10.
Slipped, tripped or fell on the same level 15% Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 55 Overview | Strategy | Performance Leading the way on responsible Heart of the Community pet ownership Our commitment Being at the Heart of Every Community is one of the core values we live by.
With 400 stores and 338 vet practices serving 76 3 neighbourhoods the length and breadth of the UK we believe Beaver, Cubs and Brownie that we have a responsibility to contribute positively towards the workshops held in stores wellbeing of our local communities.
What we have achieved this year Target FY16 Young people are the pet owners of Leading Average 117 Pond League points Rollout the pet workshop online tomorrow.
Their knowledge about pet the way on against target of 35 Pond League booking tool for every pet event care and commitment to their pets flows responsible Points per store through to their parents today.
Educating pet ownership Held more than 20,000 Support our local communities children about responsible pet ownership pet workshops in store through providing at least 1,000 is therefore an incredibly important job and Work Inspiration Days one that we take very seriously.
Rehoming Rehomed over 68,000 pets through Rehome 70,000 pets through the pets in the adoption centres in our stores adoption centres in our stores To maintain the momentum in this initiative, need of new we run My Pond League, our internal families programme that awards points to each of our stores for the number of events that Providing Raised over 4.5m for Donate over 1.4m worth of lifelines to charitable causes VIP lifelines to charities chosen they hold for their local community.
The local and by our customers number of Pond League points awarded to national stores continues to increase year on year.
Raise 1,900,000 in stores for charities Support Adoption for Pets with As part of My Pond League, we have been an overall fundraising target of 3,148,950 running our children education programme for a number of years.
In the last year, 714 Provide further 600,000 worth schools have visited our stores, an increase of Wainwrights dog food to the from 417 last year.
In addition, over 19,000 Dogs Trust events have been held during weekends Provided over 7,400 charity leave Continue to provide a charity and school holidays where we have held days for every colleague leave day for every colleague dedicated workshops to teach children about responsible pet ownership.
We also continue to work closely with the Scout Association and sponsor their Animal Care badge.
This year we have also started sponsorship of a similar badge for the Girl Guides Association.
To gain this badge, we offer free workshops through My Pond League and this year we held 910 events an increase from 622 last year.
To make it easier for children to participate in our events, we have put in place an online booking system for each of our stores.
We rolled this out during Easter week this year and we received over 10,500 bookings for a seven day period.
Pets at Home Group Plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Providing work inspiration Rehoming pets in need Support Adoption for Pets Support Adoption for Pets is a charity of new families with a single passionate aim.
It exists to help give abandoned and homeless pets a second chance of happiness.
1, 000 Most Animal Rescue Centres are 6 8, 000 work inspiration placements completely reliant on donations and public support to help provide sanctuary for the pets rehomed through adoption pets in their care and Support Adoption We have offered work experience for many centres in our stores for Pets provides much needed funding and years to a wide variety of people within our grants to these organisations.
Every year, communities, however, next year, we want We take great care when we sell a pet Support Adoption for Pets hosts a number to elevate our work experience into work to make sure that they all go to loving of events in our stores to raise much inspiration.
We aim to offer a programme forever homes.
But thats not where we needed funds to enable it to support these that will not only provide those on see our responsibility ending.
This year, our stores raised 1.9m placement with the skills and knowledge due to circumstances beyond their control, against a target of 1m.
In total, 3.1m about the world of work but also inspiration owners can find that they are no longer was raised for Support Adoption for Pets, to be the best that they can be.
We will be able to look after their pet.
Through our beating the target of 2.8m.
working with the Shaw Trust, who support dedicated in-store adoption centres, we disabled people, the Retail Trust, in their are committed to rehoming any pet that Retail Right programme which support we have sold and that subsequently needs 1822 year old NEETs not in education, a new family.
We will also rehome pets that employment or training and local schools did not come from us originally, if they are and colleagues for year 10 pupils and a type that we sell and our colleagues are Animal Management year 1 students.
This year we rehomed Feeding the Dogs Trust The programme we offer is designed to over 68,000 pets through the adoption In August 2013, we made a commitment give them key skills, from the importance centres in our stores.
that, for the next three years, we would of timekeeping and appearance to softer fund and provide Wainwrights dog food for skills of team work and customer service, all of the dogs at the Dogs Trust.
With more Providing Lifelines to local and will provide all those on placement with than 1,400 dogs in their care at any one a record of the skills learned, their selfand national charities time, they need a lot of food!
Plus, each review and a reference to help to support dog that is re-homed from the Dogs Trust them gain future employment.
We aim takes home a 2kg bag of Wainwrights dog to have up to 1,000 of these placements food to help start the next chapter of their each year.
lives in the best way possible.
This means 600 that this year alone we have provided animal charities supported 635,493 worth of Wainwrights dog food as chosen by our customers to the Dogs Trust.
Charity days Our VIP Lifelines We provide every colleague the opportunity In addition to the loyalty rewards offered by to help out at a charity of their choice our VIP club, we also award our customers for one day in the year, which amounted points for every purchase they make with to 7,400 charity leave days this year.
These points can be converted into VIP Lifelines which our customers can donate to local animal charities.
This year, our VIP club members across the country have helped us raise over 1.4m worth of Lifelines donations, supporting more than 600 animal charities throughout the UK.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 57 Overview | Strategy | Performance Quarterly inspections of all primary pet Sourcing with Integrity suppliers are carried out by our Pet Supply Manager and an annual welfare audit Our commitment is conducted by our consultant vet.
Twice Pets are both our business and our passion and Pets before Profits a year, we also commission independent has always been our number one core value.
Advocating the ethical annual audits of all of our primary suppliers by SAI Global to make sure that they and responsible treatment of pets is incredibly important to us and continue to meet our high standards.
we believe the best way to do this is to lead by example, so we keep This year, in addition to our internal audits, every aspect of our pet operations under regular scrutiny.
all of our primary pet suppliers have been inspected by the RSPCA and we have What we have achieved this year Target FY16 introduced an additional annual health Driving the 100% of primary pet suppliers Continue to audit primary pet audit by an RCVS Lab Specialist Vet.
standards independently inspected by both suppliers with at least 8 audits in the pet the RSPCA and SAI Global per annum per supplier We dont just stop at our primary pet industry 100% of PAH branded and PAH Deliver the re-audit programme suppliers: all suppliers are required to registered branded suppliers we have put in place across all follow our Ethical Trading Policy, which is managed by PAH Asia have received our Asian PAH registered branded complemented by a detailed quality manual.
and passed an ethical audit in line and PAH branded suppliers Last year we ensured that all of our Asian with our requirements suppliers of Pets at Home registered 100% of PAH branded and PAH 100% of UK EU PAH branded brands and Pets at Home branded products registered branded suppliers that and PAH registered branded submitted evidence of compliance to our have UK EU head offices and Asian food suppliers to be either BSC requirements with corrective action plans factories submitted evidence of audit or equivalent quality management in place for any minor non-conformances.
compliance to PAH requirements system accredited or to have been visited and audited by a member This year, we have focused on our remaining of the food technical team Pets at Home registered brands and Pets at Home branded suppliers who supply 100% of food and non-food suppliers Re-visit and revise our testing either directly to the UK or through agents confirmed acceptance and compliance protocols across all categories to the PAH Animal Testing Policy to ensure relevant and up to date UK managed offices.
100% of these with the latest developments have submitted evidence of compliance industry practices to our Ethical Trading Policy through audit documentation that has been conducted Promoting Reviewed store pet audit and Incorporate a gold standard into independently by third party regulated bodies.
the highest implemented changes the store pet audit possible This is in addition to the regular direct Launched microchipping of all rabbits Roll out new aquatics water test animal interaction we have with our Asian suppliers.
sold and adopted in stores welfare Launched free rabbit vaccination We are the only UK pet retailer to have standards vouchers a dedicated Hong Kong sourcing office Review Code of Practice for pet suppliers which was established in 2012.
The office Completed co-branding of main has facilitated the implementation of a Pet Care leaflets with the RSPCA programme where Pets at Home Asia and UK colleagues regularly visit and meet with their Driving the standards Our internal store pet audit is reviewed annually Asian partners to educate them, resolve any to ensure that we are incorporating best in the pet industry challenges faced, share the PAH factory practice in pet welfare.
We revamped our store product standards and monitor performance.
audit this year so that hay racks were installed in all of our rabbit villages so that the hay stays Our ethical audit covers detailed levels fresh for the rabbits for longer.
Our stores of standards required in relation to: 10 0 % continue to receive a strict annual external Hours of work audit from SAI Global under the Excellence of our primary pet suppliers visited Labour practices Assured Petcare Scheme as we believe that Working conditions by the RSPCA external verification is vital to maintaining Onsite accommodation standards.
374 stores were audited this year.
Health & safety We continue to challenge and revise Environment We only work with pet suppliers who fulfil our own internal standards and codes Supply chain management the five freedoms laid down in the Animal of practice, as well as our methodologies Wages Welfare Act 2006 and the high standards for auditing our suppliers.
Home workers & sub-contractors set down in our own code of practice.
Pets at Home Group Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Promoting the highest possible Highest quality Looking after animal welfare standards and safety standards our rabbits Every year 300,000 animals go astray 10 0 % 19 in the UK alone and rabbits can be very good escape artists, especially of all rabbits sold or adopted tests carried out on our leads from gardens.
Its fairly common for in stores to be microchipped and harnesses them to be handed into a veterinary practice or a pet charity that will have no idea where they have come from.
Our focus on the welfare and responsible We are committed to ensuring that our Microchipping rabbits helps to reunite ownership of pets means that we frequently products meet the highest quality and upset and worried owners with their interact with, and seek to work alongside, safety standards in the UK pet market.
beloved pet and so this year we have a wide range of animal welfare groups There are no formal regulations specific invested 171,217 in microchipping all including the RSCPA, RWAF and Animal Kind.
to pet products in the UK, therefore we rabbits sold in our stores or adopted This year we have also completed a detailed have developed our own testing protocols from our in-store adoption centres.
review of our main pet care leaflets in store for each of our product categories.
These in conjunction with the RSPCA to ensure have been developed in conjunction with The microchipping of our rabbits is that we are always providing the best approved third party testing laboratories a clear demonstration of the steps advice care possible to our customers.
and detail any general legal requirements we take to promote responsible pet SVHC REACH, and specific performance ownership.
This year, we have re-homed We continue to employ a strong in-house and safety related testing requirements over 19,000 rabbits through our in-store team of pet experts to oversee our animal for all our products.
We review our adoption centres.
The number rehomed welfare practices and ensure that our pets protocols on a regular basis to ensure nationally every year is currently unknown are always put first.
This includes: that all products we develop are safe, and much of the time there is no way legal and fit for purpose.
Our Head of Pets: a vet with over to track where these rabbits originated.
20 years experience: By microchipping our rabbits, working One such example is our testing protocol with rehoming charities we will be able Our Head of Pets Operations: over 17 on collars, leads and harnesses.
On top to monitor the numbers being offered for years retail experience at Pets at Home: of any legal requirements, we choose to adoption.
This is something that hasnt carry out 19 tests across our registered Our Aquatics Operations Manager been possible before and we are very brands and PAH branded collars, leads and over 20 years experience in Freshwater excited to be pioneering this innovation harnesses.
Additionally, we are receiving and Marine Biology: in pet welfare and retailing.
requests from some of our branded Our Pet and Reptile Operation Manager suppliers to share our testing protocols From 13 June 2014, we have also over 15 years experience in pet & enabling them to deliver products to the offered to every customer who bought reptile welfare: same high standards we adhere to on or adopted a rabbit from our stores safety and performance of our own brand Our Veterinary Nurse Assistant a voucher for a free combined and registered branded product.
a qualified veterinary nurse with vaccination to protect their rabbit over 12 years experience in exotic against myxomatosis and Rabbit vet nursing: and Haemorrhagic Disease.
These are two diseases that can often be fatal but are Our Veterinary Care Advisor a highly easily prevented through vaccination.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 59 Overview | Strategy | Performance Eliminating waste sent to landfill Our Pets Environment Our commitment We aim to minimise the impact of our operations on the environment.
90 % We proactively seek to minimise our consumption of core resources of waste diverted from landfill and maximise efficiency and we are always on the lookout for new and better ways to do things.
With a rapidly growing business this is We are committed to minimising our an ongoing challenge for us and we recognise that we still have a long waste consumption with the aspiration way to go.
Despite that, we are proud of the progress we are making.
ultimately to divert 100% waste from landfill whilst maximising our recycling rates.
This year we diverted 90% of our waste In the past year we prioritised those areas of our environmental from landfill.
performance that are most material to our business and where we believe we can make the biggest impact.
These were our waste We are always seeking new innovative management, energy consumption and transportation activities.
solutions to help us manage our waste more effectively.
In recent years one of In the coming year we will continue to drive these areas forward our most successful innovations has seen and will broaden our focus to include strategies to reduce packaging the soiled bedding removed in our daily and water consumption.
pet cleaning routines collected, compacted and then sent for treatment via a mixture of in-vessel composting and Bio-Mass.
In As a result of our commitment to improving our environmental the last year we diverted over 3,131 tonnes performance, we have now recruited a dedicated Energy Manager of used animal bedding from landfill, an into our team.
This new specialist role will work alongside our current increase of 9% on the previous year.
team to provide expert assistance and guidance in developing Once we have delivered products to store, our ongoing targets, and the strategies, systems and processes we utilise the empty space in our delivery that will help us to deliver them.
vehicles to send cardboard, plastic and used animal bedding back to our What we have achieved this year Target FY16 distribution centres.
Through doing this Eliminating Diverted 90% of the waste produced we were able to recycle over 3,000 tonnes waste sent in the business from landfill of cardboard and 480 tonnes of plastic.
to landfill Divert 92% of waste from landfill Diverted 3,131 tonnes of soiled This year we have also piloted food animal bedding from landfill waste collections from Northampton DC to Using less Reduced the amount of kWh we dispose of the small volumes of damaged electricity use in stores per sq.
ft. by 4% when dog and cat food generated and deployed Reduce energy consumption compared with end of FY12 a Dry Mixed Recycling bin at all of our kWh per square foot by 6% Upgraded over 80 of our external stores that have a vets and groomers.
compared to a baseline of FY12 signs to energy efficient LEDs, saving 2 over 750 tonnes of CO e Waste divergence from landll Becoming Reduced fuel usage by 18% per KM Achieve a 1% improvement from 2008 09 to current more fuel travelled since 2009 in KM travelled per litre of 100% efficient Diesel across the fleet 80% Achieved 128.85 KMs travelled Reduce to 128.4 KMs ran per 1,000 cases shipped per 1,000 cases shipped 60% Rethinking Achieved 84% compliance on recent Continue to engage with WRAP 40% our WRAP monitoring survey 20% packaging 0% Landll Recycling 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Pets at Home Group Plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Using less electricity Rethinking our packaging Becoming more fuel efficient 4% 84% 18 % reduction in electricity consumption compliance score across decrease in fuel usage compared in our stores kWh per square foot packs checked to FY09 Our expanding footprint of stores and Last year we maintained our commitment Through operating a fleet of over 40 Heavy vet practices makes reducing electricity to the implementation WRAPs OPRL Good Vehicles from our distribution centres use in our buildings a priority for our recycling information on all own and private plus additional smaller vehicles for pet CSR strategy, whilst rising energy prices brand consumer packaging.
In our most delivery, we consume a significant amount and increasing climate change legislation recent monitoring survey, we achieved a of diesel.
Last compliance score of 84% across the packs year, our electricity use generated over checked, with minor discrepancies in the We only purchase the new fuel efficient and 2 35,000 tonnes of CO e. This year we interpretation of the guidelines reducing low emission Euro 6 vehicles for our heavy have accelerated the implementation our score rather than non-application of fleet.
To date we have replaced over 50% of measures that reduce our electricity information.
We are committed to reducing, of our heavy fleet with Euro 6 vehicles.
Our key successes were: recycling and reusing packaging materials as a matter of course and will continue to We have started a driver behaviour change Following on from our successful engage with WRAP over the development programme at our distribution centres programme last year to install LED lights of future policies and opportunities to to encourage all our drivers to drive more in all our aquariums and bunny villages, achieve more.
We have this is now our standard specification also installed a vehicle telemetry system, for pet housing in all new and Microlise, across all of our heavy fleet refurbished stores: and plan to use this improved information We have upgraded more than 80 of our to further improve driver efficiency.
external signs to energy efficient LEDs, saving over 130,000 and 750 tonnes Monitoring our water consumption 2 of CO e: Water is one area where we have yet to We have initiated a pilot to assess the develop a formal reduction and efficiency feasibility of LED lights for general sales strategy and to set ourselves clear targets.
floor lighting in two stores Sheffield In the coming year, we will review our water Drake House and Lincoln North : and consumption and will develop a strategy to ensure we make the most efficient use We have upgraded over 500 emergency of water and resources.
lights to LED, with further upgrades planned for 20152016.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 61 Overview | Strategy | Performance Calculating greenhouse gases The Strategic Report and Directors through publishing a more complete and 2 Fuel source Tonnes of CO emissions 2 Report Regulations 2013 require all robust CO e footprint we have seen an 2 9 UK quoted companies to disclose their increase of over 48,000 tonnes of CO e. 8 7 6 annual greenhouse gas emissions for 10 1 scope 1 and 2.
We have gone beyond Last year, we consumed over 65,000 MWh 5 2 3 this requirement by including scope 3 of electricity, over 13,000 MWh of gas, and emissions for the first year and through we used over two million litres of diesel.
Electricity 32,424 Fuel Used company cars fuel cards 1,025 1,025 1,012 5.
Diesel 3rd party 2,806 Personal business travel rail 19 6.
Fuel used company car Personal business travel air 197 fuel cards 1,012 7.
Personal business travel rail 19 Personal business travel car 769 8.
Personal business travel air 197 Electricity transmission & distribution losses 2,300 2,835 9.
Personal business travel car 769 Notes: 10.
Electricity T&D losses 2,835 2 Pets at Home CO e footprint has been calculated using the 2015 DEFRA emissions factor and based on a Financial Control approach.
In FY14, the CRC emission factors were used for electricity as opposed to 2013 DEFRA emissions and so the figures for FY14 have been restated as above.
In line with DEFRA recommendations, electricity emissions have been split out into scope 2 indirect consumption and scope 3 for transmission and distribution losses.
This has been restated for FY14.
FY15 saw the inclusion of limited scope 3 emissions including: outsourced transportation and business travel car, rail and air.
FY15 saw the inclusion of red diesel for the first time.
Data is not available for FY14.
Data for third party logistics was included in FY15 for the first time, data for FY14 was retrospectively added.
The contractors who maintain Pets at Home air-conditioning units do not have the systems in place to provide the volume of F-Gas used each year.
Due to the small volumes involved, this is considered to be fide minimis.
Engaging with stakeholders Animal welfare We believe that it is essential that we Customers Colleagues Shareholders Suppliers organisations maintain a dialogue with each of our We actively We listen to We regularly We hold annual We take a core stakeholder groups to find out what engage with our our colleagues engage with conferences collaborative is important to them and reflect their 3m VIP members through our our majority with our UK and approach with concerns in the development of our CSR through regular internal Were shareholder KKR Asian suppliers animal welfare strategy and priorities.
through their in which we charities and shows how we engage with each group.
Green Portfolio actively engage regularly engage 1.4m Lifelines We run numerous Programme with them to with a wide range In the coming year, as we continue to have been colleague events which we have obtain their of organisations donated by VIP throughout the been an active views on a range such as the develop our CSR strategy, and in particular members to year to interact member of of subjects.
RSPCA, Battersea as we look to set our longer term targets, support charities and engage with since 2010.
Dogs and Cats we have committed to undertake a chosen by them.
our colleagues We also engage Home and the rigorous and more targeted stakeholder and to gather with other Rabbit Welfare engagement process, ensuring that these their views and shareholders Association key groups continue to drive our strategic opinions on such as on issues that objectives over the long term.
Pets at Home Group Plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance report Good corporate governance is important for ensuring that our business environment is fair and transparent and supports our delivery of sustainable good business performance.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 63 Governance overview 64 Board of Directors 66 Executive Management Team 68 Directors Report 70 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 75 Governance Report 76 Audit & Risk Committee Report 82 Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Report 84 Remuneration Report 86
