PERFORMANCE REVIEW Corporate responsibility Building a sustainable business All our businesses work hard to secure the Our customers affordability of our new homes for our customers The Groups priority is to serve our customers 50% by providing a comprehensive range of selling well by providing good quality new homes and prices and by exercising strong control over of our new homes great service.
All of our team are responsible for the costs of development.
Our site sales teams delivering high levels of customer satisfaction.
sold for less than support our customers in their decision making process in identifying the right choice of new 200,000 We secure the opportunity to deliver high levels home for their family.
Our average selling price of customer satisfaction by acquiring new land in 2015 was 199,127 with over 50% of our in locations that will offer high amenity value to new homes being sold for 200,000 or less.
It is then our responsibility During the year 6,110 of our customers bought to deliver these higher levels of customer a new home with a Government Help to Buy satisfaction through efficient execution of our shared equity loan.
This scheme provides greater development plans.
Our rigorous approach to access to the owner occupier market by allowing house type design and scheme layout ensures our customers to buy their new home with a 5% that we deliver environments where people want deposit.
In addition, the provision of the 20% to live and work.
shared equity loan by the Government enables Our sales teams across the business are our customers to access the most favourable trained to provide excellent levels of service to mortgage interest rates from lenders.
our customers, particularly in respect of the We also continued to provide Part Exchange specication of our homes and the amenity value facilities for existing home owners to remove of each of our developments.
They have the the worries that usually accompany the knowledge to provide information and guidance uncertainties associated with home buying on the process of buying a new home and chains.
During 2015 14% of our customers support our customers with the practicalities of took advantage of this opportunity to assist moving day, to make it as straightforward and their move.
enjoyable as possible for our customers.
As a key part of the Groups drive to support We review and improve our house designs, the sustainability of communities we delivered nishes and features in response to customer 2,147 homes 2014: 2,256 to registered social feedback to ensure we continue to offer homes landlords during the year.
This low cost housing that our customers want to buy.
We aim to delivered by our Westbury Partnerships business provide good availability and choice of new represented 15% of our sales and helps support homes on all our developments.
As part of our social inclusion within the local communities that service our customers are able to reserve their we serve.
new home at an early stage in the development process so as to provide as much certainty as During 2015 we invested substantial resources in possible in support of their buying decision.
new customer focused initiatives to improve our Indeed, this helps us to offer a range of bespoke customers buying experience and our NHBC extras through our Finishing Touches range so HBF 3 star rating.
We have introduced dedicated as to deliver homes that reect our customers customer liaison managers on our larger sites, personal preferences.
improved communication processes with our customers, introduced new processes to strengthen our build programmes, and provided additional resources in our customer care teams.
These initiatives are showing some early signs of improvement in our customer satisfaction ratings and we will continue to pursue this agenda to secure further progress this year.
Persimmon Plc 36 Annual Report December 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information PERFORMANCE REVIEW Our Scope 1 direct emissions for gas, transport Our environment and construction site fuel use in 2015 were We aim to minimise our impact on the 27,647 tonnes CO e 2014: 23,781 tonnes CO e. 92% 2 2 environment.
We strive to identify all major Our Scope 2 indirect emissions for electricity in of construction environmental risks that our business faces 2015 were 3,910 tonnes CO e, a reduction on 2 in both the short and long term.
We design the previous year 2014: 4,070 tonnes CO e. waste recycled 2 into our development processes appropriate Our total operational carbon footprint in 2015 management actions that will mitigate these was 31,557 tonnes CO e 2014: 27,851 tonnes 2 risks.
Addressing these issues at an early CO e, an increase of 13.3%.
This increase is 2 stage in our development plans ensures our principally attributable to improved data capture environmental performance remains good of energy used on sites and an 18% increase and helps the Group secure more sustainable in Space4 production and an 8% increase in business processes.
the new homes we completed.
The amount of 2.17 tonnes When considering indirect impacts our focus is CO e per home sold in 2015 was 2.17 tonnes, 2 very much on our new homes.
Improvements in a 5% increase on the prior year 2014: 2.06 CO2 emissions design, materials and building techniques tonnes CO e. 2 ensure that we are building sustainable homes.
per home sold As a result of the ESOS audit we have been The average energy efficiency of our new homes able to study our energy use and formulate an as measured by the Standard Assessment action plan based on the results with a view Procedure SAP is 83, which is 40% more to reducing our energy costs and minimising energy efficient than existing housing stock consumption where possible.
These measures which has an average SAP rating of 59. include an assessment of the cost and benefit A key performance indicator which helps us of upgrading generators and machinery and the monitor our operational and environmental continued reduction in the CO emissions from 2 efficiency is the amount of waste that we our motor eet.
generate and recycle for each home we build.
In 2015 the amount of waste per home built decreased by 1.5% to 6.3 tonnes 2014: 6.4 tonnes reecting improvements in our procurement and construction processes.
We are also pleased to report that we again increased the amount of waste recycled by 2% to 92% 2014: 90% thereby minimising the amount of waste sent to landll.
We completed an Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS energy audit of our business during 2015 based on our 2014 data.
We reviewed our collation and data capture procedures across the Group and with our suppliers, in particular to identify for the first time the amount of energy used in our construction activities on our development sites.
We have then used DEFRA environmental reporting guidelines and emission factors from DEFRAs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors Repository as a methodology for calculating our emissions.
Persimmon Plc 37 Annual Report December 2015 PERFORMANCE REVIEW Corporate responsibility continued Our people Health and Safety Our people are key to supporting the Groups We continue to regard the health and safety of 580 successful growth in its operations across the our employees, workforce, and customers as the trainees and UK.
We have a very diverse workforce reecting top operational priority for the Group.
Our Group the numerous different skills we require across Health and Safety department has 28 staff under apprentices our business to buy land, plan our developments, the direction of our Group Health and Safety build quality homes and provide good service to Director.
The teams considerable experience our customers.
enables them to help each of our operational management teams to strive to achieve high During the year we increased the total number levels of health and safety performance across all of employees in our workforce to an average aspects of our operations, especially recognising of 4,188, an increase of 21% year on year the significant increase in construction activity on 2014: 3,453.
In particular, we increased the Accident rate our development sites.
number of trainees and apprentices in our business by 32% to 580 employees 2014: 439.
Our approach to health and safety is based 3.6 We prioritise the health and safety of all our on careful planning and management of our employees at work and we have continued construction activities on site.
We emphasise accidents per to review and improve our induction and a pro-active approach with both collective and thousand workers engagement processes during the year.
individual responsibility for health and safety risk identication and mitigation.
All our workforce are The success of our business relies on having required to obtain health and safety certication a highly skilled and motivated workforce.
prior to starting work on site and this certication The Group supports and trains its people forms part of their application for a Construction appropriately to allow them to perform to their Skills Certication Scheme CSCS card.
We have substantially increased our training programmes for both young and mature During 2015 we reported 47 incidents under the apprentices and trainees across all disciplines Reporting of Incidents Diseases and Dangerous in our business, from planning and technical to Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR to the Health construction trades.
We provided over 10,210 and Safety Executive, a slight increase in our training days to employees and our construction accident rate to 3.6 accidents per thousand workforce in 2015 2014: 7,900 an average of workers 2014: 3.5.
We did achieve a decrease 2.4days per employee 2014: 2.3. in major injuries, but the slight increase overall is primarily due to an increase in slips and trips.
We believe that a diverse workforce supported by a vibrant merit-based working environment Our communities is an important part of the Groups success.
We have two female Non-Executive Directors A primary aim for the Group is to support local on the Companys Board and 15 female communities across the UK by not only delivering colleagues in our 150 strong senior management much needed new housing but also to create team.
Female colleagues comprise 27% of our and improve the sustainability of the communities workforce.
We are keen to mentor our talented we serve and the environment in which they live staff to realise their potential and the Group has and work.
Part of the added value we deliver is along established policy of promoting from bringing derelict and poor quality land back into within the business wherever possible.
use on behalf of local communities.
The Group built 53% of our new homes on browneld Further information on our employees and or previously used land in the year, often human rights can be found on our website decontaminating polluted land and regenerating www.
We have no material issues to report concerning human rights.
Persimmon Plc 38 Annual Report December 2015
