Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices Corporate governance continued Board and Committee meeting attendance The Board considers that the composition of the Board and the nomination Committee complies with the requirements Board site visits audit and risk remuneration nomination Safety and Sustainability of the uK Code.
1 2 3 Board meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings eight six three two three Board evaluation Bobby godsell all n a n a all n a in 2015, the Board carried out a performance evaluation vitaly nesis all n a n a n a all of itself, its Committees, the Chairman and the group CeO.
Jonathan Best 6 all all n a n a This was conducted without the assistance of an external russell Skirrow 5 all n a n a all facilitator.
The first externally facilitated Board review had taken place in 2013 and was performed by lintstock ltd, leonard Homeniuk 6 n a all all all an independent advisor with no other connection to the Konstantin Yanakov 5 n a n a n a n a Company.
in accordance with the uK Code, it is the Marina grnberg 6 n a n a n a all Boards intention that the evaluation process will be Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 6 n a n a n a n a externally facilitated every three years and the next Christine Coignard 6 all all all n a one will take place over the course of 2016.
1 Further business was approved by written resolution on one occasion: by a Committee of the Board on six occasions and by way of a written resolution of a Committee of the Board Self-evaluation consisted of the Board discussing its on four occasions.
One of the meetings, held by way of a conference call between Messrs godsell and nesis, approved a matter previously agreed by the whole Board.
2 Further business conducted by the audit and risk Committee was approved by written resolution on three further occasions.
composition and operational integrity: the balance of 3 Further business conducted by the remuneration Committee was approved by written resolution on three further occasions.
executive and non-executive Directors, independent annual site visits greatly improve the Boards Directors and Directors representing major shareholders: understanding of Polymetals operations and organisation Nomination Committee evaluate the talent pool for the group and tailors training the balance of skills, experience, and knowledge of the and contribute to the Boards evaluation of the groups The nomination Committee is chaired by Mr godsell for the future senior management needs of the group.
The number of business plan and strategy.
On a two-day visit to the and its other members are Mr Homeniuk and as part of this programme, a series of meetings took place Board and Committee meetings held was discussed Companys operations in Kazakhstan during 2014, the Ms Coignard.
The Committee has responsibility for between young leaders and Board members.
Training as well as the performance of each Committee of the Board of Directors gained valuable first-hand insights making recommendations to the Board on the composition opportunities for all of the groups employees continue Board.
The remuneration of Directors and senior into local management, challenges and opportunities.
of the Board and its Committees, including appointments to be discussed.
They met with key mine executives and employees, and of additional and replacement Directors.
The Committee: were given a detailed tour of production facilities at the The nomination Committee acknowledges that a deep The outcomes of the self-evaluation were as follows: leads the process for Board appointments and makes varvara mine and of the proposed site at the Kyzyl project.
and rigorous approach to succession planning is vital for recommendations to the Board: in 2015, the Board visited Mayskoye, the newest operating it was agreed that the Board worked effectively together the Companys continuing success so that leadership mine in Polymetals portfolio.
as a unit: regularly reviews the Board structure, size and composition is fully aligned to corporate strategy, both at Board and including skills, knowledge, independence, experience senior management levels.
overall the Board and its Committees operated successfully: and diversity and makes recommendations to the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information Board about any changes that the Committee Induction Diversity continues to be the focus of attention.
in 2015, ensuring ongoing Board effectiveness: considers necessary: the proportion of women working in the group was upon appointment, Directors receive a full induction, each Director continues to contribute effectively and including information about the Company: an outline of the considers plans and makes recommendations to the 23% 2014: 22%.
Women represent 22% of Board to demonstrate commitment to the role including their Board for orderly succession to the Board and to senior members 2014: 22%, 23% of senior management positions role of a Director and a summary of his or her responsibilities commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance and ongoing obligations under legislation, regulation and 2014: 22% : and 44% of qualified employees 2014: 43%.
and any other duties : of skills and experience within the Company and on the The Board welcomes diversity at all levels: it believes that the best practice: and a copy of the Memorandum on inside Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board, information, insider lists and Code of Practice on Dealing in right way to approach diversity is by putting competence the Directors training programme will be further tailored taking into account the challenges and opportunities first and seeking the right qualities for each and every Securities.
Directors also receive the Companys guidelines with assistance from external advisors to answer the skills facing the Company: on matters reserved to the Board, terms of reference of the appointment.
Diversity becomes a distinct advantage with development needs of the Board.
such an approach and is in line with the Companys objective Board Committees and other governing documents of the keeps under review the leadership needs of the group, Company.
Directors and Chairs of the Board Committees of promoting women at all levels of the group.
The Company both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring Re-election policies facilitates promotion of women within its offices and regularly receive updates on changes to corporate the continued ability of the group to compete effectively in accordance with the uK Code, all Directors are subject governance and regulatory requirements and other changes in the marketplace: operations, including hiring women in positions traditionally to annual re-election.
The Board is kept informed of evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge, experience, relevant developments in the Company by way of monthly Full terms and conditions of the appointment of nonindependence and diversity of the Board before any The regular monitoring of compliance in relation to the management reports, including comprehensive information executive Directors are available for inspection at the appointment is made by the Board, and in the light on operating and financial performance, and the progress diversity policy is undertaken by the Hr Department.
of this evaluation prepares a description of the role no instances of discrimination towards the groups of capital projects.
a field trip to Mayskoye for Directors took and capabilities required for a particular appointment place in august 2015. employees have been reported.
all candidates and The Directors biographical details are set out on pages and the expected time commitment: and employees have equal opportunities regardless of gender, 70 to 71 and following their performance evaluations, the reviews the results of the Boards performance evaluation age, race, nationality, language, origin, wealth, residence, Board and Chair consider that each of the Directors standing process that relates to the composition of the Board and religion and other beliefs, social membership or other for re-election will continue to be an effective contributor to whether non-executive Directors are spending enough personal circumstances.
the groups success and demonstrate commitment to his time in discharging their duties.
a performance evaluation of the Chairman was Full terms of reference of the nomination Committee conducted by the Board in 2015, and the Board believes that There were two meetings of the nomination Committee in are available on the Companys website: the Chairman continues to be effective and to demonstrate 2015. at its meetings, the Committee continued discussing www.
succession planning in the Company and the development of the Young leaders Programme.
This programme helps 76 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 77 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices audit and risk Committee report The audit and risk Committee dealt with the following matters: Audit and Risk Committee ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the interim The audit and risk Committee is chaired by Mr Best and and annual financial statements remains with the Board.
reviewed and recommended for approval financial and its other members are Mr Skirrow and Ms Coignard, all The Committee gives due consideration to applicable laws risk information included in the annual report 2014: independent non-executive Directors.
The Directors consider and regulations, the provisions of the uK Code and the reviewed and recommended for approval Polymetals that Mr Best has recent and relevant financial experience requirements of the listing rules.
results for the six months to 30 June 2015: refer to pages 70-71 for details of Mr Bests experience.
in addition, the other members of the Committee have The audit and risk Committee monitors the Companys discussed and approved the Committee work plan: a wide range of financial and other relevant experience.
relationship with its external auditor relating to the provision supervised compliance with the Companys anti-bribery of non-audit services to ensure that auditor objectivity and corruption policy: The responsibilities of the audit and risk Committee comprise: and independence are safeguarded.
This is achieved by reviewed the groups internal audit plan and monitored disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services monitoring the integrity of the groups consolidated the effectiveness of internal audit: see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements and financial statements and reviewing its annual and interim the prohibition against selected services being provided Dear Shareholders reviewed the groups external audit plan and recommended financial statements, including, but not limited to the by the external auditor.
for approval the interim and year-end audit fees: consistency of, and any changes to, accounting and as reported in more detail elsewhere in this annual report, treasury policies across the Company and the group: 2015 proved yet another difficult year for precious metals reviewed the actual audit fee in 2015 compared to the The policy governing the provision of non-audit services the methods used to account for significant or unusual mining companies.
Our own businesses in russia and authorised amount: by the external auditor approved by the Committee defines transactions: the reasonableness of significant estimates Kazakhstan were subjected to high levels of economic permitted audit and non-audit services.
approved the terms of engagement, including the and judgements, taking into account the views of the uncertainty, caused by the general geopolitical situation engagement letter issued at the start of each audit external auditor: and the clarity and completeness of and the continued weakness in commodity prices.
and the scope of the audit: disclosure in the consolidated financial statements: Pre-approval thresholds are in place for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, being: reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the considering and making recommendations to the The audit and risk Committee plays a key role in pre-approval by the Chief Financial Officer CFO of JSC external auditor: reviewed non-audit work performed Board, to be put to shareholders to consider at the agM, safeguarding the Companys exposure to risk and, Polymetal if the services are provided to a russian or Kazakh by the auditors: in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, resignation in particular, confirming the adequacy of the risk business entity of the group, and the Director of the Cyprus or removal of the groups external auditor: management process and the procedures in place to recommended the re-appointment of Deloitte llP office of Polymetal international plc if the services are minimise any potential negative impact.
given the current, as external auditor: overseeing the groups relationship with its external auditor provided to other group companies if below uS$5,000: challenging macroeconomic situation, we increased the and reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit by the Chair of the audit and risk Committee if between reviewed the critical risks and exposures of the group, focus on risk analysis during this years Committee meetings.
process, taking into account relevant uK professional and uS$5,000 and uS$20,000: or by the audit and risk including significant judgements, impairments and regulatory requirements: the Committee meets with the Committee if above uS$20,000.
tax risks: i would also like to specifically highlight the sterling work external auditor at least once a year, without management carried out by the internal audit function.
This has included performed an in-depth analysis of some of the being present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising above a certain threshold, if it is determined that the Companys main risks: from the audit: both raising the awareness and understanding of risk levels external auditor has no obvious competitive advantage within the Company and focusing on the operational risk reviewed the capability of the groups finance team: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external in the performance of proposed non-audit services, then matrix and its impacts on the business.
auditor and the appropriateness of the provision of any the provider of those services must be chosen by way of performed an internal assessment of the non-audit services by the external auditor, taking into a competitive tender.
Certain types of non-audit work may Committees effectiveness: under amendments to the uK Code, there is now a account relevant ethical guidance: be undertaken by the auditor without prior referral to the requirement for companies to include a longer-term viability reviewed corporate governance changes and audit and risk Committee up to a cumulative annual value reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system statement to provide shareholders with an improved and planned for continued compliance in 2016: and of uS$100,000.
any further non-audit work is subject to of internal controls and risk management systems: broader assessment of the solvency and liquidity of a reviewed requirements for the longer-term viability approval by the audit and risk Committee in further tranches business over an extended period of time.
Polymetal monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups statement and supervised preparation of the first of uS$100,000.
in the event that the cumulative value of has been fully compliant with this process and able internal audit function in the context of the groups overall such statement for the Company.
non-audit fees exceeds uS$500,000 in any given year, risk management system: to demonstrate the strength of its disciplined financial.
separate approval by the audit and risk Committee is planning in ensuring long-term stability for the Company.
reviewing the groups policies and procedures for in line with the Companys overall approach to governance, required explaining why there is no threat to independence.
preventing and detecting fraud, the systems and controls we have instilled a strong culture of discipline throughout a copy of the policy is available on the Companys website: The audit and risk Committee and the Board are pleased in place for preventing bribery, and its policies for ensuring our business, and are confident that we have robust www.
with the continued progress of the finance team.
The high that the group complies with relevant regulatory and legal systems and processes which enable the Committee quality of financial reporting and implementation of internal requirements: and to operate effectively.
The audit and risk Committee has considered information controls has contributed greatly to our ability to police the pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and nonapproving significant transactions.
principal risks to the business in an increasingly efficient The Committee remains fully focused on the quality of the audit work for the group in 2015 and concluded that the manner: particularly for those relating to financial, tax and reporting, internal control and risk management processes nature and extent of non-audit services provided do not Full terms of reference of the audit and risk market risk.
in order to ensure the transparency and objectivity of the Committee are available on the Companys website: present a threat to the external auditors objectivity Companys financial statements.
The audit and risk Committee is a fully independent body, consisting only of independent non-executive Directors with relevant skills and experience in financial reporting and risk management.
in 2015, six meetings of the audit and risk Committee were Jonathan Best held and further business conducted by the Committee was Chair, Audit and Risk Committee approved by written resolution on three additional occasions.
78 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 79 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices audit and risk Committee report continued Review of the effectiveness of the external audit used for assessing the fair value less costs to sell of the The Board considers that the audit and risk Committee Management provides a timely response to issues raised by individual Cgus tested for impairment.
The Committee process and audit quality complies with the requirements of the uK Code and internal audit.
Where possible, the issues are resolved within examined and challenged the commodity price, discount The audit and risk Committee has adopted a formal guidance on risk Management, internal Control and one reporting period.
rate and exchange rate assumptions used by management framework in its review of the effectiveness of the external related Financial and Business reporting.
in its impairment tests: audit process and audit quality which focuses on the Internal control framework and activities following areas: Internal control and risk management The management structure of the group and internal evaluating the existence and recoverability of metal The Company aims to ensure that all its activities are policies and procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust inventories.
The Committee examined the price the audit partners, with particular focus on the lead audit adequately controlled to mitigate risk and support the control framework within the group which will result in the assumptions used by management as well as unit costs engagement partner.
in 2015 the Companys existing achievement of its objectives while avoiding the creation and other internal assumptions used in determining achievement of strategic objectives within the set risk audit partner was rotated and the Committee started the net realisable value of unfinished goods within metal of excessive bureaucracy.
The system of internal controls tolerance levels.
working with the new partner: inventories ore and concentrate stockpiles : is designed to manage rather than completely eliminate risk, the audit team: to achieve the Companys business objectives whilst bringing This framework includes: evaluating the recoverability of exploration and development residual risk to an acceptable level, and can only provide planning and scope of the audit and identification assets.
The Committee evaluated managements approach an appropriate tone set from the top Board level, aimed reasonable and not absolute assurance against material of areas of audit risk: to determine whether the existing exploration and at building the appropriate control environment: misstatement or loss.
development assets are likely to generate future economic execution of the audit: a proper risk identification and management system benefits and whether any indicators of impairment had for more detail please refer to pages 64-69 : the role of management in an effective audit process: in conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of been identified: risk management and internal control including financial, a strict division of responsibilities and adequate delegation communications by the auditor with the audit and risk the impact of sanctions on the Companys performance operating and compliance controls, the Board considers of authority: Committee, and how the auditor supports the work of the and its access to external funding: the key findings from the ongoing monitoring and reporting audit and risk Committee: specific control activities implemented at all levels of the internal controls and the risk of misstatement: the processes, management assertions and independent group: and how the audit contributes insights and adds value: and Committee reviewed reporting from internal audit in respect assurance reports.
of its audit plan and discussed all significant findings: a periodic review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
the independence and objectivity of the audit firm and the The Board also takes account of material changes and quality of the formal audit report to shareholders.
reviewing the construction risks at Kyzyl in detail as part trends in the risk profile and considers whether the control The governance framework reflects the specific structure and of the annual deep dive exercise: and system, including reporting, adequately supports the Board management of the group, where authority and control are an auditor assessment is completed annually by each reviewing readiness for preparing the longer-term viability in achieving its risk management objectives.
delegated by the Board to different levels, from the group member of the audit and risk Committee and by the statement and reviewing its draft.
CeO to the managers of the groups operating entities CFO.
Feedback is also sought from the group CeO, other During the course of the year, the Board considered the and then downward to business and project managers members of the finance team, divisional management and The Chair of the audit and risk Committee makes himself groups responsiveness to changes within its business as appropriate.
the head of internal audit.
available to major institutional shareholders annually to environment.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing discuss the Companys annual reporting to shareholders as process, which has been operational during the year, and up Within this framework, authority is delegated within clearly The assessment tool adopted is comprehensive and includes part of the Companys investor day.
He is also available for to the date of approval of the annual report, for identifying, prescribed limits and decisions are escalated where either detailed questions which are completed by way of a formal one-on-one meetings with key shareholders at their request.
project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by questionnaire every three years, while the key areas are in addition to controls operating in specific areas production, the group.
The feedback from this process is The re-appointment of Deloitte llP as the groups external exploration, construction, procurement, the control framework considered by the audit and risk Committee and is provided auditor is reviewed annually by the audit and risk Committee.
also includes a set of common procedures for financial Internal audit both to the auditor and to management.
action plans arising Deloitte llP was appointed auditor in 2011, with Deloitte CiS accounting, reporting and budgeting see details on the The internal audit function supports this aim by providing are also reviewed by the Committee.
having been auditor of JSC Polymetal since the last tendering next page.
the Directors, through the audit and risk Committee, with process in 2007.
The group has a policy of tendering the an objective evaluation of the Companys and the groups The effectiveness of management in the external audit process external audit at least every ten years.
The Committees The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary governance framework.
The internal audit function also aims is assessed principally in relation to the timely identification assessment of the external auditors performance and have been or are being taken to remedy any failings or to raise levels of understanding and awareness of risk and and resolution of areas of accounting judgement, the quality independence underpins its recommendation to the Board to weaknesses in the groups system of internal controls.
and timeliness of papers analysing those judgements, propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte llP This has involved considering the matters reported to it managements approach to the value of the independent as auditor until the conclusion of the agM in 2017. resolutions and developing plans and programmes that it considers are The head of internal audit reports to the group CeO and, audit, the booking of audit adjustments arising if any and the to authorise the Board to re-appoint and determine the reasonable in the circumstances.
Based on the results of the through the audit and risk Committee, to the Board of timely provision of draft public documents for review by the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the agM review of risk management and internal control activities Directors.
Where relevant, the internal audit function will auditor and the audit and risk Committee.
undertaken by the Board and the audit and risk Committee, on 17 May 2016. additionally report its findings to members of the groups the Board considers that the risk management and internal executive management.
every three years, the audit and risk Committee requests control systems are in accordance with the revised guidance We intend to tender our external audit in 2020 for the 2021 that a partner independent of the audit engagement team for Directors in the uK Code.
audit, which will coincide with the completion of the 5 year The internal audit functions annual work plan is designed to discusses the quality of the external audit process with the term of our current audit partner, and at that point Deloitte focus on matters arising from the operational risk matrix and audit and risk Committee Chair and the CFO using this llP will have been our auditor for 10 years following our is approved by the audit and risk Committee in advance.
listing on the london Stock Market.
it is our intention that The internal audit function uses an annual self-certification Deloitte will be invited to participate in this tender process, process, which requires managers throughout the group During this year, the audit and risk Committee focused on: along with other appropriately qualified international audit to personally confirm the testing of internal controls and evaluating the recoverability of goodwill and PPe.
We are in compliance with the provisions of The compliance with group policies within their business Committee examined the potential indicators of impairment Statutory audit Services for large Companies Market or function and the steps taken to address actual or impairment reversal, where appropriate for each of the investigation Order 2014. or potential issues that are identified.
cash-generating units and the life-of-mine financial models 80 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 81 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices audit and risk Committee report continued remuneration report Financial reporting systems UK Bribery Act 2010 We attribute this in part to our quick reaction early in 2015 The quality of financial accounting and reporting is ensured The Company and its Directors are committed to ensuring in adjusting senior management and all employees base through a set of control procedures in the following areas: adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
This salary with forecasted CPi numbers, a decision we have accounting methodology, preliminary review of new must be reflected in every aspect of the way the group again endorsed early this year with a base salary increase of transactions, documentation, accounting techniques operates.
Bribery is a criminal offence in the countries in 13% for all group employees including senior management and financial closing procedures.
accounting policies are which the group operates.
Corrupt acts expose the group whose salaries are denominated in roubles and Tenge, and developed centrally for each of the groups subsidiaries and and its employees to the risk of prosecution, fines and 12% for our group CeO, effective from 1 april 2016.
We are adapted for the specifics of each entity and group-wide imprisonment, as well as endangering the Companys remain nevertheless very prudent in maintaining a stable pay policies.
employees responsible for accounting and reporting reputation.
The group has a Code of Conduct in place, structure that is sustainable throughout a period of currency functions have powers to review upcoming transactions and which refers to its anti-bribery and corruption policy.
volatility, bearing in mind the risks associated with a potential propose adjustments, where necessary, to ensure proper The policy extends across all of the groups business reversal in currency trends.
The use of a centralised dealings in all countries and territories in which the group enterprise resource Planning erP system in each of the operates and applies to directors, managers and all The remuneration of Mr nesis, all senior management and group companies ensures unification of the business and employees of the group, as well as relevant business Dear Shareholders all key employees includes a clearly defined KPi component accounting processes.
The group implements a multi-level partners and other relevant individuals and entities.
i have the pleasure to now chair the remuneration derived from top-level goals and adjusted to individual set of controls over financial and accounting data recorded in responsibilities and performance that forms the basis for Committee.
i am proud to take over the role from the system.
These controls involve the accounting department The Board attaches the utmost importance to this policy Mr Homeniuk and to continue the excellent work that determining, in a fully transparent manner, the variable part of each subsidiary, senior management of the subsidiary and and applies a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and of remuneration.
This year, following several fatalities at our he has carried out on behalf of the Board.
His skills and controls at the relevant headquarters level.
in addition, the corruption by any of the groups employees or by business experience will be a valuable asset in his role as the Chair mines, we have introduced a new bonus calculation system accounting and reporting data are regularly audited by internal partners working on the groups behalf.
The policy prohibits for senior managers and mine management that includes of the newly formed Safety & Sustainability Committee.
the payment, offer or authorisation of bribes, the receipt or much more focus on health and safety KPis.
acceptance of a bribe, or the payment, offer or promise to Remuneration principles and strategy procedures for approval of capital and current pay any facilitating payments.
any breach of this policy is Polymetal has, over the years, developed and implemented as in 2014, 50% of bonuses awarded to the group CeO expenditures regarded as a serious matter by the Company and is likely and the senior management team were deferred into shares remuneration policies and structures that are aligned with to result in disciplinary action.
The group prepares annual operating and capital expenditure our strategy, commercial objectives and culture as well as in the Company through the long-Term incentive Plan lTiP, budgets based on its current and strategic goals and to ensure senior managements commitment to the Company adapted to the large mining company that we have now objectives.
in addition to periodic control of actual versus as part of its implementation of internal procedures to and to its long-term objectives.
a simple yet robust and comprehensive system, comply with the uK Bribery act, the group has a formalised budgeted financial performance, a procedure of ongoing which is in line with best practices for FTSe 250 companies control and authorisation of expenses is in place.
The current whistle-blowing policy which defines the processes in place 2015 was the second year in which our lTiP scheme was and our international peers, is in place.
Therefore, at this system of pre-approval of significant transactions, along with for staff to communicate, in confidence, concerns about implemented.
Shares granted in the previous year were stage i see our role in the remuneration Committee as possible improprieties, unethical or illegal activities and accounting procedures in the erP system, achieves a level allotted to the respective senior managers.
as a clear sign assisting the Board in ensuring that remuneration continues of control over the amount and appropriateness of expenses.
ensures that arrangements are in place for the independent that senior management interests are aligned with those to allow us to attract and retain top talent and qualified investigation of such matters.
of our shareholders, our lTiP plan stipulates that no option executives as well as evolving smoothly with regulatory Treasury operations vests in the event that TSr for the period, as measured changes, market requirements and best practice.
The Company affirms that it has not denied any personnel The group operates a centralised treasury function, which relative to peers and on the Companys absolute TSr, is responsible for payments on behalf of all operating access to the audit and risk Committee and that it has is negative.
Throughout the group, we aim to compensate our provided protection to whistle-blowers from adverse subsidiaries of the group.
use of such a centralised system employees fairly for their contribution and treat compensation personnel action.
achieves the best level of control over the payments function There has been no change in 2015 in non-executive Directors as part of an overall motivation system that includes without compromising the speed and reliability of payments.
remuneration and no change is further planned in 2016. promoting an open, positive, fair, cooperative and thriving all transactions with banks on accounts maintenance, The Code of Conduct, anti-Bribery and Corruption work environment, targeting best practice in all our Policy and the Whistle-Blowing Policy are available on the deposits and borrowings and foreign currency transactions Context to the Committees decisions endeavours.
an environment in which everybody are also performed at relevant headquarters level in Companys website: www.
2015 continued to be a challenging year with continued is offered the chance to progress.
compliance with the treasury policy approved by the Board.
weakness in the commodities markets and ongoing macroeconomic and geopolitical issues in russia and The remuneration Committee focuses on determining the Controls over IT systems used in financial accounting Kazakhstan.
We continued to concentrate on controlling framework and broad policy for the remuneration of our and reporting costs, delivering robust operating performance and senior management team while reviewing remuneration The group uses a 1C:enterprise 8 erP system for the maintaining capital discipline which allowed us to pay automation of everyday enterprise activities.
These include trends across the group.
Salaries and benefits structures regular and special dividends on the back of a robust various business tasks of the economic and management for operational and other professional staff are broadly cash flow generation for the year.
functions, such as management accounting, business covered in the investing in our People section of the accounting, Hr management, supplier relationship Sustainability report.
management SrM and material requirements planning We are well-informed about remuneration disclosure requirements and ensure that all procedures in place are fully MrP.
The group also uses the erP system for budgeting, Remuneration structure accounting, Hr record-keeping and payroll, supply chain compliant with the applicable regulations and best practice.
The focus on sustainable shareholder value creation is the management, operational reporting and procurement.
These priorities are reflected in our remuneration decisions cornerstone of our executive remuneration system and is The group operates an iT management framework based when awarding performance bonuses to the group CeO and taken into consideration in all components of our on COBiT Control Objectives for information and related senior employees, and when reviewing their base salaries.
Technology, which provides a complete set of high-level as a result, we consistently receive over 96% of votes in requirements to be considered for effective control of each favour of agM resolutions related to remuneration and Despite the significant recent devaluation of the currencies iT process.
to the re-appointment of Directors.
in which our group CeO and only executive Director vitaly nesis, our senior management and our employees are remunerated, we have had very low staff turnover.
82 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 83 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued Key Committee decisions With our commitment to adhering to best practice in the Directors remuneration policy given the prevailing market conditions, the remuneration marketplace and following shareholders representatives Shareholders approved the Companys remuneration policy at the agM on 21 May 2014 and it is expected to cover a period Committee decided that any significant changes to the request, we are disclosing this years retrospective targets of three years from that date.
The policy applies from the date of approval.
existing approach to the remuneration of Directors and when reporting executive Director remuneration, as it helps senior officers of the group in 2015 would provide a clearer picture of the relationship between the be inappropriate.
Companys performance and executive remuneration.
element and purpose Performance metrics used link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable The Committee approved the increase of 12% in the group as there were no changes to the approved Directors CeOs rouble-denominated base salary from 1 april 2016 Executive Director Group CEO remuneration policy this year we will not be putting it to a in line with inflation in russia.
Base salary The Committee reviews base Over the policy period, base salary not applicable.
The Directors annual remuneration To attract and retain salary on an annual basis, taking for the group Chief executive an annual bonus, representing 33% of the maximum report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at high-calibre executives.
into account general economic Officer will be set at an available amount, was awarded to the group CeO in and market conditions, underlying appropriate level within the peer the agM of the Company on 17 May 2016. respect of 2015. group performance, the level of group and will increase in line with increases made across the group base salary increases for the wider a Health and Safety KPi carrying a 25% weight in overall Moving forward as a whole, workforce, except where a change KPi measures, with a nil fatalities threshold, was introduced in accordance with regulatory requirements, the Companys the remuneration of executives in the scope of the role occurs.
to the group CeOs annual bonus targets.
remuneration policy must be put to a new binding vote in in similar positions in FTSe 250 The annual base salary for the May 2017.
Therefore we will review it during the course of and global mining peers, and reporting year and the current in 2015 the remuneration Committee continued individual performance when year is set out in the annual 2016 and adjust if and where required.
implementing the long-Term incentive Plan lTiP, setting base salary for the report on remuneration.
which was supported by a 99.8% shareholders vote.
The plan includes a total shareholder return TSr We anticipate keeping the 2017 remuneration policy broadly Benefits The group does not provide any not applicable.
underpin stipulating that no options will vest in the event aligned with that put to a vote in 2014. nevertheless we will benefits for its group CeO.
that TSr for the period is negative.
Other features include review it this year against our strategy, market adjustments the mandatory deferral of 50% of annual bonuses for three pension The group does not fund Does not exceed the mandatory not applicable.
and in light of ongoing regulatory requirements, best To provide funding any pension contributions or contribution made to the pension years, to be paid in shares, and clawback provisions for corporate governance practice and investors views.
retirement benefits, except fund of the russian Federation.
caution, we intend to benchmark our total senior executive contributions to the mandatory Currently 10% of total pay.
remuneration structure and level against a representative pension fund of the russian Corporate governance and approach to disclosure peer group.
We also intend to obtain advice in respect Federation, as required by as a FTSe 250 company, listed on the london Stock of the compliance of our remuneration structure, corporate russian law.
exchange, we believe that our shareholders expect governance relating to remuneration and adequacy of The group pays defined Polymetal to comply with the strictest of corporate existing terms of reference with best practices, and will act contributions to the mandatory governance requirements.
We remain committed to pension fund.
This permits retiring accordingly when appropriate.
full adherence to all regulatory requirements and best employees to receive a defined monthly pension for life from the practice as reflected in our remuneration policy, decisions, On behalf of the Committee and of the Board, i welcome statutory pension fund.
disclosure practices and requests for shareholders vote.
feedback from shareholders and look forward to receiving Annual bonus The annual bonus result is Maximum bonus opportunity The annual bonus is earned your support at the agM.
To focus on achieving determined by the Committee 150% of base salary.
on the basis of the achievement The Companys remuneration policy was approved by annual performance after the year end, based of a mix of financial and non-financial binding vote at the agM held in 2014 with 99.77% of votes Target bonus opportunity goals, which are based on performance against measures.
For 2015, performance 100% of base salary.
cast in favour, with the policy to be in force for three years on the groups key defined targets.
metrics and associated weightings and to be put to a new binding vote in 2017.
The 2014 performance indicators Threshold nil annual bonus for each were: annual bonuses are paid three remuneration report was approved at the agM held KPis and strategy.
production 25% : months after the end of the in May 2015, with 99.32% of votes cast in favour.
Christine Coignard financial year to which they relate.
total cash costs 25% : Chair, Remuneration Committee completion of new projects on time 50% of the annual bonus earned This section sets out the Companys remuneration policy and within budget 25% : and is paid in cash and the remaining and report for its Directors and provides details of their 50% is compulsorily deferred health and safety 25%.
remuneration and share interests for the year ended into shares, which are released There is an additional penalty factor 31 December 2015. annually to the employee over for fatal severe cases for up to 50% the next three years in equal of the annual bonus earned for instalments through the Deferred non-safety related KPis.
The Committee has discretion Details of the DSa are set out to vary the weighting of performance on the next page.
metrics over the life of this remuneration policy.
in addition, the Committee has discretion to vary performance metrics part-way through a performance year if there is a significant event which causes the Committee to believe that the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
Performance is measured over the financial year.
84 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 85 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued element and purpose Performance metrics used element and purpose Performance metrics used link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable link to strategy Operation Opportunity and period applicable Long-Term Incentive plan LTIp Minimum The group CeO is required to 500% of base salary for the not applicable.
shareholding build a minimum shareholding group CeO.
Deferred Share 50% of the annual bonus earned entitlement to this deferred requirements over a five-year period.
Awards plan DSA is paid in cash and the remaining component is subject to continued To strengthen Deferral to encourage 50% is compulsorily deferred into employment over the deferral period.
unvested shares under the PSP alignment between retention and alignment shares, which are released or DSa are not taken into account in normal circumstances, Deferred interests of executive with shareholders.
annually to the employee over when calculating progress Share awards will continue until the Directors and those of the next three years in equal towards the minimum normal time of vesting upon shareholders.
cessation of employment in good Malus provisions apply for the leaver Circumstances.
alternatively, For the purposes of determining unvested portion of the DSa: the the Board may determine that whether the requirements have remuneration Committee may, Deferred Share awards will vest been met, share price is at any time up to and including immediately.
in both circumstances measured at the end of each vesting, reduce the number of there would be no pro-rating of the financial year.
shares that vest, should material Deferred Share awards for the time Post vesting and tax, all shares misstatement, misconduct from the award date until cessation of acquired under PSP and DSa and or a failure of risk employment or for performance.
awards must be retained until the management occur.
no performance conditions apply to shareholding requirement is met.
Dividend equivalents will be the Deferred Share awards.
Non-executive Directors received on vested shares, Fees for nonThe fees of independent Fees are reviewed, but not not applicable.
reflecting the value of dividends executive Directors non-executive Directors are set by necessarily increased, on an which have been paid during To attract and retain reference to those paid by other annual basis.
the period from the grant date high-calibre nonFTSe 250 mining companies.
any increase in non-executive executive Directors.
Fees are set to reflect the Directors fees will normally be in performance Share under this plan, annual rolling Maximum grant permitted under vesting is based on relative TSr, responsibilities and time spent by line with base salary increases for plan pSp awards are made with a four-year the plan rules is 200% of salary.
measured against the constituents of non-executive Directors on the the wider workforce, except To provide long-term vesting period and an additional the FTSe gold Mines index, and also normal grant level is expected affairs of the Company.
where a change in the scope of alignment with mandatory holding period of one on the Companys absolute TSr.
Peers are ranked and the Companys no fees are paid to nonThreshold vesting is equivalent Stretching performance targets position determines vesting: independent non-executive Current fee levels are set to 20% of the award.
reward participants for delivering Directors.
out in the annual report 0% vests for below median positive absolute and superior Dividend equivalents will be on remuneration.
performance: non-executive Directors are not relative total shareholder return received on vested shares, 20% vests at median eligible to receive benefits and do TSr performance against reflecting the value of dividends performance: not participate in incentive or global peers over a which have been paid during pension plans.
100% vests at top decile long-term period.
the period from the grant date performance and above: and The Chairman receives a base to the vesting date.
Malus provisions apply for the fee only.
The following fees are no award will vest if absolute unvested portion of the PSP: the paid in addition to the nonTSr is negative, regardless of remuneration Committee may, executive Director base fee: relative performance.
at any time up to and including Committee chairmanship fee: vesting, reduce the number of The Committee may substitute, vary Committee membership fee: shares that vest, should material or waive the performance targets if and misstatement, misconduct, an event occurs which causes the and or a failure of risk Committee to consider that the target Board and Committee management occur.
The Committee has discretion to vary retesting of the performance The remuneration Committee the proportion of awards that vest, to conditions in future years determines the framework ensure that the outcomes are fair and is not allowed under any and broad policy for the appropriate and reflect the underlying circumstances.
financial performance of the group.
The remuneration of nonFirst grant under the PSP executive Directors is a matter for was made in april 2014. the Chairman of the Board and the executive members of the Board, i. e. the group CeO.
Directors do not participate in discussions relating to their own fees.
86 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 87 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued Remuneration policy for other employees Illustration of application of remuneration policy The remuneration policy for the other members of the groups executive team and broader management team of the group The composition and structure of the remuneration package for the group CeO under three performance scenarios is consistent in both structure and KPis with the policy in respect of the group CeO.
Whilst the value of remuneration will vary Maximum performance, Target performance and Minimum performance is set out in the chart below.
throughout the group, depending upon the individuals role, criticality to the business and level of seniority, the remuneration of all senior executives consists of a base salary, an annual bonus and participation in the new lTiP the PSP and DSa.
This chart shows that the proportion of remuneration delivered through short-term and long-term incentive schemes employees up to three levels below the Board approximately 300 employees throughout the group participate in the lTiP is in line with our remuneration policy and changes significantly across the three performance scenarios.
as such, the at the discretion of the remuneration Committee.
The PSP policy grant level is 150% of base salary for the group CeO, package promotes the achievement of both short-term and long-term performance targets and drives the alignment 100% for executive Committee members and 50-100% for employees of the level below the executive Committee.
of the group CeOs interests with the interests of shareholders.
Shareholding requirements are also set below Board level.
The DSa operations mirror the arrangement set out for executive Directors in the policy table, where 50% of the annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares and released annually to Remuneration policy employees over a period of three years.
US$m Maximum remuneration policy for the wider group of employees is aimed at aligning pay with the achievement of targeted results for each employee.
The Companys policy on fair pay provides for the payment of additional remuneration for employees living Total 29% 32% 39% US$1.2 million in difficult climatic locations and the delivery of appropriate levels of pay for different levels of work.
The bonus component of remuneration for mid-level management and operational staff is measured based on the achievement of production targets, Target increasing output, the level of justified cost savings and health and safety records.
in terms of pension arrangements, the Total 46% 41% 13% Company applies a consistent approach for the group CeO and other employees and adheres to the mandatory pension US$0.7 million contributions required under applicable laws.
Minimum Total Salaries are considered for annual increases based on the Companys performance results, inflation rates and the competitive 100% US$0.3 million level of salaries versus the wider market.
0.0 0.5 1.0 Fixed elements of remuneration Single year variable Notes to the policy table Multiple year variable performance measures and targets The Committee selected the performance conditions indicated in the policy table because they are central to the Companys overall strategy, and are the key metrics used under the annual bonus and lTiP by the group CeO to oversee the operation note: Scenario values are translated at the closing exchange rate of rouble to uS Dollar stated by the Central Bank of the russian Federation as at 28 March 2016. of the business.
The scenarios are defined as follows: Performance targets for all of our incentive plans are reviewed annually, and where appropriate are typically set at a level that is in line with the Companys forecasts.
Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed elements Base salary and pension.
Changes to remuneration policy for 2016 Single year variable Performance against financial Performance against financial Performance against financial KPis is below budget by more KPis is at budgeted levels.
Full KPis is above budgeted levels.
Design element Changes made during the year than 10%.
non-achievement of achievement of non-financial Full achievement of non-financial Base salary a 13% increase, equal to russian CPi, across the workforce, including top management, non-financial KPis.
100% of base salary payout KPis.
125% of base salary payout and a 12% increase for the group CeO vitaly nesis has been approved starting from 1 april 2016.
Annual bonus no changes made.
50% of bonus deferred into shares as required by the DSa.
Multiple year variable Share price performance Scenario is based on 150% Share price performance is in the LTIp Two grants of options were made under the new PSP plan in april 2014 and 2015. a new tranche is below the median of FTSe policy awards.
Share price top decile of FTSe gold Mines of options is expected to be granted in april 2016 in the ordinary course of business.
performance is at median index constituents.
Shares Non-executive Directors no changes made.
of FTSe gold Mines index equivalent to 150% of base salary constituents.
Shares equivalent vest under the PSP 100% of total to 30% of base salary vest shares available.
The LTIp under the PSP 20% of total Following shareholder approval at the agM in June 2013, a long-term incentive programme the Performance Share Plan shares available.
Some minor amendments to the lTiP were approved by shareholders at the agM in May 2014. no allowance has been made for share price appreciation or for the payment of dividend equivalents.
non-executive Directors The key terms of the lTiP are described in the policy table above.
do not receive performance-related pay.
Their fees are disclosed in the policy table on page 87.
The Board believes that the lTiP ensures continued alignment of the executive teams performance with shareholder interests and rewards superior long-term performance and the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Board also believes that the lTiP is in line with uK best practice and follows fully the provisions of the uK Corporate governance Code and other relevant guidelines, while also containing features which are superior to common practice in the uK such as a positive TSr underpin for vesting of the lTiP.
88 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 89 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive overall package as appropriate to attract Loss of office policy and motivate the right talent for the role.
if an executive is promoted to the Board from within the Company, any pre-existing The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take into account individual awards or benefits that were made available to him or her prior to becoming a Director and not in anticipation of an imminent circumstances, including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties and applicable share plan and promotion to the Board will be retained and allowed to vest or be provided under the original terms.
pension scheme rules including any relevant performance conditions.
The following table sets out the various components, which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package vitaly nesis is an executive Director of Polymetal international plc and CeO of JSC Polymetal, a 100% subsidiary of the for the appointment of an executive Director.
any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements, group incorporated in russia.
Further details are set out in the Current Directors service contracts section on page 92. be set at a level consistent with the scope of the role at a level not exceeding that of the group CeO as set out in the remuneration policy table and be subject to the same constraints as those of existing Directors performing similar roles, The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Director service contracts and policy on payment for loss as shown below.
area Policy and operation area Policy and operation Base salary and benefits The base salary level will be set by taking into account the experience of the individual and the salaries Notice period Polymetal international JSC Polymetal paid in comparable companies.
Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment, the 6 months from Company With immediate effect from Company Committee may choose to set the base salary below market median and increase the amount paid over 6 months from Director 1 month from Director a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, subject to the Companys ability to pay.
in line with the remuneration policy, Compensation for loss no entitlement in respect of directorship of Polymetal international.
as set out in the Directors remuneration policy table, no benefits will be provided to recruited Directors.
of office in service contracts up to three times average monthly salaries in respect of directorship of JSC Polymetal.
pension Pension contributions will be limited to the mandatory contributions required by russian Kazakh Cypriot Treatment of annual Where an executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of the performance year, but or any other applicable law, as set out in the Directors remuneration policy table.
bonus awards before the payment of the annual bonus is made, the executive may be eligible for an annual bonus Annual bonus The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over Directors remuneration policy table.
The maximum annual opportunity is 150% of base salary.
no award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
any bonus is deferred into shares under the DSa, as set out in the Directors remuneration policy table.
Where an executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rated Long-term incentives The executive Director will be eligible to participate in the lTiP at the remuneration Committees annual bonus award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable, subject to an discretion in line with the details set out in the Directors remuneration policy table.
The maximum annual assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
grant permitted under the scheme rules is 200% of base salary and the normal grant level is up to 150% Treatment of unvested in normal circumstances, Deferred Share awards will continue until the normal time of vesting upon of base salary.
Performance measures would apply, as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Deferred Share Awards cessation of employment in good leaver Circumstances.
alternatively, the Board may determine that Replacement awards The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous under plan rules Deferred Share awards will vest immediately.
in both circumstances there would be no pro-rating of the in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited as a consequence of the Deferred Share awards for time from the award date until cessation of employment or for performance.
in determining the quantum and structure of any replacement awards, Treatment of unvested any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the group, unless the cessation is the Committee will seek to replicate the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance Share plan due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances which the performance requirements of the forfeited remuneration.
The maximum value of replacement awards awards under plan rules Committee determines, when the award will vest as normal in accordance with the terms of the award.
is capped at 50% of the individuals base salary, and at least 50% of any replacement award should alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the award will vest immediately, with be delivered in the Companys shares.
the proportion determined by the Committee, taking into account where relevant the extent to which Other Should relocation of a newly recruited executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met at the end of the performance period, with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support may include, but not be and any other factors the Committee may consider relevant.
The number of shares shall also normally limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel costs, a contribution be pro-rated down to reflect the reduced service period.
to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferable household items.
in addition, and in appropriate Exercise of discretion any discretion available in determining the treatment of incentives upon termination of employment circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees is intended only to be relied upon to provide flexibility in unusual circumstances.
The Committees and the provision of tax advice.
The Company will reimburse the executive Director for all reasonable determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the expenses which he she may incur while carrying out executive duties.
recent performance of the group.
Change of control in relation to Performance Share Plan awards in the event the Companys shares cease to trade on the london Stock exchange or any other recognised stock exchange Delisting or the Directors of the Company pass a resolution to the effect that Delisting is imminent or where the Board determines that a significant event has occurred, which may be a demerger, winding up or compulsory acquisition of the Company, or any other event as determined by the Board, at the discretion of the Board and, where applicable, with the consent of the acquiring company, PSP awards will not vest but will be exchanged for new PSP awards.
in the event that the PSP awards are exchanged for new PSP awards: the award date of the new PSP award shall be deemed to be the same as the award date of the original PSP award: the new PSP award will be in respect of shares in a company determined by the Board which may include any acquiring company: the new PSP award must be equivalent to the PSP Award and will vest at the same time and in the same manner as the PSP award: and where relevant, either the vesting of the new PSP award must be subject to any performance conditions which are, so far as possible, equivalent to any conditions applying to the PSP award, or no performance conditions will apply but the value of shares comprised in the new PSP award shall be the value of the number of shares which would have vested under the PSP award if they had not been exchanged for new PSP awards.
Deferred Share awards shall vest immediately and shall not be pro-rated for time or performance if any of the events referred to above occur.
90 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 91 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued Current Directors service contracts Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Group CEO in determining salary increases for the group CeO, the Committee takes into account a range of factors, including overall The table below highlights key elements of the service contract of the group CeO with JSC Polymetal, the russian holding base salary increases awarded to the wider employee population during the year.
company of the group where he holds the CeO position: The Committee does not directly consult with employees on the appropriateness of the group CeOs pay arrangements, Date of contract 1 September 2013 but any comments received by the Company will be considered.
expiry of term 31 august 2018 Payment in lieu of notice none Annual report on remuneration Pension none, except for defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the russian Federation Single total figure of remuneration audited information US$ The table below sets out 2015 remuneration for the group CeO.
The group CeOs remuneration is denominated in Mr nesis entered into an appointment letter as amended with the Company in relation to his appointment as a Director.
russian roubles and converted to uS Dollars for presentation purposes.
The approach to exchange rates and russian This appointment took effect from the date of admission of shares to trading on the london Stock exchange on rouble remuneration equivalent is set out in footnote 2 to this table.
29 September 2011 and is subject to annual re-election.
Mr nesis does not receive any fees in respect of his appointment as a Director of Polymetal international plc but is entitled to reimbursement of his reasonable expenses incurred in relation Taxable annual Performance Share Base salary benefits bonus Plan PSP Pension Total to the carrying out of his duties as a Director.
The appointment of Mr nesis as a Director may be terminated at any time in 1 accordance with the articles of association.
Mr nesis can terminate his appointment as a Director on six months notice.
2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 He is not entitled to receive any compensation in respect of his role as Director on termination of this appointment.
351,694 392,499 122,005 475,630 37,965 39,661 511,665 907,790 1 50% of the bonus received in 2015 has been deferred into 6,656 shares on 4 March 2017 at 5.62 ruB 562 per share using average price for the 90-day period ending Following the expiry of the previous five-year employment contract, on 23 august 2013, JSC Polymetal, a 100% indirect 31 December 2015. in line with policy, deferred shares will be released in equal tranches over a period of three years in March 2017, March 2018 and March 2019 and are not subsidiary of the Company incorporated in russia, entered into an employment contract with Mr nesis as its Chief executive subject to further performance conditions.
The contract became effective on 1 September 2013.
The contract was entered into for a period of five years and The amounts are translated at the average rates of the russian rouble to the uS Dollar for 2015 and 2014, respectively.
3 no PSP awards vested or exercised in the year.
expires on 31 august 2018. under the terms of the contract, the Chief executive Officer undertakes to perform general management of JSC Polymetal a subholding company which provides management services to each of the groups Details of total fees paid to non-executive Directors and the Chairman during 2015 and 2014 are set out in the table below: subsidiaries and arrange for its commercial, economic, social and other activities with a view to providing for JSC Polymetals further development.
The employment contract does not contain any specific grounds for early termination.
The contract can Total fees be terminated at any time on one months notice by Mr nesis and with immediate effect by JSC Polymetal in accordance with uS$ 2015 2014 russian labour and civil law.
This could result in compensation of three average monthly salaries.
Bobby godsell 433,018 472,432 The full terms and conditions of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in Jersey Jonathan Best 257,049 286,368 and its office in Cyprus.
russell Skirrow 210,150 221,784 leonard Homeniuk 215,455 256,625 Non-executive Directors Charles Balfour 119,886 non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
rather, the terms of their appointment are set out in letters of Christine Coignard 252,015 136,777 appointment.
The appointment of each of the non-executive Directors took effect from admission until the next agM of the Company, subject to annual re-election.
The appointment of any non-executive Director may be terminated at any time in Konstantin Yanakov accordance with the articles of association.
The appointment of each non-executive Director may be terminated by either Marina grnberg party on one months notice.
a non-executive Director is not entitled to receive any compensation on termination of his Jean-Pascal Duvieusart or her appointment.
each non-executive Director is subject to confidentiality restrictions without limitation in time.
Total non-executive fees 1,367,687 1,493,871 The full terms and conditions of appointment of all of the Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered note: The amounts for 2015 and 2014 are translated at gBP uS$ exchange rate at the dates of each payment.
office in Jersey and its office in Cyprus.
Single total figure of remuneration additional information Dates of contract or appointment for non-executive Directors are set out in the table below: Annual bonus targets and outcomes The targets for annual bonus measures and performance against these targets are set out below: Director Date of contract or appointment notice period Measures Weight achievement Below Target Maximum Bobby godsell 29 September 2011 1 month Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 1 month achieving production budget 25% 21% Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 month Total Cash Cost per ounce of gold equivalent produced 25% 38% Marina grnberg 29 September 2011 1 month Completion of new projects on time and within budget 25% 24% Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 1 month Health and safety 25% 0% russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 1 month Penalty factor for fatal severe cases n a -38% leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 1 month Total 100% 46% Christine Coignard 1 July 2014 1 month Penalty factor for fatal severe cases is up to 50% of the annual bonus.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee consults with the Companys major shareholders regularly, and seeks their feedback on the group CeOs This resulted in the group CeO receiving a bonus of 33% of maximum opportunity for the year which constitutes 35% of his remuneration policy.
in 2014, the Company put the Directors remuneration policy to a binding shareholder vote and received base salary or uS$122,005.
99.8% of votes in favour: it is expected to cover a period of three years from that date.
The Directors annual remuneration report was put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 agM of the Company and received 99.32% support.
92 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 93 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued LTIp Directors shareholdings audited information Deferred Share Awards plan audited information The group CeO is required to retain a shareholding equal to five times his base salary, i. e. 161,250 shares.
in accordance with the DSa, the first award of shares under the DSa, which were granted in March 2014, vest on 31 March 2015 and were transferred to the group CeO as presented in the table below: For the purposes of determining whether the requirements have been met, share price is measured at the end of each financial year.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price of 5.85 uS$8.65 per share at 31 December 2015 additional share Total shareholding of translated at the closing exchange rate of the British Pound to the russian rouble as at 31 December 2015. number of shares awards for dividend Total amount of employee following vested on equivalents awarded shares allotted on vesting of share award name Position 31 March 2015 on 31 March 2015 31 March 2015 as at 31 March 2015 Shares that count towards shareholding requirements include unfettered shares.
The table below sets out the number of shares held, or potentially held, by Directors.
vitaly nesis Director 10,027 418 10,445 3,110,445 1 Shares held Options held in addition, further to the bonus approval for the year ended 31 December 2015, the group CeO has received a deferred Shareholding Subject to Current bonus award in shares under the terms of the DSa as per the schedule below.
Share awards will vest annually over the next requirement Owned performance vested but exercised shareholding guideline three years in equal instalments in March 2016, 2017 and 2018. under the terms of the DSa, dividend equivalents will be Director % of salary outright conditions unexercised in year % salary met received on vested shares reflecting the value of the dividends, which have been paid during the period from the grant date vitaly nesis 500% 3,110,445 9,645% yes to the vesting date.
Dividend equivalents will also be paid as shares.
leonard Homeniuk 64,000 n a Outstanding shares Bobby godsell 2,000 n a under 2014 DSa Total number Marina grnberg 11,000 n a net of issued shares on Share grant of deferred shares name Position 31 March 2015 under 2015 DSa under the DSa vitaly nesis Director 20,054 22,178 42,232 performance graph and table The graph below illustrates the Companys TSr performance relative to the constituents of the FTSe 250 index excluding investment companies, of which the Company is a constituent, from the date of the Companys admission to trading on performance Share plan audited information the london Stock exchange in October 2011.
To provide context to the Companys performance in its specific sector of under the PSP, a conditional award of 74,165 ordinary shares with no par value was made to Mr nesis in 2014 and operation, we also provide an illustration of the Companys TSr relative to the constituents of the FTSe gold Mines index.
66,166 shares in 2015. it is exercisable following respective four-year vesting periods, subject to performance measures determined by Polymetal.
For this award, vesting is based on relative TSr, measured against the constituents of the FTSe gold Mines index, and also on the Companys absolute TSr.
Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines Total shareholder return % vesting 0% vests for below median performance: 20% vests at median performance: 100% vests at top decile performance 200 and above.
no award will vest if absolute TSr is negative, regardless of relative performance.
180 160 Total number of options number of awards outstanding under 140 name Position granted in 2015 the PSP 120 vitaly nesis Director 66,166 140,331 100 80 60 Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited information 40 no other share awards were made to the group CeO in 2015.
20 0 Total pension entitlements audited information Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Feb Apr Jun Aug Oct Dec Save for the groups defined contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the russian Federation during the financial year 2011 2011 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 ended 31 December 2015, no amounts were set aside or accrued by the group to provide pension, retirement or other Polymetal FTSE 250 FTSE Gold Mines benefits to the Directors and senior management.
Group CEOs pay in last five years Loss of office payments or payments to past Directors audited information no loss of office payments or payments to past Directors were made in the year under review.
uS$ 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 group CeO total remuneration 511,665 907,790 1,081,572 1,037,413 1,138,013 1 annual bonus % of maximum 33% 90% 88% 90% 137% lTiP award % of maximum 1 an additional bonus was awarded by the remuneration Committee to Mr nesis for the successful iPO of the Company in november 2011.
Mr nesis was required to devote a significant amount of time above and beyond his normal day-to-day responsibilities as CeO to successfully bring about the iPO.
excluding the additional bonus, the annual bonus comprised 49% of maximum opportunity in 2011.
94 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 95 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued percentage change in Group CEOs remuneration Long-term Incentive plan Deferred Share Awards plan and performance Share plan excluding the value of long-term incentives, the percentage change in total remuneration for the group CeO was a 44% Deferred Share Awards plan decrease from uS$907,790 in 2014 to uS$511,665 in 2015 due to the significant devaluation of the russian rouble against The Committee intends to defer annual bonus awards earned for the 2016 performance period in line with policy.
the uS Dollar and a penalty factor applied to the annual bonus because of fatalities see page 47, 85, 93. in rouble terms the group CeOs total remuneration for 2015 decreased by 10% compared with 2014.
The average percentage change performance Share plan in total remuneration for all employees in the year was a 18% decrease mainly driven by devaluation.
The Committee intends to make an award under the PSP to the group CeO in 2016, in line with the policy disclosed on page 86.
To ensure the comparability of this figure, and to minimise distortions, the all-employee remuneration figure is on the basis of full-time permanent employees.
vesting is based on relative TSr measured against the constituents of the FTSe gold Mines index and on the Companys absolute TSr.
Peers are ranked and the Companys position determines vesting: Relative importance of spend on pay TSr vs FTSe gold Mines Payout The chart below shows how staff remuneration costs compared to profit before tax and distributions made to shareholders Below threshold Below median performance 0% in 2015 and 2014.
Threshold Median performance 20% Maximum upper decile performance 100% Relative importance of employee pay US$m -18% 45% 5% Straight-line vesting will occur between the points set out above.
no award will vest for performance below median, or if the 307 Companys absolute TSr performance is negative, regardless of relative performance.
296 282 216 251 Non-executive Directors 127 149 The policy for determining non-executive Directors fees will be unchanged from 2015.
Fee rates for 2015 and 2016 are set Special 84 Special dividends out below: dividends 89 Regular Regular 65 2016 fees 2015 fees dividends dividends role US$ uS$ Total employee Return to Underlying profit non-executive Chairman 370,400 370,400 pay shareholders before tax Senior independent Director no additional fee no additional fee 2014 2015 independent non-executive Director basic fee 148,160 148,160 Additional fees Implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year audit and risk Committee Chair 44,448 44,448 in 2016, the Committee intends to implement the executive and non-executive Director remuneration policies as follows: Chair of other Committees 22,224 22,224 Committee membership fee not payable to the Committee Chair 14,816 14,816 Base salary The policy for determining 2016 base salaries will remain unchanged.
Base salary for the group CeO for 2015 and 2016 is set Board and Committee meeting attendance fee 4,445 per meeting 4,445 per meeting out below: note: non-executive Director fees are denominated in British Pounds Sterling and for presentation purposes the figures are translated to uS Dollars at the exchange rate of British Pound to the uS Dollar as at 31 December 2015.
1 1 2016 salary 2015 salary Change, % ruB20,354,880 ruB18,174,000 12% Remuneration Committee group CeO uS$297,436 uS$263,662 13% The remuneration Committee comprises three independent non-executive Directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder where applicable, in the matters to be decided.
Following Mr Homeniuks appointment 1 Base salary for 2016 is translated at the closing exchange rate of rouble to uS Dollar stated by the Central Bank of the russian Federation as at 28 March 2016.
Base salary for 2015 is translated at the closing exchange rate of rouble to uS Dollar stated by the Central Bank of the russian Federation as at 1 February 2015. as Chair of the Safety and Sustainability Committee on 19 October 2015, he was replaced by Ms Coignard as Chair of the remuneration Committee.
Mr Homeniuk continues to serve as a member of the Committee.
The remuneration Committee decided to increase the base salary by 13% for all group employees whose salaries are denominated in roubles, and by 12% for the group CeO vitaly nesis, effective 1 april 2016.
The membership of the remuneration Committee is shown in the table below.
name role pension and benefits leonard Homeniuk Chair up to 19 October 2015 Member from 19 October 2015 no pension or benefits plans are in place for 2016, except for the defined pension contributions to the mandatory pension fund of the russian Federation.
Jonathan Best Member Christine Coignard Member up to 19 October 2015 Chair from 19 October 2015 Annual bonus The targets for annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive, particularly in the gold mining industry, The principal functions of the remuneration Committee under its terms of reference are: because of the sensitivity of information that their disclosure may provide to the Companys competitors, given that these are largely based outside the uK and hence are not subject to the same reporting requirements as the Company.
to make recommendations to the Board on the groups policy on the remuneration of executive management: to determine, within agreed terms of reference, the remuneration of the Chairman and specific remuneration packages for each of the executive Director, the Company Secretary and the members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments: to formulate suitable performance criteria for the performance-based pay of executive management: to review and oversee all aspects of any executive share scheme operated by or to be established by the Company: and to oversee and advise the Board on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or the group.
96 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 97 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices remuneration report continued Directors report The full terms of reference of the remuneration Committee can be found in the Corporate governance section on the The Directors submit the annual report of Polymetal principal risks Companys website: www.
international plc together with the audited financial The Board has continued to place great emphasis on risk statements of Polymetal international plc for the year management in 2015, taking account of material external Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration ended 31 December 2015. economic and geopolitical challenges and considering the in 2015 the remuneration Committee met three times.
Further business conducted by the Committee was approved groups responsiveness to changes within its business by written resolutions on three further occasion.
The detailed assessment of principal risks refer to pages 73 to 77 for a description of the groups and uncertainties facing the group is set out on in 2015, the meetings of the Committee covered the following key areas: corporate governance structure and policies.
pages 64-69 of this annual report.
reviewed KPis for 2015: Going concern The corporate planning process is underpinned by life-ofamended the structure of KPis to put more emphasis on health and safety: in assessing its going concern status, the group has taken mine plans and stress scenario testing.
The stress tests are account of its financial position, anticipated future trading designed to evaluate the resilience of the group to the approved awards of the participants in the PSP: performance, its borrowings and other available credit potential impact of principal risks and the availability and approved annual bonuses and DSa grants: facilities, and its forecast compliance with covenants effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to on those borrowings and its capital expenditure commitments avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying performed top management salary review: and plans.
as at 31 December 2015, the group held risks.
in considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, reviewed regulatory changes to and development of the Directors remuneration reporting: uS$52 million in cash and had net debt of uS$1,298 million, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review reviewed remuneration policy and the annual remuneration report: with uS$1,196 million undrawn facilities of which uS$980 of risk and internal control systems, as discussed on pages million are considered committed.
Debt of uS$287 million is 64-65, were taken into account.
reviewed and approved amended Board expenses and reimbursement policy: due for payment within one year and certain committed but held induction of the new Chair: undrawn facilities expire within that period, but the groups Key assumptions cash generation and liquidity remains strong and the group The key assumptions underpinning the Boards assessment reviewed performance of the remuneration Committee: and believes it will be able to operate within existing facilities, include gold and silver prices, production volumes, foreign reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
but could secure additional financing if and when needed.
exchange rates and the ability to roll forward borrowing facilities as they fall due in the ordinary course of business.
The Board considers that the composition and work of the remuneration Committee complies with the requirements of the The Board is satisfied that the groups forecasts and in making these forecasts, full consideration has also been uK Corporate governance Code.
projections, having taken account of reasonably possible given to all other principal risks to the business.
These changes in trading performance, show that the group has risks have been considered in our stress testing where Statement of voting at AGM adequate resources to continue in operational existence for appropriate, or are considered to be either immaterial at the 2015 agM, held on 20 May, votes for the remuneration report and remuneration policy were as follows: at least the next 12 months from the date of this report and or too remote to affect our viability over a three-year period.
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in votes for votes against Withheld preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year Liquidity and solvency remuneration report 316,756,504 99.32% 2,169,172 0.68% 38,983 ended 31 December 2015.
The sources of funding available to the group are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
Our base Longer-term viability statement Advisors case projections demonstrate that the group should be able The Committee continued to use  llP PwC as independent external remuneration consultant Based on key drivers and measures of success used within to operate within the currently available debt facilities and the business, the Board assessed the prospects of the to provide support in relation to the design and operation of the new lTiP and on the changes associated with the new comply with all related covenants during the lookout period, remuneration report regulations.
PwC is a member of the remuneration Consultants group rCg and a signatory of the group, taking account of potential impact of the principal assuming necessary roll-overs and limited additional debt risks to the groups business model and ability to deliver rCg voluntary Code of Practice, and incorporates the principles of the voluntary Code of Practice into its engagement.
based on the historically successful ability of the group to no other services were provided by PwC during 2015 other than external assurance services for the Companys Sustainability its strategy, including solvency and liquidity risks during raise finance.
Our stress testing focuses in particular on report.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2014 totalled uS$48,000 no fees the reasonably reliable lookout period.
significant adverse changes in market prices of gold and in 2015, with fees quoted in advance and based on the level of complexity of the work undertaken.
The Committee reviews silver and demonstrates that under reasonably possible Lookout period the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held on an annual basis.
downside gold and silver price assumptions, only limited The period over which the Board considers it possible to mitigating action is required to maintain liquidity and covenant During its work in 2015, the Committee was also aided by the group CeO, and senior finance and human resources form a reasonable expectation as to the groups longer-term compliance, including the refinancing of existing facilities executives of the Company.
viability, based on the stress testing and scenario planning as they mature.
process employed by the group, is the three-year period to PwCs appointment was made by way of a competitive tender, the results of which were presented to the remuneration December 2018.
This is aligned with the groups existing Expectations Committee for approval.
mid-term forecasting performed on the annual basis and The Board confirms that taking into account the groups covering strategic and investment mid-term planning.
The current position and based upon the robust assessment of Approval Board is confident that routine operational risks are being the principal risks facing the group and stress testing-based This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by effectively managed within the three-year lookout period and assessment of the groups prospects, the Board has a corporate scenario planning is focusing primarily on plausible reasonable expectation that the group will be able to changing external factors with a reasonable degree of continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall confidence whilst still providing an appropriate longerdue over the period to 31 December 2018. term outlook.
Christine Coignard Chair, Remuneration Committee 28 March 2016 98 Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc 99
