Sustainability Enhancing trust By embracing policies Valuing our people #1 Workplace and behaviours that govern Playtechs market-leading position is a The well-being of our employees, significant asset in its efforts to attract the responsible conduct, the and how we attract, develop and best talent in the industry.
Candidates are Company strives to create retain the best talent drawn to Playtech by the combination of more valuable relationships its highly motivated, entrepreneurial team with its stakeholders, enhancing culture, its breadth of knowledge and ability to harness cutting-edge technology.
This has trust by demonstrating its also been an important factor in Playtechs focus on, and management corporate acquisitions, where the potential of, the material non-financial to benefit from such a large and experienced support network has been a key discussion risks in the business.
Employees point and decision factor for a management team assessing the benefits of joining Playtech believes that a responsible Playtech understands that the success Playtech.
approach to these challenges, together of its business is due to the vital contribution with risk assessment and mitigation, will made by its employees.
It is therefore A formal onboarding process exists in positively impact its ability to succeed essential to the Companys continued Playtechs major employment centres operationally and strategically.
growth and development that it is able including various employee handbooks to attract and retain talented employees and guides, formally structured meetings Playtech continues to improve its who will contribute to the long-term with HR, and the new employees line understanding and monitoring of success of the business.
Additional training provides material non-financial risks, despite a broader overview of the Group and operating in a highly-dynamic and The Group is fully committed to equality its culture, and any specialist technical rapidly-changing environment.
of opportunity and dignity at work for all.
training or regulatory training as required.
Its primary aim in this area is to recruit the best and most appropriate employees, Playtechs culture focuses on the continued irrespective of race, religion, ethnic or improvement of its workforce, driven by national origins, gender, sexuality, disability, a strong ethos of innovation, technological class or age, working to the highest development and the delivery of marketstandards across the Group.
Many of Playtechs new employees are referred by existing Playtech operates in a highly competitive staff, reflecting the Companys focus industry, where retaining key staff is a priority.
on developing a close-knit, collegiate, The Company provides financial rewards and corporate culture.
Ongoing training a positive working environment, developing and career development are important employees skills for improved performance elements of Playtechs sustainability efforts.
and increased job satisfaction levels.
Welfare activities Locations and people Playtech recognises the value in keeping Playtech is headquartered in the Isle of employees engaged and well-motivated.
Man and has offices in 12 other countries, Welfare programmes run through the year including its principal software development and are tailored to each country.
Each site centres in Estonia, Ukraine, the UK, Sweden has a generous budget for local activities and Bulgaria.
Live dealer facilities are located such as team building, parties, birthday gifts in Latvia and the Philippines.
A central and a yearly site trip.
finance function is located in Cyprus and marketing from Israel.
In 2015, Playtech employed an average of 4,300 people.
At the end of the year, total headcount was over 5,000 people.
40 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements An employee of the quarter programme recognises exceptional performance with a small financial reward.
Employee engagement surveys are conducted around the business and in Estonia, the Fish Programme, which has been running for over 10 years has benefited both Playtech Estonia and Videobet by improving retention.
#3 Marketplace Employee conduct Working with regulators, partners Playtech continues to monitor our Code and licensees to ensure the highest of Conduct and Anti Bribery policy.
reputational standards The aim of these policies is to: set standards of behaviour, organisational values and business ethics for Playtech: and provide structures for reporting.
Training initiatives are in place to ensure Employee performance Marketplace that both policies are communicated to and understood by employees.
While the development of market-leading Playtechs CSR marketplace metrics focus on software and products is at the heart of stakeholder perceptions of the Companys Playtechs growth, licensees naturally expect relationships with licensees and its #2 Governance 24 7 operational performance and efficient responsiveness to their requirements: and Maintaining high standards delivery.
The Companys business units are on Playtechs relationships with regulators of corporate governance to integral to ensuring Playtech meets the and other industry bodies.
monitor and mitigate risks requirements of its licensees and employees associated with the business are rewarded accordingly.
The Company will look to report on these in due course, and include conduct surveys to Playtechs appraisal system is based around ensure that it properly understands external individual business unit and Group-wide perceptions of the business and manages objectives, which are directly aligned its reputation.
to Group strategy and specific areas of implementation and execution.
Employees Customer service lies at the heart of have clearly defined objectives and targets Governance Playtechs business, and Playtech strives to that are set in each review period, and their deliver a high quality service to its licensees Playtechs Board is responsible for performance is routinely measured against so that they can offer the best player the Groups financial and operational these objectives.
Being in a fast changing experience.
The Company works to monitor performance, ensuring the continued industry, the objectives area on performance customer satisfaction levels across the success and sustainability of the business evaluation system stays open throughout licensee base as the retention of licensees by directing and supervising the Companys the year.
is central to the sustainability of its business policies and strategies.
Playtech places great value on its Employee remuneration includes relationships with gambling regulators In an industry that continues to undergo competitive salaries, an annual bonus, around the world and works with them significant structural changes, the Boards annual salary review, non-cash and ad-hoc to ensure all aspects of the business meet role has never been more important.
The bonuses, which are set by reference to or exceed their standards.
identification of significant risks facing the the achievement of the aforementioned business, and processes to monitor and objectives, and by the demonstration of The Group has an experienced Head of mitigate them, is covered in more detail other competencies and contributions Regulatory Affairs and Compliance who on pages 36 to 38. to the Group.
A refresh and new long-term, focuses the Companys efforts on regulatory share-based incentive scheme to attract matters, and this is of particular significance and retain the best operational and business as Playtech continues to expand its managers was implemented in 2015. regulated markets offering.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 41 Sustainability Customer service #5 Environment The service-orientated philosophy Mitigating the Companys underpinning Playtechs content environmental impact, where relevant development activities is replicated in and appropriate, to reflect the nature its product and infrastructure operations, and scale of its business with a team of over 150 people providing a 24 7 support service to licensees.
From the beginning of every project, Playtech supports its licensees, drawing on its extensive experience.
Dedicated teams, #4 Community staffed by professionals from all disciplines, Environment provide complete project and launch Our broader community-related management, assisting with strategy and In comparison to other global companies, obligations in those locations where business planning, through to recruitment Playtech has a relatively low environmental our employees, business partners and team building.
impact, by virtue of the fact that it is and licensees live and work primarily an online business with a limited Playtech provides its customers operational number of local office locations.
The day-toteams with an intensive two-week training day running of the business will inevitably programme ahead of launch.
Thereafter, have an environmental impact, particularly each licensee is assigned an experienced in terms of energy consumption and travel, account manager who provides dayand the Company has put in place processes to-day support and a point of contact.
to monitor its carbon dioxide emissions from Community Customers can draw on a pool of product air travel and reduce any unnecessary travel.
The Company values the positive and technology specialists to advise on any issues, and a consulting team provides influence on its employees personal Where it is necessary to take new office and professional development that can value-added input to optimise the tools space, consideration is made for the available on the Playtech platform.
be found through volunteer work, and implementation of greater energy-efficient sees it as important for the business over measures.
In Estonia, the building was the long term.
The Companys employees designed with a highly efficient cooling are actively engaged in supporting charities system for the computer room, and in all and Playtech has expanded its Social new locations there has been a move to 1 50 Involvement programme to focus on reduce energy consumption.
With a ratio initiatives that deliver educational support of employees to printers of over 30, the People providing a 24 7 and assistance to disadvantaged children support service to licensees.
offices can be seen to be increasingly in those countries where the Group paperless environments.
In addition, bottled has operations.
water has been largely replaced by water fountains, and where local schemes exist, In 2015 Playtech gave approximately waste is separated and recycled, as are 350,000 to charitable organisations printer toner cartridges.
All offices have working in the fields of education and secure bicycle parking, and in the UK, the research into, vulnerable populations, Company participates in a scheme whereby associations for children with cancer and employees can purchase a bicycle in a some other non profit organisations which tax efficient manner.
In Israel, Estonia and help poor people with food and clothing.
Bulgaria the Company operates a recycle programme separating bottles, papers and other trash.
350,000 In 2015 Playtech gave approximately 350,000 to charitable organisations.
42 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Every licensee is provided with Playtechs Playtech is an executive member of the transparency toolkit, which is embedded Remote Gambling Association RGA, which in the Companys software and includes has developed an industry code of practice viewable player protection content and on social responsibility and age verification, the following elements: which the Company fully supports.
As part of the certification process, Playtechs games compulsive gambling prevention: and their software engines including the age verification: random number generators are regularly deposit limits: tested and certified by leading industry bet limits: bodies to ensure consistency and fair play.
session time limits: and self-exclusion tools.
Playtech also supports the Gaming #6 Responsible gambling Standards Association, an organisation Responsible gambling is an integral The Company also provides comprehensive working towards global shared technology training and ongoing support to licensees standards.
part of Playtechs institutional mindset and a significant factor in all of its to allow them to provide the maximum protection to their customers.
The Group holds a certificate of evaluation activities from the accredited testing facility TST which Where Playtech provides external and or is part of Gaming Laboratories International internal marketing services to a licensee, it GLI, the worlds largest independent puts in place clear protocols and procedures gambling testing and certification laboratory for player engagement.
Playtechs Playtech is certified and licensed by the technology platform provides tools to Alderney Gambling Control Commission operators that can identify and manage any AGCC, the United Kingdom Gambling Philosophy player thought to be showing indications Commission, the Direccin General fide As a software provider, the Company is not of problem gambling, and regular dialogue, Ordenacin del Juego DGoJ in Spain typically directly in contact with players, but reporting and joint training exercises with and the Malta Gaming Authority MGA.
responsible gambling nonetheless remains licensees address any concerns that arise.
Additionally in Italy, Bulgaria, France, Estonia a fundamental issue for the Company in and Finland, Playtechs software has been safeguarding its business and reputation, This dialogue focuses on the early reviewed and passed for use by the and for the continued development of the identification by the operator of the small local regulators.
percentage of players that have the potential, under certain circumstances, to develop Fraud, money laundering and fair play Within PTTS, Playtech works with its gambling related problems and the smaller An integral part of Playtechs technology licensees in relation to player acquisition and group who demonstrate an inability to platform is its ability to monitor and identify retention, and is consequently dedicated, control their gambling habits or actions.
potential fraud and money laundering.
with its operators, to a substantial focus on Playtech employs a dedicated security team the proper management of the relevant The Group contributes financially to focused on ensuring that it is at the forefront responsible gambling protocols.
the work of the Responsible Gambling of industry best practice in this area.
With Trust formerly the Great Foundation comprehensive monitoring of transactions Technology to support and GamCare, UK charities dedicated and gambling behaviour, licensees are to supporting research into problem able to ensure that players cannot gain responsible gambling gambling, education and training.
an advantage through unfair means.
The Companys fully-integrated This is a particular focus in player-to-player management system provides operators Playtech is also an associate member of the games such as poker, to minimise any with the latest responsible gambling World Lottery Association WLA, the global risk of player collusion.
Embedded systems and controls professional association for state lottery and ensure fair play through fraud-detection gambling organisations.
The WLA and its services and facilitate responsible gambling members are committed to maintaining tools for players and ensure a safe playing the highest ethical standards of gambling.
Certification and regulation As a responsible supplier to the regulated gambling industry, Playtechs systems comply with all the guidelines published by the variety of regulated jurisdictions in which its licensees operate.
The Company partners with regulatory and governmental bodies to ensure its systems are compliant.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 43
