STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT harvesting, LED lighting and solar heating for hot water.
We are Our Goal really pleased that Harlow achieved a very good BREEAM rating as At Poundland we deliver amazing value to our customers every a result.
We are famous for our wide range of great products and top brands, offering many exciting new lines every week.
Poundland will As stated above we continually investigate and test new solutions always be fun and friendly with something for everyone.
to reduce the environmental impact of our operations.
We do Our values that underpin our goal are as follows: this because we believe it is right and to meet the exacting environmental requirements of our socially aware customers.
We put customers first Keep it simple We will maintain focus on lowering carbon emissions to minimise Individual responsibility team delivery annual costs under the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Treat every as your own Recycling Respect each other We recognise the potential impact on the community of waste Recognise and celebrate success generated from our activities and seek to reduce volumes of waste The values are representative of the way we aspire to operate our by recycling wherever possible.
business and our colleagues are encouraged to live these values during everyday interaction with our customers, suppliers and each All our stores and distributions sites recycle cardboard and soft other.
Colleagues at CSC are also encouraged to separate their waste paper and packaging.
We put our customers first and fully understand and recognise our responsibility to demonstrate to them that we trade fairly The overall focus on waste management has resulted in the and take our corporate and social responsibilities seriously.
We recycling of 13,310.81 tonnes of cardboard, an improvement also recognise our duty to operate our business in an ethical and of 5.67% on our previous year.
In addition we recycled 598.80 responsible manner, and have set our CSR strategy to focus on tonnes of plastic.
By working together we recycled 3.28% more three key areas: Environment, Social Responsibility and Employee cardboard and soft plastics than over the same period last year.
have set more challenging targets for further reductions in energy consumption going forward.
Environmental responsibility We recognise that our operations impact the environment and that We comply with UK Packaging Waste Regulations and by working this is an increasingly important issue for consumers.
We actively closely with our Packaging Consultants we provide battery collection pursue policies that help us to reduce our carbon footprint and facilities throughout all our stores WEE.
This means customers can costs.
We focus on four key areas: using less electricity: maximising deposit any type of portable battery into collection containers when recycling opportunities: improving fuel efficiency: and reducing visiting a store.
These batteries are collected, sorted and recycled, packaging waste.
We consider this key to the ongoing success of ensuring that the constituent parts are used again.
We provide the government with data on the weight of packaging We actively pursue policies that help us reduce the environmental waste materials paper, glass, aluminium, steel, plastic, wood and impact of our operations and constantly seek to reduce our mixed recycling as part of our PRN obligations.
energy consumption to deliver efficiencies and meet the exacting environmental requirements of our socially aware customers.
During Reducing packaging waste 2 2014 15 we reduced our same store emissions by 625 tonnes CO, Primary packaging, at its most fundamental level, protects equivalent to a 1.91% reduction on a like-for-like basis.
and contains the contents and communicates safety and legal requirements.
While meeting all legislative requirements as a We focus on three key areas: electricity and water efficiency: minimum we also work towards a continuous reduction in the use maximising recycling opportunities and reducing packaging waste.
of packaging materials, reducing size and weight through improved We consider these areas key to the ongoing success of our design and use of materials.
Wherever possible we view packaging from our customers Electricity and water efficiency perceptive, i. e. can I recycle it, can I reuse it, does it have an In 2014 15 we consumed 80.1 GWh of gas and electricity across alternative use?
We also demand that our suppliers provide our head office, network of stores and distribution centres.
This information on the size, weight and materials content of packaging 2 equates to emission of 41,861 tonnes of CO. To reduce emissions on all our own brand products sold.
By behaving responsibly we we give our stores details on the amount of energy they use to ensure we comply with all rules, licences, copyright requirements, enable them to manage the use through good housekeeping.
codes of practice and official guidelines concerning environmental labelling and claims.
We endeavour to maintain good housekeeping standards across the Group with targeted investment in energy projects that give a suitable return on investment.
For example we invested in a low energy lighting scheme for our Willenhall warehouse last year and ensured the purpose built warehouse at Harlow included rain water POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 28 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Stores, distribution centres and CSC have been busy fundraising Social Responsibility Sourcing both collectively as a team and individually all year round.
There We have strengthened our Supplier Code of Conduct and Social have been a range of fancy dress days, tea parties in support Accountability process over the last few years following an of Macmillans Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning, a Spook fest for independent audit of our processes and procedures in 2011.
We Halloween and wearing Christmas jumpers over the festive period, implemented in full the recommendations identified.
We increased plus lots of great individual store activities, including taking part in the number and quality of audits of our suppliers and joined the ice bucket challenge.
Sedex, the largest organisation of its kind that shares ethical trade information with its members.
In our Dealz Ireland stores, our charity of the year is Make-a-Wish In line with our code of conduct we have commissioned a number who grant magical wishes to children and young people fighting life of independent audits of our suppliers.
of our ethical, moral and social processes remains one of our key priorities.
Employee Responsibility Our Colleagues We are proud that on a value basis over 80% of our products are sourced through UK companies.
However, where necessary, We recognise and celebrate success through various initiatives in Poundland has the ability to source and develop products on a the business.
For example colleagues are rewarded for meeting global basis.
Therefore, our Far East and Near East operations objectives which impact business performance and show evidence based in Hong Kong and New Delhi continue to be an important of living the Company values via an annual bonus scheme.
In part of our sourcing strategy.
Accordingly we have strengthened our addition we offer at 5 year intervals long service awards to our teams in both these locations, especially in the areas of new product colleagues.
development, quality assurance and control.
All colleagues have access to a wide range of benefits via our Our good UK vendor relationships have continued to improve during benefits platform offering discounts for colleagues and their families the period and virtually all primary manufacturers supply us direct.
From childcare vouchers and improved healthcare, through is pleasing that major manufacturers of branded products recognise to special discounts in leisure and lifestyle, we offer something for the significance of Poundland to consumers and the outstanding everyone.
growth opportunity that we offer them to expand their brand reach.
Top brands are very important to our customers and securing Our colleagues welfare and wellbeing is important to us and we continuity of supply through these direct channels allows us to work in partnership with the Retail Trust who offer our colleagues increase sales through improved availability and differentiate our an employee assistance program which is a free, confidential and offer from other single price competitors.
During the year we have independent service to support colleagues at times of need.
This once again been able to add a number of important new branded service is offered 7 days a week and 365 days a year.
suppliers to our existing large portfolio of primary manufacturers.
We continue to recognise the relevance of secondary and tertiary We are interested in what our colleagues have to say and use suppliers who enjoy long term relationships with our growing various means of communicating with them on a regular basis.
These suppliers remain important to the delivery Our colleagues are represented at the biannual JCC meetings held of our overall offer.
between the Company and our union USDAW.
In addition the Code of Conduct Social Accountability Policy Company has a whistleblowing policy which allows colleagues to raise any concerns in confidence.
All suppliers commit to achieving the standards outlined.
The policy, based on International Labour Organisation Core ILO conventions Local community support covers topics including: Our new store opening programme and expansion plans mean Child forced labour that we are creating jobs and opportunities for over 1,000 new Health & safety colleagues annually.
We work closely with local job centres and the Freedom of Association & collective bargaining DWP in helping the unemployed gain long term employment and skills and qualifications to improve their employability.
We take our Non-discrimination corporate responsibility seriously and the role we play is having a Hours worked positive impact on local communities.
Wage compliance Training Charity All new colleagues receive an induction programme tailored to the Poundland supports Macmillan Cancer Cares aim to reach role they will perform.
We review our training regularly to update and everyone affected by cancer.
Since the partnership began in 2009, improve practice.
A recent update has seen training taken out of the Poundland colleagues and customers have raised over 1.3 million, classroom and onto the shop oor.
Brand new materials have been helping Macmillan to make sure people living with cancer have the introduced called Conversation Cards.
These cards are relaxed, best team in their corner, every step of the way.
informal and help Managers to train their colleagues on all aspects of their job.
Colleagues love this new approach as it is easy, simple We have built and strengthened the partnership engagement with and practical to understand.
both colleagues and customers and created awareness in the media, providing an easy and desirable way for people to support Managers now receive a Management Organiser on day one when Macmillan.
they join us, which tells them everything they need to know about www.
com 29 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT our business and their induction.
The new induction is a structured responsibilities relating to the day to day management of Health & three month programme that new managers take responsibility for, Safety as detailed in the Corporate Health & Safety Policy.
Whilst undertaking every effort that is reasonably practicable We want all our people to have the right knowledge and skills so to ensure the provision of safe and healthy working conditions they can be brilliant at their jobs.
We have launched a number of throughout our network, we also ensure the competence of all training programmes for our Managers, these modules run every colleagues by regular robust training methods which include three months and support our Managers to understand how we emphasis on the duty of all colleagues to exercise responsibility and manage and lead The Poundland Way.
do everything they can to prevent injury to themselves and others as well as ensuring all legal requirements relating to the storage and Sharing our knowledge sale of food to members of the public are strictly maintained.
Weve also supported the charity Think Forward who work with at We have Health & Safety Champions to assist with ensuring our risk youths at school.
Poundland has run a number of talent days to standards, policies and procedures are implemented across the help young people understand what a career in retail is like.
They in turn are supported by dedicated professionally qualified Health & Safety Officers, with the team being led by a fully Health and Safety qualified Risk & Safety Assurance Manager.
We are committed to high standards of occupational safety and health to minimise the risk of injury and ill health to all colleagues, A Group Health & Safety steering committee exists and meets on a customers, visitors and others that come into contact with the 6 monthly basis to review activity and policy in this area.
& Safety Officers report quarterly to the Regional Management teams and the Risk & Safety Assurance Manager on issues relating It is our policy to create, improve and implement standards of risk to the Health Safety and Welfare of colleagues, customers and and health & safety management thus leading to the reduction of visitors.
risks and to ensure the Group complies with all relevant Health & Safety Legislation.
A detailed Health & Safety Policy Statement is We communicate our policy standards and procedures to held at all locations and displayed on notice boards.
Colleagues colleagues through handbooks, operating manuals, bulletins, notice are encouraged to ensure they understand their individual boards and training as appropriate.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 30 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015
