38 Premier Farnell Employees Sustainable, profitable growth in line with our strategic We are also conducting a detailed review of our talent pipeline and building tailored executive assessment and objectives can only be achieved by a high performing, development solutions.
engaged workforce with the right knowledge and skills.
Diversity and inclusion As we have evolved from catalogue distributor to a global With thousands of customers around the world, Premier multichannel business focused on supporting customers Farnell is an organisation which values both diversity and requirements, we have acquired and developed critical new inclusion.
The Group is committed to employment policies skills within our employee base including eCommerce which follow best practice and provide equal opportunities expertise and technical capability.
Today, the Group has over for all employees.
4,500 employees based in 38 countries with 100 eCommerce specialists and 300 technical engineers amongst its ranks.
We are fully supportive of the benefits of a diverse workforce and our employee base proudly reflects the diversity of the Through its range of employee initiatives, described below, the various countries in which we operate.
We believe that this Group seeks to attract and develop its people around the globe.
ensures richness in both business and culture and an organisation that truly reflects our global business presence.
Performance management Effective performance management plays an important role We continually seek to recruit, develop and employ throughout in enabling all of our employees to understand how they the organisation suitably qualified, capable and experienced contribute to the success of the organisation.
Our Group-wide people irrespective of age, race, ethnicity, gender, religion or performance review process has been instrumental in shaping sexual orientation.
By ensuring diversity within our talent and our journey towards a high performance culture.
leadership pool, we are also ensuring we build a future team that best reflects our client, investor and global employee base.
All employees within our core businesses participate in our annual performance review process, which links each individuals Full and fair consideration is given to applications for work with the Companys strategic and operational objectives.
employment for disabled persons, having regard to their The performance review process also incorporates development particular aptitudes and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements planning, providing an opportunity for individuals to focus on their are made for the continued employment and training, career ongoing professional and personal development.
development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Group.
If members of staff become disabled, the Group In addition to structured reviews, ongoing performance continues employment, either in the same or an alternative discussions throughout the year provide an ideal platform position, with appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
for engaging and motivating employees.
In line with our continuous improvement philosophy, we also ensure that Mentoring we equip our people managers with the necessary skills, We continue to provide a platform to connect high potential such as coaching, to bring out the best in their teams.
colleagues with mentors across every function and geography, ensuring the nurturing of a global culture.
Mentoring continues We reward and recognise employees based on their to be a powerful tool for the development of our key and performance and contribution to the success of the business emerging talent pool with the senior team including internal, and provide both competitive and fair remuneration in every external and Board mentors.
country and region in which we operate.
Employee communications and involvement Learning and development The Group provides employees with relevant information, To respond to our strategic ambitions, we have redefined consulting them or their representatives regularly, so that their the behaviours we need from all colleagues in the business.
views can be taken into account when making decisions that Our Leadership Standards will also allow us to review our are likely to affect their interests.
Within the group of operating learning and development options and make sure we support companies, employee involvement and engagement is colleagues to have the skills to effectively deliver in their roles encouraged at all times, to ensure that employees are as well as developing capability for the longer term.
informed on matters relating to our business performance.
Local, functional and global learning programmes are available Our people have access to information about our business, for all levels of employees and are available through a blend of strategy and operational performance through various internal classroom training, e-learning, coaching, mentoring and direct communication channels.
These include our global intranet, on-the-job learning.
We review needs at all levels on a regular weekly newsletters, regular video broadcasts and various basis and proactively look for solutions to ensure that optimal town halls, with local business context, content and translation learning is achieved in every region of the world.
Our ongoing business updates, through regular, consistent and open communication, are essential to Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 39 Gender diversity as at 1 February 2015 % Board SET Senior Management Entire organisation employees 8 members 12 employees 177 employees 4,554 employees Male 87% 92% 76% 56% Female 13% 8% 24% 44% engaging our people by keeping them informed.
Further The previous leadership structures for Akron Brass and the communications resources have been added to support Other Distribution businesses CPC & MCM remain in place employee engagement throughout our proposed global and report to the Chief Executive directly.
Making a Difference Awards Great place to work People throughout Premier Farnell embrace our values every We are starting to re-energise our employment brand day.
As part of the Groups commitment to encourage high investing to ensure that we can attract and retain the best performance, outstanding contributions made by our possible talent for our global business.
We continue to employees are recognised and rewarded during the year encourage culturally specific events that resonate with through our Making a Difference Awards.
These awards are categorised, with winners recognised for Share option scheme their dedication to focusing on our customers and suppliers, Our share option reward schemes extend across the business innovation at work, collaborating with each other, and a Peoples in all regions, motivating employees through share price Choice award, voted for by colleagues around the business, to growth.
We strongly believe in including employees for find an individual who exemplifies coaching in action.
participation in the Groups performance by providing a stake in our future together.
Employees and managers are encouraged to submit details of an individual or team that they feel has gone above and Our values beyond their required duties.
All these nominations are then Core values are central to the long term success of any reviewed by the regional senior management team who select organisation and bind it together with an operating framework which of their regional nominations they believe has delivered for employees.
At Premier Farnell we believe: exceptional service to the organisation.
Those selected in this regional process are then sent to the members of the senior leadership team from around the Group for review.
Customers and suppliers are at the heart of everything we do.
Only by working together can we deliver results.
All of the global winners receive special recognition and We must innovate: learning and adapting faster than an award presented by the CEO.
This year, Premier Farnell anyone else.
recognised 93 colleagues from around the globe through the Making a Difference Awards.
Developing our people is crucial to our success.
Integrity and Trust are fundamental to our culture.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised New Executive Teams Committee of the Board of Directors on 24 April 2015 and Premier Farnell is constantly evolving to become a highly signed on its behalf by: efficient, global business.
The proposed reorganisation of the element14 businesses to an integrated global structure is a Mark Whiteling critical step on this journey.
In June 2014, we appointed a new Chief Financial Officer Executive team to lead the simplified organisation.
Led by 24 April 2015 Laurence Bain, the Groups Chief Executive, the new team includes Mark Whiteling, the Groups Chief Financial Officer, global functional leaders for Sales and Marketing, Product and Suppliers, Supply Chains, and Technology, as well as global leaders for support functions including Human Resources and Legal.
The new team holds one face-to-face meeting every month.
Subject matter experts attend where relevant to the meeting agenda.
