Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 33 Sustainability report Principles Intensity metric The Principles element of our sustainability strategy centres on those activities which we believe will deliver competitive Tonnes Carbon Dioxide equivalent per thousand square advantage or financial benefit to the Group.
We dont report 2 metres CO e 000m on compliance activities, which we are required to fulfil 2 and that would not set us apart from other corporate good 2014 2013 citizens in favour of initiatives that we believe drive internal Scope 1 22 23 or external business value.
Scope 2 88 87 Code of Conduct Total 110 110 All employees are required to re-read and commit to the Premier Farnell Code of Conduct during their annual The decrease in tonnes CO e emitted by the Group compared 2 performance review.
This gives them the opportunity to with the prior year is mainly due to the relocation of some ask questions and raise concerns with their line manager.
office sites to smaller and more energy efficient buildings, in In FY15, 91% of employees confirmed that they had read particular the movement of the MDD Americas head office to a and understood the Code of Conduct.
The remaining 9% LEED certified energy efficient building in downtown Chicago.
consists of employees who did not complete a year-end review and therefore did not submit their confirmation.
Each region has developed plans to reduce absolute energy use and associated GHG emissions against the 2013 baseline.
94% of new employees required to read the Code of Conduct Efficiency investments will primarily target owned facility as part of their induction confirmed that they had done so upgrades to reduce the consumption of electricity and natural via the Groups Online Learning Centre.
gas and the resultant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
The Trust Line We have appointed  LLP to provide Premier Farnell provides an anonymous telephone hotline for independent assurance on selected information in the GHG employees to report concerns about corporate ethics in their statement.
Their assurance is performed in accordance with workplace.
In FY15, nine issues were reported and investigated the International Standards on Assurance Engagements by the hotline.
All issues raised were resolved within the year ISAE3410 and 3000, against a clear and public set of criteria and none remain outstanding.
which can be found online at http: www.
Their assurance report can be found on Planet page 36 of this report.
As a distributor with no owned logistics or freight, we have focused our environmental reporting on the direct impacts Resource use of our operations at our own facilities.
The environmental impacts of the transport of products are managed by 2014 2013 2012 third-party carriers through their own procedures.
Waste generated tonnes 4,381 4,488 4,409 Greenhouse gas GHG statement for the Group Waste sent to landfill tonnes 742 903 922 Summary of GHG emissions for the year ended Waste recycled tonnes 3,639 3,585 3,488 31 December 2014: Waste recycled % 83% 80% 79% Tonnes Carbon Dioxide equivalent CO e Our overall performance on waste recycling has increased by 2 3% since 2013.
In addition to segregating and recycling our 2014 2013 own waste on site, our Distribution Centres offer a returns Scope 1 3,964 4,351 service for production reels and waffle trays.
This scheme Scope 2 15,831 16,278 allows customers to return unwanted production packaging free-of-charge to be cleaned, sorted and re-used.
Total 19,795 20,629 People The success of our business is dependent on the skills and commitment of our people.
It is vital to our sustainability strategy that we attract, develop and retain the right people to ensure our profitability continues in the long term.
Our focus on developing a high performance culture with our employees is outlined on pages 38 and 39.
34 Premier Farnell Sustainability report continued Human rights In Europe, DAW injury rates have increased primarily as a Premier Farnell supports the fundamental human rights result of short term absences following minor injuries becoming of all of its employees and stakeholders.
Our policies and more commonplace.
A significant proportion of this is driven procedures are aligned with the principles of the United by legislation affecting sick pay entitlements at our Liege Nations Global Compact and we implement a Code of Distribution Centre.
However, we have also seen minor injuries Conduct in our internal and external dealings to protect occurring in our European office locations that were unrelated the integrity of the people with whom we interact.
Our Private Label suppliers are subject to our Workplace Both Recordable and DAW rates remain below the computed Standards policy, setting out the expectation that human OSHA industry average for the business types operated by rights will be upheld by those companies with which we Premier Farnell.
contract, including the elimination of forced and child labour, and we assess those suppliers performance to Absenteeism ensure that their commitment is being kept.
We measure the sickness and injury-related absence rates of employees at our contact centres and distribution centres Health and safety worldwide.
As a high service business, the engagement and We monitor the injury rates at all facilities and our global commitment of our staff is paramount to fulfilling our performance is reported below.
We target injury rates that customer promise.
arenot higher than 50% of the average injury rate for our industry, based on the OSHA performance figures for Absence industries in the US.
1 Location Business type rate Leeds, UK Distribution Centre 5.3% Recordable DAW Business Contact Centre 9.0% 1 2 injuries per injuries per Preston, UK Distribution Centre 5.5% 100,000 100,000 Business Contact Centre 4.1% hours hours Gaffney, US Distribution Centre 2.2% worked worked Richfield, US Business Contact Centre 2.0% FY15 Target 50% computed Dayton, US Distribution Centre 1.8% OSHA average 0.41 0.16 Singapore Distribution Centre 3.0% FY15 Performance 0.38 0.30 Business Contact Centre 8.0% FY14 Performance 0.31 0.21 Note: Notes: 1 Absence rates are calculated by the number of working days not attended by 1 Recordable injuries are those which require medical treatment beyond the employees as a percentage of planned and agreed working days for the year.
application of on-site first aid.
2 Days Away from Work DAW injuries are those which result in an employee The UK Business Contact Centre experienced higher taking medical leave from work, or being assigned to restricted duties outside of their normal contract.
absences than usual as a result of concentrated long-term sickness absence, unrelated to working activities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 35 Supplier workplace standards Community investment We have continued our audit programme for Private Label We focus our community investment activities on two key Suppliers that are based in Asia.
We have concluded that areas: STEM education and Assistive Technologies: as this these are our highest-risk suppliers in terms of potential directly supports our business in the longer term, developing human rights violations.
To date, 90% of Private Label a pool of both potential employees and potential customers.
suppliers by spend have been audited by a member of our Strategic Sourcing Team and the percentage of We continue to support the Make the Grade programme in suppliers surveyed by spend has increased to 97%.
the UK, which provides business support to local schools.
No audits have identified any concerns for the welfare Our support is focused on Swallow Hill Community College of suppliers employees.
in Leeds, providing science and engineering support to technology departments, as well as broader mentoring This accounts for all significant Private Label suppliers.
and workplace skills sessions for students.
Approximately 10% of suppliers are inactive, being used significantly less regularly to purchase products.
We have Our online community, element14, is host to Project Nocturne continued to focus the audit programme on regularly used an international collaborative design project in partnership suppliers.
This ensures that the significant majority of work with DesignAbility.
The project brings together electronic for which we are responsible in the Asia Pacific region with design engineers from across the globe to provide pro-bono subcontractors is conducted in high-standard environments.
development of a product to support sufferers of dementia and their carers.
The Project Nocturne group on the element14 community website has attracted more than 30,000 page views since launch in 2012 10,800 in FY15 alone as it brings key stakeholders together across geographical boundaries to find an innovative solution to an important problem.
