24 Responsible business Making a positive impact Key highlights Engaging with our stakeholders CBI Award for The 5% Club Our Corporate Responsibility strategy reflects the material issues for our business Green Apple Award for Energy defined by our overall business strategy and taking into account stakeholder Matters programme priorities.
We ensure that we understand these priorities through regular dialogue Successful pilot of the Safe for such as investor meetings, involvement in the MOD-Industry Sustainable Procurement Life programme Working Group and our employee engagement programmes.
We have introduced a corporate responsibility network with representatives from across the business Improved Employee Engagement to raise awareness of programmes and plans.
We are actively engaged with Survey score industry through the Defence Growth Partnership and trade body working groups on topics such as skills, environment and ethics.
QinetiQs corporate Managing our approach to responsible business Governance responsibility priorities Successful delivery of responsible business practice is driven by strong leadership Our priorities can be summarised across and governance and we have Board and executive level commitment to corporate four themes, which we believe ensures that responsibility through the Group Risk & CSR Committee.
we meet our stakeholders expectations and contribute to our future success.
P70 Report of the Risk & CSR Committee Business ethics The Committee receives reports and briefings on all material corporate To be a responsible and responsibility issues including business ethics, health and safety, environment, sustainable business reputational risk and human rights for its regular meetings.
In QNA the Proxy Board oversees these activities, obtaining independent assurance on the adequacy of its compliance programmes on an ongoing basis.
QinetiQs commercial success P25 is influenced by our ability to conduct business in overseas territories, transacting with foreign governments and commercial organisations in a legally compliant manner, controlling the international movement of certain strategic items.
Responsibility to our people Employees are provided with annual training on export controls.
To attract, engage and Certification develop the best people The Groups policies and management systems underpin our corporate responsibility programmes.
In the UK, the business assurance tool provides internal assurance and P26 we have the external certification ISO 14001 for our environmental management system, ISO 9001 for our quality management system and OHSAS 18001 for our health and safety management system.
Community investment Supplier management To make a positive contribution While QinetiQ prides itself on having The People Who Know How, we also draw upon to the community the goods and services provided by our approved suppliers.
Our suppliers range from other industry primes to Small and Medium sized Enterprises SMEs, meaning that P28 QinetiQ contracts and collaborates with a wide variety of industry partners, and ensuring that our customers receive the best available solutions in the marketplace.
Our robust procurement and supplier risk management processes ensure that we work openly and ethically, in the best interest of our customers.
Environmental stewardship To be an excellent environmental steward P29 Q Qi in ne et ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 25 Business ethics In December 2014 we updated the QinetiQ to them with issues.
We have provided help set a standard of conduct expected of Group Code of Conduct, including a new and advice in response to all queries received companies.
We seek to anticipate, prevent section on ethical decision-making.
The Code via our ethics email advice services and all and mitigate potential negative human lays out our ethical standards, providing communication through the whistleblowing rights impacts through our policy and employees with clear direction and guidance line is appropriately investigated.
process, and through our Code of Conduct on how we do business across the Group.
and business ethics training for employees, Anti-bribery and corruption Employees are encouraged to talk to a all of which underpin our commitment to We have a zero-tolerance approach to manager if they have a concern and are responsible business conduct.
QinetiQ has bribery and corruption and have put in provided with contact details for our ethics policies in place, among others, to support place a range of governance measures.
email advice services and our independently adherence to export controls, health and Anti-bribery risk management is embedded run, 24 7 confidential reporting line.
safety, non-discrimination, anti-bribery and in our business processes: we have a process Employees are supported in understanding environmental laws and guidance.
This is for undertaking due diligence, monitoring and using the Code of Conduct through our further supported by our procedures on and auditing of our use of commercial annual business ethics training, which is a product safety, sustainable procurement, intermediaries, and we use expert thirddue diligence and risk management.
We mandatory requirement for all employees.
party providers of due diligence where monitor the application of these policies and It is also undertaken by our Board and is appropriate.
We provide more in-depth procedures through our business assurance available for our contractors and customers anti-bribery training for those in higher processes.
We believe that this embedded as well.
In addition to explaining the Code risk roles, for example those who carry approach is effective.
We have recently of Conduct, the training provides a number out overseas business.
Our anti-bribery implemented a more structured approach of challenging scenarios to help employees programmes are overseen by our Chief to understanding human rights risk within know what to do if they were to come across Ethics Officers, who are senior executives.
our international business risk management issues such as bribery, fraud, discrimination process.
We have also been working to and conflict of interest.
We have also Human rights improve our approach to human rights communicated with managers to remind QinetiQ recognises that the UN Guiding risk in the supply chain.
them of the need to act if employees come Principles on Business and Human Rights Corporate responsibility in action demonstrations of QinetiQ technology, STEM Outreach: Inspiring our objective is to continue inspiring the the next generation next generation of scientists and engineers.
Our Malvern site welcomed more than The event organiser, QinetiQ systems 90 children from four schools to a special engineer and STEM ambassador Tara Francis, STEM Science, Technology, Engineering and has been an outstanding volunteer in Maths event.
With competitive activities outreach initiatives, and was nominated such as creating autonomous Lego robots, in 2014 for a national STEMNET Most programming airlocks, behavioural modelling Dedicated STEM Ambassador Award.
and building Android apps alongside live Aiming to tackle the dual issues of youth The 5% Club: Investing unemployment and skills shortages, the in a generation campaign encourages members to provide In September 2014, The 5% Club won the great earn and learn opportunities for young CBI Special Award for Outstanding Business people with the aim of having 5% of their Led Campaign.
The award was presented workforce on apprenticeships or graduate to The 5% Club Campaign Director, QinetiQs programmes.
Its been a rewarding experience Dr Sam Healy, who said: to work on this campaign.
Im delighted by the response from industry we now have over 70 members and Im looking forward to working with even more organisations in the future.
Q Qi in ne et ti iQ G Q Gr ro ou up p p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 26 Responsible business continued Responsibility to our people 2015 Highlights indicators and, coupled with the desire to specialist safety expertise and competence.
improve safety, we introduced Safe for Life Improvements continue to be driven by our The 5% Club received the CBI Award for into our UK Weapons business.
Safe for Life Engineering, Science and Technical leadership Outstanding Business Led Campaign focuses on behavioural safety including safety team, supported by independent review and Increased employee engagement leadership, human factors, error management audit.
We actively support collaborative and everyday behaviours of our people.
working with the MOD and other industry Successful pilot of Safe for Life The programme is underpinned by a Safety organisations, including professional Culture Climate Survey and is supported by institutions, in order to develop and 2016 Priorities local champions.
The pilot programme will implement best practice safety standards.
Introduce a UK Safety Culture Climate complete with another Safety Culture Climate Employee engagement Survey score Survey in the first half of 2016.
Whilst it is too We regularly communicate with employees early to identify changes in the safety climate, Continuing reduction in Lost Time to ensure they understand QinetiQ strategy and safety theory would suggest that where safety Incident Rate business priorities.
Company performance culture is working well there will be ongoing is shared to ensure our employees are aware Increase employee engagement reduction in significant incidents accompanied of what the results mean to our business, by an increase in the reporting of safety related Continued commitment to The 5% Club how we have made progress against our behaviours and hazards.
Encouragingly the strategic direction and the market challenges significant incident rate has halved from 2.7 Safety, health and wellbeing we face.
We do this through a wide range of to 1.3 per 1,000 employees and the reporting QinetiQ puts the safety, health and wellbeing communications channels, e. g. the intranet, of safety related behaviours and hazards has of its people at the heart of operations and roadshows and townhalls.
safety, health and wellbeing underpin our Our UK Employee Engagement Group EEG strategic goals.
We continue to focus on There were no prosecutions, prohibition is an independent consultative forum which reducing accidents and work-related ill health notices or improvement notices issued by covers almost 85% of the Group workforce.
as part of our continuous improvement activity.
Representatives, elected by employees, share Last year we decided to move away from a We continue to develop our health and views with leadership teams at local, divisional focus on the UK RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, wellbeing programmes.
The UK Wellbeing and executive level: so everyone gets to have Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations programme and QinetiQ Benefits scheme their say.
The EEG listens, gathers feedback and 2013 to overall Lost Time Incident LTI Rate, in the UK are offering more services, with represents employees through times of change: which provides a more internationally relevant increasing uptake by employees.
Free flu jabs whether its a local or Company-wide issue.
lagging indicator for the Group.
LTI Rate and health assessments measuring BMI, blood The representatives are the employee voice to is highly dependent on the number of pressure and cholesterol continue to be constructively challenge policy decisions and employees calculated as the number of lost popular.
A new area of focus in the coming year actions that have an effect on employees time incidents, where the employee is away will be improving the inclusion of employees working lives or wellbeing.
from work for one or more days, times 1,000 who have underlying health conditions by divided by the total number of employees.
The annual independent Employee Engagement providing an expert support network.
The headcount in the North American Survey is one of the key tools used to gain business reduced significantly with the Safety of products feedback from our employees.
Following the divestment of US Services.
Therefore the Our most prized possession is trust: divestment of US Services, the survey now LTI Rate of prior years has been restated to delivering products and services safely covers over 90% of employees it excludes US exclude the US Services business.
On this is essential to our commitment to Global Products.
The response rate in 2015 restated basis the LTI Rate has reduced customers.
We have created distinct lines was 73%, which is high in comparison to slightly from 5.8 to 5.6. of responsibility for both ensuring and industry norms, and we scored 613, up from assuring product safety and compliance, 593, which places us in Best Companies Lost Time Incident Rate 2015 2014 2013 with competent individuals holding formally Ones to watch category.
The leadership QinetiQ Group delegated responsibilities.
In the UK, teams develop specific action plans to Excluding US Global technical assurance and independent address areas identified for improvement, Products 5.0 5.0 5.3 design review have been fully integrated into e. g. collaboration between teams.
US Global Products 17.8 17.8 17.6 our product and engineering lifecycles.
Learning and development Total 5.6 5.8 6.3 We continue to invest in attracting and Our people are critical to the delivery of developing engineers and scientists with Adjusted in prior years to exclude US Services business.
excellent service to our customers and we have a highly qualified, experienced Last year we recognised a weakness in lagging QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 27 Responsibility to our people and stable workforce.
We have a continued Given QinetiQs commitment to the Diversity and inclusion focus on attracting, developing, supporting development of the next generation, we Inclusion of all employees is a key objective.
and retaining our people, which creates the have reviewed our UK Graduate Scheme The US Global Products business has a foundation for our future growth.
We have and will be improving the overall experience.
number of alliance partners that assist in established an Engineering, Science and Graduates will be given opportunities outside all aspects of inclusion.
In the UK, we are Technical community to create a supportive their main specialism, with the ability to grow working with the Employers Network for and collaborative environment for our their career with us across a much wider career Equality and Inclusion and, using tools they technical people and we have appointed remit.
We are refreshing Cortex, which provides have developed, we have undertaken a gap six new Fellows, who are recognised by a practical and friendly support network for analysis to evaluate areas for improvement QinetiQ customers and peers for their those at the start of their careers.
Recognising in our approach to diversity and inclusion.
expertise and excellence in their field.
the difference in the attraction and support This will form the baseline to measure needed to continue to achieve our objectives improvement.
With the Global Working In 2016 we will be launching the QinetiQ with The 5% Club, we have separated out the Centre of Excellence being set up to look Academy, which will underpin our continued Early Careers Team into a specialist Centre of at issues related to the increased activity focus on delivering excellent training and Excellence within HR.
This team continues to across the global market, they will also give development.
It will support our people in look at new and innovative ways to engage consideration to diversity and inclusion the competencies they need to deliver their with schools, colleges, universities and other issues across the territories and regions roles today, but also ensure they have the establishments to attract talented people.
skills and succession opportunities for the future.
By developing leadership programmes A team of QinetiQ apprentices reached The breakdown of the number of employees to enhance the skills and knowledge of our the final of the Brathay Apprentice by gender at the end of March 2015 is shown current senior team, and growing our next Challenge 2014, a six-month competition in the table below.
leaders through our talent pool, QinetiQ is that saw them come in second place and Level Female Male well placed to respond to change and look raise 2,300 for charity.
Supported by the Board Directors 1 8 to new horizons.
National Apprenticeship Service, the Senior managers 33 279 Challenge tests non-technical work skills The 5% Club Investing in a Generation and the personal attributes of competing All employees 1,236 5,014 The 5% Club, spearheaded by QinetiQ, apprentices.
The eight finalist teams were has gone from strength to strength, with selected from over 110 teams and 1,000 membership at 72 at 31 March 2015 and apprentices who entered the competition.
including large and small companies from a range of sectors and recently the MOD.
The 5% Club involves formalising what an organisation does in terms of apprentice and graduate programmes and making the public The QinetiQ Brathay challenge team, 2014. commitment that these will comprise 5% of the UK workforce within the next five years.
By encouraging employers to offer great earn and learn opportunities for young people, we see this as a key step in developing the future skills, knowledge and experience needed across the UK.
The 5% Club 2015 2014 Number of apprentices 208 121 Number on graduate programmes 102 106 Number of sponsored students 8 17 Percentage of UK workforce 5.9% 4.8% QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 28 Responsible business continued Community investment 2015 Highlights programme has been launched this year professional skills in the communities where in Australia, called Operation Give Back, we operate through programmes such as Several successful flagship STEM where employees volunteer as individuals Young Enterprise and they offer mentoring outreach events including Schools or in teams for one day a year.
through the Social Mobility Foundation.
Powerboat Challenge Our flagship initiative is our STEM Science, Last year we created a new Volunteer Second year of awarding the Volunteer Technology, Engineering & Maths outreach of the Year award, which recognised the of the Year award programme with the aim of inspiring the achievement of an employee who has made Employee Engagement Survey score next generation of scientists and engineers.
an outstanding contribution by volunteering giving something back increased We value our relationships with organisations in the community.
Last years award was won such as STEMNET, the Arkwright Scholarship by Dr Ruth Tunnell for her mentoring through 2016 Priorities Trust and the SmallPeice Trust in the UK and the Social Mobility Foundation.
various robotics education programmes in Continue to increase employee QinetiQ in the UK continues to support three the US.
Our UK STEM Ambassadors have volunteering participation and reaching corporate charities voted for by employees organised STEM outreach events for school more girls as part of the Your Life Cancer Research UK, Help for Heroes and children such as the annual Powerboat campaign pledge RNLI by providing matched funding for any Challenge and have hosted the UK Cyber employee fundraising activities.
QinetiQ Australia has and donations committee reviews charity QinetiQ is committed to being a good provided its Paramarine Ship and Submersible requests and a small number of additional neighbour in the communities in which Design Software to students of Australian donations to local charities are made on a we operate.
We believe its the right thing schools participating in the Future Submarine case by case basis where there is an alignment to do and it is valued by our employees.
Technology Challenge SUBS in Schools in to our strategy.
Employees can also choose The giving something back section in association with the Re-Engineering Australia to give to their chosen charity pre-tax through our employee survey allows employees Foundation Ltd. QinetiQs Space business payroll giving.
In the US, employees focus to express their opinions on our in Belgium participates in STEM outreach on supporting wounded military and their community programmes.
families by contributions to a range of One way in which employees contribute to QinetiQ is a signatory of the Your Life campaign, specialist organisations.
In Belgium they being a good neighbour is by volunteering and our priorities are to encourage employees continue to support a community investment their time and professional skills.
Our UK to take part in STEM outreach programmes, project at a school in Baladharshan, India.
Employee Volunteering Scheme has been and ensure that we are reaching more girls.
running since 2011 and provides employees Our non-STEM employees also use their with time and access to a bursary.
A similar QinetiQ employees climbed Helvellyn mountain via Striding Edge for Cancer Research UK.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information 29 Environmental stewardship 2015 Highlights UK waste management The GHG emissions statement below provides Total waste levels in FY15 were lower than in a summary of the Groups emissions from Green Apple Award for Energy the previous year with 5,001 tonnes including 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015, giving a Matters programme 313 tonnes of hazardous waste compared summary of Scope 1 fuel combustion Good progress against energy to 5,514 tonnes including 112 tonnes of and operation of facilities and Scope 2 reduction target hazardous waste in FY14.
However we purchased electricity emissions and an missed our challenging objective to have less intensity ratio per m of revenue.
We have 2016 Priorities than 10% waste go to landfill.
We achieved adopted a financial control approach and 13%, principally due to the need to review have used the UK Governments Conversion Improve asset re-use and waste recycling and re-balance segregation and collection Factors for Company Reporting 2014 and Reduce greenhouse gas emissions due arrangements following footprint and waste Defra reporting guidance October 2013. to UK energy use by 17% by 2020 from service changes.
There was, however, a slight The figures below reflect a number of the 2013 baseline increase in recycling, reaching 76% up from changes in our business, including the 74% in FY14.
Enhanced re-use of assets and divestment of US Services, some acquisitions, Environmental stewardship segregation recycling of waste will continue and some improvements in data capture.
QinetiQs environmental management system to be our focus during FY16.
Year Year EMS is geared to the unique challenges of ended ended Greenhouse gas emissions and delivering a compliant, sustainable and ever 31 March 31 March energy management Group GHG emissions 2015 2014 improving workplace against the background We are making good progress on UK energy of MOD and technology based trials, often Total Scope 1 emissions reduction via our Energy Matters programme.
Our tCO e 26,534 27,590 2 Energy Matters brings together a focused UK EMS, certified to ISO 14001, is supported Total Scope 2 emissions campaign element, promoting involvement through the collaboration of the business, tCO e 39,668 38,371 and the contribution that can be made at 2 site and functional teams, with specialist all levels within the organisation, with a Total Scope 1 and 2 support from our regional Environmental structured network of Energy Champions emissions tCO e 66,202 65,960 2 Advisors.
The use of sustainability appraisals, and Energy Engineers to identify and manage in trial and project planning, enables early Intensity ratio significant consumption reduction projects identification of potential hazards impacts tCO e per m of revenue 87 55 2 and maintenance.
During 2015, we received and determination of suitable and sufficient a Green Apple Award for the Energy Matters mitigation measures.
Our UK electricity usage was 7% Conservation monitoring processes have been further lower than last year and oil use reduced Our partnership with Marwell Wildlife, strengthened, during 2015, via structured by 5%, however there was a 2% increase for the management of the Eelmoor Marsh Evaluation of Compliance formats and in our use of gas.
Site of Special Scientific Interest SSSI, processes, feeding a site status EMS matrix.
at our Head Office in Farnborough, goes We continue to submit voluntarily to the from strength to strength, ensuring ongoing CDP Climate Change Programme and are favourable condition status.
During FY15, registered for the Carbon Reduction we enhanced communications to our Commitment CRC scheme.
During 2016, employees and introduced some guided we will be seeking accreditation to the Director of facilities management and Energy manager, tours of the area, with significant positive receiving the Green Apple Award for the Energy ISO 50001 Energy Management standard, Matters Initiative.
feedback: an initiative we are keen to repeat as part of our ongoing commitment to driving during FY16.
Many of our sites and those and demonstrating improvement across the we manage on behalf of the MOD contain footprint and to meet the requirements designated conservation areas and our of ESOS the Energy Savings Opportunity sustainability appraisal process plays an Scheme.
We continue to capture and report important part in addressing any potential our greenhouse gas GHG emissions across issues as we deliver our test, evaluation and the Group to reflect the requirements of the training support services.
Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
