Cultivating a legaCy Su S t ainability REPOR t 2015 Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 97 SuStainability report CULTIVATING A LEGACY n Foreword 99 national econoMic anD coMMunity DevelopMent 129 n Sustainability snapshot: Highlights, achievements and challenges in 2015 100 n contributing to the growth of emerging africa 130 n exploring sustainability to create value for all 102 n investing in infrastructure 130 n our host countries 103 n Case Study: New customs house saves costs and helps put communities on the n Kpis and targets 104 map 132 n external recognition of our work 105 n raising local standards in the supply chain 133 n Scope and boundary of this report 105 n Case Study: Local tailoring partnerships our governance oF are sewn up 134 SuStainability 106 n Case Study: EGTF from masons to miners 134 n Key corporate policies 107 n closure planning: Mining new n external acknowledgement from opportunities 135 FtSe4good index 107 n Stakeholder engagement 108 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT 137 n Case Study: Improving education at n Case Study: Showing leadership as part of an African partnership 112 Tongon 139 n n Materiality assessment: What matters Case Study: Taking a partnership approach to improve outcomes 140 most to our stakeholders?
113 n Microfinance 142 HuMan capital: protecting our MoSt iMportant aSSetS 115 n nos vies en partage Foundation 142 n Safety 116 n artisanal mining 144 n Case Study: Using simulator technology to n grievance mechanism 144 drive safety improvements 118 n protecting human rights in everything we n Discovering and developing local talent 118 do 145 n Case Study: Finance for non-financial n resettlement 146 managers 120 n plans and priorities for 2016 146 n Case Study: Local villager takes road from construction worker to crushing supervisor 121 environMental ManageMent 147 n inducing stable industrial relations 122 n environmental incidents 148 HEALTH MANAGEMENT IN THE n energy and emissions 149 WORKPLACE AND BEYOND 123 n Case Study: Hydropower to the people 150 n Case Study: Washing away preventable n Water and air quality 151 disease 124 n Case Study: New water clarifier helps n breaking the fever: the fight against recycled water strike gold 152 malaria 125 n Waste management 153 n raising awareness of the Hiv aiDS risk 126 n Case Study: local oil recycling turns waste n occupational health 126 into wealth 154 n Case Study: Adjusting workers hours and n biodiversity management 155 environment to ensure safety at work 127 n Case Study: Protecting outstanding natural n plans and priorities for 2016 128 value 156 n plans and priorities for 2016 157 appendix: Materiality assessment purpose and methodology 157 Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 98 Mark Bristow It is 20 years since Randgold was first incorporated as an Africa focused gold mining and exploration business with a vision to create long term value for all stakeholders.
time injury frequency rate, water and energy use.
And MAKinG A difference most tragically we suffered a fatality, a reminder of the in those two decades we have created over need to learn and strive for excellence every day.
20 000 jobs either directly or in partnership with sub-contractors, contributed more than $2.2 billion A core foundAtion to host country governments in taxes, royalties and despite the tough global commodity market we will dividends, constructed or upgraded over 60 schools continue to invest in sustainability.
it is not something in host communities and supported a wide variety of we pay lip service to, but a core foundation of our local businesses from mechanics to mobile kitchens, business and vital to success in emerging Africa.
construction to cattle farming, hospitals to hotels.
the reality of building strong relations with our host countries and communities is that there is no room We can see our impact in issues like malaria in Mali.
We need to work every day to build When we took on our Morila mine in 2000, malaria mutual trust and understanding: and the same is true was rife with a local incidence rate of 192%.
now, of our efforts in areas such as occupational health as our Morila mine approaches closure, it is down to and safety, environmental management, infrastructure almost 20% and falling.
eXPLorinG SuStAinABiLitY to creAte Looking ahead, we will continue to explore how best VALue for ALL our business can continue to benefit all stakeholders the same spirit of exploration which has helped us in a sustainable way over the long term.
in the next find five world-class gold deposits on geological 20 years, that will ultimately be how the success of anomalies, also drives us to explore the most our company should be judged.
sustainable solutions to the challenges our business faces.
this year, for example, we have introduced industryleading safety training, partnered with nGos to dramatically improve community education and health outcomes, and invested in major hydropower facilities in the drc.
our investments in agribusinesses, to leave a thriving economic legacy for our host communities, are also progressing at pace.
Mark Bristow the year has not been without its challenges.
Weve Chief executive seen disappointing increases in areas such as our lost ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 99 SuStAinABiLitY rePort culTivaTing a legacy continued SuStAinABiLitY SnAPShot: hiGhLiGhtS And AchieVeMentS in 2015 community investment across Kibali mine in dRc all host communities up total 136% to $1bn spending on $6.27m local contractors 45% decrease in significant environmental incidents group malaria incidence down $1.4m 22% New community health and agribusiness centre significantly below baseline opened in Mali for the local in all host communities communities Microfinance facilities established at $700m all mines invested in host country infrastructure since 2011 equivalent to building 310 19 local entrepreneurs eiffel Towers at supported by end of 2015 todays costs Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 100 chALLenGeS And diSAPPointMentS in 2015 38% increase in number of voluntary n one fatality in 2015 and slight rise in Lost time tests for Hiv, indicating success in injury frequency rate our awareness-raising efforts n continued presence of illegal artisanal mining on two mine sites n despite relative success of anti-malaria campaign still much work to do to achieve our ambitious target to eradicate malaria from all our mine sites n our electricity use rose this year and we have an ongoing challenge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and maximise energy use alongside the rapid development of our mining n Levels of water recycling dropped to 61% this 33% year, below our 75% target n finding a new world-class deposit that meets all reduction in Hiv our sustainability and investment criteria.
prevalence 92% operational workforce host country nationals 600 local student stagiaires receive practical training and 80 recruited after graduation 0 $1bn total economic value lost Time injuries distributed in 2015 recorded by 2 mines ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 101 sustainaBility report culTivaTing a legacy continued EXPLORING SUSTAINABILITY TO CREATE VALUE FOR ALL Safety Health innovations such as our $1 million in 2015, clinics in our mine sites and underground driving simulator host communities held over 80 000 are helping improve safety and medical consultations for employees productivity.
Environment Agribusiness investment in clean hydropower in Major investment in agribusinesses dRc will meet 90% of the energy including a $1.4 million centre in Mali, needs of our Kibali mine and its local fish farms and mango plantations communities.
are helping to leave a sustainable economic legacy for our host communities.
Randgold ResouRces annual report 2015 102 mALI CTE dIVOIRE randgold has one mine in cte divoire tongon Mali is the eighth largest country in Africa and has which is located in a remote area about 50km south a population of approximately 16 million people.
cte divoire is enjoying a randgold operates three mines in Mali Morila, Loulo sustained period of peaceful economic growth and and Gounkoto.
despite a thriving and entrepreneurial development after a number of years of civil war in culture more than half the population lives below the the early 2000s.
it has the highest gross national $1.25 day income poverty line.
income of our four countries of operation though still population: faces a number of development challenges including a relatively low life expectancy.
15.8 million population: Life expectancy at birth: 58 years 20.8 million Gross national income per head: $1 583 Adult literacy rate: 33.6% Life expectancy at birth: 51.5 years Population with at least some Gross national income per head: $3 171 secondary education: 10.9% Adult literacy rate: 41% Population living below the $1.25 day Population with at least some income poverty line: 50.6% secondary education: 22% human development index ranking: 179 Population living below the $1.25 day income poverty line: 35% human development index ranking: 172 MALi SeneGAL cte diVoire drc OUR HOST 1 COUNTRIES dEmOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF CONGO dRC SENEGAL the drc is randgolds newest country of operation.
drc has enormous mineral wealth and huge economic potential.
Yet it currently has the lowest randgold does not currently have any operational gross national income per head of all our countries mines in Senegal but our Massawa exploration of operation and nearly 88% of the population are project, which is at feasibility stage, is located there.
reported to live below the $1.25 day income poverty Senegal has a rich history of trading and commerce line.
encouragingly the country has a relatively high and has the highest ranking of our countries on the adult literacy rate and its ranking on the World Banks uns human development index.
Like all countries ease of doing business survey and the uns human in the region in still faces significant development development index are improving year on year.
population: population: 14.5 million 69.4 million Life expectancy at birth: 66.5 years Life expectancy at birth: 58.7 years Gross national income per head: $2 188 Gross national income per head: $680 Adult literacy rate: 52.1% Adult literacy rate: 61.2% Population with at least some Population with at least some secondary education: 11% secondary education: 22% Population living below the $1.25 day Population living below the $1.25 day income poverty line: 34% income poverty line: 88% human development index ranking: 170 human development index ranking: 176 1 All data from UNDP Human Development Index report 2015.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 103 SuStAinABiLitY rePort culTivaTing a legacy continued our KeY PerforMAnce indicAtorS And tArGetS for 2016 FOCUS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2015 TREND TARGETS 2013 2014 our production target for 2016 is 1 Gold sales $1 267m $1 435m $1 395m 1.25-1.30Moz economic our target is for 80% of locally available 3 development Payments to suppliers in countries of operation $653 $364m $473m items to be procured by mines our target is to increase economic total economic value distributed $910 $985m $992m value distributed in line with production our target is to increase health, total spend by community development education and economic development committees $1.62m $2.65m $6.27m outcomes for communities Percentage of host country nationals in our target is to maintain the number of workforce 86% 91% 92% nationals in our workforce above 80% our target is to resolve 100% of community grievances registered through our 2 Proportion of grievances resolved 99% 99% 91% grievance mechanism our target is to eradicate malaria from Malaria incidence rate 52.7% 49.9% 38.9% all our mine sites our target is to raise awareness of hiV Amount of Voluntary counselling and testing across the group, measured as number Vcts for hiV 2 908 3 207 4 427 of Vcts Lost time injury frequency rate Ltifr at operational mines 0.57 0.47 0.59 our target is to remain below 1.0 number of workplace fatalities 1 1 1 our target is for zero fatalities our target is to have all fully-operational Human capital mines to be ohSAS 18001 iSo 45001 number of mines certified to ohSAS 4 4 4 compliant our target is to provide enough formal training at leading institutions in addition to on-site training to ensure we continue to have the full range of skills required to number of employees receiving formal training - 210 302 run a world-class gold mining company number of class 1 major or 2 medium 0 - class 1 1 - class 1 0 - class 1 environmental incidents 13 - class 2 20 - class 2 11 - class 2 our target is for zero class 1 our target is to reduce GhG emissions 50.47 co - 42.43 co - 57.02 co - to 23.45 tonnes coe kt milled by 2 2 2 2 emission intensity e kt milled e kt milled e kt milled 2020 our target is for 85% of water to be total water recycled 85% 75% 61% reused each year number of water discharge quality tests that do our target is for zero non-compliance environment not conform with national or ifc standards 0 1 0 with relevant national and ifc standards number of environmental or health incidents our target is for zero environmental or related to cyanide 0 1 1 health incidents related to cyanide our target is to have all fully-operational mines certified to the iSo 14001 iSo 14001 certification 4 4 5 standard develop and implement site specific biodiversity our target is to introduce BAPs at all action plans BAPs for all our operations 4 5 5 fully operational mines 1 Total attributable gold sales including equity accounted joint ventures.
2 At year end 77% of grievances had been resolved with a batch of grievance claims on temporary pause for resolution.
The reporting date for this figure is 1 March 2016.
3 Includes 100% of payments by mines.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 104 eXternAL FOCUS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2015 TREND TARGETS 2013 2014 recoGnition of our production target for 2016 is 1 our WorK on Gold sales $1 267m $1 435m $1 395m 1.25-1.30Moz economic SuStAinABiLitY our target is for 80% of locally available 3 development Payments to suppliers in countries of operation $653 $364m $473m items to be procured by mines n included in  our target is to increase economic ftSe4Good index for second total economic value distributed $910 $985m $992m value distributed in line with production consecutive year.
our target is to increase health, n Mark Bristow ranked in worlds top 50 total spend by community development education and economic development ceos by harvard Business review, in committees $1.62m $2.65m $6.27m outcomes for communities part due to introduction of environmental, social and governance eSG scoring.
Percentage of host country nationals in our target is to maintain the number of n randgold named best performer in workforce 86% 91% 92% nationals in our workforce above 80% occupational health & Safety at and ceo our target is to resolve 100% of Mark Bristow awarded Best Achiever community grievances registered through our Award, drc Mining industry awards.
2 Proportion of grievances resolved 99% 99% 91% grievance mechanism n Morila agribusiness projects studied by World Bank and Malis rural development our target is to eradicate malaria from Ministry.
Malaria incidence rate 52.7% 49.9% 38.9% all our mine sites n tongon mine awarded the President Prize our target is to raise awareness of hiV of best mine of the year in cte divoire.
Amount of Voluntary counselling and testing across the group, measured as number Vcts for hiV 2 908 3 207 4 427 of Vcts Lost time injury frequency rate Ltifr at operational mines 0.57 0.47 0.59 our target is to remain below 1.0 ScoPe And BoundArY of thiS rePort number of workplace fatalities 1 1 1 our target is for zero fatalities the aim of this report is to represent a balanced our target is to have all fully-operational and reasonable view of our companys sustainability Human capital mines to be ohSAS 18001 iSo 45001 performance.
the data on environmental, safety number of mines certified to ohSAS 4 4 4 compliant and economic impacts presented covers all six of our target is to provide enough formal our operational and development sites situated in training at leading institutions in addition Mali, cte divoire, democratic republic of congo to on-site training to ensure we continue and Senegal.
With the exception of GhG emissions, to have the full range of skills required to it excludes our in-country offices and guesthouses.
number of employees receiving formal training - 210 302 run a world-class gold mining company the scope and measurement methods have not changed if compared to randgolds sustainability number of class 1 major or 2 medium 0 - class 1 1 - class 1 0 - class 1 report published in March 2015. the data used to environmental incidents 13 - class 2 20 - class 2 11 - class 2 our target is for zero class 1 populate this document is collated on a monthly basis our target is to reduce GhG emissions and reviewed by management.
data for previous 50.47 co - 42.43 co - 57.02 co - to 23.45 tonnes coe kt milled by years is provided in certain instances for comparative 2 2 2 2 emission intensity e kt milled e kt milled e kt milled 2020 purposes.
A selection of the sustainability information has been assured by an independent assurance our target is for 85% of water to be provider, environmental and Sustainability Solutions total water recycled 85% 75% 61% reused each year eSS.
the complete assurance statement as well as the Gri content index in accordance with the number of water discharge quality tests that do our target is for zero non-compliance environment G4 Guidelines are attached as appendices to the not conform with national or ifc standards 0 1 0 with relevant national and ifc standards standalone sustainability report on our website number of environmental or health incidents our target is for zero environmental or www.
related to cyanide 0 1 1 health incidents related to cyanide We welcome feedback on this sustainability report our target is to have all fully-operational and the activities described within.
mines certified to the iSo 14001 iSo 14001 certification 4 4 5 standard develop and implement site specific biodiversity our target is to introduce BAPs at all action plans BAPs for all our operations 4 5 5 fully operational mines 1 Total attributable gold sales including equity accounted joint ventures.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 105 SuStAinABiLitY rePort culTivaTing a legacy continued OUR GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability has become central to our success.
It has helped shape every decision we have made in the last 20 years and will continue to do so in the decades to come.
Mark Bristow, CEO We have a wide range of policies, processes and An eAr to people in place to ensure we identify and manage the risks and opportunities that sustainability factors the Ground present to our business, and to ensure we engage effectively and transparently with all our stakeholders.
our sustainability governance starts at the top and it While responsibility sits at the top, our management is our board who holds ultimate responsibility for our of environmental and social issues also flows from the performance in this area.
Key to this is the boards ground upwards.
hence our extensive stakeholder environmental and social oversight committee, engagement programme see following section which meets quarterly and is chaired by our ceo.
and the participation of our ceo in regular mass Sustainability considerations play a key part in all meetings with employees and local unions, and our decisions, for example in 2015 our verdict not to open forums with community chiefs and other local proceed with a potential investment opportunity was representatives.
Such meetings are a lively, vigorous made, in part, because we did not feel the project met and important part of our governance of sustainability.
Where appropriate, we also include achievement As shown in the organogram below, we also have of sustainability targets as a component of bonus three high level executives who drive our work on based remuneration packages.
for example, part of community relations, health and safety, environmental both our ceos and cfos annual bonus payments management and sustainability reporting.
two of are dependent on the group achieving a Lost time these are West African nationals, in keeping with our injury frequency rate of below 1.0. from 2016, ambition to have host country nationals involved at the maximum bonus is only payable if the Ltifr is the highest levels of management in our company.
Similarly, part of the ceos and cfos bonuses avoid a hierarchical structure these executives report are linked to achieving the target of zero class 1 directly to our chief operating officers who sit above environmental incidents.
this helps provide an important layer of independent sustainability for more details on randgolds corporate governance oversight.
it also helps to integrate sustainability into please see the detailed corporate governance report the dnA of our company, ensuring that it is not reliant in our annual report on page 160. on one person or one department.
OUR CORPORATE sTRUCTURE fOR sUsTAINABILITy RANDGOLD BOARD environmental & social Audit remuneration nomination & ceo committee committee committee governance committee chief operating officers of mines Mine general Group health and Group community and independent consultant providing managers safety officer environmental officer sustainability oversight Mine level community liaison and environmental management executives Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 106 EXTERNAL ACKNOWLEdGEmENT FROm LEAdING ETHICAL BUSINESS INdEX KeY corPorAte for the second year running, 2015 saw randgold named as a constituent of the PoLicieS ftSe4Good index, an influential index designed to help socially responsible investors find appropriate stocks to invest in.
only those companies judged to have strong our sustainability related policies are drafted both to environmental, social and governance practices comply with host country legislation and where it is in place are included in this index.
stronger to follow the lead of international standards and best practices such as the ifc Performance randgold was included in the upper brackets Standards, World Bank operational Guidelines, the of scoring in 2015 for its management of issues oecd convention on combating Bribery and the including water use, corporate governance, Voluntary Principles on Security and human rights.
community, health and safety, climate change, human rights and risk management.
the core policies that enshrine our approach to sustainability include our overall code of conduct, each index constituent or company is Anti-corruption compliance Policy and our sitecategorised in accordance with the industry specific environmental and safety polices, which classification Benchmark icB, the global are designed to align with the expectations of the standard for industry sector analysis.
randgold internationally recognised iSo 14001 and ohSAS received an overall icB supersector rating of 18001 iSo 45001 standards respectively.
84, which places us within the top 16% of the industry.
our code of conduct, which is available on our website, clearly sets out our policies on issues such We believe that our continued inclusion in the as whistleblowing, record keeping, fraud, interactions ftSe4Good index, and the high industry rating with governments and sustainable development.
we achieved is a tribute to the effectiveness Being familiar with and understanding our code of with which our team handles sustainability conduct forms a vital part of induction training for all risks from energy to employment, developing employees and any contravention leads to disciplinary communities or tackling corruption and action and potential termination of employment.
demonstrates the extent to which these have been prioritised in our group and operational our anti-corruption compliance policy, also available strategies.
on our website, explains our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, including termination of employment for accepting any bribes or facilitation payments.
the policy includes commitments to undertake due diligence on all parties we do business with.
We also include stringent anti-bribery and corruption clauses into our sub-contractor agreements.
All personnel are trained in anti-bribery and corruption measures.
in 2015 the board approved a new Gift, travel and entertainment Policy which is designed to ensure that the group operates according to the highest standards of integrity and ethics and complies with all applicable anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, rules and regulations.
this report provides further details of these policies and how they have been monitored and managed throughout 2015.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 107 SuStAinABiLitY rePort ouR goveRnance of susTainaBiliTy continued annual report and this sustainability report to our host StAKehoLder communities each year.
the table alongside details some of the ways we enGAGeMent engaged with our different stakeholders in 2015, what some of the main issues they raised with us were, and how we have responded to their feedback.
our stakeholder engagement programme is an integral part of our governance of sustainability our aim is to be receptive and flexible to the feedback and vital to ensuring our business creates value we receive through our stakeholder engagement for all stakeholders.
We classify our stakeholders programme.
for example at Kibali in the drc in into eight groups, and believe that keeping open 2015, based on input from government authorities, and ongoing two way dialogue with each of these village chiefs, community representatives, local diverse constituencies is critical to the success of businessmen, civil society and the local roman our business.
catholic church, we drafted and signed a formal Memorandum of understanding Mou with the local community.
this acts as a social contract of peace our StAKehoLder GrouPS and is the first time we have done this with a local community.
Government national, investment regional and local community MeetinG With LocAL chiefS one of the more unique parts of our stakeholder Media employees engagement programme are the formal dinners held between our ceo Mark Bristow and local community our chiefs, which are held every six months on each of our stakeHolders mines as well as on an ad hoc basis.
the dinners unions provide local chiefs with a regular opportunity to nGos discuss any issues with and to get first hand answers to questions from our ceo.
they have proven to be a solid platform for constructive dialogue with our contractors and Local-affected communities.
suppliers communities for example, at a ceo chiefs dinner with the chiefs local to our tongon mine in cte divoire in April 2015, We engage with our stakeholders in a variety of issues such as water, local education and economic ways including our annual Materiality Assessment development were discussed.
A discussion with the see next section, and through both formal and chief of the Korokara community at this dinner led informal meetings and mechanisms, including directly to the start of a project to help local cashew correspondence, roadshows, open forums and local nut producers form a cooperative and could lead to consultations.
for example, at Kibali we present the installation of a cashew nut processing unit, with the quarterly results to our local stakeholders and in potential support from randgold.
2016 we are looking to expand this practice across all our operational mines.
We also present our CEO Mark Bristow meeting with local chiefs at Loulo.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 108 StAKehoLder enGAGeMent in 2015 Key sustainability issues sTAKEHOLDER Ways we engaged raised in 2015 How we responded n Briefings on sustainability n the highest priority n this sustainability report shareholders included in investor issue for our contains detailed accounts of roadshows and other shareholders was how we analyse and deal with forums.
safety, with other all sustainability risks raised by important issues our shareholders.
As explored n Private meetings and raised including in this sustainability report, we calls including with the management of are committed to best practice ceo.
environmental on safety at all our mines and n open days and site incidents, legal projects.
We include details of visits.
compliance, antiour approach to ensuring human n Materiality Assessment corruption and rights protection and look at our process.
security force training management of environmental to protect human incidents.
n our AGM, which took rights.
place on 3 May 2015. n We have a zero tolerance approach to corruption and n responded to our anti-corruption compliance sustainability policy is enforced across questionnaires aimed our group and applied to all at supporting socially contractors.
responsible investment eg the carbon disclosure Project cdP.
n Mass employee meetings n discussions about n We ran an extensive employees with the ceo and salary levels and communication campaign in general managers.
transparency on how 2015 to detail revenue flows pay is calculated.
and the financial situation n information sharing and of each mine, so that all input via unions.
n Levels of employment employees received a clear given to local n Performance reviews and truthful account of how communities and and daily discussions on each departments budget is nationals.
n As detailed in this report, we put highest levels n Materiality Assessment a high priority on maximising of safety and process.
levels of local employment and occupational health.
achieving our target to maintain the number of nationals in our workforce above 80%.
n As detailed in the safety section of this report, we strive to maintain the highest levels of safety.
n formal meetings and n highest priority n As detailed in this report, we Governments correspondence.
concerns raised have invested extensively in by all host country local economic and community n Materiality Assessment governments development and worked in process.
included progress partnership with government n interactions at on: local economic and other stakeholders to meet conference and speaking development, cyanide the challenge of illegal mining engagements.
We explain management of in detail our alignment with artisanal mining.
international best practice on the production, transportation, n the drafting of new storage and use of cyanide.
n randgold was consulted on the n closure planning of Mining code of cte divoire each mine.
last year which has now been put in place, and this year we engaged with the governments of Senegal, Mali and drc to help draft their new Mining codes.
n We have engaged extensively with the Malian government around closure planning for Morila, including visits to agribusiness projects by delegations from the Ministries of rural development, Land Affairs and Mines, as well as the African union and representatives of the World Bank.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 109 SuStAinABiLitY rePort ouR goveRnance of susTainaBiliTy continued Randgold meets local entrepreneurs from the Kibali district.
StAKehoLder enGAGeMent in 2015 continued Key sustainability issues sTAKEHOLDER Ways we engaged raised in 2015 How we responded n n n locallyVia community every local village the community development development committees has its own section of this report includes affected and local forums.
specific issues details of these including communities that we manage at actions taken to maximise n formal meetings community level.
local employment and improve between local chiefs and in general key education alongside community the ceo.
our n regular meetings all communities in actions on water management between local chiefs and 2015 include levels issues can be found in this mine GMs.
n Via grievance management of water n in 2015 we signed an Mou with mechanisms.
and approaches to the Kibali community in drc, to education.
n consultations, PPPs and act as a social contract between local events.
n inquiries in drc the company and communities.
about drawing up n Local media including n A feasibility report was formal agreements radio.
undertaken and environmental to ensure community permit received for further n training programmes.
related approaches potential underground deposits n environmental and Social and development at Gounkoto and submitted impact Assessments.
n Materiality Assessment n discussions around community consultation was process.
future projects also undertaken as part of such as potential a formal public participation expansion at process PPP.
each nGo tends to We have strong working be concerned with relationships with both local n formal meetings, a specific theme and international nGos such correspondence and or local issue.
in as Soutoura Mali, World events.
general key concerns education, uSAid and undP n Materiality Assessment raised include issues and these are explained in more process.
of environmental detail in the section taking a management and partnership approach to improve health especially outcomes.
At Kibali in 2015 we hiV AidS and engaged extensively with local occupational health.
youth focused nGos to upgrade and repair local roads.
n We also responded to several international nGos such as carbon disclosure Project cdP to provide sustainability related data and information.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 110 StAKehoLder enGAGeMent in 2015 continued Key sustainability issues sTAKEHOLDER Ways we engaged raised in 2015 How we responded unions n union representatives n discussions about n We ran an extensive participate on our mine salary levels and communication campaign in 2015 board meetings and transparency on how to detail revenue flows and the as observers in overall pay is calculated.
financial situation of our mines, strategy meetings so that all employees received n concerns around Monthly and mass a clear and accurate account of closure planning, employee meetings.
how each departments budget especially at Morila.
We also created n formal meetings, n Levels of employment three salary premiums related correspondence and given to local to exposure to dirt, dust and events.
this is detailed further in n union attendance at nationals.
the industrial relations section of monthly cost review n Maintaining the this report.
highest levels of safety n details of our extensive n Materiality Assessment and occupational investment in closure planning process.
health remained a key for Morila and all our mines are point.
reported in the closure planning section of this report.
n As detailed in this report, we place high priority on maximising levels of local employment and achieved our target to maintain the number of nationals in our workforce above 80%.
n As detailed in the safety section of this report, we strive to maintain the highest levels of safety and work to continuously improve safety standards.
suppliers and n Procurement team n Key concerns raised n randgold has an open and contractors account management by contractors accessible tendering system relationships.
included provision and a procurement policy that of adequate both prioritises and facilitates n tender documents.
safety measures, training for, locally based n Meetings with local environmental companies where possible.
business forums management this report includes full details including with randgold and employment of our approach to safety and ceo.
opportunities skills environmental management and n Materiality Assessment training.
local standards in the supply n Suppliers chain includes details of how requested more these standards are built into our details of business contracts with all suppliers.
n We strive to create business opportunities for local entrepreneurs and regularly meet local business to facilitate this.
in 2015 this included a meeting at Kibali between our ceo, local businessmen and the congolese business forum.
in its mine life to date Kibali has already spent more than $1 billion on local contractors.
Media n Publications and online n our media n We have released several information.
stakeholders include sustainability related press releases local, national and and market announcements in n Press releases and international press 2015 which can be found on the market statements on across several companys website at sustainability.
raise a wide range of our ceo and other representatives n Site visits.
of the company have also discussed environmental, social n Materiality Assessment and governance issues in media process.
appearances and briefings throughout the year.
n this sustainability report is publicly available and released to national and international media.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 111 SuStAinABiLitY rePort ouR goveRnance of susTainaBiliTy continued SHOWING LEAdERSHIP AS PART OF case study AN AFRICAN PARTNERSHIP forming genuine partnerships with our host n delivered training, information and awareness countries and communities is a crucial part of plans to communities to prevent the spread of randgolds governance of sustainability, and the epidemic and ensure business continuity.
sometimes this requires us to take an active n raised money to provide supplies such as leadership role and drive positive change.
our bleach, medical gloves, hand washing kits work in Mali to tackle both the ebola outbreak and and infra-red thermometers.
the issue of artisanal miners are good examples of this.
randgold has also donated supplies and personal protective equipment to Kayes hospital Mobilising against Ebola where Malis first ebola case was experienced the outbreak of ebola in West Africa in 2014 and in 2015 oversaw the $180 000 production was the most widespread epidemic of this virus of a public awareness film about ebola in history and included several cases in our host containment.
to support the fight against this threat we helped form a sub-committee of the Leading a unified response to illegal mining ebola Private Sector Mobilisation Group ePSMG, As explained in more detail later in this report, comprising medical practitioners from several the presence of illegal artisanal mining on some mining companies and suppliers in Mali and led our permits remains an ongoing challenge for by our chief medical officer.
the ePSMG subrandgold, posing risks to health, the environment committee has provided ongoing technical and and community cohesion.
it is a complex financial support to host countries and among problem, ultimately linked to unemployment and other achievements has: poverty and finding a viable long-term solution n helped contain the outbreak by training over requires close partnership with local and national 80 frontline workers and providing sanitary authorities.
cordon equipment at border posts.
to help catalyse positive change in 2015, randgold has helped bring together government partners, representatives of the ASM community and other mining companies in Mali to form the Mali Mining industry committee of Artisanal Mining MMc which held its first meeting in June 2015. the aim of the MMc is to support and assist the Malian government with the implementation of its national action plan to combat illegal mining.
the committee is chaired by randgold group community and environment officer hilaire diarra who is also a Malian national and has created new momentum to: TRAINING SESSION: Randgolds own medical staff as well as the n invest in the provision of alternative jobs for personnel from the local health centres have been fully trained in the illegal miners.
identification and treatment of suspected Ebola cases, should they arise.
n Provide suitable land to be used as safe mining corridors for artisanal mining and developing infrastructure in those corridors.
n improve awareness of sustainability issues and communication with different stakeholders including the leadership of the ASM community.
from a governance point of view, we believe that our response to the challenges of ebola and illegal mining shows the ability of our sustainability governance system to both show leadership within close stakeholder partnerships.
PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES: Checking temperatures of workers arriving at Randgolds mines in West Africa during the Ebola outbreak.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 112 the results also introduced three new issues MAteriALitY ASSeSSMent within the medium priority category compared to WhAt MAtterS MoSt to our 2014. these are: occupational health, attracting StAKehoLderS?
and retaining staff and security forces.
five issues An important element of both our stakeholder dropped below the medium priority line compared engagement and risk management approach is a to last year: artisanal mining, community grievance strategic prioritisation of sustainability issues which mechanism, corporate governance, indigenous we undertake each year.
populations and waste management, although we will continue to monitor, manage and report on all of this is undertaken in line with guidance set by the these.
Global reporting initiatives Gri G4 Standard for sustainability reporting.
the Materiality Comparative priorities Assessment sees us survey both internal and external stakeholders to ask what they perceive our most one of the most useful outcomes of the Materiality critical sustainability risks to be.
Assessment exercise is that it helps the randgold team to identify where gaps in perception exist full details of the methodology and process for this between internal and external stakeholders, thus can be found in the appendix to this report.
helping ensure we understand all our stakeholders needs and maximise the benefits we bring to them.
Our findings this years assessment showed a reasonably high Results of 2015 Materiality Assessment level of convergence on the issues that both internal As shown below, this years Materiality Assessment and external stakeholders view as highest priority.
identified 19 priority sustainability issues for 2016, of for example safety, occupational health, skills transfer which seven were categorised as highest priority.
and training and water pollution all featured in the top third of priorities for both groups.
issues in the top ranking cut across a range of themes including environmental, human capital, social and Beyond this there were also seven issues where governance factors.
Safety, cyanide management, comparative rankings showed a notable difference in water pollution and community engagement were perception ie a difference of more than 15 places in all identified as highest priority issues in both this how each group ranked them.
these included issues years and 2014s Materiality Assessment and such as legal compliance, bribery and corruption and this report discusses in depth how randgold has local economic development.
the randgold team will approached each of these challenges.
this years work to understand why these gaps exist in 2016 and Materiality Assessment also produced an additional ensure that the issues of importance to each group three top priority issues: closure planning, revenue are adequately attended to.
the fastest rising issues transparency and community development and among external stakeholders in 2015 were bribery investment.
in this report we discuss our strategy, and corruption, climate change and ecology.
policy, performance and plans in all these areas.
Highest priority issues n Safety n cyanide management n Water pollution n community engagement n closure planning n revenue transparency n community development and investment Medium priority issues o Air pollution o Local and national employment o Attracting and retaining staff o Local economic development o Bribery and corruption o Malaria o environmental incidents o occupational health o hiV Aids o Security forces o Legal compliance o Skills transfer and training Current or potential impact on the business ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 113 Importance to stakeholders SuStAinABiLitY rePort ouR goveRnance of susTainaBiliTy continued MAteriALitY ASSeSSMent definitionS TOPIC Issue Description Health and Safety Managing and monitoring workplace hazards to ensure the safety of safety employees and contractors: including both incidents and near misses.
establishing a safety culture and promoting safe behaviour.
Malaria impact of malaria on the workforce and local community in locations of operation: access to provision of treatment programmes for workforce local communities.
hiV AidS impact of hiV AidS on workforce and local community in locations of operation: access to provision of treatment programmes for workforce local communities.
occupational Protecting employees and contractors from occupational hazards: managing incidence of occupational disease arising from past health exposures.
cyanide ensuring highest standards of production, transportation, storage and use.
Managing and monitoring impact of incidents and spills and management cyanide levels in tailings storage facility pools.
economic closure planning rehabilitation in line with closure plans and relevant agreements regulation to reduce impact on the community and manage financial liabilities.
Local economic increase in local business and value of local economy and number of development indirect jobs.
environment Air pollution Managing, monitoring and minimising impacts on local communities, environment and wildlife from releases to air, such as dust and emissions.
Adequate management and contingency crisis planning for spills disasters at operations.
Water pollution Managing and monitoring water quality and minimising impacts on local communities, environment and wildlife from releases into water.
environmental Management and contingency planning for incidents such as spills of tailings, hydrocarbons or other significant process materials, incidents unauthorised land clearing, etc.
community community constructive and transparent community dialogue regarding operations engagement in order to generate trust and a social license to operate.
community development and investment in public services, health, education, and enterprise investment development in areas of operation and their outcomes.
Human rights Security forces Maintaining the security of operations and employees while respecting the rights of local populations: ensuring security actions directly employed and contracted are lawful.
labour Attracting and human resources planning matching company development plans: attracting suitably educated skilled workers: retaining high potential retaining staff employees: succession planning for key roles.
Staff training and employee training and development to meet the needs of the organisation and provide career progression, including nationals taking skills transfer over roles previously held by non-nationals.
Local and national Prioritising employment of host country nationals and specifically employment people from local communities.
Governance Bribery and compliance with regulations: ethical standards, codes, procedures and clear compliance process: bribery and corruption allegations corruption prosecutions.
Legal compliance compliance with all laws and regulations in all areas of operation, including competition law, anti-trust, money laundering etc, risk of fines and sanctions.
revenue transparency transparency of taxes and royalties from mining paid to governments.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 114 HUmAN CAPITAL: PROTECTING OUR mOST ImPORTANT ASSETS huMAn cAPitAL in nuMBerS 92% ALL 1 of all eMployees and Mines accRediTed To faTaliTy, conTRacToRs aRe HosT oHsas 18001 0.12 Rise in gRoup counTRy naTionals inTeRnaTional safeTy lTifR To 0.59 sTandaRd, excepT foR KiBali, wHicH will Be assessed againsT THe 100% Malian new iso 45001 sysTeM senioR ManageMenT in 2016 TeaMs aT loulo, MoRila and gounKoTo Underground 25% $1.3 million driving decRease in ToTal spenT on foRMal Tele-ReMoTe siMulaToR injuRy fRequency RaTe, TRaining inTRoduced aT loulo zeRo losT TiMe injuRies aT gounKoTo and MoRila this chapter explains our approach to safety, the turning a world-class ore deposit into a world-class number one concern of both internal and external mine requires the talents and dedication of a highly stakeholders in our Materiality Assessment, and our skilled, motivated workforce, and the creation of a policies and performance in areas such as maximising healthy and safe working environment.
local talent, skills training, industrial relations, occupational and community health.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 115 SuStAinABiLitY rePort pRoTecTing ouR MosT iMpoRTanT asseTs continued toolbox safety briefings in each department and Highest priority issues having detailed procedures and training modules in place for areas such as chemical hazards.
n Safety each site has an emergency response team, including a mine rescue team where we have underground operations.
All our underground operations have a Medium priority issues number of refuge chambers where workers can seek o Attracting and retaining staff shelter in the event of rock fall or cave in, this includes o hiV Aids 13 such refuge chambers at our Loulo mine which we believe is the largest number for any mine in West o Local and national Africa.
employment o Malaria the core of our approach to safety is to ensure o occupational health each individual takes responsibility for the safety of themselves and those around them.
to create this o Skills transfer and training safety culture we include safety training as a critical part of induction for every employee and contractor, we hold regular audits to check employees understanding of safety behaviours, and all staff are Current or potential impact on the business encouraged to think proactively about safety risks.
for example we encourage a right to refuse ie to challenge supervisors if they feel that appropriate equipment or other safety measures are not in place before doing a job.
SAfetY if an incident occurs, the safety, health and environment She department on each mine analyses the incident and works to ensure appropriate remedial actions are taken.
they also ensure that StrAteGY And PoLicieS illiterate employees are fully briefed on the meanings Safety is a top priority for randgold and we are of written procedures and signs in their native determined to create an injury and fatality free language, an important consideration in some of the working environment.
it is vital that our employees underdeveloped areas in which we operate.
can come to work every day knowing they will be in a safe environment, and contribute to the wellbeing of We also have a zero tolerance policy towards drug or their colleagues.
alcohol abuse and unsafe behaviour on site.
We have robust safety systems in place at all mines our PerforMAnce and use the internationally recognised unfortunately we suffered one fatality in 2015. the ohSAS 18001 iSo 45001 safety standard to guide incident occurred at our tongon mine in January and inform our practices.
for example, we use a where Adama Kone, a foreman in the contract hierarchy of control to help manage our safety risks.
mining team, was the victim of a tractor crash in the We first seek to eliminate known hazards, where pit.
An in-depth investigation into the incident has hazards cannot be eliminated we look to technology been conducted and remedial actions implemented and mechanisation of processes to reduce exposure to prevent such an accident occurring again have to risk and finally where exposure to risk cannot be included a prohibition of the use of tractors in the removed we ensure we manage those risks with pit, defensive driving sessions for all operators on to careful administration and monitoring, including the how to respond in extreme situations, and reminder compulsory use of personal protective equipment.
sessions on the importance of conducting thorough our policies also include assessments of specific mechanical checks on relevant equipment.
safety risks for each part of the mine, holding daily Safety briefing before starting a shift at Tongon mine.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 116 Importance to stakeholders After achieving a record decline in our groups Lost GrouP LoSt tiMe inJurY frequencY rAte time injury frequency rate Ltifr in 2014, to We are pleased to report that both our Morila and 0.47 per million hours worked, we saw the rate rise Gounkoto mines recorded zero lost time injuries to 0.59 per million hours worked in 2015 the first during 2015, the second year in a row Gounkoto has achieved this milestone.
Another significant increase in Ltifr since 2010. achievement was a 25% drop in the total injury frequency rate Ltifr across the group in 2015, Although this is a disappointing increase, the Ltifr thanks largely to a 34% decrease in medical rate still remains low and is more than 50% below treatment injuries Mtis.
the average rate from the last five years.
the rise can LTIFR performance be partially attributed to an increase in the number We were also 4 of Lost time injuries at our tongon mine in particular encouraged by a from zero to four, some of which were related to rise in near misses contractors at the facility.
in 2015. these are incidents where no We are determined to bring the rate down again in personal injury or 3 2016 and measures to improve safety will include property damage was sustained and looking at additional training and the introduction reporting them of new disciplinary measures which increase the triggers remedial accountability of employees and contractors for actions that can 2 unsafe behaviour.
Perhaps to further improve safety we also began piloting counter-intuitively, the safety software, MyoSh, at our Loulo operation we see a rise in in 2015.
MyoSh allows us to record all safety near misses as part 1 information for each employee.
this means we are of a positive trend notified when pre-safety checks are not carried out or towards encouraging when refresher training is required, thus providing a a culture of incident useful additional tool to our management.
We plan to awareness and expand the trial of MyoSh to Gounkoto in early 2016, increased reporting 0 and across all our other sites if the trial is successful.
2 Defined as injuries that occur in the execution of duties which prevent our workers from performing those duties for at least one day.
3 Number of LTIs per million person hours worked.
4 Number of LTIs plus medical treatment injuries MTIs per million man-hours worked.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 117 SuStAinABiLitY rePort pRoTecTing ouR MosT iMpoRTanT asseTs continued USING SImULATOR TECHNOLOGY TO case study dRIVE SAFETY ImPROVEmENTS the majority of vehicles used for mining tend to be Prior to the introduction of simulator training we large, heavy and capable of moving at relatively were losing nearly one transmission a month.
this makes them both challenging however since the simulator training began, the and dangerous to operate particularly in the frequency of lost transmissions has decreased, dark confines of an underground mine.
therefore, helping the simulators pay for themselves in repair ensuring all operators are well trained is a savings in just a few months.
the simulators also paramount concern for us.
mean we no longer need to divert machines away from production for training.
Most importantly the to help improve our underground vehicle operator simulators are helping ensure that when a driver training we have invested over $1 million on gets behind the controls of a real machine they driving simulators and presimulators from fifth are completely familiar and proficient with how to dimension technologies.
these state of the art handle it in all situations.
machines recreate exact replicas of the operating controls of our vehicles, which mean trainees Simulator training has also allowed us to significantly learn to operate machines and become familiar decrease the time needed for training.
Previously with processes in an environment that is safe both training a competent and confident driver could take for the trainee and the trainer.
up to a month, however, we have found by using simulators we are able to train a driver to world-class not only do the simulators provide trainees with standards in approximately 10 days.
a safe way to learn how to operate our heavy machinery, they also have smart technology that tells our instructors how a trainee is developing and when a trainee is, for example, over using the brakes or over revving an engine.
that means we can also teach trainees to be efficient drivers avoiding unnecessary wear and tear on machines.
for example, over revving an engine can lead to the loss of a $400 000 transmission and take the machine out of use for a few days.
host country, then sub-Saharan Africa and beyond.
diScoVerinG And We have a target to maintain the number of nationals in our workforce above 80% and we place a high deVeLoPinG LocAL priority and considerable resources into nurturing talent and skills for long term development.
tALent during recruitment we use a variety of tools such as psychometric and other tests to assess the skills and competencies of all candidates and to match StrAteGY And PoLicieS the best ones with the right roles.
We then use a A central tenet of our employment strategy is to combination of both formal and informal training to attract the best candidates from our host countries progress careers and employee excellence.
informal and communities providing them with world-class training includes skills shadowing, mentoring and training and genuine opportunity to progress.
it is a on the job training which most employees engage strategy that enables us to benefit from an efficient in to a large extent.
We also have several formal and effective workforce, at a relatively low cost base training partnership arrangements in place with the compared to other peers, while also playing an universities of Pretoria, cape town and Abidjan.
important role in building strong community relations and a secure environment for our mines.
We also run a stagiaire industry placement programme giving students from host country it also provides us with a loyal workforce and we take colleges opportunities to work on our mine sites for pride in our staff retention rates.
this helps us to both identify and recruit some of the most talented individuals from our our policy to prioritise host country nationals means countries of operation and provides essential work that for every role we seek to place someone with the experience to graduates.
right level of skills from first the local region, then the Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 118 duplication of functions on site and to reduce our our PerforMAnce reliance on more expensive expatriate labour.
We As shown in the table below, we had a total workforce anticipate the cost reductions of the shift to owner of 10 905 in 2015, of which 92% of operational staff mining to be about 10 to 15% on relevant costs.
We continue to have high retention rates.
for example, at mines such as Training the future Loulo and Morila that have been in operation for over a decade, over 85% of employees have been with us We spent more than $1.3 million on formal training longer than 10 years.
for 302 employees in 2015 with rising stars gaining certification in areas such as rock mechanics, arc one of our key targets is the development welding, pump installation and maintenance, waste and progression of host country nationals into management and the finance for non-financial management positions and as of 2015 the entire managers programme run by university of cape management teams at Morila, Loulo and Gounkoto towns Graduate School of Business see case study consisted completely of Malian nationals.
A total of on the following page.
We continue to build good 17 senior management roles were transferred from relations with universities in our host countries and expatriates to host country nationals this year.
established a partnership with the ferke technical institute at the university of Abidjan in cte divoire in 2015.
Owner mining As part of our commitment to invest in host country More than 600 stagiaires have attended practical nationals we also introduced a shift to owner mining training sessions across all our operations in the at Loulos underground mines in 2015.
While last two years with a total of 80 being recruited after underground mining activities have always been graduation, either with the operation itself or by our under management control, owner mining means subcontractor companies.
that rather than relying on outsourced labour and contract staff who are usually expats to fulfil the on the executive development side, a number of underground mining function, work is now completed senior group executives as well as senior operational by our own employees.
this process has required the managers are scheduled to attend management short term hire of over 90 international experts down development programmes and executive from 131 before owner mining on rolling contracts development programmes at the university of cape but ultimately will lead to a more highly skilled local town, Stellenbosch university as well as the harvard workforce and then a subsequent reduction in the School of Business.
number of expatriates on underground operations.
this year also saw the introduction of a $1 million Beyond the benefits of increased employment state of the art underground vehicle training opportunities and knowledge transfer for our local simulators at Loulo see earlier case study.
communities, owner mining also makes good sense for us as a business.
it allows us to eliminate any WorKforce nuMBerS AT Group Loulo Gounkoto Morila Tongon Kibali 31 DECEMBER 2015 Expats Nats Expats Nats Expats Nats Expats Nats Expats Nats employees 3 714 153 1 775 4 128 2 357 17 573 96 609 contractors 6 931 31 937 29 879 4 418 30 1147 448 3 008 combined total 1 workforce 10 905 2 896 1 040 781 1 767 4 161 1 Includes 260 employees in corporate offices and exploration team.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 119 SuStAinABiLitY rePort pRoTecTing ouR MosT iMpoRTanT asseTs continued FINANCE FOR case study NON-FINANCIAL mANAGERS in partnership with the Graduate Business School of the university of cape town, randgold provides a finance for non-financial managers training course for the first three management tiers of each department on our mines.
finance for non-financial managers demystifies financial language and introduces key financial concepts such as financial statements, understanding operating performance and translating time into value of money.
this knowledge means that our managers gain a more holistic view of the business, giving them important insights to make better decisions and progress their careers.
in 2015, we ran the course twice, once at Drissa Arama, Morilas metallurgical manager receives his Finance our Loulo mine for 35 managers from all our for Non-Financial Managers certificate from Randgold chief executive Mark Bristow and Morila GM, Adama Kone.
The course, comprising Mali based mines, and again at Kibali for 35 two sessions and run in conjunction with the University of Cape Towns managers from the Kibali and tongon mines.
Graduate School of Business, saw 52 Randgold employees attending the course will be offered again in 2016. in line with Randgolds life-long learning philosophy.
Gender diVerSitY We are an equal opportunity employer, with transparent non-discrimination policies in place.
however one of the challenges we face in this area is that within our countries of operation gender norms, cultural traditions and legislative barriers can all work against attracting women to work in the extractives sector.
in 2015, a total of 5.5% of our total workforce were women with the highest numbers of women employed at our Kibali and tongon mines.
to help ensure local women also benefit from our presence in the community, we also support activities targeted at supporting and developing employment opportunities for local women.
in 2015 these included the creation of womens market gardens around all our mines and the provision of training women on the use of grain mills as well as soap and jam making.
this has provided many local women with a steady source of income.
We hope that over the medium term some of the community initiatives we support that help empower women in the community may help meet this challenge.
Randgold strives for gender diversity and 5.5% of its workforce is women.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 120 LOCAL VILLAGER TAKES ROAd case study FROm CONSTRUCTION WORKER TO CRUSHING SUPERVISOR fode Bengaly Sissoko is a 44 year old who grew crushing supervisor with responsibility for a team up in the village of Sitakily around 20km from our of 15 others.
he has worked for randgold When i first began i didnt know anything about for more than 11 years, having initially joined how a big mine worked, he says.
the first during construction of the mine.
thing randgold did was to send me to Morila for 45 days to learn how it worked and to get some fode pictured on the right explains: until the training.
Going to Morila was the furthest i had mine the opportunities for work here were not ever travelled.
Since then i have had a lot more good.
i had done some work as a driver and also training and it has helped me to grow and become a bit of artisanal mining, but the money was not better.
the last training i had was about people good and the work i was doing was risky.
When management and how to motivate and manage Youssouf randgold community liason officer my team.
one day i would like to become Youssouf ongoiba came to Sitakily, i decided to processing manager and i believe i can, because apply.
i was one of 147 applicants randgold if you work hard randgold will help you succeed.
asked 12 of us to come for testing and four of us were given jobs.
he continues: My life before is not comparable to how it is now.
there are more jobs and more fode began his randgold career as a labourer schools.
i had seven years of school, but my four during construction, helping to build the mill children i hope they will go to university.
during that time he My job means i can provide everything they need proved himself to be a motivated and highly no problem, this wasnt always the way.
So when operations began he mine has helped local communities and Mali.
the was trained and employed in the plant.
from roads are good there are some journeys i can there he has gone from strength to strength do on my motorbike in 20 minutes that used to and 18 months ago was promoted to the role of take a day, this opens us up to the world.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 121 SuStAinABiLitY rePort pRoTecTing ouR MosT iMpoRTanT asseTs continued each mine has a Mine Level Agreement MLA inducinG StABLe agreed between the local unions and management which sets out mutually agreed rules for each mine induStriAL on detailed items such as salary increments or the parameters of acceptable behaviour in a strike reLAtionS situation.
MLAs are reviewed every three years.
our PerforMAnce StrAteGY And PoLicieS for the most part industrial relations across all our sites We see our employees as key partners in our have been calm and productive in 2015. business, and this is the foundation of our industrial relations approach.
in total there were three days of work lost to strike action over the course of the year, all coming from a strike All employees are free to join trade unions and all at the Loulo-Gounkoto complex in June 2015. the our host countries have the right to freedom of biggest factor behind this strike was a combination of association enshrined in law.
We recognise all groups misinformation about the financial position of the mine that legitimately speak for our workers and meet with which led to some calls for unreasonable salary union representatives at each mine site on a monthly increases and competition between two unions to basis.
union representatives also attend monthly help shore up membership.
management cost reviews, quarterly board meetings, participate in regular dialogues with each mines general manager and sit in on strategic planning Key to our resolution of this strike action, and an important foundation for avoiding a repetition, was the sessions.
introduction of an extensive communication campaign at all mines to give specific and honest information further to this our senior management have an open about the revenue and profitability of the mine to all door policy for staff, who are encouraged to make contact by email with any concerns they have.
our employees rather than allowing such information to ceo Mark Bristow also holds mass meetings twice be disintermediated by union representatives.
All staff are invited to attend agreement signed with the unions as part of the these public forums and they provide an important resolution also saw us introduce three new salary opportunity for staff to raise issues or ask any premiums to those employees with exposure to dirt, dust and danger.
questions they feel important directly with the ceo.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 122 HEALTH mANAGEmENT IN THE WORKPLACE ANd BEYONd heALth PerforMAnce in nuMBerS 80 758 22% Medical consulTaTions foR decRease in MalaRia incidence eMployees and coMMuniTy acRoss gRoup MeMBeRs in 2015 4 427 16% volunTaRy Hiv TesTs conducTed in ReducTion in consulTaTions foR 2015 diaRRHoea acRoss Mines in Mali, a BenefiT fRoM ouR Response To 38% up on 2014 eBola our health policy is to provide free basic healthcare StrAteGY And PoLicieS to employees, their immediate family and community in order to perform to the best of their abilities our members within a 10km radius of each mine.
in order workforce needs to be healthy, and more than this to achieve this we build a number of health clinics on they need to be free from worry about the health each mine and in surrounding communities with the and wellbeing of their families and communities.
aim being to pass control and responsibility for the this provides a compelling business case for us to community clinics over to local authorities once they invest in much needed local healthcare facilities and are established.
initiatives when it comes to both occupational and community health.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 123 SuStAinABiLitY rePort HealTH ManageMenT in THe woRKplace continued our clinics work to prevent and treat both totAL MedicAL conSuLtAtionS occupational health hazards, such as dust inhalation 2015 and noise exposure, and priority community health issues.
the latter are defined by the independent total number of medical consultations 80 758 baseline study that we commission at the feasibility stage of our projects and include standalone employees 69% programmes to combat malaria and hiV AidS.
in employee dependents 18% the last year we have also worked in partnership with local authorities and international organisations to Local community 13% combat the threat of ebola in our host regions.
in order to ensure a continual quality improvement of our health care delivery, our senior medical officers, under the supervision of our chief medical officer, reviewed the health service provision of our operations.
this looked at aspects such as strategic planning, infection control, patient care and emergency preparedness.
our PerforMAnce during 2015 our clinics conducted over 80 000 medical consultations for employees and individuals in our host communities.
About 31% of these were received by local community members or employees family members, reinforcing the value of our health investments to our host communities as well as to our workforce.
the bulk of consultations were for malaria, diarrhoea linked diseases and respiratory conditions.
WASHING AWAY case study PREVENTABLE dISEASE the ebola epidemic in West Africa was one and it is linked to 1.5 million deaths each year of the biggest international news stories and according to the World health organisation, most of public health crises of the last two years.
which occur in sub-Saharan Africa.
ebola is highly contagious and can be passed on through contact with contaminated body therefore a drop in diarrhoea rates is not only good fluids.
therefore one of the strategies we for the individuals and the community it is also good introduced at our West African mines to help for business.
it reduces absenteeism and improves prevent and protect our workforce from the productivity.
outbreak was to introduce compulsory hand washing at the gates of each mine.
regular handwashing has now been introduced across all our sites and we are also working to raise At sites where handwashing measures were awareness in our communities of the important introduced we noticed there was a radical impact this simple step can have.
drop in the number of employees seeking medical attention for diarrhoea.
confirmed cases of diarrhoea in the six months post implementation of hand washing measures dropped on average by 22% at our Loulo and Gounkoto in Mali and over 30% at our Morila mine.
Globally it is estimated that nearly five billion work days are lost every year to diarrhoea, Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 124 We reviewed and assessed our malaria prevention BreAKinG the feVer: the fiGht programmes in 2015. reinforcing measures such AGAinSt MALAriA as increased repellents and protection for night shift Malaria poses a significant threat to all our operations workers, as we found that this group tended to have communities, with the drc thought to have the a higher malaria incidence rate than their daytime second highest rate of malaria in the world.
other new efforts have included a it is a preventable disease and simple steps can help widening of the spraying coverage at our Kibali to reduce its prevalence within our communities and mine, which has helped lead to a year on year drop workforce.
in malaria incidence of 45% in 2015.
Last year we also worked with the Malian national Malaria those suffering from malaria often have to take Prevention Programme PnLP, using World health considerable time off work.
in 2015 the equivalent of organisation Who guidelines to ensure our spraying 4 943 person days of sick leave approximately 32% of programme meets best practice: and introduced all sick leave was attributable to malaria.
therefore it further training for sprayers as a result.
All spraying is is in our best business interests to tackle the disease now supervised by a member of our medical staff to head on, and reducing and ultimately eradicating the ensure it is appropriately conducted.
scourge of malaria from our communities of operation is one of our key health goals.
Looking forward, in late 2015 we also organised a malaria workshop in Mali which brought together in 2015, our anti-malaria programme saw us distribute scientists, institutions such as uSAid, the national over 11 500 treated mosquito nets, undertake Malaria Prevention Programme PnLP and the Malian extensive spraying campaigns at all our sites and Malaria research and training center Mrtc and surrounding villages and showcase awareness raising encouraged them to investigate innovative methods to and information programmes.
We also conducted help eradicate malaria in our communities.
entomological surveys to help us better understand the effectiveness of the chemicals we use during spraying campaigns, enabling us to tailor them to ensure maximum efficacy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 125 SuStAinABiLitY rePort HealTH ManageMenT in THe woRKplace continued hoW We tAcKLe hiV AidS rAiSinG AWAreneSS of the hiV riSK our host countries are some of the many nations in distributing sub-Saharan Africa that suffer from a high prevalence condoms of hiV AidS.
the drc and in particular the orientale province where our Kibali mine is located have events for AidS community Awareness month outreach to sex e. g theatre performances, Particularly high prevalence rates.
to help combat marathons workers this scourge, we run hiV programmes at all our mines and through the local communities with an overall aim of achieving no new infections among our employees.
As illustrated alongside, our hiV programme hiV AidS encourages safe sex practices, distributes condoms, supports community education and awareness raising programmes and provides free voluntary testing and counselling.
over the course of 2015 our hiV programme has: n Seen an overall drop in hiV prevalence of 33%.
n distributed 422 046 condoms, more than double Working with education and the number distributed in 2014. nGos and health awareness professionals raising n Provided 4 427 free voluntary hiV tests and counselling to workers and local communities.
A 38% increase and over 1 000 more tests than last year.
n trained 106 peer educators for counselling.
the increase in the numbers of voluntary tests for hiV suggests a measure of success in our awareness raising efforts.
Much of the increase is due to a pilot partnership we have undertaken with the hiV AidS specialist nGo, Soutoura, at our Loulo mine see section taking a partnership approach to improve outcomes.
We are very encouraged by the huge leap in the number of voluntary tests undertaken this year and the positive impact of the partnership with Soutoura and plan to expand this model to our other operations, particularly Kibali in the drc.
We take a number of steps to prevent these risks, occuPAtionAL heALth including regular site risk assessments and prework Gold mining has a number of inherent occupational and periodic medical checks for employees.
Processes at the plants and in the annual medical checks monitor employees for any pits and underground are noisy and there can be signs of afflictions such as hearing loss, respiratory exposure to dust and hazardous chemicals.
these issues, heavy metals in the blood, silicosis and exposures can build-up over time into significant tuberculosis.
Staff who are regularly exposed health risks for our employees and therefore need to to chemicals and other hazards also receive be constantly and carefully monitored and managed.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 126 biological and radiation testing.
our assessments of safe exposure levels are based on internationally recognised monitoring standards, including the American conference of Governmental industrial hygienists AcGih, while our health and safety management systems are set up to comply with ohSAS 18001 requirements.
As detailed in the earlier safety section of this report we use a detailed hierarchy of control to minimise exposure to hazards across the workplace.
this also includes regular training and checks to ensure that the materials and equipment to deal with traumatic, toxic and cardiovascular emergencies are in place and functioning well.
All employees must pass minimum standards of fitness in order for their job to be performed safely and a zero tolerance approach is taken to those who fail to use their personal protective equipment PPe.
Wherever possible we also look to use advances in equipment and technology to help reduce or eliminate occupational health risks.
two cases of tuberculosis were reported at our Kibali mine during 2015. the patients were promptly treated and quarantined to prevent further spread of the disease, in line with our policies.
no other occupational health issues were reported during 2015. case study AdJUSTING WORKERS HOURS ANd ENVIRONmENT TO ENSURE SAFETY AT WORK Reducing hearing loss fatigue is one of the leading causes of accidents in open pit mining.
As a responsible employer, We also look through a safety lens when it comes randgold has therefore taken steps to adjust to noise in the workplace.
noise induced hearing workers hours so that safety and general loss is a health issue for the mining industry wellbeing at work are paramount.
for example, especially for those who work with drilling or we ensure that all our haulage employees take blasting equipment and like most occupational compulsory short breaks at regular intervals.
this diseases, there is no visible evidence of noise approach allows our employees to return to work induced hearing loss so we have to remain vigilant refreshed and alert which in turn leads to a safer and put in place processes to proactively address working environment.
A good example of this is the fatigue management in order to try and minimise noise induced hearing programme introduced by the Kibali safety, health loss, we have taken steps to control exposure of and environment team at our mine in the drc.
our employees by applying engineering controls at this programme has put in a place a new shift the source of the noise and by performing regular schedule that allows all our workers to benefit maintenance to prevent additional unnecessary from time off and gives them the opportunity to noise.
our employees also benefit from regular rest when required.
hearing checks and are asked to take regular breaks in quiet areas on a day-to-day basis.
We in addition, we also provide our workers with also regularly rotate shifts to ensure the same advice and guidance so that they can come to people arent always working during the noisiest work rested and benefit from a good nights sleep times and compliance to wearing ear protection after they have finished work.
and the appropriate PPes is compulsory.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 127 SuStAinABiLitY rePort HealTH ManageMenT in THe woRKplace continued PLAnS And PrioritieS for 2016 Safety will remain our top priority in 2016 and we plan to undertake several measures to keep improving our performance in this area.
our mines at Morila, tongon and Gounkoto have all previously recorded years with zero Lost time injuries so we know our target of achieving zero Lost time injuries across the group is achievable.
We will be operating with increased vigilance and care through 2016 and to take learnings from both Morila and Gounkoto in particular to see if their success can be followed and achieved across the board.
A key message from our industrial relations management this year was the need for transparent, formal financial information to be available directly to all workers and we will continue to provide this to the entire workforce on a regular basis in 2016.
Looking ahead, much of our health focus will be on making bigger inroads in our fight against malaria.
during 2015, we reviewed our malaria programme and decided to make our target not one of a 25% incident rate reduction year on year, but to eradicate the disease from our operations and the surrounding communities.
We have already held a number of workshops to identify ways of achieving this and an initiative in 2016 will identify and work with a specialist malaria focused nGo to extend our community outreach programme.
We are also investigating the possibility of sourcing external funding to help us scale our malaria programme to a regional scale to increase its impact.
following the success of our partnership with the specialist hiV nGo, Soutoura, we are looking to expand the programme to our other sites and have identified Kibali as a top priority site for such a programme due the higher hiV prevalence rates suffered in the drc.
improving our occupational health detection and prevention programmes is also a priority for 2016. our aim here is to incorporate individual trend monitoring to supplement the annual medical checks: this will act as an early warning system for any potential signs of longer term issues.
this will involve greater analysis of individual annual check-up results to detect changes year on year to better identify deterioration over time.
Similarly our chief medical officer, dr haladou M Manirou, will oversee the completion and implementation of action plans at all sites to take forward the results of our internal strategic audit on health service provision.
Randgold believes that its spend on the battle against malaria is one of its best investments.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 128 NATIONAL ECONOmIC ANd COmmUNITY dEVELOPmENT nAtionAL econoMic deVeLoPMent in nuMBerS $1 billion $473 million ToTal econoMic value disTRiBuTed spenT on HosT counTRy supplieRs To HosT counTRies and oTHeR in 2015, an annual incRease of sTaKeHoldeRs in 2015 30% 622 $700 million local coMpanies suppoRTed invesTed in infRasTRucTuRe THRougH ouR pRocuReMenT pRojecTs acRoss ouR HosT pRacTices counTRies since 2011 totAL tAXeS And diVidendS to hoSt countrieS cte dlvoire democratic republic of congo Mali $ million $ million $ million 300 25 90 80 250 20 70 200 60 15 50 150 40 10 100 30 20 50 5 10 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 129 SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued our mines are based in some of the most Highest priority issues economically challenged and remote corners of the world.
But there is no rule that says our host n community regions must stay like that.
We believe mining engagement companies such as ourselves can and should have n closure planning a transformative role in harnessing their abundance n of potential from human talent to clean energy and community arable land.
At a national level we contribute in a development and number of ways including paying taxes, dividends and investment royalties, joint ownership of the mines with our host countries, the building of vital infrastructure and by support for local supply chains and local skills.
Medium priority issues the same philosophy applies at community o Local and national level where we seek to help empower our host employment communities to build thriving local economies, viable over the long term.
o Security forces o Skills transfer and training issues such as economic development, community development and investment and skills transfer and training all appear as priority items on our Materiality Current or potential impact on the business Assessment and this section explores in more detail how we manage these issues.
contriButinG to the GroWth of eMerGinG AfricA StrAteGY And PoLicY our strategy for supporting national economic development is a simple one.
We recognise our The new Doko-Aru road, which Randgold built, has reduced travel responsibilities and seek to create shared economic time for the route from several days to just a few hours.
As well as paying all relevant taxes, we include the governments of our in our countries of operation, with the aim of helping host countries as part owners on all our mines the them attract other world-class companies to invest states of Mali, cte divoire and the drc all have there.
We are pleased that as of July 2014 all our stakes of at least 10% in our respective mines so countries hosting operational mines Mali, cte we also contribute to national treasuries through divoire and drc have been compliant with the dividends and royalties.
We are fully transparent extractive industries transparency initiative eiti.
about all payments and sign long term agreements within mining code obligations that include further to this, we were encouraged to see all our commitments to leave behind a thriving legacy after a host countries improved their ranking in the 2015 mines closure.
World Bank ease of doing Business survey.
this sends a powerful message to international investors our PerforMAnce that the business environment in our host countries As shown in the table alongside, our contributions continues to improve and welcomes world-class to host countries in 2015 have been significant.
years payments bring randgolds total contributions to host countries via taxes, royalties and dividends to inVeStinG in infrAStructure over $2.2 billion equivalent to the entire GdP of Mali.
one of our most critical contributions to the economic development of our host countries is our Most of our host country economies are heavily investment in vital infrastructure which both makes dependent on natural resources and we also work our mines viable and lays the foundations for future with these governments to support them in their growth in the regions in which we operate.
We have efforts to diversify their economies, for example invested approximately $700 million in host country by facilitating foreign investment.
in 2015 this has infrastructure during the last five years, from bridges included our investments in agribusiness see closure to broadband, new roads networks to new power planning section of this report and support for small networks.
and medium sized enterprises through our preferential procurement system see on page 133 and business examples of vital infrastructure include a $40 million mentoring.
project during the construction of our tongon mine As well as being fully transparent about our revenues to introduce overhead power lines to connect the and economic footprint, we strive to encourage high tongon region to the national electricity grid, a standards of corporate governance and transparency venture which both helped us reduce our reliance Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 130 Importance to stakeholders Infrastructure investments include new roads and bridges.
community legacy that outlasts the mine.
2015 also on expensive thermal energy and diesel generators saw us complete the construction of a new customs and succeeded in lighting up an isolated region of house on the Senegalese-Malian border, one of the cte divoire.
in the drc, we are investing in the vital routes to our Loulo-Gounkoto complex see case construction of three hydropower stations which study.
will power up to 90% of our Kibali mine and leave a econoMic VALue StAteMent fOR THE yEAR END econoMic VALue diStriButed 31 DECEMBER $000 2015 2014 2013 or to Be diStriButed Economic value generated 3 Gold sales 1 394 889 1 434 872 1 266 712 3 finance income 4 222 2 769 10 452 3 $ millions Sundry income net 2 042 9 760 4 394 1 1 200 Government portion of Morila 2 564 - 4 500 total economic value generated 1 403 717 1 447 491 1 286 058 Economic value distributed 1 000 or to be distributed 2 operating costs 620 962 592 956 459 137 3 finance costs 1 229 7 848 11 885 800 employee salaries, wages and other benefits before taxes 77 588 75 772 74 100 dividend payments to 600 providers of capital 55 744 46 274 46 137 Payments to governments including corporate taxes, custom duties, dividends etc 182 602 214 966 243 321 400 exploration and corporate 3 expenditure 48 885 40 869 51 858 4 community investment 5 486 6 742 23 590 200 total economic value distributed or to be distributed 992 496 985 427 910 028 economic value retained 0 and re-invested 411 221 461 974 376 030 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The information in this economic value statement is extracted from the financial statements, underlying accounting records and other financial data.
This non-GAAP information is, however, intended to summarise the overall contribution of the group to its stakeholders and is not intended to replace or provide an alternative to the audited IFRS financial statements.
1 This amount represents 50% of the dividends paid to the State of Mali, and is also included in Payments to governments.
The State of Malis attributable portion of the Morila operation is not included in the Randgold financial statements.
2 Total cash costs excluding royalties, salaries, employment taxes and custom duties.
3 Refer to page F-29 of the financial statements for further information on this figure.
This figure represents Randgolds total equity stake in community investment.
4 Total spend on community development, including advantageous infrastructure development and philanthropy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 131 SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued case study NEW CUSTOmS HOUSE SAVES COSTS ANd HELPS PUT COmmUNITIES ON THE mAP 2015 with a ceremony attended by a number Many of the materials required by the LouloGounkoto complex in Mali are transported of dignatories including the Malian Minister of overland from dakar in Senegal.
in 2013 training, the national director of customs for Mali we worked with the Malian and Senegalese and the Mayor of Kenieba.
governments and other stakeholders to help fund a new border crossing at Koundan, having a fully operational border close to the mine about 30km from the mine.
however, the has not just improved transport times and brought border was without an official customs house costs down for randgold, it has also brought which meant goods still had to be transported economic benefit for the local community.
Local the long way round through Kayes before businesses now enjoy more efficient supply lines coming to the mines, meaning additional and a number of new businesses have sprung transport costs and time.
up along the road near the border, transforming Koudan into a thriving urban centre.
randgold in 2015, in order to make the border and the local community development committee completely operational, randgold invested are currently investigating the feasibility of over $650 000 to build the Mahinamine constructing a hotel to create a further economic customs office.
the impressive new offices were officially opened in the last quarter of boost to the town.
The new Mahinamine customs office is officially opened.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 132 rAiSinG LocAL StAndArdS in the SuPPLY chAin StrAteGY And PoLicY our PerforMAnce Beyond our own tax payments and investments, we We paid $473 million to suppliers in our countries also recognise that our supply chain is an enormous of operation in 2015, an increase of over 30% on source of potential economic development for our the $364 million spent in 2014. this meant that we host countries.
achieved our target for 80% of locally available items being procured by mines.
We have established a preferential procurement policy that commits us to procuring goods and services At Kibali we passed a landmark of spending over from local sources where they meet our minimum $1 billion on local contractors in its mine life so far.
safety, quality and cost requirements.
this has included local success stories such as Le coq, a construction company employing over Where local capacity does not exist, we try to build it 65 people built by an illegal artisanal miner turned over the long term through training and mentoring.
entrepreneur, and a project at Kibali to connect local tailors with north Security, a leading supplier of our this policy provides us with a loyal, robust and cost PPe equipment see case study.
effective supply chain that tangibly helps us deliver value for all stakeholders.
Similar growth stories such as that of Groupe eGtf see case study also exemplify our work to support our preferential procurement policy means we aim local individuals and companies growth into building to source all low impact, high volume items ie items quality, robust businesses that can thrive after our we have a high and predictable demand for, but that mines close.
will have limited impact on the operation of the mine if supply is delayed from our local communities.
these We build in the management of high quality include items such as grinding and cutting discs, sustainability standards as part of fulfilling the medicines, welding equipment and food and drink.
terms of all relevant contractor agreements and Many of our more strategic supplies such as diesel we are seeing a general improvement in culture are also sourced through local suppliers.
when it comes to areas such as safety or waste management.
this is hard to measure in quantitative Where we are unable to find a local supplier in the terms but it is something we notice throughout our immediate community, we assess supply options host communities.
for example in the drc, our in broadening circles starting with the region, then contractors equipment maintenance is significantly the country, neighbouring countries and so forth.
if better than it was several years ago, and in 2015 we possible we also seek to up-skill local businesses and also noticed that independent road labourers in the develop manufacturing capacity to fill the gap in the region had begun wearing reflective gloves and other future.
personal protective equipment, which had not been the case just a few years ago.
Randgolds philosophy has always been to help grow and build local business, this makes them one of the most credible and respected companies in Mali.
Ben Coulibaly, Founder, Ben & Co, Mali ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 133 [inSert Ben&co Pic} SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued case studies LOCAL TAILORING PARTNERSHIPS ARE SEWN UP We have therefore facilitated a partnership with north Local procurement is a vital part of our economic Safety.
this provides the tailors with a sewing room development efforts.
however, sourcing items in the and materials such as zips, studs and reflective bands remote areas we operate in can prove difficult.
So and sees the tailors then produce the safety suits for when the local community does not have the right north Safety, who pay them and charge us.
At Kibali, level of expertise or scale to meet our needs, we try the agreement is for the tailors to provide 70% of the to facilitate training and mentoring to enable local safety suits required by mine workers in 2016, and businesses to meet our requirements.
the suits are cobranded as north Safety and the local cooperative.
A good example of this has been work at Kibali and Loulo in 2015 to connect local cooperatives of tailors for the tailors this removes the burden of stock with industry leading personal protective equipment control, logistics and finding the working capital to provider north Safety.
meet our demand all borne by north Safety but still allows the tailors to supply the mine, learn the skills Both mines require a lot of safety vests and overalls required to meet industry standards and become and we found that while local tailors had the skills manufacturers of a larger scale.
necessary to produce these items, they struggled to access the materials needed at a competitive price and scale.
GROUPE EGTF - FROm mASONS TO mINERS Groupe eGtf is Malis leading construction company in the mining industry, with an annual turnover in excess of $13 million, over 600 employees, 60 vehicles and operations across six West African countries.
Yet when he started out, company founder and former labourer, diakaridia traore, pictured right was making little more than $20 a week and his team had just one motorbike between them.
traore credits much of his companys success and weve gained from working with randgold.
they growth to working with randgold and even jokingly share their knowledge and so, for example, working refers to randgold as the father of his business.
he on the construction of the dam on the falm explains: We first worked with randgold in 1996 river at Loulo, we gained expertise in concrete at the Syama mine.
When construction started at construction and since then have built many other Morila we saved up to buy a car so we could go and dams including for a German company here in Mali.
work on the construction there.
they liked our work randgold still continue to share their knowledge and so went to Loulo, then tongon and then Gounkoto, help us, this year theyve helped us to diversify into every year they open new doors for us.
mining and we are going to become the only Malian owned mining company!
While randgold currently accounts for about 80% of eGtfs contracts, the company also works with eGtf have also adopted many of randgolds a number of other mining companies throughout policies for local economic development in the West Africa, as well as with the government of communities in which they operate, aiming to Mali.
it recently won a $15 million contract for the train and employ a few locals at every site and to construction of houses for the government of niger.
help other contractors gain new skills.
the way randgold works with the local businesses, is a good traore continues, But more important than the way to work and helps the country to grow, so we repeat business is the extra skills and expertise are trying to do the same, says traore.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 134 cLoSure PLAnninG MininG neW oPPortunitieS tongon of fish farms and jute, a high field fibre used StrAteGY And PoLicY in the manufacture of bags and garden twine, and We believe that the successful closure of a mine is the creation of an agribusiness training centre near as important to our host countries and communities the Loulo-Gounkoto complex see case study.
At as the successful operation of one.
thats why from Kibali we are in discussion with the drc government before the operational life of a mine, we also establish about an investment framework for a sustainable a comprehensive closure plan.
palm oil project which would provide employment opportunities for four times as many people as our closure planning is guided by each host countrys the Kibali mine and have engaged with potential legislative requirements, as well as the ifc guidelines.
the first phase of a maize farming pilot each individual closure plan comprises several project has also been completed, with 82 hectares core elements including robust plans to ensure all currently being harvested.
health and safety requirements are met, actions to ensure a healthy ecosystem with as much of the the infographic overleaf illustrates some of these original biodiversity as possible restored, and the agribusiness developments.
establishment of economic and land use plans developed in full consultation with local communities and the national government.
the aim of all our closure plans is not just to leave behind a safe environment but to also generate a legacy of vibrant economic activity and opportunity for our host communities.
our PerforMAnce All our mines have detailed and ongoing closure plans in place and we continued to refine these throughout 2015. the closure plan most sharply in focus is that of our Morila mine in Mali, which is due to cease operational life in 2019. from a peak of 2 000 staff, Morila now has between 800 and 900 staff, and this is set to halve again by the middle of 2016 when rock crushing is due to cease.
our plan for Morila is to use the power, water and other infrastructure on the Morila site to develop a number of agribusinesses, which will help create employment and enhance food security for the community and the wider region.
the agribusinesses created have included the establishment of fish farms, mango plantations, egg and broiler chicken farms and honey production, and we are working with the Malian government and potential investors to transform Morila and the nearby region into Malis first agricultural manufacturing hub.
After some initial struggles the agribusinesses at Morila really began to thrive in 2015 and we welcomed delegates from the World Bank, the African union, the Ministry of Mines and the rural development Ministry to view progress.
this year saw the poultry business If successful, Morila will be one generate $137 500 total income from 1.5 million eggs, with plans in place to expand to 10 million eggs and of the best examples of a mining introduce broiler chickens.
the fish farms produced closure project.
over 3 600kg of tilapia, which we currently sell to etAM, a Malian supplier, for around $3 kg and have The Hon Mrs Fatima Haram Acyl, the capacity to expand production to 64 000kg and Commissioner for Trade and Industry, generate revenue of $5 million over five years.
African Union closure planning on all other sites also progressed in 2015 although they all have many years until mine operations cease.
these include the fostering on ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 135 [inSert Pic of eGG fArMinG or tiLAPiA fArMinG At MoriLA] SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued our MineS dont JuSt hArVeSt GoLd To help combat food insecurity and as part of our plans to help diversify local economies and leave a sustainable economic legacy, we have invested heavily in a number of agribusiness projects in our communities of operation.
1 2 3 4 Mango and pineapple Fish farming poultry farming apiary plantations n 3 600 mango trees at n 10 fish cages built at n 6 000 laying hens at n 700 beehives placed in Morila.
tongon in 2015, expected Morila, producing 4 200 villages around Morila to produce 9 tonnes of eggs day.
n 1 343 boxes of mango fish per month.
$137 500 total income n sold to Monte carlo in Produced 196 litres of in 2015. n 2015.
12 fish cases and honey in 2015. n 6 ponds at Morila, Additional $12 500 n 100 community members n honey sold to local producing 7 tonnes of revenue from sale of trained on how to select community and in tilapia per month.
sold for $3 kg, generating n 30 000 layers to be Generating nearly $600 n 2 000 pineapple plants $21 000 revenue every added in 2016, estimated in 2015. planted at Morila in 2015. month.
production 38 500 eggs n 12 additional cages to be day and nearly $1 million built at Morila in 2016. revenue.
n 4 tonnes of broiler chicken produced every 60 days at LouloGounkoto.
Sold to mine caterers feA.
n Plans to scale up production to supply other local mines.
7 1 8 TRAINING CENTRE 5 3 6 4 2 8 7 agricultural training centre palm oil 6 n over $1 million invested 5 in establishment of agricultural training centre n feasibility study for Vegetables near Loulo-Gounkoto the creation of a large Jute plantations complex.
scale sustainable palm plantation at Kibali n up to 100 local completed.
community members a n 82 hectares of maize year to receive training on n Government of drc has n 11.75 hectares of jute planted in conjunction all aspects of agriculture established an interplanted around 3 villages with local farmers near from cattle to crops to ministerial committee to at tongon in cte Kibali in 2015. compost.
n 17 types of vegetables n Potential funders and 67 community members n Jute is high capacity grown at Loulo-Gounkoto investors identified.
currently receiving production crop and including courgette, training.
n Palm oil project will capable of producing tomato, okra, beans employ 4 times more n Produce sold to, feA, between 2040 tonnes and potatoes.
Produce people than Kibali mine.
Jute sold to the mine catering produced will be used to company, feA.
Additional n Advice also being sought n finance available for top produce biodegradable produce sold in nearby on establishment of sugar graduates to establish bags and sacks for sale in markets.
Aim is to also cane plantations near own farms or to improve Abidjan and beyond.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 136 coMMunitY deVeLoPMent StrAteGY And PoLicieS All our mines need the support and goodwill of the communities in which they are based to be able to operate successfully.
We aim to build strong and transparent relationships and view each community as a partner who can provide us with talented employees, a secure environment and local knowledge and who can use us to build better local health and education facilities and more prosperous local economies.
our guiding policy in this area is to empower each community through the creation of community development committees cdcs.
each cdc consists of a representative mix of local leaders, women and youth delegates and others and is empowered to decide how best to spend an annual community investment budget within the five broad sustainable development categories of education, Some highlights for each mines surrounding primary health, food security, potable water and local communities in 2015 include: economic development.
the process is depicted on n tongon cte divoire included over the following page.
$100 000 on health projects, over $60 000 spent to construct new classrooms and $30 000 on Similarly, where we invest in a new facility such as a new computer facilities in schools.
the tongon school, health clinic or fresh water well we also work community was honoured by the visit of the closely with the cdcs or local authorities to ensure President of cte divoire and the Minister of that it can be maintained after the mine has closed.
Agriculture in 2015 who observed progress at the agribusiness development projects.
our PerforMAnce n Gountoko Mali included a $1.4 million the amount invested through community investment to develop an agribusiness college, development committees increased by over around $50 000 to build a new school in $3.6 million in 2015, a rise of 136% on the previous Batankoto village, $14 000 for a tractor for year.
this has led to a range of vital investments in community use and improvements to roads and health, education, local economic development, food local water supply.
security and drinking water projects across all our n loulo Mali examples of projects include over host communities.
18 water boreholes drilled or rehabilitated, $50 000 to construct three classrooms in dabara, over $23 000 on medical supplies for the community and a major infrastructure investment to improve the customs offices at the nearby Senegalese border.
n kibali drc included major constructions such as a new livestock training centre and community complex housing sporting facilities.
over $30 000 for a maternity centre and ultrasound room in Watsa hospital, 19 drinking water projects, major repairs and renovations to several schools and an investment of over $500 000 to establish long term microfinance facilities.
the focus is also shifting at Kibali to viable business projects, with a total of $1 million spent on local economic development initiatives.
n Morila Mali An increase of over $1 million in investment in this community helped cover the growth of agribusiness projects and additional community electrification initiatives such as the installation of a solar powered water pumping system at a womens market garden and electrification of the new youth centre.
investments also included over $30 000 on new borehole construction, improvements to waste management at local hospitals and contributions to community radio and local soccer facilities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 137 SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued communities schools are now well below the national educAtionAL AchieVeMent average in both cte divoire and the drc.
there in 2015 we have also seen a particular focus on was also improvement in the number of schools with education in many of host communities.
Part of this access to electricity and water.
has been physical outputs such as the new schools, but weve also been encouraged by the achievement AnnuAL cdc PerforMAnce of greater educational outcomes too.
for example at Loulo, the nGo World education has trained school $ 2015 2014 2013 teachers and administrators as part of an action plan to improve the quality of education in the community, Loulo 901 510 238 068 435 211 Loulo-Gounkoto and Kibali are developing bursary Gounkoto 1 418 431 735 838 406 198 schemes to fund high performing students and we are starting to see real lifts in pass rates and school Morila 1 307 054 182 862 147 872 attendance in the schools around tongon in cte tongon 642 509 587 690 343 459 divoire see case study.
1 Kibali 2 000 000 909 047 284 826 As shown below, there has also been real progress Group 6 269 506 2 653 505 1 617 564 in reducing average class sizes in the schools around our mines, a commonly held international indicator 1 of educational opportunity.
class sizes at our This figure excludes the RAP cost of $1.7 million.
$6 Million oF coMMunity inVestMent in 2015 community development committees primary Food local economic potable education healthcare security development water investment in investment in new over $150 000 investment in new construction and construction and and improved health invested across and repaired local rehabilitation of over repair of schools, clinics, over $30 000 all communities in infrastructure such as 35 boreholes, computer rooms, for a maternity centre equipment such as roads, bridges and a maintenance training bursaries and help and ultrasound room tractors and sprinkler dam in cte divoire.
and signage and with teachers in drc, medical and systems, creation of Major investments installation of a salaries.
includes dental equipment and a livestock training of over $2 million in solar-powered water almost $50 000 to awareness campaigns centre drc and various agribusiness pumping system in build a new school in inc ebola.
purchasing of seeds projects training Mali.
and development and creation of a community complex in drc.
TRAINING CENTRE Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 138 case study ImPROVING EdUCATION AT TONGON focusing on educational attainment Since tongon began operations in 2010 it has spent almost $650 000 on the building and to help drive up standards, randgold has also equipping of schools in eight community villages.
encouraged the creation of a reward scheme Both randgolds community team and the tongon for the three best pupils by grade and school community development committee have been in certain local districts.
the scheme has been determined to ensure that this type of capital piloted in the last two years with our ceo Mark investment is the start not the end of a journey Bristow chairing the ceremony and handing out with the aim to create transformational change in the awards to pupils.
the educational opportunities open to children in the region.
in total the scheme has seen over 150 pupils rewarded each year with useful items such as With this in mind, 2015 has been a significant stationery.
2015 saw a particularly encouraging year because tongon saw not only the opening of impact of these efforts in the Mbengue district, new facilities but improving pass rates and other with pass rates in the national exams for ages positive educational outcomes.
11 to 13 reaching a record rate of 97.26% for the district, well above the national success rate of 82%.
Starting with bricks and mortar the first part of catalysing educational excellence around tongon has been the creation of new facilities.
Since tongon began operations this has included: n the creation of five new schools in the ivorian villages of tongon, Kationron, Katonon and Mbengue, each housing about 300 new pupils each year.
n the separate creation and equipping of 44 classrooms or other academic related buildings for at least 3 000 pupils.
Also the creation of three computer rooms.
n the building or renovation of 13 new houses for teachers, helping attract high quality teachers to the area.
n the electrification of the tongon and Poungbe schools.
MeASurinG LocAL educAtionAL outcoMeS schools newly constructed by our 1 National average mines in 2015 average size of classes in primary schools number of pupils cte divoire 46 37 drc 75 39 Mali 52 2011 62 percentage of primary schools with access to electricity cte divoire 25% 2009 43% drc 9% 2011 4% Mali 8% 28% percentage of primary schools with access to potable water 2 TRAINING CENTRE cte divoire 51% 2009 29% 2 drc 35% 2010 17% 2 Mali 43% 61% 1 Source: UNESCO data 2012 unless stated.
2 All Randgold-supported schools have access to potable water at nearest community site, this indicator refers to schools with their own borehole water source.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 139 SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued TAKING A PARTNERSHIP APPROACH TO ImPROVE OUTCOmES Partnership is a crucial part of what we do.
On this page we provide three examples of collaborations weve undertaken with non-profit organisations in 2015 to help bring in expertise in areas such as education, development finance and health provision and so help us to achieve our sustainability goals.
Based at the community clinic on the edge of the PArtnerinG With eXPert nGo Loulo mine, Soutoura staff have actively sought SoutourA to fiGht hiV AidS to raise hiV awareness among local sex workers.
Soutoura is a specialist hiV AidS nGo based in they visit local bars and brothels to discuss how the Malian capital Bamako.
they work to raise hiV is transmitted, advocating safe sex including awareness about prevention techniques, provide distributing condoms and explaining how to hiV counselling and testing and to improve identify other Stis.
knowledge of other sexually transmitted infections Stis.
throughout 2015 we partnered with Sex workers are encouraged to visit the Soutoura Soutoura to strengthen our hiV AidS awareness clinic for monthly Sti checks, quarterly hiV tests programme for the community around our Loulo and to access free condoms.
NGO Soutoura promotes HIV awareness at schools.. Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 140 case study By working with a specialist nGo we have been able there has also been 10% improvement in to significantly scale-up and improve the impact of academic performance in reading and writing our anti-hiV programme.
in 2015 this has included among students in the Kenieba district in Mali.
educating over 850 sex workers and 1 805 community members on hiV transmission and prevention BiG iMPActS froM MicrofinAnce methods, training 40 peer educators and managing Microfinance can be a transformative development 500 Voluntary counselling and testing Vct tool and in 2015 we provided Malian microfinance sessions.
institution nyesigiso with encouragement and seed capital to establish an office near our LouloAs a result of Soutouras outreach work many brothel Gounkoto mine complex.
owners now require their staff to undergo regular Sti and hiV testing.
Soutoura also provides counselling established in 1990, Bamako based nyesigiso during and after testing, and helps hiV positive people has over 70 offices throughout Mali and a strong to access the necessary anti-retroviral medication to track record of helping urban and rural populations help them manage symptoms and lead a normal life.
access the finance necessary to expand their businesses and improve their standard of living.
WorKinG With WorLd educAtion to nyesigiso uses a cooperative structure for MAKe the GrAde membership, meaning in order to access a loan A successful school is more than bricks and one must first join nyesigiso with a deposit of mortar.
As well as good facilities it needs strong 13 000cfA about $26.
Just over half of the leadership, committed teachers and the support of its deposit is put into a membership guarantee fund.
in just three months of operation in djidian near to help us to better understand the educational our mine, nyesigiso had already attracted more outcomes for the students in schools near our Loulothan 130 members.
it distributed its first loans in Gounkoto complex in Mali, we began working with January 2016, providing about $20 000 in loans internationally recognised nGo World education to 10 entrepreneurs in its first week of lending, and asked them to conduct a study into the state of with a further $54 000 of loan applications being education in the communities near Loulo-Gounkoto.
nyesigiso aims to provide at least the study identified several factors that hold the key 100 million cfA about $200 000 in loans to the to raising educational outcomes throughout the area local communities by the end of 2016. further to including improving the quality of teacher training microfinance loans and savings, nyesigiso also and greater engagement from the community for the provides money management training and advice administration of the school.
and hopes to run a number of programmes to help community members better manage their finances the findings of this study were presented to local and understand how to invest.
A second nyesigiso authorities and partners in 2014, and an action office in another nearby village is planned for 2016. plan developed to close the gap.
With assistance from randgold, World education is working with the regional ministry of education cAP who have Randgold is working with NGO World Education to improve education in the communities around the Loulo-Gounkoto mining complex.
just nine staff supervising 300 schools to improve teacher training and ensure regular school inspections take place.
Since June 2015, World education has provided training for cAP staff and more than 40 teachers and headmasters from 13 schools on techniques to improve student engagement in learning, the national programmes in maths and reading and school management.
the aim is to train over 100 teachers in 2016.
A number of positive impacts have already been seen as a result of World educations interventions.
for example, stricter recruitment policies have been implemented meaning only trained teachers are recruited.
Many teachers are now organising their own communities of learning during weekends to mentor each other and share knowledge on best practice teaching methods.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 141 Nos Vies en Partage f o u n d a t i o n S H A R I N G P R O S P E R I T Y SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued the significant milestone of now having viable MicrofinAnce microfinance institutions in operation in all our host communities.
these are cAMide in Morila, PAMf-ci at tongon, nyesigiso around Loulo-Gounkoto see case study and uele coopec at Kibali.
We have also Microfinance is widely regarded as a vital part of rural development, providing previously unbanked commissioned an independent audit of tongons Mfi communities with the access to the loans and capital in 2015 with a view to increasing seed funding next necessary to help grow and build businesses.
is especially important in many of our remote host communities where there have historically been no By the end of 2015, these institutions have provided banking facilities and only loan sharks should a local micro-loans to over 310 local entrepreneurs to start entrepreneur seek initial venture capital.
a wide diversity of projects from cattle breeding to a sewing room and a battery charging service.
We We have therefore supported the establishment encourage all institutions to coordinate their activities of accredited microfinance institutions Mfis in each of our host communities.
in 2015, we passed with the community development committee.
noS VieS en PArtAGe foundAtion n the charity established by randgold, nos Vies en inpp institut national fide ottparation Partage foundation which translates as sharing professionelle which operates in both Bunia and Aru in the drc to provide women and child prosperity, enjoyed its second full year of operation victims of the civil war with training to help them to in 2015. join the workforce.
the aim of the nos Vies en Partage foundation nVePf is to further share the benefits of other causes supported include a number of development beyond randgolds communities of orphanages throughout sub-Saharan Africa, operation, particularly with women and children who including one for children with disabilities and hiV tend to benefit least from economic growth.
AidS, a centre for physically and mentally disabled children, projects to provide educational facilities for thus far the foundation has supported projects disadvantaged children, and a project to improve across 11 sub-Saharan countries including Benin, water quality for a number of communities in the cameroon, the republic of congo, nigeria and togo.
during 2015 the foundation provided assistance and the nVePf is chaired by randgolds former chairman, donations worth nearly $500 000 to 36 different Philippe Litard, and is partly funded through money causes.
Just some examples of the projects and raised by a sponsored motorbike tour from Abidjan charities supported by the nVePf during 2015 in cte divoire to cape town in South Africa which include: was completed by randgold ceo Mark Bristow, his n Goedgedacht a charity working to develop pathways out of poverty for disadvantaged rural son craig and some of their friends in 2014.
Another children in South Africa.
sponsored motorbike ride from Mombasa in Kenya to n the mouth of the mighty congo river in the drc, aims Mercy Foundation who provide trade training opportunities for street children in Ghana.
to raise a further $3 million for the foundation in 2016.
Facing page: Freedom of movement and not having to rely on public transport to work A motorcycle finance programme at Kibali has resulted in a substantial increase in motorbike ownership among employees.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 143 SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued At the Loulo-Gounkoto complex there is a sizeable ArtiSAnAL MininG presence of orpailleurs, located mainly in a site off the Gounkoto haul road.
in 2015 we established the Mali Mining industry committee on Artisanal Mining which helped bring together government partners, StrAteGY And PoLicY other Mali based mining companies, local authorities Artisanal and small scale mining ASM is a form and representatives from the ASM community itself of subsistence mining providing a direct or indirect to implement the Malian governments agreed action livelihood for approximately 100 million people in the plan to combat illegal mining.
the MMc is chaired by developing world, and we have an ASM presence randgold group community and environment officer on two of our mine complexes, Kibali and Loulohilaire diarra.
the MMc is focused on directing investment in the presence of ASM miners or orpailleurs can pose economic development activities to provide alternative challenges for our sites and our host communities as jobs for illegal miners and providing suitable land they often have poor environmental, health and safety that can be used as safe mining corridors for the practices such as use of child labour or allowing orpailleurs.
it is also putting resources into improving hazardous chemicals such as cyanide to enter the awareness of sustainability issues with the leadership water system.
We have a no conflict and no invasions policy in regard to artisanal mining communities present on or GrieVAnce adjacent to our sites.
our policies are formed with reference to both international council on Mining MechAniSM and Metals icMM and ifc guidance and state that wherever possible we offer alternative livelihoods for orpailleurs including work on our mines or in new economic sectors such as agriculture.
our policy StrAteGY And PoLicieS is to work in partnership with host communities and We put considerable effort and resources into regional and national governments to find long term running a fair and accessible grievance mechanism strategies that are mutually beneficial.
We recognise at all sites, in line with international criteria such as that the existence of the ASM community is linked to the ifc Performance Standards as well as national unemployment, inequality and poverty and ultimately regulations.
We dont do this because we have to, but only partnerships with governments and other because we find it a very valuable two way channel international institutions are likely to provide a viable of communication with local communities.
our local long term solution.
communities are important stakeholders and we want them to feel free to lodge a complaint if they feel they Where orpailleurs refuse or are not interested in have been unfairly treated or discriminated against alternative employment we seek to work with the local in a non-work related disagreement.
We commit to authorities to offer a designated site where ASMs can responding to all grievances within one week and be relocated to work without causing harm to others aim to resolve 100% of grievances registered to the and where the potential for other employment can be satisfaction of all parties.
our policy is to set up a grievance mechanism at our PerforMAnce the earliest stage of any project exploration stage, We had an ASM presence at both Kibali and on the create as many access points as feasible and to Loulo-Gounkoto complex in 2015. advertise it widely using local radio, posters and local notice boards.
At Kibali, our alternative livelihood restoration programme was instigated as part of the early days our PerforMAnce of the resettlement action plan and this helped As shown on the next page, 178 grievances were approximately 2 000 artisanal miners who had an received during 2015, of which 91% were resolved.
average income of around $30 a month to move the lower volume of grievances made down from 490 off the exclusion zone and find different, more in 2014 is largely due to the fact that the grievance sustainable employment including farming, aggregate mechanism is the main channel by which resettlement making programmes, stone pitching, bricks and compensation is managed and the number of people construction.
today many former artisanal miners involved in resettlement action plans in 2015 was have established businesses offering services to the much lower than in previous years.
the 91% resolution rate is slightly lower than our however, illegal artisanal mining is still an issue within usual performance it has been between 94 to 99% Kibalis full permit zone, an area too big to fence over the last five years and this is in part due to some off, and by late 2015 we had identified and were ongoing unresolved compensation claims related to monitoring up to 40 known illegal mining sites within new mining plans at Kibali which require a temporary our permit with upwards of 100 individuals at each hold on crop growing and await participation of the site.
We have been interacting with these individuals regional attorney general in the process.
A large and local authorities throughout 2015 to encourage batch of these claims were resolved as this report them to find alternative employment.
went to press in March 2016 and hence this years Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 144 GrieVAnceS reGiStered And reSoLVed grievances grievances Grievances Grievances registered resolved resolved resolved At 1 MArch 2016 2015 2015 2014 2013 Loulo 2 2 2 100% 8 100% Gounkoto - - 1 50% 1 100% Kibali 174 158 479 99% 1 130 99% - - Morila - 2 100% tongon 2 2 2 40% 22 100% Group 178 162 91% 484 98.7% 1 163 99% reporting date was moved from the usual date of benefits to any armed groups who have committed or 31 december, to 1 March.
been credibly accused of human rights abuses.
We track any human rights infringements through examples of grievances resolved in 2015 include our grievance mechanism, and none of the 178 compensation requests for land and property grievances registered this year were human rights affected, for example, by the laying of the electrical related.
line for the new Azambi hydropower station near Kibali.
We also recognise that we do not operate in a bubble, but as part of an economic value chain A good example of how our grievance mechanism where we can have influence.
therefore we also try performs as a good communication tool occurred at to proactively encourage respect for human rights by Loulo this year.
At one point we received requests including human rights clauses within all our supplier from the community for more local employment contracts putting a legal duty on contractors both opportunities at the mine.
in response to these large and small to comply with our zero tolerance grievances we undertook a thorough and transparent policy in areas such as bribery or child labour.
We review of our employment figures and recruitment monitor compliance with these clauses, alongside procedures around the Loulo-Gounkoto complex, all our terms and conditions, as part of our annual sharing the results with the community.
this reduced inspections of suppliers.
there were no infringements the calls for more jobs at the mine, and instead recorded in 2015. led to increased interest and request for jobs and opportunities in economic development projects it is randgolds policy not to arm any security forces something we are highly encouraged by and wish to on our mines.
Across the group we do utilise some support in all our communities of operation.
private security services to protect our mines, while relying on governmental forces for security of tenure and law enforcement in the surrounding communities.
We have four ways to ensure security forces implement our human rights policy which include: ProtectinG n Strict due diligence procedures prior to recruitment including a requirement to be huMAn riGhtS in accredited according to relevant un agencies.
n contractual requirements including our human eVerYthinG We do rights clause.
n compulsory training for all security providers in the un Voluntary Principles on Business and human StrAteGY And PoLicieS rights and.
randgold is committed to upholding fundamental n A formal disciplinary procedure should any human rights with everything we do, and wherever personnel be subject to credible allegations of we operate.
We have never been subject to any serious human rights abuse.
allegations of serious human rights abuses or breaches of humanitarian law throughout our 20 years the crux of our security however is the strong bonds of operation.
and real partnerships that we have built with our host communities.
ultimately it is these relationships that We have a detailed human rights Policy and conflict keep our mines secure.
free Gold Policy, both available on our website at www.
com, that cover all in total, 589 security staff members received human aspects of our business including, but not limited to, rights training in 2015, including agents at all mines.
areas of employment, resettlement, engagement of private security forces and our work with suppliers.
these policies are a part of induction for all relevant staff and ensure that our mines do not provide ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 145 SuStAinABiLitY rePort econoMic and coMMuniTy developMenT continued PLAnS And PrioritieS for 2016 reSettLeMent Maintaining and building our national economic and community development efforts will remain one of our highest priorities for 2016.
We consider the resettlement of individuals or With the end of the operating life of Morila inching communities as a last resort, and only undertake a closer, an important focus will be to continue to resettlement process where it is absolutely essential bring our agribusiness efforts there to fruition.
this will include reaching out to potential partners and investors to help develop the existing mine We had only a very minor number of resettlements in infrastructure into an agricultural manufacturing hub.
We will also continue to progress our agribusiness and economic diversity initiatives across the rest of our resettlement policies put the individual, family or the group including the progression of major palm oil community being resettled at the core of the process and maize industries at Kibali.
and all the resettlement action plans rAPs that we prepare are guided by national legislation and by the We have potentially two significant resettlement ifc Performance Standards on Land Acquisition and programmes to form and implement in 2016, involuntary resettlement.
which could entail the resettlement of over 1 500 households in total at Kibali in drc and through every reasonable effort is made to ensure that the mining at domba near Morila.
We have already been liaising extensively with the communities on these standard of living of those being resettled is improved potential actions.
or at the very least restored, that the physical and economic impacts of moving are fairly compensated, We are hopeful that the new Mali Mine industry and that the integrity of communities is maintained.
committee of Artisanal Mining MMc will also help us to catalyse action to find alternative employment for for further detail on our approach to resettlement some of the orpailleurs active on our sites in 2016. please see previous sustainability reports, including in-depth descriptions of our management of the on a national level we will continue to engage with the resettlement into the new town of Kokiza in the drc.
governments of Senegal, Mali and drc to hopefully achieve fair and far reaching mining codes, while the resettlements that occurred in 2015 were all more locally we have plans to help maximise local undertaken around our Kibali mine.
procurement in the drc where we plan to establish a more detailed register of local suppliers.
this will Planning is currently underway for a larger number of allow us to better understand both the skill level of resettlements in 2016 due to potential expansions to nearby suppliers, what is already available locally and new deposits in both the drc and Mali.
where we can help to develop suppliers.
reSettLeMent fiGureS Projected for 2016 2015 2014 2013 number of households resettled 1 535 25 29 4 216 rAP expenditure $13 million $1.7 million $0.4 million $92.4 million Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 146 ENVIRONmENTAL mANAGEmENT enVironMentAL MAnAGeMent in nuMBerS 1 All mines 45% 33% now ceRTified To decRease in significanT of eneRgy used acRoss iso 14001 sTandaRd enviRonMenTal all ouR Mines dRawn incidenTs, wiTH zeRo fRoM clean eneRgy class 1 MajoR souRces, up fRoM 30% incidenTs in 2014. elecTRiciTy and waTeR aBsTRacTion up All sites 40% 61% of waTeR Recycled now iMpleMenTing iMpRoveMenT in cliMaTe BiodiveRsiTy acTion cHange disclosuRe plans, wiTH alMosT scoRe fRoM cdp $500 000 To pRoTecT one of dRcs naTuRal woRld HeRiTage siTes 1 Kibali mine passed its stage 1 audit in September 2015 and was recommended for ISO 14001 certification on 14 January 2016.
The mine was officially certified on 17 February 2016. the ore we extract, the water and energy we use, the importance of strong environmental management and the climate we operate in, are all dependent was reflected in our 2015 Materiality Assessment see on a thriving natural environment.
Being careful on the next page with issues of cyanide management environmental stewards is therefore a crucial building and water pollution ranked as highest priority issues, block of our business.
on top of this, by maximising and air pollution and environmental incidents also energy efficiency and recycling water and waste we ranking high in importance among both internal and help keep our costs down.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 147 SuStAinABiLitY rePort enviRonMenTal ManageMenT continued enVironMentAL Highest priority issues incidentS n cyanide management n Water pollution one of our key performance indicators in this area is the number of environmental incidents at each site.
As shown below we record three types of Medium priority issues environmental incidents and in 2015 had zero class 1 incidents ie major incidents resulting in significant o Air pollution injury, damage or death : 11 class 2 ie medium o environmental incidents incidents and 85 class 3 incidents.
the lack of major incidents and 45% reduction in class 2 incidents is encouraging and reflects a Current or potential impact on the business renewed focus on daily environmental management in 2015.
An example of a class 2 incident in 2015 included the overflow of a detoxification pond at Loulos tailings dam after very high rainfall.
the We have clear policies in place to monitor and incident was quickly rectified and water quality tests minimise all our negative environmental impacts taken downstream immediately after the incident to at every stage of the mining lifecycle.
We conduct check there had been no contamination.
As reported environmental and social impact assessments eSiAs during the feasibility stage of all our projects, in last years sustainability report, our only class and once a mine is operational we put in place 1 environmental incident during the last five years an environmental management system eMS to occurred in december 2014 at our tongon mine in manage all identified risks in accordance with both cte divoire.
the incident involved a burst tailings national regulations and international standards such pipeline, and significant focus in early 2015 was the ifc Performance Standards on environmental placed on ensuring this incident was comprehensively and Social Sustainability.
We use the global best dealt with.
remedial activities in 2015 have included practice standard iSo 14001 to help set the criteria the implementation of an action plan in conjunction for each eMS and as of 2015 all our operations are with the ivorian governments anti-pollution body, now certified to the iSo 14001 standard with Kibali ciAPoL.
A full sign off from ciAPoL to show that all granted certification for the first time.
We also damage has been rectified is anticipated in the first conduct independent external audits to ensure our quarter of 2016. compliance.
We are committed to transparent reporting of our class 3 incidents refer to minor events such as a small environmental impact and as well as offering details leak in a pipe within site boundaries.
high numbers publicly in this report we provide environmental data of class 3 incident reports are not necessarily a bad to the carbon disclosure Project cdP each year.
thing as they indicate increased employee awareness the climate change score awarded to randgold by of environmental impact and we use them as an early cdP for our disclosure of environmental data rose by warning reporting system which, when appropriately 40% from 64 100 in 2014, to 90 100 in 2015. and promptly attended to, can help to prevent more serious incidents from occurring.
in this chapter we report on five key areas of environmental management performance: no significant environmental fines or non-monetary environmental incidents, energy and climate change, water and air quality, waste management and sanctions were imposed on any of our operations biodiversity.
2 Medium incident involving material disruption to production or uncontrolled release of contaminated effluent outside the boundary fence of the operation.
3 Minor incident involving controlled or uncontrolled release of effluent or pollutants within the boundary of the operation.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 148 Importance to stakeholders in 2015 many of these investments came to fruition enerGY And with the nzoro ii hydropower plant in drc reaching full capacity and the national grid connection at eMiSSionS tongon significantly improved with 75% of energy in q3 coming from this source.
in total 33% of all energy used across our five mines in 2015 came from our gold mines rely on a secure and plentiful supply clean energy sources, an increase from 30% in 2014. of energy in order to manage everyday operations, creating a significant cost to our business.
thus, one of the ambitious targets we set in 2010 was our policy to continuously improve energy efficiency to reduce all greenhouse gas emissions by 47% in 1 and increase access to clean energy sources helps absolute terms 23.45 coe ktons milled by 2015.
2 us create tangible business value.
By reducing unfortunately this ambition has not been achieved.
our greenhouse gas emissions these efforts also this is in part due to the rapid expansion of our help future proof our mines as the world transitions mines and their associated infrastructure in this half towards a low-carbon economy, a move we were decade, particularly at Kibali which had high diesel pleased to see catalysed by the global climate consumption during its first years of operation agreement in Paris in late 2015. and through the development of energy intensive underground mining at Loulo and Kibali.
initial Since 2010 we have been implementing a five year problems with grid availability at tongon and the lack energy strategy which has included elements such as: of viable large scale clean energy solutions at Loulo n improving the amount of hydropower in our energy have also been factors.
mix with the creation of three hydropower plants these factors also contributed to the increases in at Kibali see case study, collectively capable of producing 90% of the energy needed by the mine 2015 of both overall electricity use across the group and its surrounding communities.
from around 763 000MWh in 2014 to 881 000MWh in 2015 and the reduced power n connecting our tongon mine to the ivorian national efficiency from 44.5kWh for each tonne of ore milled grid which is largely hydroelectric and natural gas powered, reducing the mines reliance on in 2014, to 47.6kWh for each tonne of ore milled in thermally-generated energy to about 10%.
Similarly, co emissions and our emission 2 intensity both rose this year.
improving these figures, n introducing lower revving generators, better in part through additional power efficiency measures, spinning reserve management and other specific power efficiency measures at Loulo in Mali.
will be a major challenge for our energy management teams in 2016. n running energy saving awareness initiatives on all sites such as our switching off switches campaign.
n exploring other renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures.
for example, working with the Malian government and ifc to examine the feasibility of a solar project to help connect the Loulo-Gounkoto complex and surrounding areas to 1 Specifically Scope 1 and 2 emissions from the 2009 baseline of 44.25 the Malian national grid.
metric tonnes COe tonne of ore processed.
2 1 enerGY indicAtorS Electricity 000 MWh Efficiency kWh tonnes milled CO emissions kt Intensity Coe ktonnes 2 2 50 60 1 000 1000 50 800 40 800 40 600 30 600 30 20 400 400 20 200 10 200 10 0 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 149 588 763 881 46.3 44.54 47.6 646 727 979 50.5 45.6 57.0 SuStAinABiLitY rePort enviRonMenTal ManageMenT continued case study HYdROPOWER TO We estimate that the energy THE PEOPLE generated by Nzoro II alone will save Randgold around $7 million a month in diesel According to the World Bank, the drc has the third largest potential for hydropower in the world, costs, paying for the cost of all especially in rainy north eastern drc, where our Kibali mine is based.
Yet very few people in this our hydropower installation in region have access to a reliable energy source.
no energy generation method is flawless, but forming the dams and laying the lines for these hydropower is certainly one of the best options.
hydropower stations has not required any major it can create significant levels of energy without resettlement programmes, and wide consultations causing air or water pollution, and it does not have been undertaken with local communities as leave any toxic waste behind.
its relatively part of the construction process.
inexpensive too, and unlike fossil fuel based generation, costs tend to remain generally A legacy of power and skills constant and controlled.
the energy flowing to the local communities around Kibali has already had a massive impact this is why randgold has invested heavily in using on the local economy.
it has powered the growth hydropower to run our Kibali mine in the drc.
of durba into a thriving market town with banks, development that has been transformative for the telecommunications and other infrastructure, and remote local communities around the mine who it has encouraged businessmen to start farming are not connected to the drcs national grid.
and industrial projects across the local region.
Going with the flow the construction of these hydropower stations By the end of 2016 we estimate that 90% of the has been carried out in close consultation with the energy requirements of Kibali and its surrounding drc government and its national reconstruction communities will be met by our hydropower plans.
the project has also involved the training investments.
these include three stations that and use of as many congolese engineers as together can produce over 42MW of energy, possible in order to leave a legacy of local enough to power approximately 40 000 homes.
skilled tradesmen to maintain the stations and to encourage further investment in hydropower in the biggest of our hydropower stations, nzoro ii, the region.
has been online since mid-2014 and on its own is capable of providing 70% of the mines energy When the mine closes, our hydrostations will be demands.
the final two stations, both two turbine handed over to the local government to help drive stations producing up to 10MW of power, are economic growth for future generations.
currently under construction and at least one is due to be completed by the end of 2016.
Nzoro II at Kibali has been on line since mid-2014.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 150 Water abstraction also rose in 2015, with a notable WAter And Air increase of over 7 500 cubic metres in the amount of fresh water we abstracted from sources such as local quALitY rivers.
A major factor behind this was the start of tSf processing at Morila which involves blasting the tailing Whether for industrial use, drinking or irrigation, with water at high pressure.
this was also a factor in water management is essential to our business and our water efficiency.
We recognise that water management is not just a technical debate around unfortunately, our water efficiency which we levels of abstraction and quantitative data it is an define as the amount of fresh water extracted per 3 issue that our key stakeholders feel passionate about.
tonne of ore milled increased from 1.56m tonne 3 in 2014, to 1.85m tonne in 2015 due to Morila and We operate both in areas where water can be scarce Kibali registering a positive water balance.
our such as Mali and cte divoire and where high water reviews at year end revealed opportunities of rainfall can create flooding risks drc.
Most of our improving efficiency which we will be exploring in mines are also located next to large rivers and the 2016. amount of water we take from freshwater sources such as these is governed by permit restrictions set by the relevant governing authority.
one of the most important elements of our water management policy is to maximise the amount of process water we recycle.
this helps to reduce energy use from pumping, ensures security of supply in drought prone areas and mitigates the potential of environmental incidents.
thus we have an ambitious group target to recycle 85% of process water.
in 2015, over 61% of process water was recycled.
this is ultimately a disappointing rate as it both misses our corporate target and shows a decline from the reported rate of 75% recycled in 2014. it is worth noting however, that one of the factors behind this relatively low figure was a decision to adjust how we calculated water recycling at tongon in 2015. this calculation had previously included both the storm water dam and the return water but for consistency and standardisation across the group and to ensure the reported water recycling rate is accurate, we removed flows from the storm water dam from the calculation this year.
1 WAter uSe 3 Total fresh water offtake Ml Water withdrawal efficiency m tonne Total water recycled 35 000 2.0 100 30 000 80 1.5 25 000 60 20 000 1.0 15 000 40 10 000 0.5 20 5 000 0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 1 Restated from 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 151 11 850 1 26 785 34 294 1.07 1.56 1.85 91% 75% 61% SuStAinABiLitY rePort enviRonMenTal ManageMenT continued As stipulated by ifc guidelines we have monitoring WAter quALitY stations to measure airborne dust both on site and in We closely monitor water quality to ensure local water local communities with the aim of ensuring levels of sources and biodiversity are not damaged by our 2 airborne particulates remain below 500mg m day.
processes and, in line with international best practice, dust suppression activities which we undertake include test regularly for contaminants such as iron, cyanide, regular road wetting with priority given to heavily used manganese and sulphates both in boreholes and roads and those in the community, speed awareness downstream of the mine.
We have a target of zero programmes, use of dust suppressants such as non-compliances each year against national or ifc molasses and planting vegetation on exposed dirt and standards and achieved this target in 2015. rock.
to help manage water quality in 2015 we also new measures taken in this area in 2015 have included engaged in ecological practices such as the planting the introduction of speed bumps on the Louloof fast growing trees, like the eucalyptus, at seepage Gounkoto haul road.
trials of different dust suppression areas around the tailings dam and have plans for the products have confirmed a bitumen based product as creation of wetland systems to remove sediments and the most effective and we are now working to apply this pollutants such as nitrates from the water.
product to the Loulo-Gounkoto haul road and potentially other tracks.
We have also handed responsibility for Air quALitY local road wetting to the communities, enabling them Just as we take care to guard against water pollution, to act quickly to suppress dust when they notice it is we also regularly monitor air quality to ensure levels becoming a problem.
of dust particles do not cause undue irritation and damage to humans and livestock.
this is particularly important in the dry seasons in Mali and cte divoire.
case study NEW WATER CLARIFIER HELPS RECYCLEd WATER STRIKE GOLd the use of water in mining has the potential to the water clarifier uses two settlers reinforced with sedimentation towers and a highly technical adversely affect the quality of drinking water in sludge treatment plant.
As illustrated this removes local communities and groundwater, therefore the sludge and sends it for processing, while the it is very important that we closely monitor cleaned water is sent back underground to be and manage the quality of water discharged used again.
this has meant a significant reduction from our mine sites.
We also seek to minimise in the amount of water we draw from local rivers the amount of water we draw from nearby and other freshwater sources.
freshwater sources such as rivers.
We have also extracted around 1.9g of gold tonne our investment in an innovative water clarifier of recovered sludge, meaning that the water at our Loulo site in Mali in 2015 has enabled clarifier paid for its initial capital costs within three us to do both of these more effectively, while months of operation.
also giving us access to a new source of gold other innovative solutions we are pursuing around from the processed mud.
water management include Loulo mines $700 000 investment to design and build a Industry leading technology constructed wetland to create an ecological Goldminers tend to use settling ponds in method for reducing the levels of nitrates in the order to separate suspended solids from the discharge water.
process water and water for discharge or reuse.
however at Loulos Gara underground this work is helping to ensure that the river mine, we invested around $1.5 million to build upstream and downstream remains a reliable water a water treatment plant that does this job source for irrigation, fishing, transportation and the more effectively.
communities that live along its banks.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 152 WAter cLArifier suspended solids removed flocculant chemicals are added to the waste water to split waste water into sludge Clean water which sinks to the bottom and cleaned water which can be reused.
Sludge additional revenue water recycled generated in future any unneeded Sludge containing 1.9g t of gold clean water will be returned is sent to the plant for processing, to underground or sent for generating additional revenue.
reuse to wetlands to remove nitrates before being returned to the river.
underground drilling underground drilling processes require water.
dirty water containing suspended solids is pumped from the underground pit to the water clarifier for treatment.
with regard to its production, transportation, storage WASte and use.
Actions to implement this policy include regular tests on any water facilities accessible by MAnAGeMent birds or wildlife such as tailings storage facilities or solution ponds to ensure levels of cyanide are below the levels recommended by the ifc and international the gold mining process produces a significant cyanide Management institute icMi, annual amount of waste.
this consists of both hazardous cyanide audits at each site and increased training waste, where it is paramount that we leave nothing and supervision for those transporting cyanide and to chance, and general non-hazardous waste burning cyanide related waste.
where we take proactive steps to ensure safe and environmentally responsible disposal.
We cyanide code audits were carried out at all our have site-specific waste management plans that mines in 2015 and all met the compliance levels track the clearance of all substances aligned with recommended by icMi, with the exception of Kibali national regulation and best practices laid out in ifc which dipped slightly below these levels in q3 Performance Standards.
Steps have been taken to correct this non-compliance and in 2016 we will conduct an hAzArdouS WASte independent review of our cyanide processes to see if our hazardous waste includes toxic substances such there are any gaps that need to be closed.
as cyanide, acids, used oil and chemicals.
one of the most important parts of our waste management is the there was one environmental incident related to handling of cyanide, an issue that has proved one of cyanide in 2015. this occurred at Loulo when a our highest priority issues in the last two Materiality very heavy rainfall above 70mm occurred during Assessments.
the servicing of an intensive cyanide leaching unit.
the rainfall caused an overflow of the pollution We introduced a new internal cyanide code in 2013 to control dam which contained spill from the unit.
the ensure we are aligned with international best practice contaminated water was however contained within ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 153 SuStAinABiLitY rePort enviRonMenTal ManageMenT continued the site and the incident was classified as a class 2 medium incident.
We pay just as close attention to other types of case study hazardous waste such as battery waste, chemical and solvent waste, fluorescent lighting and hydrocarbons.
for example, we hire reputable service providers and trained local businesses see case study to dispose of used oil from our sites.
LOCAL OIL no waste deemed hazardous under the Basel convention is transported, exported, imported, treated or shipped internationally by randgold.
RECYCLING non-hAzArdouS WASte We produced more than 64Mt of waste rock in TURNS WASTE 2015, our most significant waste product by volume.
this waste rock and overburden is stored in rock INTO WEALTH dumps and we shape and measure the slopes of these dumps to ensure they are safe and in line with international best practice.
We also use topsoil indigenous grasses and trees to cover some dumps oil is one of the auxiliary materials that helping with erosion control and dust levels.
At the support our mining and processing operations end of mine life these dumps will be recontoured and and we endeavour to recycle waste oil vegetated.
other non-hazardous wastes include scrap metal in cte divoire, this saw the tongon mine and organic waste and our levels of general waste invite ivorian company, nouvelle Lubtech, to also increased in 2015 to over 11 000t.
We dispose treat and condition the waste oil and turn it of each material appropriately and also see waste into new oil ready for reuse.
management as an opportunity to partner with local communities to develop self-sustaining, profit Based in the ivorian capital Abidjan, nouvelle generating waste management companies see Lubtech removed over 400 000 litres of waste case study.
in both drc and Mali we have also oil from the tongon site in 2015, transforming encouraged the creation of local nGos to recycle and around 55% of this into good oil which can be sell scrap metal generated by the mine.
this is the equivalent of creating over 1 350 barrels of new oil.
WASte GenerAted tongon also encourages local dealers to tonneS 2015 2014 2013 collect other waste such as plastic bags and steel drums.
in 2015 over 29 000kg of tailings 18 497 138 17 174 516 12 749 069 plastic bags were removed to be reused in Waste rock 64 382 913 86 209 131 79 546 766 processes such as manufacturing of cloth 1 washing material, and 38 860kg of steel ball hazardous 7 294 6 313 8 090 drums were removed by dealers for artisanal 2 General 11 379 5 065 5 763 activities.
in Mali, we send scrap metals to iMAfer, a local company that recycles these waste Tailings storage facilities materials into construction materials.
the management of tailings storage facilities tSfs has been an issue that commanded media attention in 2015 and we have clear policies and management procedures in place to ensure best practices are implemented for proper construction, operation, maintenance, monitoring and eventual closure of our tSfs.
All our tailing dams are water-retained dams with engineered structures not dry walls, and we minimise volumes to avoid the build-up of pressure on these walls.
our tSfs are also subject to regular checks and reinforcements at all sites and an independent auditor, epoch resources, checks the management of these facilities every quarter.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 154 At our Kibali mine in the drc we recognise that parts BiodiVerSitY of the land cannot be rehabilitated to the optimal level, and therefore have created a biodiversity offset MAnAGeMent scheme, based on guidance from the international union for conservation of nature iucn.
this project sees us support vital conservation work at the nearby Garamba national Park see case study our mines sit within functioning ecosystems that that in turn enables our Kibali mine to achieve a net provide us with clean air, fresh water, fertile soil biodiversity gain.
We believe this project is not only and other natural services vital to our business.
So important from a biodiversity point of view but also protecting these ecosystems has to be a key part of in terms of regional development, as it is helping the our job.
national Park develop its potential for tourism, in turn diversifying the regional economy and improving We take a dynamic approach to land and biodiversity security.
management through the entire life of a randgold mine.
Biodiversity elements are compiled and none of randgolds mines is located within the integrated into the environmental impact assessments boundaries of any natural World heritage Sites nor that are required at all of our operations prior to do our mines affect the habitats of any endangered their construction.
We then use satellite imagery to species.
monitor changes in vegetation cover over each year of operation and have a policy of constant rehabilitation totAL LAnd rehABiLitAted And diSturBed of flora and fauna while a mine is operational.
2015 2014 2013 each mine has a biodiversity action plan BAP which total hectares monitors the implementation of rehabilitation plans rehabilitated 20 16 6 so that on closure as much of the original ecosystem is restored as possible.
our BAPs set out details total hectares such as which plant and animal species are native to disturbed 53 682 1 063 each part of a site.
the implementation of plans are evaluated each quarter and reported to the boards environmental and social committee.
We also discuss these with local communities.
in 2015 we rehabilitated approximately 20 hectares of land including the planting of over 12 200 trees from local species and the introduction of a pair of gazelles within a protected part of the Morila mine.
We also rehabilitated part of the tailings dam wall at Loulo with indigenous plants, donated seedlings to Kenieba forest in Mali and oversaw the creation of a more detailed database of the wildlife and their terrestrial habitats across each site using studies of animal droppings.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 155 SuStAinABiLitY rePort enviRonMenTal ManageMenT continued case study PROTECTING OUTSTANdING NATURAL VALUE in the drc and are in extreme danger due to in the drc we have been part of an exciting poaching.
collaboration to form a biodiversity offset project with the Garamba national Park, the giraffe population was thought to number one of Africas oldest national parks and a around 350 in 1976 and is now estimated, designated uneSco World heritage Site that shockingly, to be down to just 30 animals.
is situated about 100km from Kibali.
Without action it is likely that they will follow the sad path of the northern white rhino and become natural World heritage sites are rightly extinct in this part of Africa.
this in turn could recognised by the international community threaten Garambas existence, as one of the for their outstanding universal value.
they reasons it was declared a natural World heritage contain flora and fauna that can be traced Site in 1980 was due to this giraffe population.
back millions of years and we all have a responsibility to conserve and protect that Kibali has helped fund a dedicated giraffe team value for the benefit of current and future to monitor the movements and behaviour of the generations.
giraffe daily in the field and to use radio frequency identification rfid tags on some giraffes to We believe this project is not only important assist in locating the animals as well as to record from a biodiversity point of view but also movement data.
our partners at Garamba supply in terms of regional development, as it is outcomes such as monthly data against a giraffe helping the national Park develop its potential protection plan, records of community activities for tourism, in turn diversifying the regional including park visits and environmental education economy and improving security.
lessons and accounts of the parks contribution to the local economy.
Achievements so far our work with Garamba entered its second in total, funding for these projects has totalled year in 2015. during the course of 2014, almost $250 000 in 2015, bringing our total our assistance focused on a $240 000 support for Garamba to almost half a million project to monitor elephants using remote dollars.
in addition to all the practical benefits collars and aerial surveys.
in 2015 the focus of this investment, we are pleased to report that was broadened to help track the dwindling our continued support has provided a significant Kordofan giraffe population.
Garambas confidence boost to the rangers on the ground.
giraffes are the last wild giraffe population Randgolds partnership with Garamba National Park is helping to protect the critically endangered giraffe population.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 156 We are reviewing our water footprint and will PLAnS And implement measures to improve our water management and bring total recycled water rates PrioritieS for 2016 back up to 85%.
this will include the installation of a second water clarifier at our Kibali mine in drc.
in 2016 we will also reinforce our cyanide management Much of our environmental management focus in by independently reviewing all information and 2016 will be on the continued installation of more ensuring we close any gaps that are identified.
power efficiency measures and clean energy.
other initiatives planned for 2016 include the At Kibali the construction of two new hydropower construction of a $700 000 wetland at Loulo to stations will be underway, at Loulo we will start plans provide an ecological means of removing nitrate to install medium voltage reticulation for more efficient effluents from water discharge.
generation and at Morila we will explore the possibility of connecting the site to a West African grid.
As part of our biodiversity action plan at Kibali, we are also hoping to bring some larger wildlife species Alongside the World Bank, we are also exploring the to the site from the Garamba national Park, including potential for developing a large power generation white rhino, buffalo and water buck.
this will be part capacity for the mines and communities in the remote of the creation of a new conservation area within the West African region eg solar and grid, and will permit.
While, in Mali our Loulo, Morila and Gounkoto continue to reinforce energy saving awareness and mines will be exploring the opportunity to aid in the initiatives on the different sites.
protection of Malis elephant communities.
APPendiX: MAteriALitY ASSeSSMent PurPoSe And MethodoLoGY randgolds materiality assessment process see earlier chapter on governance of sustainability serves three distinct purposes.
it helps us to prioritise sustainability reporting topics, informs our risk management and strategic planning and it helps us engage with stakeholders to understand their concerns and requirements.
We use the Global reporting initiatives Gri definition of materiality in the context of a sustainability report which is information that, Reflects the organisations significant economic, environmental, and social impacts or substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
our Materiality Assessment was instigated in line with guidance set out by the Gri G4 guidelines and helped shape this report to be in Accordance core with the Gri G4 standard.
Methodology for the 2015 report, we undertook a formal materiality analysis with internal and external stakeholders.
the process included: n identification phase our sustainability team, working with the support of external consultants, drafted a long list of 42 potential sustainability issues that could be deemed material to our business both inside and outside the boundaries of our mines.
these issues were selected from those listed in the Gri G4 Metals and mining supplement, based on our own experience and a review of extractives sustainability issues in the media over the last year.
Both internal and external stakeholders were asked to score the potential impact to randgolds business of each of these issues.
n prioritisation phase the long list survey was sent to internal and external stakeholders including representatives of each of our eight stakeholder groups with the exception of the media, and we received 47 responses.
for investors, we approached our 10 largest shareholders.
internal stakeholders included heads of relevant departments and the members of the executive management team.
n Validation phase A contextual analysis and aggregation of findings was produced and agreed internally by randgold senior management to ensure it provided balanced coverage of the companys most material issues wherever they occur in the value chain.
n identifying our priority issues in order to draw a threshold for our reporting, we set boundaries to identify our highest priority and medium priority issues.
We define highest priority issues as being the top three issues of internal and external stakeholders and the issues that appear in both internal and external stakeholders top 10 most important issues.
Medium priority issues are defined as those appearing in the top third of either internal or external stakeholder lists.
