Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information COMMUNITY CREATING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES IS WE ARE PROUD OF THE POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS WE MAKE TO LOCAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT its major contribution to social, economic and environmental sustainability was firmly PLANS FOR 2016 ENGAGING PUPILS IN ENERGY EFFICIENCY Objective 2014 2015 2018 target Progress underscored by a report published in March 2015, Continued prepared by an independent planning, design and Monies committed to fund the investment Develop alternative means of It is vitally important for the future that children understand about the impacts of climate 113m 128m economics consultancy, Nathaniel Lichfield and improvement of local communities in local evaluating and promoting the change and how sustainable living can mitigate those effects.
The report was commissioned by the communities sustainable value of our new with UTV Media involving engagement of schools from Kent and neighbouring Essex, who Home Builders Federation HBF.
homes to local communities were invited to create a 60 second radio commercial promoting the benefits of new homes Community consultations as Increased New Metric 47% built with the environment in mind and explaining to other young people how important The scale of benefits the industry contributed % of planning submissions engagement Carrying out comprehensive energy saving measures are in the home.
in the past year is amply illustrated by the engagement with our stakeholders Considerate Constructors impressive headline figures: 34.54 34.82 35 to further inform and develop The winners of the competition, Bobbing Village School, in Sittingbourne, visited the studios average score our sustainability strategy of KMFM to have their advert professionally recorded and broadcast.
The successful team 12.5bn invested in land and buildings Homes within 500m of were presented with a commemorative gold CD of their recording and a 500 cheque from for homes 95% 95% 90% a public transport node Redrow for their Sustainability Projects Fund.
5.5bn spent on suppliers, 90% of Teacher Lisa Bunning said: We entered the competition as I thought it would be a useful and which stayed in the UK Improvement level maintained Decline Minor planning submissions are excluded enjoyable way for my class to learn about an important global issue.
The children benefitted 600,000 jobs generated from having a real purpose to their learning and were able to improve their understanding 5bn contributed to public services through about energy efficiency, their speaking and listening skills, as well as using modern Summary of Progress Community Consultations tax paid, the construction of affordable technology to produce their adverts.
We have again made substantial direct Two years into our Redrow Aspirations 2018 Action housing and infrastructure improvements contributions to our local communities Plan it is a suitable juncture to review some of the committing 128m, an increase of 13% over last metrics we set with the benefit of experience.
One 3.8bn spent in local shops and services year.
Alongside the 12% increase in production metric which does not meaningfully measure by residents of new homes achieved this year, we have also seen an progress is that relating to the number of Our continuing 131m invested in open space, community, improvement in our average Considerate community consultation events held, since they are sport and leisure facilities Constructors score.
40 of our developments clearly limited by the number of planning progress marks Redrows scored 30 or more, rating them as Good submissions made in any year.
This year we have 6.5m trees and shrubs were planted appreciation of the 2014: 10 and 23 of those scored 35 rating changed the metric to measure community or retained them Very Good, more than tripling last years consultations as a proportion of planning importance of social and Ahead of this report, Redrow commissioned performance.
Three sites, St Andrews Park in submissions made.
This year this stands at 47% economic investment at a consultants Mott MacDonald MM to Halling, Kent, Howton Rise, in Newton Abbot, which we will target to improve year on year.
Photographs: A caption to go here to describe the images shown above undertake various pieces of work to better Devon, and Lymington Shores, in Lymington, local level for thriving Our Contribution to Social, Economic understand the long term sustainability Hampshire scored 40 or more, rating Excellent.
and Environmental Sustainability impacts of our own business, including a sustainable communities Weve also maintained the number of homes we We continue to invest directly in our local detailed analysis of the economic impact build within 500 metres of a public transport communities in the form of social housing, S106 of our Barrows Green development at node at 95%, well above our Aspirations 2018 contributions and Community Infrastructure Widnes, Cheshire.
target of 90%, and 99.6% of our homes are Levy CIL.
The importance of the UK Assessment was undertaken using MMs within 1,000m of a public transport node.
housebuilding industry to the UK economy and Bobbing Village School receiving their cheque for sustainability projects Transparent Economic Assessment Model TEAM, designed to calculate the economic impact of proposed infrastructure The study concluded that in total the scheme, UK-wide construction activity.
This excludes the 34.82 99.6% 128m intervention and policy measures.
TEAM which will deliver 148 high quality 2, 3 and 4 additional benefits brought to these communities 95% 34.54 has been developed in line with HM bedroom homes, will help to deliver 30 net from the 128m invested via S106 contributions 113m Treasury Green Book principles and additional full time employment jobs and and Community Infrastructure Levy CIL Homes and Community Agency HCA 1.15m GVA annum for the North West region.
together with other measures to enhance local additionality guidelines.
The tool measures amenities and Green Infrastructure.
The figures the potential stimulus to economic activity Based on these findings we estimate that 1,080 emphasise the significant and often unseen and Within Within by estimating consequential employment, jobs have been created and 41.4m GVA annum 14 15 valuable commitment which Redrow makes 14 15 500m 1000m salary, Gross Value Added GVA and has been generated in those communities within whenever we create a development.
Average Score Percentage Money Committed investment benefits.
which we work during the year as a result of our CONSIDERATE CONSTRUCTORS DISTANCE OF HOMES TO A MONIES COMMITTED TO FUND AVERAGE SCORE PUBLIC TRANSPORT NODE IN 2015 IMPROVEMENT OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES a measure in economics of the value of goods and services produced in an area, industry or sector of an economy.
50 51 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
