Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT THE COMMITTEE REVIEWS THE SIZE, STRUCTURE, BALANCE AND THE COMMITTEE ASSESSES THE IMPACT OF COMPANY COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD AND IDENTIFIES AND NOMINATES OPERATIONS ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITIES FOR APPROVAL CANDIDATES TO FILL BOARD VACANCIES AFFECTED BY ITS ACTIVITIES Debbie Hewitt Liz Peace Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Committee Membership and Meetings reviewing the leadership needs of the a review of the structure, size and Committee Membership and Meetings including environmental management reviewing the Housing Standards and their All Members of the Committee are Company, both executive and non-executive, composition of the Board.
The Committee The Members of the Committee comprise Liz systems, waste management systems, impact on the Companys own design standards.
Independent Non-Executive Directors with ensuring appropriate succession planning for recommended to the Board the Peace, who is Chair of the Committee and an recycling and energy management.
monitoring the Companys response to Debbie Hewitt, the Senior Independent directors and other senior executives within appointment of an additional NonIndependent Non-Executive Director, Nigel to review the Companys policies and environmental legislation and regulation, Director, being Chair of the Committee.
Executive Director to ensure appropriate Smith, Group Research and Sustainability reporting with regard to personnel including the continuing impact of the Flood other Members of the Committee during the succession planning of the Non-Executive Director, and Karen Jones, Group Human recruitment, development and succession and Water Management Act 2010 and the leading the process for Board appointments period ending 30 June 2015 were Nick Hewson, Directors.
The Committee subsequently Resources Director.
planning to ensure a sustainable and changes to Part G, Part H and Part M 2013 of ensuring they are conducted on merit and Liz Peace and Sir Michael Lyons.
concluded that the present Board balance engaged workforce.
The Committee met three times during the and composition remains appropriate but to have regard to the Companys reviewing the new Sustainability website.
For all meetings, The Committee met twice during the year making recommendations to the Board, that it will be kept under review.
developments in customer engagement and papers were circulated sufficiently in advance ended 30 June 2015.
For all meetings, papers including on the re-appointment of reviewing the Companys environmental undertook the recruitment process for the service to ensure its values are upheld.
to allow proper consideration of all matters were circulated sufficiently in advance to allow Non-Executive Directors, the re-election management standards.
appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
The Group Company Secretary proper consideration of all matters for of Directors at the Annual General Meeting The Committee regularly reviews its Terms of supporting the forging of new relationships acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Company Secretary acts and the membership of the Audit, recommended that the Directors stand for Reference: these were last reviewed in March between the Company and the RSPB and as Secretary to the Committee.
Nomination, Remuneration and re-election at the 2015 Annual General 2015 and are published on the Groups website Responsibilities and Terms of Reference Bumblebee Conservation Trust.
Meeting in accordance with UK Corporate www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: monitoring the Companys responses to Responsibilities and Terms of Reference Governance Code.
ensure that a formal structured and tailored Main Activities During the Year numerous consultation papers and The key responsibilities of the Committee are: to develop and monitor the Boards induction programme is undertaken by any reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference.
During the year ended 30 June 2015 the principal environmental surveys from the approach to sustainability and to review newly appointed member of the Board.
activities of the Committee were as follows: Government and its agencies and other reviewing the structure, size and and approve the sustainability targets The Directors were not present and did not vote stakeholders in the sustainability arena.
composition of the Board including skills, reviewing annually the time required from proposed by management.
when their individual proposals were discussed.
overseeing and receiving regular updates on knowledge and experience and making the non-executive directors.
Initiating an internal review of how the Companys Aspirations 2018 sustainability to assess the impact of the Company recommendations for further recruitment to sustainability is managed and embedded Performance Evaluation action plan, following publication of the operations on the environment and The Committees Terms of Reference the Board or proposing changes to the within Company policies and how objectives The Committee completed a performance Sustainability Report in October 2013.
This communities affected by its activities, are published on the Groups website existing Board.
should be set and measured within the context evaluation during the Financial Year and a action plan included the delivery of focused including the consideration of policies to www.
of the Companys wider business targets.
report was presented to the Committee and training on environmental and sustainability enhance the benefits of those activities discussed.
The Committee was found to be matters to employees.
Performance Evaluation Main Activities During the Year and mitigate any negative impact of effective and it was concluded that the The Committee completed a performance During the year to 30 June 2015 the those activities.
monitoring the introduction of elearning Committee had fulfilled its remit and had evaluation during the Financial Year and a Committee undertook the following activities: to have regard to environmental corporate and the introduction of Green Teams in place appropriate Terms of Reference.
report was presented to the Committee and social responsibility and community issues, throughout the Divisions.
The Committee was found to be Debbie Hewitt Table of Attendance effective and it was concluded that the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Name Role Attendance at Meetings Committee had fulfilled its remit and had in Table of Attendance place appropriate Terms of Reference.
7 September 2015 Debbie Hewitt Chairman 2 2 Name Role Attendance at Meetings Liz Peace Nick Hewson Member 2 2 Liz Peace Chairman 3 3 Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Liz Peace Member 2 2 Nigel Smith Member 3 3 7 September 2015 Sir Michael Lyons Member 1 1 Karen Jones Member 2 3 68 69 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015 Redrow plc Annual Report 2015
