What we can deliver Creating stakeholder value Our business model is For our People designed to create value We provide fascinating and challenging careers for for all our stakeholders.
our people, with the opportunity to work across a growing group and around the world.
We invest in their development, so they can maximise their potential, recognising that this benefits them and us.
We enable our people to take In the process, it ultimately creates responsibility so they can get things done, and provide a sustainable, long-term and growing excellent rewards for outstanding performance.
business, which adds value for our Shareholders.
For our Shareholders For our Customers Our culture and strategy have delivered strong operational With our many market-leading brands, our products and financial performance, which in turn enable us to grow are an important driver of footfall and web traffic for our our dividend and return funds to Shareholders through traditional and online retail customers, which in turn helps share buybacks.
them to grow their revenue.
This is underpinned by our strong customer relationships and our ability to successfully This success has helped us to generate outstanding activate our products in-store.
If you had invested 100 on 1 January 2000, that investment would have been worth Through our innovation and penetration-building activities, 1,721 at the end of 2015.
That same 100 invested in the we are able to grow our categories and further increase FTSE 100 would be worth 156 over the same period.
revenue for us and our customers.
34 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements For our Consumers Preview of 2016 Initiatives Consumers benefit from safe, high-quality products that RB has announced a number of new help them to lead healthier lives and have happier homes.
product initiatives for the first half of 2016: Our over-the-counter Health brands provide quick and easily accessible relief for common ailments and support Health our consumers wellbeing.
Hygiene products help to protect Nurofen Soft Chews for Children: Effective relief with consumers, while our Home products create a pleasant and just the right strength medicine for kids 7-11.
In an comfortable home environment that families love.
innovative gummy format: theyre easy to chew and no need for water.
Through our relentless focus on innovation, we meet Scholl Velvet Smooth Wet & Dry: for soft, beautiful feet our consumers changing needs and ensure our products effortlessly: on wet and dry skin.
play an important part in maintaining and improving their lifestyles.
Scholl Athletes Foot Complete Pen & Spray Kit: The first Athletes Foot treatment kit to provide both effective treatment and prevention from reoccurrence.
Roll-out of Durex Invisible condom: Durexs thinnest condom offered in a super premium pack, maximising shelf impact.
Offers consumers ultimate sensitivity for an even closer connection, protected by Durex quality.
Durex Pleasure Ring: Harder for Longer.
Durexs new constriction ring helps men maximise hardness for longer and to intensify the pleasure for them and their partner.
Hygiene Dettol Gold: Delivers 100% superior germ killing action vs. other anti-bacterial soaps in the market.
Lysol Disinfectant Max Cover Mist: New wide area disinfectant mist for unbeatable protection and deodorisation of your large surfaces.
Harpic Cillit Bang Lysol Fresh Power 6: Same amazing freshness from the first to the last flush.
Finish Supercharged Powerball: One supercharged For our Communities solution for all your dishwashing needs.
Home We use our capabilities and the passion of our people Air Wick Pure: Just fragrance, no wet spray.
A water-free to benefit our communities, by educating and raising aerosol to enjoy the pleasure of Pure fragrance.
awareness of the benefits of improving health and Air Wick scented Oil Warmer: The ultimate fragrance hygiene standards.
control for a superior fragrance experience.
Through our partnership with Save the Children, we aim Food to stop diarrhoea being a major killer of children.
Other Frenchs better for you Ketchup and Mustard: products such as Durex and Mortein have a key role A new range of products under our Promise campaign, to play in preventing sexually transmitted and mosquitowhich is anchored in three pillars: Real Ingredients, Great borne diseases respectively.
Taste and Commitment to our Communities.
In 2015 all Frenchs formulas were reviewed and all those that did not comply with our Promise principles were reformulated.
We removed high fructose corn syrup and all artificial flavours, colours and fillers from all our formulas.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 35
