Corporate responsibility Focused on our communities At Regus, we are confident that the positive impact of our mission to provide flexible workspaces in many thousands of places across the world is significant, wide-ranging and growing in scope and influence as our network expands.
2015 was also the year when the new Economic support for communities Our presence is helping to generate wealth energy auditing ESOS regulations had to be applied.
We are pleased to report that in every location where we operate, from major cities in world-leading economies Regus embraced these new requirements to identify further energy-saving to smaller communities in emerging states.
Extracting value We give start-ups and multinationals alike opportunities across our whole portfolio.
from waste The outcomes and results will be reviewed the freedom and flexibility to operate where When Regus colleagues in Fortaleza, they need to, employing local people and by our Green Committee in early 2016 for appropriate implementation.
Brazil, encouraged customers to drawing on local supply chains.
This in turn participate in a programme to collect helps to improve and grow the business We are also conscious that as new centres and segregate paper, cardboard, plastic environment, attracting people and are acquired their energy-related carbon cups, toner cartridges and other office organisations to the area in a virtuous circle.
footprints will need to be reviewed and this detritus, the collected materials were will form part of our ongoing work.
To help Reducing environmental impact donated to a local orphanage.
By using us we are using specialist external energy Our services directly enable local business the waste to make a small financial gain, consultancies to record our energy communities to become more sustainable.
the orphanage has developed a new consumption on a monthly basis across Not only does the offer of flexible space income stream which is helping to all our centres and to assist and advise reduce carbon emissions by enabling sustain its future.
us in the purchase, management and people to work closer to where they live, monitoring of our energy.
but we also provide facilities such as video conferencing that eradicate the need Due to our business constantly changing be relaunching our Employee Engagement to travel for meetings.
andexpanding, we will in 2016 review the Programmes with an emphasis on the targets set out in 2009 to ensure they continued reduction of carbon, energy, In addition, we encourage and enable the remainappropriate for the current and water and waste.
Significant further work uptake of best practice across our network futureportfolios.
is planned for these areas in 2016. through a range of initiatives targeting reduced use of paper and increased We continue to be voluntary participants Charitable investments recycling.
We are also continuing to of the Carbon Disclosure Project and use We actively invest in our communities, introduce carbon-reduction and energyit to gauge our ongoing performance for additionally encouraging and enabling our efficiency policies and procedures in our continuous improvement.
We are happy colleagues and customers, suppliers and centres, including control upgrades and to report a disclosure score of 87% in 2015. the public to do so as well.
Direct Group energy-efficient lighting and temperature Our new centre refurbishments now investment can take the form systems.
While each of these makes a of financial donations to charities and automatically include energy-saving small individual contribution on its own, features such as LED lighting and more humanitarian appeals, the concession across our fast-growing network they of working space and other in-kind efficient controls for heating and cooling.
are collectively delivering a substantial There is also a general emphasis across donations to worthwhile causes, and reduction in our environmental impact.
employee recognition programmes for our teams to keep our carbon footprint as low as practically possible and to keep charity initiatives.
We also provide the Efficiency schemes support of Regus facilities for the fundimplementing our carbon reducing policies.
2015 saw our Green Committee accelerate We have plans to upgrade a number of raising activities of our staff, customers its efforts in reducing energy and carbon and suppliers.
These include in-centre centre BMS control systems and to across our UK portfolio, with particular further train staff on their efficient usage.
initiatives such as collections campaigns, emphasis on acquisitions.
In the two years charitable networking events and recycling or so since the acquisition of MBW we have By encouraging our clients to make more projects as well as off-site activities like fun managed through good housekeeping use of local centres and nearby touchdown runs, sponsored walks and volunteering at and management to reduce this portfolios facilities, we believe we are helping them venues like soup kitchens and orphanages.
overall energy-related carbon emissions by mitigate the risks of disruption by, amongst circa 17%.
By continuing to apply our greener In total over 209,000 was raised and used other things, severe weather events brought working strategies to our traditional portfolio, about by climate change.
to support 219 projects for 195 charities.
we further reduced its energy carbon Further detail is provided in the table below: In 2016 our refreshed Green Committee will footprint by 2.5%.
This has given an overall combined reduction of 5% in our 2013 2014 2015 CRC returns for 2014 2015.
Countries with community engagement activity 20 38 43 Projects 54 132 219 Charities supported 78 100 195 Donations made 80,500 155,328 209,905 Excludes newly acquired Evans sites.
26 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Community heroes The Regus Community heroes programme recognises and celebrates the community initiatives our people are running across the world.
The project that was most highly rated by our internal community was profiled in our community video and received a $10,000 donation.
The top three projects in 2015 were: Facilitating donations To help our customers set up and manage their own fund-raising programmes, we launched the My Regus Make-a-Wish India Charities and Causes platform in 2015, The Regus Mumbai team partnered with Make-a-Wish India, which make wishes come true enabling them to promote their own for severely ill children, many of whom have life-threatening conditions.
Team members ran in CSR initiatives, track progress and the Mumbai Marathon and raised enough money to help 50 children fulfil their dreams.
record donations to any of 1.6 m registered charities.
When working in different countries, time zones and in multiple currencies, we strive to make everything easier so our teams and customers can gain the most for supported beneficiaries.
We believe this will ultimately benefit the great causes we are all engaged with across the globe.
Grace to be Born the Philippines The Grace to be Born Maternity Home & Nursery is an orphanage and halfway house for unmarried mothers seeking shelter.
The Regus Social Action Club, made up of colleagues from our Global Service Centre, raised funds and donated gifts-in-kind, such as groceries, clothes and toys to help further the support that the shelter provides.
Responding to disaster More than eight million people were affected by the massive earthquake in Nepal in 2015.
We responded with a worldwide campaign to raise awareness and encourage support for the victims by providing funds for the International Going Pink for Susan G. Koman USA Federation of Red Cross and Red The Regus Life Savers team raised US$16,994 for this highly effective US initiative that Crescent Societies volunteers, who aims to find a cure for breast cancer.
Regus centres across the country went pink for have been helping those most in the cure, holding numerous networking events to raise funds.
need since the earthquake hit.
