46 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY With the introduction of our CSR strategy last year, we have spent this year consolidating and improving a number of our processes.
We have seen increased engagement from our people across a range of CSR-related activities, particularly on waste, charity and community activities, throughout the Group.
We are pleased to have achieved a number of our CSR targets.
W e are capturing data from more sites than ever to reduce our reliance on industry average data and increase the accuracy of our waste and Greenhouse Gas GHG footprints.
We have shown continued growth within the business, in the building space we occupy, the number of employees and our production levels.
However, we have still achieved an absolute reduction of waste to landfill and a reduction of GHG emissions per m turnover.
We are pleased with the advancements made throughout this year, and will continue to strive for further progress.
I n this period of growth, a record number of apprentices are now in training and we have invested more than ever in developing our people.
Ben Taylor Assistant Chief Executive Our strategy continues to be appropriate Strategy update for the Group.
In this report, we By focusing attention on our strategic concentrate on progress on our goals over this last year, we have manufacturing and training targets on been able to target areas with the page 47, and we will be posting updates greatest impact.
A key focus has on our progress against all our CSR been on improving our efficiencies targets on the website.
in manufacturing through waste and energy management.
In addition, we have reduced the GHG footprint of our business travel this year: this is due to increasing control on the flight bookings process and significant investment in videoconferencing facilities.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 47 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Progress on selected CSR targets: Targets Progress Waste management P We implemented a new waste strategy in February 2014, focused on segregation at source.
59% reduction of waste to landfill from UK operations.
Our Carbon Trust waste certificate covers roughly 90% of our generated waste.
Less than 4% of our waste is sent 5% to landfill.
96% reduction of waste to landfill from Just over 2,487 tonnes of waste were UK operations of all waste diverted from landfill.
diverted away from landfill this year.
Energy P First solar array commissioned this year.
Second solar array planned with a 123,056 further generating capacity in excess of kWh renewable energy generated to date.
Investigate business case for the Solar array with an annual generating capacity The replacement of lighting systems with investment in renewables lower energy options have a potential in excess of kWh has annual saving of 656,000 kWh.
GHG emissions P 38% reduction in GHG emissions from gas consumption.
13% 3% 28% reduction in GHG emissions from reduction in GHG tCO e per million pounds turnover 2 business travel.
reduction in GHG tCO2e per million pounds compared to 2014. turnover compared to 2014 Over 2m invested in energy reduction activities.
People P 4,112 people employed globally, an increase of 620 since last year.
8% of our UK workforce First graduates from our apprenticeship programme in Germany.
5% globally are on structured Over 200 people across the Group apprenticeship or graduate programmes.
on formal apprenticeships and 5% graduate programmes.
of our UK employees as apprentices, graduates or sponsored students on structured programmes 48 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED female.
There are nine directors on the local businesses, a sports and social People Board, consisting of seven males and club, subsidised restaurants at our key Diversity two females.
The senior management UK locations and a crche at our facility Renishaw enjoys the advantages group is made up of 52 people, of in Pune, India.
With 26 which 49 94% are male and 3 6% Communication and participation nationalities represented in our senior are female.
Renishaw regards its senior management group, we benefit from management group to be the Executive As a group that operates in a large their understandings of different cultures Board, the heads of each product number of territories across the globe, and acknowledge the advantages that line, sales territory and manufacturing we recognise the need for clear and these varied experiences bring to the organisation who report directly into the open communication across the business.
We work hard to promote Executive Board and the directors of business between sites, functions and a workplace that encourages open Renishaws subsidiary undertakings.
Our flat structure communication and innovative thinking: encourages employees to voice their Employee retention as we encourage this, we are able to ideas or concerns to management and ensure our people feel valued and can We have continued to promote we have had many excellent ideas as a achieve their career goals.
career development within Renishaw result of this open dialogue.
To facilitate and to provide an excellent working the dissemination of top-down Like many engineering companies, environment.
Our UK employee information and to keep the employees Renishaw has a majority of male turnover rate is 5.7% 2014: 5.0%, abreast of developments within the employees, but we are working hard to whichcontinues to be significantly business, regular communication encourage females into an engineering lowerthan the UK manufacturing meetings are held where a board career through our educational outreach industry national average of 10%.
These also give programmes see the Education section an opportunity for an open discussion on pages 5254 for more information.
To ensure we reward our employees between employees and a member Over the last two years, we have loyalty and hard work, we regularly of the Board.
Communications are employed 80 apprentices and 138 hold pay reviews and benchmark supported by presentations of the graduates, and of these, 193 89% are our salaries against those within the annual and half-year financial results male and 25 11% are female.
We have a group given by the Assistant Chief Executive 114 people on apprentice programmes, performance-based bonus programme at our larger locations, supplemented which, combined with graduates, based on group profitability for all by videoconference presentations for represents 5% of all employees.
On 30th June 2015, we employed 4,112 We offer on-site fitness suites, people across the Group, an increase appropriate flexible working to of 620 since last year.
Of these, 3,142 encourage a good work-life balance, 76% are male and 970 24% are discount schemes with a number of Our first graduate and apprentices from our apprenticeship programme in Germany.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 49 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 We continue to encourage our people for September 2015.
A further 70 new Human rights to communicate any suggestions and graduates also start with Renishaw this A strict non-discrimination policy is ideas they may have, to either their summer 2014: 68. embedded into our Group Business management teams or the Board Code, which states the minimum The quality of our apprenticeship directly.
A suggestion scheme enables standards of operation expected within and graduate programmes is widely employees to submit ideas.
We value the Group and our representatives.
recognised through external award these suggestions and their suitability This Code sets out our position that schemes.
We also award our own for adoption are assessed, with awards all employees have the right to nonApprentice of the Year prizes.
given for the best ideas received.
discriminatory treatment and equal In addition, there is an inventors award We are a founding member of the 5% opportunities, and to work in a safe and scheme for individuals who are named Club, a UK industry-led campaign to secure working environment with a fair as inventors on granted patents.
increase the recruitment of apprentices wage.
Proper consideration is given to and graduates, the members of which applications for employment from all Training and development commit to ensuring that 5% of their UK ethnic backgrounds and from those We value our highly skilled people and workforce are apprentices, graduates with disabilities.
Opportunities are given recognise that retaining them is essential or sponsored students on structured to employees who become disabled to the future of our business: as such, programmes within the next five years.
to continue in their employment or be we place a large emphasis on ensuring We are happy to report that against a trained for other positions.
We reject our training programmes continue.
backdrop of a significant increase in the use of compulsory, forced and child our people of 620 over the past twelve labour.
We communicate this Code to all We have long held the view that months, we have maintained 8% of potential suppliers and require appointed investing in people enables us to our UK employees 5% of our global suppliers to work to the spirit of this acquire the necessary talent to grow employees on structured apprenticeship Code.
The full Code can be found at the business and mitigate the impacts or graduate programmes, helping to www.
com en renishaw-groupof a general skills shortage.
This is ensure the future of our highly skilled business-code--14444. evidenced by our apprenticeship and people across the Group.
sponsored student schemes that we started in 1979 and 1984 respectively.
This summer, some 105 2014: 105 students entered Renishaw for paid placements 60 summer placements, 40 one-year industrial placements and 5 pre-university placements.
There are 114 craft and technical apprentices currently in training 2014: 105 with 3 in our German subsidiary for the first time, and 44 new starters confirmed Having joined Renishaw as an apprentice aged 16 and later gaining a first-class engineering honours degree, Lucy Ackland left won the national Womens Engineering Society Prize award for her work engaging young children with STEM activities.
50 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Association, the Association of British We continue to sponsor Ben Morgan, Community Healthcare Industries, the European the Gloucester and England rugby With an increasing global footprint, we Society for Precision Engineering & international, who this year presented recognise the positive contribution that Nanotechnology, Verein Deutscher our Apprentice of the Year Awards.
can be made to our local communities  e. V. through varied interactions with local In Germany, we continue to sponsor Germany and UCIMU-SISTEMI PER residents, businesses, schools and Handball-Bundesliga team HBW PRODURRE Italy.
We also support not-for-profit organisations.
This is Balingen-Weilstetten, which is based local chambers of trade and business especially true in the west of England, in an area where many of our major networking groups.
where we are one of the regions customers are located.
We are also a member of various With significant public interest in 3D industry research centres across the In many of our markets, we printing, we have collaborated with globe, some of these include The communicate a positive story about individuals and organisations on a Manufacturing Technology Centre UK, the role played by science, engineering range of projects, including the creation the Advanced Manufacturing Research and manufacturing to enhance the of a titanium public arts installation in Centre UK, Canada Makes Canada, lives of the general populace and the Folkestone, Kent, and the manufacture PrziGen Germany, Light Alliance attractive nature of a career within these of a prosthetic plastic hand for a young Germany and BazMod Germany.
We see this as vital to overcome man whose mother approached us, perceptions about career options in having read about our expertise.
We continue to sponsor and help judge these areas and to ensure a strong a range of regional and national business As reported in last years report, we pipeline of future talent, not just for our produced an innovative 3D-printed bike award programmes that help encourage own needs, but also for our wider supply and recognise business and individual frame for Empire Cycles, which has chain and customer base.
been exhibited across the globe and is excellence.
Ben Taylor is a judge for the West of England Business Awards, now recognised by the Guinness Book During the past year we have hosted of World Records as the first of its kind.
whilst Head of Communications, Chris tour groups and given talks to a range Pockett, helped judge the Manufacturing of organisations including primary and Excellence Awards organised by the secondary schools, universities and Institution of Mechanical Engineers and colleges, business clubs and societies.
the main business awards programmes This includes our subsidiaries in Italy in Bristol and Gloucestershire.
and Spain, which are increasingly active with higher education establishments.
To further our aim of establishing With an increasing profile, we are also awareness of Renishaw as a significant regularly asked to give interviews to regional employer, we continue to international, national and local media, sponsor a wide range of festivals, sports and contribute our knowledge through clubs and organisations in the west of debates on a range of topics including England and South Wales.
During the manufacturing, exports, education, year we became the first corporate human resource management, partner of a project which aims to raise innovation and 3D printing.
funds for Being Brunel, a new public museum that will celebrate the life and Senior directors, including Sir David achievements of the great engineer McMurtry, Ben Taylor and Geoff Isambard Kingdom Brunel, which is McFarland, are regular speakers at scheduled to open in 2017. conferences and business community events.
In the past year, this has In South Wales, we have advertising included keynote presentations on the boards at the Liberty Stadium, home future of manufacturing, innovation to the Ospreys rugby club and Premier and automation.
League football club, Swansea City.
We also sponsor Swansea City We continue to actively support Renishaw-sponsored Arabian Lights was footballer Ki Sung-Yeung, who plays the business community regionally, one of 70 giant Shaun the Sheep sculptures internationally for South Korea, an that formed part of the Shaun in the City nationally and internationally, important market for our products.
Bristol trail, raising funds for the Bristol Royal through membership of trade Childrens Hospital.
and lobbying associations such as the Confederation of British Image courtesy of charity no.
Shaun in Industry, the Dental Laboratories the City & Aardman Animations Ltd 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 During the year, the RCC made Charity donations totalling just under 100,000 In the UK, the Renishaw Charities to a diverse range of over 200 Committee RCC was formed organisations.
Beneficiaries included in the 1980s to distribute funds to disability support groups, primary and Donations charitable and voluntary organisations Just under secondary schools, counselling and and support the individual fundraising carers support groups, hospice care efforts of all UK employees.
The RCC organisations, animal sanctuaries, is made up of representatives from medical research groups, church Renishaws main Gloucestershire sites 100,000 restoration funds and senior and has a particular focus on assisting citizen groups.
donated to local organisations organisations that help enrich the lives www.
com charity of children and adults, from toddler The RCC fully matches funds raised groups and sports clubs, through to by employees for UK national initiatives organisations that support the disabled such as Movember, Comic Relief and and the bereaved.
Wear it Pink, including 2,500 raised for Children in Need.
A separate fund is also administered by the RCC, which donates monies During the year, significant donations of to aid the victims of global disasters, 2,000 or more were made by the RCC from which, during the year, a 10,000 to eight organisations, including support donation was made to the Disasters for capital projects at Minchinhampton Emergency Committee which Rugby Club and Kingswood co-ordinated UK fundraising for victims Football Club.
of the devastating earthquakes in Nepal.
Renishaws Indian subsidiary gave funds to provide a swimming pool hoist for disabledchildren.
The GreenTeam, based at the University of Stuttgart, and Renishaw GmbH collaborated to develop and additively manufacture optimised wheel carriers for a Formula Student racing car, reducing the overall weight of the car by 1.5 kg and making it their lightest vehicle to date.
52 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Renishaw India is also highly Despite these encouraging signs, the Renishaw has continued to target these supportive of its local community and rate of change in the growth of supply influencers over the last year.
As part during the year has given significant is far too slow to meet the forecasted of the week-long Stroud Festival of grants to three non-governmental demand for engineering skills in the UK.
Manufacturing and Engineering, we organisations based in Pune, supporting hosted and co-organised with other There are also some significant UK exploited women and disabled and local engineering and manufacturing population challenges in the coming disadvantaged children.
companies an event entitled Girl years that will affect the pool of Power.
This was held on a Saturday One of these organisations is Balkalyan students available for progressing into with girls between the ages of 14 and 18 Sanstha, which was established in apprenticeships and higher education.
invited to attend a series of workshops, 1979 to provide entertainment and The number of 14-year-olds is set to activities and talks, and importantly, recreational facilities for disabled children fluctuate significantly, falling by 7.3% they had to be accompanied by a in Maharashtra State.
It was given funds between 2012 and 2017 before jumping parent who shadowed their daughters by Renishaw to replace 35-year-old by 15.9% five years later.
Feedback suggested that playground equipment and provide a of 18-year-olds will decrease by 8.9% parents minds can be changed hoist that enables children to enjoy the between 2012 and 2022. about encouraging their daughters local swimming pool.
Funding was also There remains a disappointing negativity to pursue an interest in engineering.
given to Chaitanya Mahila Mandal, which Feedback from the girls was towards the engineering sector amongst cares for women and their children who the influencers of young people, with equally encouraging: are victims of sexual exploitation and 17% of STEM teachers believing that a trafficking funds helped purchase an career in engineering is undesirable for ambulance, a toilet block and furniture It has really opened their students.
Furthermore, only 36% for a computer training centre.
up my eyes to what of STEM teachers felt confident giving engineering careers advice Engineering I could be doing when Education UK report 2015.
There is growing consensus regarding I am older and has really Targeting the influencers of young the importance of science, technology, inspired me.
people with up-to-date, accurate and engineering and mathematics STEM non-stereotypical information about education, skills and careers advice.
the range of engineering and STEMThe perceptions of engineering are related careers is essential in persuading improving and the numbers studying students to persist with STEM engineering in the UK are increasing.
subjects throughout school, university, apprenticeships and employment.
A group of children from Old Sodbury Primary school looking at Renishaw apprentices proudly showing off their Greenpower cars.
Renishaw products in the Renishaw Innovation Centre.
The Greenpower Education Trust promotes sustainable engineering toyoung people.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 53 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 The project is now available nationwide Renishaw has long-standing links with It has helped me learn for teachers to download from the DATA a number of key regional universities what sort of person I am website, and we have supported two that have some of the highest levels other schools in 2015, enabling their of student retention in the UK, and and what job would best teachers to learn the skills to pass on to therefore more likely to take up jobs in suit me.
There are no limits their students.
our catchment areas after graduation.
We have a number of employees We have continued to offer all our who act as visiting professors at new graduates and second-year Another way of influencing teachers is these and other universities, with apprentices the opportunity to be STEM projects taking place at a large to increase their skills and awareness ambassadors.
We now have over 100 with respect to the latest technology.
Examples include Bath and ambassadors at Renishaw and each Bristol universities where we have a The National Foundation for Educational must carry out at least one STEM Research found that the quality of STEM number of research projects, PhD and activity each year, which helps to sustain undergraduate projects, whilst at Cardiff courses for 16-year-olds and over is and grow our multiple initiatives with being undermined by a lack of time University we sponsor the Trevithick schools and universities, including talks Library, the Renishaw Metrology that tutors have to develop their skills and lectures, career fairs, after-school and knowledge in line with the pace of Laboratory and several PhD and clubs and STEM projects.
We have also change in their subject areas.
We continue to develop relationships made significant efforts to re-establish During the year, we carried out a pilot with key universities that have been teaching of a manufacturing course, with project in conjunction with the Design identified as having relevant courses for close collaboration on the development and Technology Association DATA our business needs.
This includes the of academic content.
There are a to tackle the skills gap of design and sponsorship of engineering societies number of research projects and a technology teachers at Marling School in and engineering teams that design, metrology laboratory at Heriot-Watt Stroud.
Steve Berry, head of design and build, test and race a small-scale formula University, and we have established technology, Marling School, said, It was style racing car in the global Formula a relationship with the University of brilliant and inspiring for staff, particularly Student competition.
Loughborough, whereby a number of those with no previous programming their students apply to Renishaw for experience who did not believe how summer and industrial placements.
Being guided by experts, with up-to-date industry experience, was invaluable.
Ove10 r 0 STEM ambassadors each carrying out at least one STEM activity per year The six winners of the national Renishaw Pupils from the SS Great Britain Future Engineering Experience competition on the Brunels programme being shown BBC Breakfast sofa.
electrode implantation procedures for deep brainstimulation.
54 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED After an invitation from the Ministry This year, through the DLG, we made a Environment of Education, Culture and Sport in major contribution, along with a number We recognise that improving the Spain, Renishaw Ibrica returned of other large engineering companies, operational efficiencies of our locations as a key sponsor of the 35th annual to develop a guidance document for across the world contributes to the SpainSkills competition in Madrid part work experience students.
Many small sustainable growth of our business.
of the WorldSkills global career skills and medium-sized enterprises SMEs We continue to work hard on ensuring competition.
As well as supplying an are deterred from taking on a student the impact of our business activities Equator gauging system, Renishaw for work experience, yet this is a is as low as practical.
Through our sent highly experienced employees to major contributor to a young persons assessments, we have seen that the provide guidance for the teams.
There is also emerging areas of our operations with a significant evidence that work experience plays We continue to work with industry impact are energy consumption and a part in supporting admissions to waste generation.
We also recognise leading organisations and engineering higher education.
peers to advise the UK government that our business travel and product shipments make a significant on national policy that will benefit the The DLG aims to encourage SMEs sector in general.
For example, we are to offer experience to students contribution to our carbon footprint.
members of the Royal Academy of from their local schools, and the Engineerings Leadership and Diversity guidance document was published Board DLG which has been set-up insummer 2015. to help remove barriers and encourage more women and other underrepresented groups into engineering.
First solar array was commissioned on the new RIC building this year, with an annual generating capacity in excess of 280,000kWh.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 We have normalised our carbon This year, we have undertaken a We recognise that we are legally obliged emissions by turnover tCO e m. number of projects that have been to report on Scope 1 and 2 emissions 2 Whilst, as a result of the growth in completed or are ongoing.
We have as defined by the Greenhouse Gas our business, we have had an overall commissioned our first solar array that Protocol.
However, through analysis, it increase of GHG emissions, we have has an annual generating capacity in is evident that our Scope 3 emissions achieved a 13% tCO e m reduction excess of 280,000 kWh.
This array is amount to a significant proportion of 2 compared to the previous financial year.
on the new Renishaw Innovation Centre our carbon footprint.
We will continue to RIC building located at our New Mills disclose our Scope 1, 2 and significant To ensure the impact of our business headquarters.
During the construction Scope 3 emissions and to put efforts activities is minimised as far as of the RIC, we were able to work with into improving data quality, the scope of practical, we continue to maintain our contractors and set the floor level data and expanding our Scope 3 data our environmental management to optimise the cut and fill so that no capture, to enable a more complete system EMS, which covers our UK subsoil was required to be removed picture of our GHG emissions.
manufacturing and head office sites.
The subsoil was re-used Through regular EMS meetings, we In the year, our total GHG emissions and stabilised using a lime-mix to form co-ordinate activities to minimise our for our Scope 1 and 2 emissions a solid base on which to construct, environmental impact.
statutory disclosure were 22,914.26 negating the need for 5,000 tonnes of tCO e. Our significant Scope 3 2 freshly quarried stone.
Removing the emissions voluntary disclosure were need to dispose of 4,500 tonnes of 24,434.17 tCO e. 2 subsoil and delivery of stone avoided in excess of 520 lorry journeys.
The RIC To calculate our GHG emissions, we contains over two acres of carpeting have used the GHG Protocol Corporate with a recycled content of over 62%, the Accounting and Reporting Standard equivalent of around 24 tonnes of waste revised addition, data gathered for diverted from landfill.
our CRC submission and the UK governments GHG reporting guidance Through refurbishment and maintenance as the basis of our methodology and programmes, we are gradually using the source of GHG emissions factors.
more energy efficient forms of lighting, Our GHG emissions are based on with installations during the year Reduction of carbon emissions data that is taken from bills, invoices, reducing energy demand by around meter readings and expense claims 815,700 kWh, or 450 tCO e per annum.
For our Scope 1 and 2 We have decommissioned an old gas emissions, less than 1% of the data uses 13% boiler system at our Miskin site and estimates based on average datasets.
replaced it with a much more efficient tCO e m 2 We recognise the impact from air conditioning and localised gas-fired employees commuting to our sites boiler system.
This work will reduce the and whilst we have not yet quantified energy demand on the site by around this, we actively promote a car share 780,000 kWh or 160 tCO e per annum.
2 scheme through an intranet site which Renishaw continues to participate in can be used to find car share partners.
the Carbon Reduction Commitment We provide excellent facilities for CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and employees who choose to commute the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
by bike, such as lockers, showers and We use the CDP as a benchmarking covered bike storage areas.
tool and are working extensively to ensure our efforts in GHG emission management are fully disclosed and are as transparent as is expected of us by our employees, customers and investors.
Our efforts were recognised in the last CDP reporting period as we were ranked 9th in our sector.
56 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 1 3 Total GHG emissions tCO2e 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Gas consumption 1,479.53 1,438.39 889.19 Owned transport 1,521.53 2,684.40 2,219.33 Generator diesel 31.91 24.74 302.78 Heating oil 56.74 43.57 40.59 Fugitive emissions 88.72 252.67 286.68 On-site generation of electricity solar array commissioned 2015 na na 0 Out of scope biofuel blend 39.74 55.35 59.42 Total Scope 1 tCO e 3,178.43 4,443.77 3,738.57 2 Scope 2 Purchased electricity 13,629.09 16,576.71 19,175.69 Total Scope 2 tCO2e 13,629.09 16,576.71 19,175.69 2 Total statutory GHG emissions tCO e 16,807.52 21,020.48 22,914.26 2 2 Normalised statutory GHG emissions by revenue tCO e m 48.45 59.13 46.32 2 Scope 3 Business travel 7,392.76 6,916.31 4,737.95 Product distribution 3,545.49 5,292.98 11,570.67 Raw material purchase 4,020.35 799.72 1,199.31 Post and communications 500.13 557.85 655.04 Transmissions and distribution 1,745.09 1,991.70 2,288.45 WTT total 4,912.26 2,775.10 3,982.75 Out of scope biofuel blend 8.81 49.97 42.41 Total significant Scope 3 tCO e 22,116.08 18,333.66 24,434.17 2 Total GHG emissions tCO e 38,923.60 39,354.14 47,348.43 2 4 Normalised total GHG emissions by revenue tCO e m 112.21 110.70 95.71 2 1 2014 figures have been restated due to improvements in our methodology, updated GHG conversion factors and replacing the calculation used for the June 2014 data last year see footnote 3.
2 Statutory emissions are Scopes 1 and 2 as required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
3 To facilitate the timely capture of information, this disclosure uses internally reported data from July to May and the June data is given as an average of the previous three months.
This will be restated next year if a significant difference is seen.
4 Total GHG emissions include Scopes 1 and 2 statutory and significant Scope 3 voluntary emissions.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Incidents near-misses Product compliance Health and safety A total of 67 2014: 68 near-misses were We continue to prepare for the We have a well-established corporate recorded for the period.
No significant extension of the Restriction of the use health and safety management system repeating common causes have of Hazardous Substances Regulations that is in line with the ISO18001 been established.
RoHS, which will cover the majority requirements.
It is recognised that an of our products in 2017.
Our entire injury may develop into something Accident reporting existing encoder product range is more serious if not cared for correctly.
A new online accident reporting system RoHS compliant, with robust design As our people are essential to our has been introduced with the ability procedures in place to ensure all future business, all injuries from the smallest to raise actions, generate automatic products are compliant.
We continue of paper cuts to the most serious of reminders and update statistics to monitor substances against those incidents are recorded, enabling us to inreal-time.
identified as substances of very manage treatment and investigate all high concern SVHC under the incidents effectively.
UK site compliance auditing Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation The total number of accidents for the A full audit of all UK sites regarding and Restriction of Chemicals REACH period was 230 2014: 151 against health and safety compliance has Directive, and to date, nothing we use a year-end headcount of 4,112 recently taken place and an action list are on the SVHC lists.
This equates to an isbeing generated.
not fall within the remit of the USAs accident ratio of 0.056 accidents per Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and person and is 30% up on the same Improvement Notices Consumer Protection Act, we recognise period the year before.
The introduction The Company was issued with an that compliance with the conflict of an online accident reporting system, Improvement Notice relating to our site in minerals assessment and disclosure which has made the reporting process Stone on 20th March 2015 by the Health aspects of such legislation is important much easier and raised awareness of & Safety Executive HSE.
This related to a number of our customers.
We also the importance of reporting any accident to a failure to have assessments in recognise that it is our responsibility however minor, is the primary reason for place with regard to hand-arm vibration to ensure that our supply chain does the increase.
operations following a RIDDOR not support illegal or unfair practices.
submission by the Company, for an Continual investigations in our supply Reportable accidents employee with carpal tunnel syndrome.
chain are carried out to help ensure There were four reportable accidents Actions were taken pursuant to the conflict minerals are not present: we are under the UK RIDDOR reporting Improvement Notice and the results working with a number of key suppliers requirements: one bumped head, one were approved and signed off by the on this project.
Any issues we consider pulled back muscle, one cut to a hand HSE on 28th May 2015. to be against the spirit of our Group and one torn back muscle resulting in a Business Code are monitored and total lost time of 222 hours, or 28 days.
we work with suppliers where issues are identified.
Occupational health We have had no work-related ill health ordiseases reported.
Health monitoring in the form of lung function testing, hearing testing and eye testing, where appropriate for a job role, has been established for several years and is ongoing.
Health support for employees is offered in the form of subsidised health monitoring blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol and BMI.
58 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED A tube of un-compacted metal swarf next to a compacted briquette containing the same quantity of material.
The significant reduction in size reduces the number of lorry loads required to move the material to a recycling plant.
Producing swarf briquettes also enables us to remove the majority of the oil residue, improving the quality of the material and increasing its value as a recyclate.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 59 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 We continue to ensure that our waste Waste management can be seen as a commodity.
As such, In February 2014, we implemented a there are projects focused around our new waste strategy, designed to ensure waste metals and oils, to maximise the as much waste as feasibly possible recycling and value of the metals and to is diverted from landfill.
This strategy provide a closed-loop on-site re-use of continued to drive our efforts throughout the oils.
the year, resulting in a further 2,487 Renishaw recognises that large 2014: 1,515 tonnes of waste being gains are often made by many small diverted from landfill.
Around 90% of changes in practice, so our technical all waste generated this year originated and sales documentation is distributed from our UK sites which are covered electronically whenever possible.
by the Carbon Trust Waste Standard.
In addition, user guides for some of These sites have been recognised our product groups are only available by the Carbon Trust for their efforts online.
Our commercial documentation, in moving waste away from landfill as payslips in the UK and invoices are all a disposal option, towards recovery, managed through paperless systems.
Internal communications, wherever Renishaw has introduced a segregationpossible, are only made via emails or at-source programme as part of this through the Renishaw intranet.
strategy, which has been trialled at a number of sites and is being rolled out to others.
This enables a direct engagement with employees by placing a responsibility upon them to maximise recycling.
Regular feedback through email, notice boards and communication meetings helps reinforce this behaviour.
Last year, we set a target of 5% for the reduction of waste to landfill in our UK The Strategic report was approved by operations.
We are pleased to report the Board on 29th July 2015 and signed that, through our employees efforts onits behalf by over the past year, we have achieved Sir David R McMurtry this target, with a reduction of waste Chairman and Chief Executive to landfill of 59% in the UK and 23% globally 2014: 40%.
We are now re-using, recycling or recovering around 96% 2014: 92% of our waste around the world.
Restated 1 2 2013 2014 2015 Waste re-used tonnes 0 9.33 12.96 Waste diverted from landfill tonnes 1,210.97 1,515.10 2,487.07 Reduction of waste to landfill Waste sent to landfill tonnes 220.40 131.54 101.13 59% Percentage of waste sent to landfill 15.28% 7.99% 3.91% in the UK 1 Restated to remove the calculations used for the June figures see note 2 and replace them with actual figures.
It also now contains more data from non-UK sites to enable a year-on-year comparison.
2 To facilitate the timely capture of information, this disclosure uses internally reported data from July to 23% May and the June data is given as an average of the previous three months.
