Strategic report Governance Financial statements People The people to support and drive growth induction process, and continues throughout Attracting, developing, growing and retaining the best available each individuals career with internal coaching leadership talent at Board, functional directorship and country and mentoring, business-school partnerships, bespoke training programmes and more.
We level are key components of Regus corporate objectives, driven also have a competitive reward strategy, in by deep planning and ongoing business review processes.
which we aim to lock in the talent we need through incentives.
We know that our success will be defined They must already have excelled in a Maximising potential and retaining talent by having the right people in place to deliver high-growth organisation and have proved is an important priority at every level of against our plans and make results happen.
they have the intellect, vision and passion the organisation, and we ensure that we We firmly believe that if we get most senior required for key roles within such an exciting, give people opportunities to excel, from layers of talent right, the rest of the fast-paced and rewarding environment.
our intake of talented graduates to our organisation will follow, particularly in the We successfully built an outstandingly skilled customer-focused staff at country and all-important area of customer service.
and experienced senior management team location level.
We run our staff satisfaction during 2015.
Throughout the first half of Global leadership survey on a quarterly basis to ensure we 2016, recruitment volumes will remain high are never reliant on out-dated information.
During 2015 and throughout the first half of as we deliver on our succession-planning 2016, therefore, the focus of the Groups Results consistently show that our people policies and build our network of shared understand the Group vision and what people strategy was and will continue to be service centres.
Thereafter, our primary on building the global leadership teams and is expected of them.
focus will be building country teams as we succession hierarchies needed to support An outstanding team grow our local networks across the world.
flawless execution as we drive towards The challenges ahead of us are great, 20,000 locations.
Retaining talent but we have in place an integrated and This has been a very significant recruitment We aim to deliver exceptional opportunities truly world-class team at all levels of the and development exercise, as all joiners for personal growth and development, organisation with the will, the capability and need to be exceptional individuals who and have in place a widespread programme the energy to help Regus meet its targets.
are already prepared for the Regus growth of interventions to maximise personal journey before they arrive at the Group.
This starts with a high-quality www.
