STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 51 During 2014, a review of the Code of Conduct was initiated to reflect Group management and the audit and risk committee receive a the changing demographics of Rexams business and to support Rexams quarterly report on calls received and how they have been resolved.
vision to be the best beverage can maker in the world.
An online The audit and risk committee will continue to review the whistle blowing training system is operated to ensure employees are aware of their policy and the RYC process annually.
responsibilities and are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
Further details can be found on page 19.
During 2015, all relevant GOING CONCERN employees recertified their Code of Conduct status.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The Groups policies and procedures relating to bribery and corruption affect its future development, performance and position are set out were kept under review by the executive leadership team and the audit in the strategic report on pages 2 to 36.
The financial position of the and risk committee during 2015.
There were no material breaches of Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the Code of Conduct during 2015. detailed in the financial review on pages 30 to 36.
In addition, notes 22, 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements include the During 2015, we took steps to increase the scope and impact of Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, its financial our online compliance training programme.
The training is now risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and tightly linked to our onboarding process to reinforce the messages hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
contained in the Code of Conduct.
An annual certification process was introduced in 2014 so that all appropriate employees will be The Group has considerable financial resources together with established reminded of the requirements of the Code and their obligations.
agreements with a number of key customers and suppliers across The content of the training was refreshed during 2015 ahead of different geographic areas and markets.
The financial resources the annual certification process.
include 2.0bn of debt facilities, of which 0.6bn are undrawn, with the next significant maturity due in December 2019 0.8bn.
The The Company has not been required to pay any disclosable fines Group also has cash and cash equivalent balances at 31 December during the year in respect of antitrust matters.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business despite the economic WHISTLE BLOWING POLICY environment which increases risks and uncertainties.
Rexam has an open door policy whereby employees are encouraged to The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied that share concerns, raise issues and provide ideas for improvement with the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in all levels of management in the business.
It is recognised, however, operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date that there will be times when an employee might be uncomfortable of approval of this annual report 2015.
For this reason, they continue raising concerns directly with local management and, in such cases, to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated and communication with business and Group management is encouraged.
The Company operates a whistle blowing policy known as Raise Your Concern RYC which is supported by an external confidential telephone VIABILITY STATEMENT helpline.
The helpline is available to all employees to raise any concerns, In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 revision of the Code, including those of a financial nature.
The externally operated helpline the directors have assessed the Groups prospects and viability.
The was changed to a new provider in late 2014, which provided an board has determined that the three years to 31 December 2018 is opportunity to refresh the service by circulating new promotional an appropriate time frame for the viability statement.
This period is literature both online, and through the use of posters and wallet sized aligned with the strategic plan of the Group and the ERM framework cards that were placed in break out and refreshment areas.
We were in which principal risks including their likelihood and impact are able to engage with employees to better understand the reasons that calls assessed.
This alignment enables management and the board to are made via the helpline rather than through internal communication have sufficient, realistic visibility on the commercial and financial lines, especially as a number of the calls received relate to human assumptions required to undertake a robust assessment.
As part of their assessment, the directors have considered the The RYC policy is explained to employees when they commence current position and prospects of the Group, including the strategic employment with the Group and in team meetings to ensure the plan approved by the board, the financial position of the Group as policy is understood by, and available to, all employees.
Employees described under Going Concern and the potential likelihood and are encouraged to use the service only when other internal reporting impact of principal risks as set out on pages 24 to 29: resulting in an lines have not adequately dealt with their concerns, or if the matter is analysis of the Groups ability to absorb varying degrees of plausible too serious or confidential to discuss with local or sector management.
downside scenarios as described on page 22.
During 2015, 37 calls were received by the helpline provider 2014: Based on this analysis, the directors have a reasonable expectation 41 calls.
There have been on average 41 calls per year since the policy that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its was introduced in 2006.
The majority of calls continue to relate to human liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 December 2018. resources issues and practices.
All reports of calls are taken by internal audit or the company secretarys office and an initial feedback THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE response is available to the caller within five working days.
AND REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations All calls are investigated by the director internal audit, in conjunction with to the board on the Groups remuneration policy and setting the the company secretary or deputy company secretary, and, if appropriate, remuneration arrangements appropriate for the directors within the terms by management of the respective business.
Any significant concerns of the policy approved by shareholders.
The directors remuneration are reported directly to the chairman of the audit and risk committee report, which includes the remuneration policy that received a binding as well as to Group management.
vote from shareholders at the AGM 2014, is on pages 54 to 72 of this The RYC helpline service was extended to suppliers during 2015 and annual report.
No changes to the remuneration policy are proposed.
will be further extended to customers during 2016.
