STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 19 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES: PEOPLE An organisation that is engaged and performs is critical to our success.
The readiness of our people to compete and win in our industry is central to the sustainability of our business.
During the year, we continued to invest in our people and systems so that they can perform and grow in their job.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND DIVERSITY Decisions regarding selection, terms of We maintain a clear consistent approach to We aim to deliver sustainable success employment, advancement, retention and rewarding our people competitively not only by providing an inspiring place to work, termination are made without regard to gender, what they do, but also how they do it with upholding human and labour rights and race, religion, colour, national origin, age, base salaries linked to their role, contribution ethical business practices, and ensuring marital status, sexual orientation or physical and performance.
Global short term incentive supply chain labour standards are met.
Disabled people are plans aligned to business strategy and our A respect for human rights is implicit in given full consideration for employment and shareholder interests are offered to the majority our employment practices across all our subsequent training including, if needed, of our employees so that they can share in operations as well as in the high standards retraining for alternative work where employees the success of the business.
Company and we expect from our suppliers see page 11 have become disabled, career development individual performance measures enable wherever we source their products.
and promotion on the basis of their aptitudes us to recognise and reward exceptional and abilities.
We are often considered important employers in the communities in which we operate, and we In 2015, we employed around 8,600 people Communication with employees is considered take into consideration local concerns, using around the world.
88% of our workforce 7,568 a key responsibility and regular briefings and our presence responsibly to contribute to the is male and 12% female 1,032 2014: 88% town hall meetings are held to discuss relevant promotion of the communities wellbeing.
The imbalance is not issues.
Employees are encouraged to participate untypical for the manufacturing industry.
At year and give their views on any aspect of the Our five core values see page 12 and our end 2015, the board comprised six males 75% Groups business including financial results Code of Conduct, which sets out clear standards and two females 25% 2014: 75% and 25%.
and the economic factors affecting the of behaviour, underpin our social, ethical and Groups performance.
In senior management roles there were environmental commitments and send a clear message to all of our stakeholders.
157 males 84% and 30 females 16% CHARITABLE WORK AND DONATIONS 2014: 85% male and 15% female.
We promote non discriminatory decisions We encourage all our teams to be constructive and actions through online legal compliance members of our local communities.
Rexams REWARDING AND SHARING SUCCESS training which ensure familiarity with our own total charitable donations including cash and Our aim is to be an employer of choice with a Code of Conduct.
This supports our efforts in kind donations during 2015 were 682,408. culture of high performance, motivated people to attract and retain the best talent and, we and outstanding leaders.
We need to ensure believe, encourages new ways of thinking.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY we can attract and retain top talent by making Our employee engagement survey has been Rexam a great place to work, where people running since 2010 to listen to our people and from all backgrounds can develop their careers deliver changes that improve our business.
July 2015, we carried out our fourth survey in six years and 97% of employees responded in 2015 2015 2014 2014 participating locations.
The survey measures Males Females Males Females levels of satisfaction, pride, advocacy and motivation and our overall employee Directors 6 75% 2 25% 6 75% 2 25% engagement score remains stable at 75%.
