Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility report Overview Food The Company acknowledges that it has a significant role to we have achieved the 2012 salt targets for the products play in the communities and the wider environment in which we procure: it operates.
we are now working towards the 2017 salt targets, reducing the salt levels at ingredient level further still: This report sets out the principal areas of focus and activity undertaken during 2015: we have achieved our pledge to procure over 50% of the volume of products within the guidelines by 2017.
By Nutrition the Groups approach to healthy eating: December 2015 91% of our products were within the Our people the Groups policies and actions towards guidelines: our employees: we removed all artificial trans fats from our products in 2008 Our communities how the Group interacts with those and continue to monitor all new products to ensure ongoing communities from which our customers and employees compliance: and are drawn: and we commit to offering a healthy choice for our customers Our environment the impact of the Group on the wider and offer a free side of vegetables with all kids meals in most environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
Nutrition Physical activity Since 2011 the Company has been a partner of the Public Frankie & Bennys have a long history of sponsoring local Health Responsibility Deal the Responsibility Deal, launched junior sports teams providing kits for the teams and support by the Department of Health.
We have made many positive at matches.
changes from alcohol and salt reduction to supporting physical activity amongst children.
The Responsibility Deal Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but the Group has been established to tap into the potential for businesses acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have and other organisations to improve public health through their a role to play in providing appropriate options from which our influence over food, alcohol, physical activity and health in the guests may choose when they eat out.
Being a Responsibility Deal partner means that the believes that we should offer our guests choices on the menu.
Company is required to monitor and provide regular updates Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to provide a to the Department of Health with regard to the actions we healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more indulgent are taking to fulfil our commitments within each pledge.
For many people, dining out is a treat and therefore normal restrictions which may be applied to healthy eating on The Company has eight pledges within the Responsibility a day-to-day basis may be waived in favour of their enjoyment Deal: and experience.
In Frankie & Bennys we offer a range of lighter options for our customers which are under 350 calories Alcohol for starters and under 600 calories for mains.
we commit to tackling underage alcohol sales by operating Challenge 21 in all our establishments and Challenge 25 Allergens in Scotland: and Frankie & Bennys offer a Coeliac UK accredited Gluten Free menu to cater for those with a gluten allergy or intolerance.
we commit to foster a culture of responsible drinking.
Chiquito also offer a Gluten Intolerance Choices menu, a wide We offer very low alcohol beer and a wide range of range of dishes made using non-gluten containing ingredients.
alcohol free mocktails, soft drinks and milkshakes.
Many of our Concessions restaurants also offer a low alcohol To comply with European Union legislation our allergen wine option.
information is available online on our brand websites which allows us to provide accurate information to our guests and enable them to filter the menu based on their particular preferences or needs.
This goes above and beyond the minimum requirement for legislation and we hope makes the experience much easier for our guests.
35 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility report continued Other initiatives Training and development The Restaurant Group plc is a member of the Supplier Ethical We believe training and development is a key element of our Data Exchange SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and business: both to help each and every employee be the best improvement in ethical business practices across the supply they can be and to ensure consistently excellent service chain: we currently have 216 suppliers registered with SEDEX, across our portfolio of restaurants.
Our knowledgeable and covering all food, drink, consumables and equipment.
In 2016 passionate training and development team work hard to meet we will work with our suppliers and SEDEX to assess the the needs of the Group.
supply base and implement actions to increase performance.
Every employee is provided with a wide range of development As in previous years, there continues to be no known tools and opportunities designed to support them as they genetically modified foods in any product the Group uses progress.
We have a great track record of promoting from and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not within and of building great careers for our people.
provide the Group with such products.
We have also removed the Southampton Institute colourings that can cause Online learning and workshops hyperactivity in children from our food.
Every employee has access to Flow, a state of the art online learning tool which is used to support people from their induction and as they develop throughout their career.
Additionally, the online system works as a great communication tool that helps us all stay connected.
We also provide over 4,000 training sessions during the year.
Courses cover subjects such as people skills, health and safety and Our people other key areas.
We believe that our most important assets are our people and our team is one of which we are especially proud.
With Manager in Training MIT programme over 16,000 employees at the end of December 2015 it is All of our managers, no matter the experience or the level, essential that we nurture talent, and support our managers undertake our award winning MIT programme when they join to build great teams.
Development and progression is us or when promoted in to management from within the team.
encouraged for all employees through the support of their The MIT programme places trainee managers into Centres managers as well as through training and development tools.
of Excellence where they learn the skills and processes to become successful managers.
The MIT programme is at During 2015 the Group successfully opened a further 44 the heart of developing our trainees in to branch managers.
restaurants and in the process created over 1,500 new jobs within local communities: a trend which we expect to continue On the job learning as we expand our business.
As part of our commitment to We also believe that learning on the job is a key part of equal opportunities, our policies offer equal rights regardless everyones development.
At the year end we employed of age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion over 16,000 people and for every job, there is support and and the diversity of our people reflects the diversity of the guidance to help employees gain the skills to do their job customers we serve.
This may be through workbooks, training documents, by working with one of the in-house trainers, The Group pays all of its employees at least the National or a colleague in the restaurant.
Minimum Wage and does not utilise tips in any form to make up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to the employees, with credit Apprenticeships card tips attracting only the usual tax deductions and, unlike We are expanding our commitment to apprentices.
We offer some of our competitors, no card processing administration an apprenticeship programme designed to give all eligible fee is taken by the Company.
From April 2016 all eligible candidates a recognised national qualification, NVQ, on employees will be paid at least the National Living Wage.
2015 saw our first all employee engagement survey, providing Recruitment us with valuable insight, informing our people strategy for the Our training and development programme is supported by year ahead.
Employee engagement remains a key priority in a best in class recruitment processes which supports our 2016.
We are currently exploring new and innovative ways of objective of being an employer of choice in the hospitality communicating with all of our employees, not only so we can sector with market leading online presence.
provide them with company updates, but also so they can provide us with their feedback and ideas.
36 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Health and safety Millies Trust The health and safety of our customers and employees is This year Chiquito raised over 26,000 for Millies Trust.
The of paramount importance to us.
The Group has extensive Trust was established by the parents of Millie Thompson who procedures to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and tragically passed away in a choking incident in October 2012. teams as far as possible.
We have very clear procedures and The charity believe that everyone should have access to standards in place and to enforce these we employ external First Aid Training and uses charity funds to run these courses.
auditors to perform a rolling programme of independent safety Chiquito raised this money through in-house raffles, donations audits and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
for sombreros and charity lunches.
As at 27 December 2015 over 98% of our restaurants scored Globals Make Some Noise 4 stars or above including pass in Scotland under the Food In 2015, Coast to Coast and Filling Station raised over 20,000 Hygiene Rating Scheme, a sign of excellence in both food for Globals Make Some Noise.
The charity helps to change safety and hygiene, with 84% at 5 stars or a pass in Scotland.
young lives by supporting specially selected projects across We have invested significant time and resources in health and the country, which deliver life-changing work to youngsters safety matters across the Group to further enhance the clean, and their families in their communities.
Restaurants held safe environment for our customers and staff.
In 2015, we charity breakfasts, sold special edition cocktails and donated reported 78 accidents under the Reporting of Injuries, 50p from each classic burger sold on Globals Make Some Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013, Noise Day.
with no deaths or dangerous occurrences: a reduction on our 2014 figures.
School Club Zambia The charity was founded in 2011 to help support community Our communities schools become financially self-sufficient, up-scale vocational We are passionate about engaging with our communities education and improve employment potential in the and actively support our teams in their fundraising efforts community.
Donations largely come from the sale of selected and community engagements.
Throughout 2015 we dishes in Bridge Bar and Beardmore, two of our Concessions supported a number of local and national charitable events, brands, where we donate a proportion of the sale to the some of which are detailed below: charity.
Since our partnership began in December 2013 we have raised nearly 20,000.
Rays of Sunshine Childrens Charity In 2015, Frankie & Bennys raised over 344,000 for Rays School and sports partnerships of Sunshine Childrens Charity, their national charity partner.
Manchester Enterprise Academy Rays of Sunshine grants wishes for children across the UK Our Concessions team at Manchester Airport have been living with a serious or life-limiting illness.
Money was raised working with the school since 2013 to create curriculum visits through fundraising weekends in the restaurants, donations which give students the opportunity to go to our restaurants from dishes as well as challenges taken on by the teams to practise life skills, broaden their appreciation of culinary including sky dives and the three peaks challenge.
styles and try their hand at designing their own smoothies and pizzas to name but a few of the activities.
We also hold CV workshops for the Year 10 students and attend their career fairs as well as a number of events linked with food related calendar dates.
37 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate responsibility report continued The Princes Trust Greenhouse gas emissions The Princes Trust is a youth charity that supports 13 to We report Scope 1 and 2 emissions defined by the 30 years old who are unemployed and those struggling Greenhouse Gas protocol as follows: at school and at risk of exclusion.
Our Concessions team Scope 1 Direct emissions : combustion of fuel and at Luton Airport support The Princes Trust programme operation of facilities: and by enabling 18 to 30 year olds to work within Est Bar at Luton Airport and give them an insight into working life for Scope 2 Indirect emissions : consumption of purchased two weeks.
We have recently employed one of the participants electricity, heat or steam.
as a permanent team member at Est Bar.
Emissions data in respect of the 2015 reporting period, Our environment on the financial control reporting basis, is as follows: The Group recognises its responsibility to minimise its impact CO e tonnes on the natural environment and continues in its commitment to 2 location-based reduce its energy consumption and carbon emissions, water method usage and waste.
Emission Type 2015 2014 We continue to promote our energy saving campaign to all Scope 1: Operation of Facilities 287 851 restaurants and through the timely supply of accurate Scope 1: Combustion 19,587 16,909 reporting.
Operational managers have the information they TOTAL Scope 1 Emissions 19,874 17,760 need to allow them to monitor and reduce energy Scope 2: Purchased Energy UK 59,290 61,700 consumption levels and this year we have introduced day plus one usage reporting direct to the restaurants through an TOTAL Scope 2 Emissions 59,290 61,700 online portal.
The Group complied fully with the requirements Total Emissions 79,164 79,460 set out in the Energy Saving Opportunity Scheme Regulations 2014 and in doing so, identified several new opportunities Greenhouse gas emissions intensity ratio: for savings.
Year-onWaste management Year 2015 2014 Variance The Group has introduced food recycling across the estate resulting in 87% of our waste being redirected from landfill: Total Footprint up from 85% in 2014.
A significant number of sites divert Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO e 79,164 79,460 2 100% of their waste from landfill.
Turnover 685.4m 635.2m 7.3% Intensity Ratio Scope 2 location Energy consumption and carbon emissions based method tCO e 100,000 0.116 0.125 -7.8% 2 In 2015 the Group re-certified as Carbon Saver Gold Standard: certifying seven years commitment to reducing Notes: carbon emissions.
New restaurant fit-out specifications Our methodology has been based on the principals of the Greenhouse Gas now include heat recovery systems, energy saving lighting, Protocol 2004, taking account of the 2015 amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for the reporting of Scope 2 emissions.
This means low energy hand dryers and increased insulation.
that UK electricity is now reported using two methods.
We have reported using the location-based method and also reviewed our Further retrospective investment in voltage optimisation market-based emissions.
equipment and behavioural training resulted in a like-for-like We have reported on all the measured emissions sources required under the energy reduction for the 6th consecutive year.
The reduction Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations of over 1,000,000 kWh is equivalent to nearly 600 tonnes 2013, except where stated.
The period of our report is 01 Jan 2015 31 Dec 2015 inclusive.
This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3 other indirect emissions, such as the extraction and production of purchased materials and fuels, transport-related activities in vehicles not owned or controlled by the group, electricity-related activities not covered in Scope 2, outsourced activities and waste disposal.
Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based methodology, gas and fugitive emissions are those published by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs for 2015-16.
Conversion factors for UK electricity market-based methodology are published by electricityinfo.
