Sustainable development Rio Tintos vision is to be a company that is Materiality The Sustainability Committee then reviewed admired and respected for delivering superior and approved the results of this assessment.
Materiality has become the guiding principle business value as the industrys trusted for sustainability reporting.
Our contribution to sustainable Issues that are highly material to both our materiality assessment focuses our report on development is an essential part of this vision.
external and internal stakeholders and at the issues that matter the most to our , buildlong-term least high-to-medium are reported in this stakeholders and to our business.
value for all of our stakeholders, and maintain section of our Annual report.
Those of our licence to operate.
medium-to-high importance are reported in Our process was developed in line with the the full Sustainable development report, and Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidance on We face a complex mix of challenges: global will continue to be published on our website.
materiality and completeness and local issues that include regional globalreporting.
This guidance specifies development, climate change and water.
Our Performance overview that sustainable development reporting success depends on dealing with the risks should cover topics and indicators that Tragically, four colleagues lost their lives they present.
reflect the organisations significant while working at our managed operations in  economic, environmental and social impacts 2015.
The elimination of workplace fatalities is for health, safety, environment, community or that substantively influence the a high priority focus area for us and the work and social performance, and closure.
These assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
we are undertaking in this regard is covered in standards ensure that we meet and in many It involves identifying and prioritising issues our safety section on page 24.
It will augment cases go beyond our statutory and regulatory affecting our business and stakeholders over the ongoing work which led to improvements requirements.
They are backed by systems the next three years, taking internal and during the year in reducing injuries.
At 0.44, and processes, which assist management to external perspectives into account.
our all injury frequency rate AIFR this year achieve outcomes that are socially and was the lowest in our company history, as was In 2015 we consulted with investors, environmentally sustainable.
Theseare suppliers, industry groups, NGOs and peer significant achievements and illustrate the The Sustainability Committee helps ensure companies, and used media reviews to assign strength of our safety processes and culture.
consistently high standards of corporate external ratings for each issue.
governance: further information on this As a result of changing our noise-induced We create a materiality matrix, which plots committee can be found on page 60 and page 61 hearing loss reporting criteria, along with an external stakeholders level of concern oftheDirectorsreport.
increased focus on reporting health incidents, against the current or potential impact on our we saw the rate of new cases of occupational We measure ourselves against other leading business.
Each issue is given a rating of low, illness increase by 78 per cent, missing our companies both within and outside our sector.
medium or high, from both internal and target of a year-on-year improvement.
An impact can be either Although we did not meet our diversity goal setting sustainability standards in the mining and positive or negative.
for women to represent 20 per cent of senior metals sector, through organisations such as the Having determined the topics for our 2015 management by 2015, at 18.1 per cent, the International Council on Mining and Metals, and materiality matrix, we reviewed their validity 2.6 percentage point improvement from 2014 national bodies.
and relative importance with internal experts  from each of our sustainability focus areas.
In 2015 we adopted a definition of significant 1 environmental incidents.
This provides an Material issues objective measurement of incidents that reported in the distinguishes those which could have a major Annual report or catastrophic actual impact from lower level incidents.
In accordance with this we reported no significant environmental incidents.
In 2014 we reported 12 environmental incidents.
However, only one incident with a major or catastrophic actual impact would have been Issues reported reported in 2014 when restated in accordance in the sustainable with the new definition of significant development environmental incidents.
website Further information on the Groups environmental regulation, including incidents andfines,  page 49.
com sd2015 glossary Issues addressed through direct communications, not reported in normal channels Low Medium High Current or potential impact on our business 22 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report Level of concern to stakeholders Low Medium High STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS Performance progress in 2015 included: Beating our 2015 target 15 per cent Implement the updated management of Refreshing The way we work, our global of intake to be nationals from regions tailings and water storage facilities standard.
code of business conduct, to ensure it is where we are developing new businesses Improve our risk-based and locally relevant relevant to our employees, the business at 33.3 per cent.
management of material health risks.
Receiving the American Exploration and Improve performance on diversity targets and A 25 per cent reduction in AIFR compared Mining Associations AEMA focus on creating a more inclusive workplace.
Environmental Excellence Award for our Advance our talent pipeline to ensure a clean-up of the Holden Mine site.
A 32 per cent reduction in our lost time robust organisation for the future.
injury frequency rate LTIFR compared Receiving the Indonesian Governments Implement the new global Communities with 2014.
Caring Company Forest Reclamation and Social Performance target.
award for rehabilitation at the Kelian Mine.
Receiving the US National Mining Implement the new greenhouse gas Associations Sentinels of Safety Award at Conducting a Group level security and emissions intensity target.
Rio Tinto Kennecott for their outstanding human rights audit review.
Implement the new closure controls, which safety performance in 2014 large metal Retaining and improving our listing as a include the refreshed standard non-metal mill category.
leading company on the FTSE4Good and and procedures.
Commencing the independent Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, which Continue to work with PT Freeport epidemiological study of the workforce investors use to monitor businesses Indonesia on the implementation of a at Rssing Uranium Limited.
fatality prevention programme at the A 21.1 per cent reduction in our greenhouse Our priorities for 2016 are to: Grasberg joint venture in Indonesia.
Fully implement the critical risk Further strengthen procedures to identify Updating all our Health, Safety, management programme described in and manage human rights risks in our Environment & Communities HSEC the safety section on page 24. supply chain.
Commence implementation of the updated Beating our 2015 target 40 per cent Process safety standard to improve the of graduate gender diversity intake effectiveness and rigour in the with 43 per cent female.
management of process safety risks.
Goals and targets To drive continuous improvement, we have set Group targets for a range of sustainability metrics.
These help us to improve performance and manage risk.
Further information on the risk framework Rio Tinto applies to identify these metrics can be found on pages 14 to 21.
Targets Outcomes in 2015 Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of workplace 4 fatalities at managed operations in 2015. fatalities.
Performance against this goal is measured by the number of fatalities 25 per cent reduction in our AIFR compared with 2014. and a year-on-year improvement in our all injury frequency rate AIFR per 200,000 hours worked.
A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational 78 per cent increase in the rate of new cases of occupational illness illness per 10,000 employees annually.
compared with 2014, due primarily to the change in criteria for noise-induced hearing loss consistent with US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA standards.
All managed operations will have reviewed and increased their focus 96 per cent of managed operations have identified their critical health risks on managing their health risks, through implementation of critical and implemented CCMPs with the remainder on track to do so in 2016. control management plans CCMPs to address their specific material a health risks, by the end of 2015.
Ten per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity We exceeded our target with 21.1 per cent reduction in our total a between 2008 and 2015. greenhouse gas emissions intensity compared with 2008.
All managed operations with material water risk will have achieved 60 per cent of managed operations with a material water risk are on track their approved local water performance targets by 2018. to meet their approved local water performance targets.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that a represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management by 2015.
Women represented 18.1 per cent of our senior management in 2015.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
Women represented 43 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from 33.3 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake were nationals from regions regions where we are developing new businesses.
where we are developing new businesses.
By 2015, all operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly We met our target in 2014, ahead of schedule, and now all operations have reported social performance indicators that demonstrate a positive locally appropriate, publicly reported indicators in place.
contribution to the economic development of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development a Goals.
a The target period is complete.
com 23 Sustainable development continued a Performance data 2011-2015 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Social Fatalities at managed operations from safety incidents 4 2326 Fatalities at managed operations from health incidents 1 All injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.44 0.59 0.65 0.67 0.67 Number of lost time injuries 220 381 500 535 470 Lost time injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours worked 0.25 0.37 0.42 0.37 0.37 New cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees 30 17 16 15 13 b Employees number 55,000 60,000 66,000 71,000 68,000 Environment Greenhouse gas emissions intensity indexed relative to 2008 78.9 81.8 83.2 94.1 95.9 Total energy use petajoules 433 450 484 502 516 Freshwater used billion litres 456 465 436 446 465 Land footprint disturbed square kilometres 3,629 3,592 3,556 3,530 3,485 Land footprint rehabilitated square kilometres 533 502 472 446 422 Direct economic contribution c d Value add US$ million 18,888 29,178 31,818 26,195 38,193 c Payments to suppliers US$ million 17,896 21,370 26,054 30,271 28,444 Community contributions US$ million 184 264 332 291 294 Numbers restated from those originally published to ensure comparability over time.
a Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification processes detect material errors, or if changes are required to ensure comparability over time.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the reporting period are included.
Divested operations are included in data collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
b These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates rounded to the nearest thousand.
c These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
d Value add is the sum of labour, payments to governments and returns on capital invested in operations.
We are building a positive safety vehicle roll-over incident at Zululand Performance data culture, where everyone contributes to Anthracite Colliery in South Africa.
Luc Trudel Our sustainability performance data are reported improving our safety performance and is died due to an equipment incident during for calendar years and, unless stated otherwise, confident to stop work if necessary to ensure it maintenance activities at Rio Tinto Fer et represent 100 per cent of the parameters at each is safe.
Mohamed Lamine Cherif managed operation, even though Rio Tinto may drowned when his vehicle became submerged Our focus on critical risk management CRM is have only partial ownership.
due to a bridge collapse on a public road near part of a broader approach at Rio Tinto to the Simandou project in Guinea.
These are We have incorporated the requirements of the prevent fatalities.
It is based on the successful tragic events that affect families, friends and ten sustainable development principles of the approach implemented at the Escondida copper colleagues.
We provide support and International Council on Mining and Metals mine, in which we are a joint venture partner.
To counselling to those who have lost loved ones ICMM and the mandatory requirements set eliminate workplace fatalities, CRM ensures that and ensure we identify and share the lessons to out in ICMM Position statements into our own critical controls are well designed, understood, be learned from these tragic events.
policies, strategies and standards, and report in in place and working before a job starts.
Thisisthefirst process uses visual icons for easy identification, During2015,  year that we will report in accordance with together with management processes, to verify learning from incidents, based on sharing of GRI G4 guidelines.
that controls for these risks are in place and are practice with leading operators in the mining effective.
CRM is aligned with our safety and oil and gas sectors.
The revised focus on Further information on our data definitions, our standards, which were updated in 2015 to translating lessons learned into frontline GRI G4 report and our alignment with the ICMM ensure they cover all critical risks and reflect application and improvement will help us avoid sustainable development principles and current best practice.
CRM is complemented by repeat incidents in the future.
supporting position statements can be found behavioural safety tools such as safety at: riotinto.
com sd2015 Process safety management is a priority for interactions, pre-start meetings, incident Rio Tinto.
During 2015, we developed a Process Safety investigations and leadership in the field.
safety standard to further strengthen We strive to develop a culture in which Our all injury frequency rate AIFR, which management of process safety risks.
everyone believes all incidents are preventable.
includes data for employees and contractors, was Implementation will begin in 2016.
Our safety strategy focuses on three core 0.44 at the end of 2015.
Over the last five years, areas: fatality elimination, catastrophic event Health we have reduced our AIFR by 34 per cent.
Our prevention and injury reduction.
By identifying lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR, was We aim to eliminate occupational illness and and controlling critical risks, we believe we can 0.25 per 200,000 hours worked in 2015. create workplaces that protect health and achieve our vision of an injury and illness-free promote wellbeing.
We focus on identifying key Despite having a good year in terms of injury workplace where everyone goes home safe and occupational health risks and put in place frequency rate, we have not reached our target healthy each day.
Four people lost their lives wellbeing has a beneficial effect on safety and Strong and engaged leadership is essential to while working at Rio Tinto managed operations productivity as well as families and ourapproach.
Todson Rafaralahiniriko drowned when communities.
visible and passionate champions for safety.
his excavator became submerged in a tailings They accept accountability for the safety of pond due to slope failure at QIT Madagascar We are targeting a year-on-year improvement everyone working in their teams and Minerals.
Themba Thusi was killed due to a in the rate of new cases of occupational illness consistently set high standards through their 24 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS per 10,000 employees.
In 2015, our rate of new of respect, integrity, teamwork and Communities and cases of occupational illness increased by accountability.
This is why we are building a regional development 78 per cent from 2014.
A number of factors workforce that represents the diversity of the We strive to build relationships with our host have contributed to this increase, including the many countries where we operate.
Our global communities based on trust and mutual change to the US OSHA reporting criteria for code of business conduct, The way we work, respect.
We engage with them to understand noise-induced hearing loss: better awareness sets out the principles that are the foundation the social, environmental and economic of surveillance and reporting requirements: and of our business.
implications of our activities, to minimise an improving health management culture.
The In 2015, we employed 55,000 people, including negative impacts and bring shared value to the main types of occupational illnesses recorded  places where we work.
are related to noise-induced hearing loss associates.
Of these, approximately 29,000 were 42 per cent, stress 26 per cent and Our Communities and Social Performance located in Australasia, 15,000 in North America, musculo-skeletal disorders 24 per cent.
CSP framework is the basis on which we build 7,000 in Africa, 3,000 in Europe, and 1,000 in knowledge, engage with communities and Because occupational risks vary by operation, Central and South America.
See page 196 for a develop programmes that reflect their our health programmes consider local factors breakdown of employees by business units.
We use it to identify and manage affecting people at work.
To help our We employ on the basis of job requirements social risks, and build relationships that secure businesses focus on the right issues and and do not discriminate on grounds of age, community support for our work.
In 2015 we mitigate significant workplace health risks, our ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual updated our CSP standard to reflect new Group Group target was for all managed operations to orientation, politics, religion, disability or any commitments and changes in external CSP have reviewed and increased their focus on other status.
We do not employ forced, bonded global performance practices and principles.
managing their health risks, through or child labour.
We recognise the right of all The updated standard responds to the Groups implementation of critical control management employees to choose to belong to a union and material and strategic risks by focusing on plans CCMPs that address their specific seek to bargain collectively.
We employ people achieving community approval and land access, material health risks by 2015.
By the end of the with disabilities and make considerable efforts increasing partnerships and minimising 2013-2015 target period, we fell just short of to offer suitable alternative employment and communities incidents.
meeting our target for 100 per cent of our retraining to employees who become disabled managed operations to have achieved this.
During 2015 we worked with the University of and can no longer perform their regular duties.
Work under way in the remaining four per cent Queensland to compile an additional CSP of businesses will see this target achieved in Throughout 2015, we remained one of the guide.
The logical extension of our focus to date largest private sector employers of Indigenous practices related to community agreements, is to ensure these CCMPs are effective in Australians, with over 1,500 full time enabling sharing of best practices with others.
managing each sites health risks and are Indigenous employees who represented It will be published in early 2016. meeting targets set within individual site plans.
approximately 7.3 per cent of our Australian During 2015, our business contributed to From 2016 we will report the number of workforce.
In addition to our permanent approximately 1,800 socioeconomic businesses achieving this.
Indigenous workforce, additional Indigenous programmes covering a wide range of activities contractors also worked on our Australian mine In 2015, we updated our health standards and such as health, education, environmental sites.
Our local employment commitments are guidance documents to incorporate protection, housing, agricultural and business often managed through directly negotiated contemporary knowledge and practice for development.
In 2015, we spent US$184 million agreements with Traditional Owners.
managing health risks in a consistent way.
on these community contribution programmes.
, wegrowand There was a decrease in overall community Fatigue is a critical risk that we continue to take develop through diversity and inclusive contributions of 30 per cent compared with active steps to tackle, and we are further practices.
This result reflects a reduction in overall strengthening our mental health programme.
cent female: 40: male: 53 of our graduate business unit expenditure in prevailing market In2015,  intake, 25 per cent female: 3: male: 9 of the conditions.
This includes reduced agreement help people share best practices in both areas board, 18.1 per cent female: 108: male: 490 related payments arising from lower production and, inthecaseoffatigue, learnfromincidents.
of our senior management, and 18.5 per cent and less land disturbance.
1 We successfully responded to the 2014 Ebola female: 9,237: male: 40,818 of our total Having fully achieved our previous outbreak in partnership with the Government of workforce.
33.3 per cent of our graduate intake Communities target a year ahead of plan, we Guinea, World Health Organization and other in 2015 comprised nationals from regions have now reset our target to better reflect local international organisations.
We remain where we are developing new businesses.
Our conditions and community needs.
Starting from committed to supporting our local employees continued focus on graduates as a future talent 2016, our new Group target requires all and communities to control this deadly disease.
pipeline has seen us exceed our target for operations to report locally each year on how 2015.
Further information on inclusion and In 2015, we began an epidemiological study of they are building economic capacity through diversity can be found in the Corporate  local employment and procurement, and to governance section on page 63.
Namibia, which is being carried out by capture, manage and reduce the number of independent experts from the University of To meet employees expectations and keep community complaints.
The final results will be published them informed of Group updates, news and In 2015, we worked with our US and Canadian in a peer-reviewed journal and our own announcements we use a number of operations to increase regional economic communication channels.
communication tools including myRioTinto, an development by building strong relationships employee portal dedicated to their People with local suppliers and strengthening our local employment needs.
We also signed a We accomplish more through collaboration, 1 Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on communities agreement at our Oyu Tolgoi treating each other fairly and living our values managed operations excludes non-managed operations mine, where we work in partnership with the and joint ventures as of 31 December 2015.
Less than one per cent of the workforce gender is undeclared.
local Soum leadership and communities, and invest significantly in early education and youth programmes.
com 25 Sustainable development continued On 3 July 2015, Rio Tinto proudly announced We have had a long-term public position We use our annual assessment of performance its support for the Recognise campaign to statement on climate change which can be against the targets to focus attention and effort recognise Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander found on our website.
This describes how we on those sites and businesses that need support peoples in Australias Constitution.
When considering the to improve their water management performance.
long-term future of our business including the Waste Environment economic viability of our existing ore reserves, Effective waste management practices are the strategic focus of our exploration activity Climate change and energy critical to protecting the environment and and the evaluation of new capital investment In 2008 we set a target of ten per cent reducing liabilities and long-term risks.
We we consider a range of scenarios for carbon reduction in total greenhouse gas GHG characterise our waste, predict how it will regulation and carbon pricing.
behave over the long term, carry out to a range of outcomes for atmospheric We have exceeded this target and reduced our monitoring and where waste is managed on concentration of greenhouse gases and total GHG emissions intensity by 21.1 per cent site, close our facilities responsibly.
We factor the scenarios compared with 2008.
This represents a directly into the economics of capital During our mining and processing operations, reduction in our total GHG emissions of investment decisions, including through we generate both non-mineral and mineral 18.1 million tonnes of carbon dioxide projections of carbon prices in different waste.
Non-mineral waste includes used oil, equivalent COe over the same period.
We also look at the long-term tyres, batteries and office waste, as well as have extended our GHG emission intensity resilience of our business to carbon regulation.
more specialised waste streams such as spent target period to 2020.
The new target is for a Information published both in this Annual report pot liners from aluminium smelters.
24 per cent reduction in emissions intensity and our sustainable development report on our from our 2008 baseline.
Mineral wastes include waste rock, tailings and website describes this work in more detail.
Waste rock is composed of rock that has Our climate change programme focuses on Water uneconomic mineral content and must be reducing the energy intensity of our operations, We use water at every stage of the business removed to access ore during mining.
Tailings as well as the carbon intensity of our energy.
and acknowledge our role in using it are finely ground rock that remains after the Our total GHG emissions were 31.3 million responsibly.
Each of our operations has its own minerals of economic interest have been tonnes of COe in 2015, 2.5 million tonnes 2 set of water risks and opportunities: some removed from ore. Slag is generated in lower than in 2014. operations are located in water-scarce smelting operations and is a glassy material Our business is inherently energy intensive.
The environments, while others must manage that remains after metals have been separated majority of our GHG emissions are generated as intense periods of rainfall during tropical and during the smelting process.
a result of energy use electricity, fuel and subtropical wet seasons.
A number of sites Acid and metalliferous drainage AMD from chemical processes anodes and reductants manage impacts from mine dewatering reactive mineral waste is one of the most during mining, milling and smelting activities at including aquifer drawdown and excess water significant long-term environmental risks for our sites.
The majority 67 per cent of the disposal.
Most sites must manage the quality the mining industry.
It is created when rocks electricity we use is from hydro, wind and solar of water we use and return to the environment, that contain naturally occurring sulphide or power.
In 2015 we commissioned a 1.7MW and all sites are experiencing some change in other reactive minerals are disturbed and hybrid photovoltaic diesel solar project to  exposed to air and water.
To prevent or supply power to our mining operations at weather patterns.
minimise potential AMD environmental Weipa.
This is the first time a remote operation We take a risk-based approach in managing impacts, we evaluate the risks and provide has been supplied with power from solar water, analysing the impact of our operations controls at all stages of the mining process.
on local water resources and water-dependent We have mineral waste management and Transportation, processing and use of our ecosystems and the degree to which water disposal programmes and regularly seek products also contribute significantly to GHG supply and discharge capacity affect our ability independent, external review of our site-level emissions.
In 2015, the three most significant to run our operations.
We track and respond to strategies and performance.
We support sources of indirect emissions associated with risks arising from increasing stringency of responsible management of mineral waste at our products were: environmental regulation.
non-managed operations by participating in Approximately 5.6 million tonnes of COe 2 The Group water target requires that by 2018, technical committees and sharing good practice.
associated with third party transport of our all managed operations with material water risk In 2015, we disposed of or stored 1,740 million products and raw materials.
will have reviewed and improved their tonnes of mineral waste predominantly waste An estimated 118 million tonnes of COe 2 management of these material water risks, and rock and tailings and 286,837 tonnes of nonassociated with customers using our coal in will have achieved their approved local water mineral waste.
electricity generation and steel production.
Approximately 509 million tonnes of COe Management of tailings and water storage 2  associated with customers using our iron facilities risk where there is potential for a high or ore to produce steel these emissions are Rio Tinto operates tailings and large water critical impact on the environment, not all in addition to the coal-use emissions storage facilities on 29 sites across the Group production, community, compliance or above, as some customers use both our iron and has five facilities in closure.
Local water performance targets ore and our coal to produce steel.
over these mineral waste storage facilities has cover three areas: water supply, ecological long been a focus of Rio Tintos Health, Safety, Carbon policy and regulation have the potential impacts, and surplus water management.
In August 2015, to affect our businesses in the short and long Each site has a target that is appropriate to its Rio Tinto implemented an updated standard, term.
We monitor both national and specific operational circumstances.
Management of tailings and water storage international climate and energy policy At the end of 2015, 60 per cent of managed facilities, to further strengthen our developments and participate in selected operations with material water risks were on management at these facilities beyond what industry organisations to advocate for efficient track to meet their approved local water was already required by the prior standards.
The remaining The standard specifies risk control for sites are progressing with action plans to planning and design, implementation and address these targets.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND OPERATIONS operation, monitoring and inspection, and Globally, the Groups direct economic The largest of these, the multidisciplinary disaster management.
contribution was US$37 billion in 2015.
Technical Committee enables discussion of This includes: Joint venture activities such as environmental Rio Tinto will participate in the ICMM review of management, orebody knowledge, project tailings dam management amongst its US$19 billion in value add, made up of execution, worker health and safety, member companies, sharing our practices, payments to employees, payments to communities, mine planning, processing and protocols and assurance processes.
governments and returns to capital.
 US$18 billion as payments to suppliers.
anticipated to be announced in the second Rio Tinto is represented by a senior These figures presented here include the quarter of 2016. environmental manager on the PTFI Tailings Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
Management board, which meets twice a year Closure at Grasberg and includes third-party experts.
Details of the payments to governments will be Careful planning throughout the life of our published in our Taxes paid in 2015 report, which Tragically, there were two fatalities at PTFI in operations, and ongoing consultation with local will be made available on the Groups website.
2015: stakeholders and regulators, will make a worker caught between a light vehicle and a significant difference to closure outcomes.
It Non-managed operations and joint ventures building and one involving a worker entangled minimises the social and economic impact on Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and joint with a tail pulley on a conveyor belt.
When local communities and the surrounding region ventures that it does not manage, the two requested,  and helps identify possible post-operational largest being the Escondida copper mine in team in the investigations and in the .
Weestablishclosure Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold mine in post-investigation lesson implementation to objectives, including final land forms, well in Indonesia.
We actively engage with our help avoid a repeat of these accidents.
advance of closure, and increase oversight of partners around sustainable development sites if they are nearing the end of mine life, through formal governance structures and Governance with particular focus on sites that are less than technical exchanges.
In this way we endeavour ten years from closure.
Business integrity to ensure that the principles in The way we We operate within all relevant laws and work are respected at all times and encourage We aim to progressively rehabilitate land as we  our partners to embed a strong safety and operate at a mine site.
We test and confirm transparent dealings with our stakeholders.
security culture in their workforces.
rehabilitation methodologies, control dust and Acting with integrity and being accountable for erosion, and meet regulatory requirements.
In Escondida our actions are the foundations on which we do 2015, 26 per cent of our disturbed land Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in business.
 excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity Escondida, which is managed by BHP Billiton.
reflect who we are and what we stand for.
Our seats on the Owners Council enables us to The key principles that guide our behaviour are provide regular input on strategic and policy We collaborate with and listen to our embodied in The way we work, which helps us matters.
Sadly, there was one BHP Billiton stakeholders to identify options for postlive our company values of respect, integrity, Major Projects-related fatality in 2015 involving closure land uses.
We have found that by teamwork and accountability.
It helps us a vehicle collision.
A bus transporting working with local communities including maintain the highest ethical standard of contractors from La Calera was involved in a traditional landowners, governments, and behaviour that earns the trust of others.
crash with a truck on a main highway.
The bus employees and through careful driver subsequently died from his injuries.
management, we can apply innovative In 2015 we updated The way we work to solutions in some instances to transform sites make it clearer and to link it directly with Construction of the Escondida Water Supply into community assets.
seawater desalination project progressed well in 2015.
Initial start-up of the desalination Environmental regulation To ensure our integrity and compliance plant is expected in late 2016, and when fully Along with our own internal standards, we are programme remains aligned with the operational in 2017 it will significantly subject to various environmental regulations risk-based approach included in our Business decrease the demand on groundwater from and are required to disclose Group-level integrity standard, we improved our guidelines operations at Escondida.
Further for assessing business integrity risks, making it information on the Groups environmental easier for the business to consider these risks Grasberg regulation is included in the Directors report as part of their overall risk analysis framework.
PT Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of on page 49.
We regularly review and refresh our training Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, Inc. owns material and methods of delivery to ensure and operates the Grasberg mine in Papua, Economic they remain relevant to the risks that Indonesia.
 employees encounter in their jobs.
Economic contributions attributable to the 1995 mine expansion, which entitles Rio Tinto to a 40 per cent share of Our operations can have a substantial impact Speak-OUT, the Groups confidential and production above specified levels until the end on the regions and countries in which we  whistleblowing of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production after operate through our tax payments to local and programme, enables employees to report 2021.
 national governments, the direct and indirect anonymously, subject to local law, any forums: the Operating, Technical, Exploration employment we generate and our community significant concerns about the business, or and Sustainable Development committees and programmes.
We are committed to ensuring behaviour of individuals.
our impact is sustainable long after mining suspicion around safety violations, operations have ceased.
environmental procedures, human rights, financial reporting, or business integrity issues We ensure that the benefits of mining flow in general.
We are committed to a culture of through to host communities transparency and encourage employees to and governments.
We do this by being speak up about their issues and concerns, transparent in the payments we make and by whether through their management, human striving to provide local employment and resources, or through Speak-OUT.
com 27 Sustainable development continued In 2015, 600 Speak-OUT reports were made, To avoid our involvement in human rights harm Under our Communities standard, all sites representing an increase of approximately through a third party we work with business must have a complaints, disputes and two per cent on last year.
Given the reduction partners to manage human rights risks and to grievance mechanism in place, in line with the in overall headcount, this report volume promote human rights.
The way we work and UNGPs effectiveness criteria for such represents an average incident rate of our Procurement principles apply to suppliers mechanisms.
The Sustainability Committee 10.7 per 1,000 employees up from 9.7 in and contractors working with Rio Tinto or on its reviews any human rights complaints received 2014.
We believe this trend reflects both behalf.
The principles reiterate that we oppose through Speak-OUT.
increased trust in the process and restructuring and prohibit forced, bonded or child labour.
We respect the land connection of Indigenous within the Group as a whole.
Twenty eight per They specify that suppliers should maintain communities and seek mutually beneficial cent of cases raised were substantiated, human rights policies and have a process to agreement with affected communities in the resulting in corrective and preventative actions.
development and performance of our We issue information in a timely way on the Web-based human rights training is available for operations.
, prior Groups operational, financial and sustainable all employees.
Approximately 2,100 employees and informed consent of Indigenous development performance through a number have completed online human rights training communities as defined in the 2012 of channels, such as media releases and since its inception in 2013.
We are refreshing our International Finance Corporation Performance regulatory filings.
We communicate views to online training to help our employees identify Standard 7 and the 2013 ICMM Position governments and others on matters affecting and manage human rights risks.
Statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining.
We seek consent as defined in relevant Rio Tinto has made voluntary commitments to jurisdictions, and ensure agreement-making Human rights the Organisation for Economic Co-operation processes are consistent with such definitions.
and Development OECD Guidelines for Our human rights approach is founded in The Multinational Enterprises, UN Global Compact Assurance way we work and in our human rights policy.
and the Voluntary Principles on Security and We respect and support human rights We engaged an independent external Human Rights VPSHR.
We provide training for wherever we operate, consistent with the assurance organisation, security personnel and conduct security and Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Our , to provide the human rights analysis in support of our security approach is consistent with the UN Guiding directors of Rio Tinto with assurance on arrangements.
Our online VPSHR training is Principles on Business and Human Rights selected sustainable development subject mandatory for all security personnel at highUNGPs.
In implementing our policies, we are matters, as explained on the next page.
risk sites and is strongly recommended for all subject to local laws and where our policies and  assurance other Rio Tinto businesses.
In 2015 we , weoperateto statement satisfies the requirements conducted VPSHR and Use of Force training for these standards.
of subject matters 1 to 4 of the security providers at five of our businesses in Our Human rights policy, which reaffirms our ICMM assurance procedure.
Mongolia, South Africa, Jamaica and Guinea.
commitment to respecting human rights was Further information on external auditors and In 2015, we completed a Group level review of updated in 2015.
This is supplemented by internal assurance is included in the Directors the Security and Human rights framework.
internal guidance documentation which report under the Corporate governance section Overall findings indicate that the framework supports our employees to implement the on pages 60 and 66. and its internal controls were operating policy in practice.
effectively and providing support to achieve our In line with the human rights due diligence business objectives.
process in the UNGPs, we embed human rights across the business and integrate human rights considerations into existing corporate processes including supplier due diligence, social and environmental risk analysis, impact assessment and complaints handling.
We also conduct standalone human rights studies and programmes in high-risk sites if necessary.
