Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Corporate responsibility Our people Employee bene ts Our people are our most highly valued asset, they are critical Whilst we believe that that being a great place to work helps to our success and growth and we are proud of the mixture us attract the best talent we also reward our employees with of talent and experience they bring.
Our open and honest a range of additional bene ts.
cultural style comes from our people and the environment Rightmove contributes towards a group stakeholder we have created together.
Opt out rates continue to be low and currently We strive to make Rightmove a great place to work and 91% of employees are members of the pension plan.
We also this enables us to attract and retain the best talent and provide offer private healthcare complimented by a cash plan scheme the best service for both our customers and consumers.
We want our people to directly bene t from the success Recruitment their talent and hard work brings to Rightmove.
All employees Recruiting the right talent continues to be an important part can join the Groups Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, of our ability to drive growth.
The tightening job market, which allows employees to save money from their salary with particularly in technology skills makes our working environment the option to purchase shares at a discount after three years.
and bene ts ever more important in attracting the right people.
In November 2015, the Groups seventh Sharesave contract Referrals from existing employees are a valuable source of matured allowing employees to bene t from the continued new recruits, typically ensuring a higher quality candidate with success of the Group over the last three years.
65% of our a better cultural t. 20% of new employees in 2015 were employees currently participate in the Sharesave.
introduced to Rightmove by an existing employee.
In January 2015 we made a free share award of 100 This year we partnered with MK College and the University shares to all qualifying employees through the Rightmove of Bedford to offer paid internships to design graduates for Share Incentive Plan.
In December 2015 we communicated to up to six months to provide graduates with valuable work all employees that we were making a further free share award experience when looking for their first job.
This has proved to of 50 shares to all qualifying employees in January 2016. be a most successful partnership and Rightmove are looking We also offer exible working arrangements, supporting to extend this into other areas of the business in 2016. part time working and reduced hours to allow our employees High quality recruiting is supported by long-term to balance their work and family commitments.
We are proud to now have 40 people who have celebrated ten or more years Engagement service, which represents 10% of our employees and which We encourage employees involvement and place emphasis we believe backs our impressive people survey results.
on keeping employees informed of the Groups activities via townhalls and business performance updates with senior People development and training management and quarterly sales conferences.
In 2015 to To foster our culture of highly connected and empowered celebrate our 15th birthday, Rightmove brought the whole employees every new employee attends two of ce based Group together for camping, team building and our annual How Rightmove ts together days to introduce them to the summer party.
They also attend Nexton, an During 2015, our employee recognition scheme, which is off-site residential experience to introduce them to our culture based around the Rightmove behaviours which re ect our and values.
unique blend of values and ways of working and which is an Beyond induction, Rightmove is committed to investing in opportunity to nominate colleagues who have demonstrated our employees through extensive training and leadership these behaviours in action, continued to prove popular with programmes that are designed to equip them with the necessary up to eight awards presented every two months at our skills to perform to the best of their ability and provide the best townhalls.
possible service to our customers and consumers.
We have also developed a suite of internal development courses for our employees covering both technical and non-technical skills to further invest in our people and in recognition of the bene t in providing continual professional and personal development for Rightmovers.
Rightmove plc annual report 2015 19 building great teams We continue to build great teams and make Rightmove a great place to work.
a great place to work In our 2015 Have Your Say people survey, again over 90% of respondents think Rightmove is a great place to work.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued As it is important to us to know what our employees think The Board continues to focus on the next level of senior and having received such valuable feedback in the past, management in order to develop potential within this team to we conduct an annual Have your Say people survey.
step up to Board level at the appropriate time and to identify Again in 2015 we are proud of our outstanding results and develop potential within the wider organisation with a view from the survey with highlights including: to strengthening the female representation within the senior management team.
In 2015, 24% 2014: 28% of our senior 91% of respondents saying Rightmove is a great management team were female.
place to work: A breakdown by gender of the number of persons who 96% of respondents committed to making a real were directors of Rightmove, senior managers and other contribution to the success of Rightmove: and employees as at 31 December 2015, is set out below: 92% of respondents enjoy working in their team.
Human rights Despite the outstanding results from the survey, the Whilst Rightmove does not have a speci c human rights management team is working hard to improve the results policy, it does have policies such as Equal Opportunities and in 2016.
To recognise the importance of employees in the an Anti-bribery policy that adhere to internationally proclaimed continuing success of Rightmove an employee engagement human rights principles.
There is also a gifts and hospitality score will form part of the senior management bonus criteria policy and an online register to record all gifts and hospitality in 2016. that are accepted by employees.
Equality and diversity Charitable activity Rightmove has a rm commitment to equality of opportunity in We continue to encourage all our employees to devote time all our employment policies, practices and procedures.
Our and fundraising efforts to charitable causes that are of recruitment and selection processes are geared to selecting particular importance to them as individuals.
During 2015, the best candidate regardless of their age, gender, sexuality, many of our staff have been active in raising money or full or part time status, disability and marital status.
supporting fundraising activities across a wide range of We recognise that a diverse workforce will provide a wide charities for which Rightmove matches the donations raised.
array of perspectives that promotes innovation and business In 2015 we contributed 56,000 to UK charities through success.
Drawing on what is unique about individuals adds matched funding.
Our employees are also able to donate value to the way we do business and helps us anticipate and directly from their monthly salary to any charity or recognised provide what our customers want from us.
good cause registered within the UK through the Charities For the year ended 31 December 2015, one out of three Trust.
This provides a tax ef cient means of giving.
Our female representation on the Board is 25%, with two out of eight Board directors being female.
All Rightmove Directors Senior management employees 4 2 213 222 6 13 Male Female Male Female Male Female Rightmove plc annual report 2015 21 Strategic report | Corporate responsibility continued In 2015, we contributed 41,000 to support customer We encourage our employees to use alternatives to car travel, initiatives via Agents Giving, where we will contribute to the by promoting the use of public transport in particular when costs of the setting up of a charitable activity carried out by travelling between our two of ce locations and by our customers, for example, paying for the kit to be used at encouraging participation in our Cycle to Work scheme.
This allows for more of the money In 2015, our fuel card provider, Allstar, partnered with raised by our customers to go directly to the charity through a Forest Carbon to capture the CO emissions from our eet of 2 charitable sponsorship fund we set up in 2014 in conjunction company cars and turn it into new UK woodlands, under the with Agents Giving.
In 2015, the fundraising activities by our Allstar Ecopoint scheme.
We pay an amount per month per customers that we have supported will raise nearly 500,000 car to capture all of the CO from each vehicle and with that 2 for UK charities.
Forest Carbon plant woodlands that are quality assured by the Governments Woodland Carbon Code to offset the Environment emissions from each vehicle.
We are provided an e-certi cate Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact and we annually which shows us how many trees have been planted are conscious of playing our part in tackling climate change.
for us, as well as their location and how much CO they are 2 Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the expected to capture.
environmental damage that goes with it.
Rightmove takes As an online business, our culture emphasises a paperless care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities do total number of pages that need to be printed out in those not stop with how we operate internally: we encourage all cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
our customers, business partners and suppliers not to Enhanced information on properties also reduces the unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the signature of amount of time home hunters waste in visiting properties that all our emails.
We also continue to focus on streamlining rapidly turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion of processes and replacing paper-based services with online viewings involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted services and communications, wherever possible.
Steps viewings has an environmental bene t. Rightmove has worked introduced in recent years include e-communications to hard to increase the number and size of photographs of each shareholders and online customer membership forms and property, improved the size and added functionality to product documentation.
property oor plans and has introduced more comprehensive map searches and aerial photographs which help home Greenhouse gas reporting hunters to identify the speci c location of a property.
Since 1 October 2013, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Rightmove has added information on which schools are Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 has required closest to the properties listed and the broadband speed all UK quoted companies to report on their greenhouse gas for the area, all of which combined, provides high quality GHG emissions, which are classi ed as either direct or indirect information about properties to reduce the carbon footprint and which are divided further into Scope 1, Scope 2 and generated by prospective buyers making wasted journeys.
co. uk website includes functionality for our Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources that are customers to display Energy Performance Certi cates which owned or controlled by Rightmove.
Indirect GHG emissions allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy ef ciency of are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the a property they are considering buying, and to identify Group but that occur at sources owned or controlled by opportunities to improve the energy ef ciency once they other entities.
As an internet-based Group with most staff employed in Scope 1 emissions: Direct emissions controlled by the two of ce locations, we believe our own environmental Group arising from company cars.
Whilst the cars are leased, footprint is small.
We encourage our staff to take steps to we are responsible for the emissions and therefore we report address our environmental responsibilities.
For instance, these under Scope 1. we continue to operate recycling schemes which were established in consultation with local authorities and recycling Scope 2 emissions: Indirect emissions attributable to the partners.
All waste bins were removed from the desks in our Group due to its consumption of purchased electricity.
London and Milton Keynes of ces, which encourages and increases the amount of recycling we do.
Scope 3 emissions: Other indirect emissions associated As an operator of an online property portal, the main with activities that support or supply the Groups operations.
environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
We include emissions arising from our third-party-run Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the data centres.
best computational performance which uses the least electrical power.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Group is required to report Scope 1 and 2 emissions for Methodology its reporting year to 31 December 2015.
Scope 3 is not yet We have reported on all of the emission sources required under mandatory, however, the Group has again chosen to report the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Scope 3 emissions as it relates to electricity used in data Report Regulations 2013.
We have used the GHGs Protocols centres, in which the Group rents space to house and operate Operational Control consolidation method.
We do not have various servers, which host our website platforms.
responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in the above information.
Rightmove emissions by Scope 1 1 Health and safety Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 Scope Source 2015 2014 The Group considers the effective management of health and safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
During Scope 1 Company cars 492 510 2015, we continued our re safety, first aid and work-place Scope 2 Electricity 342 317 safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy on health and safety Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 221 243 is to provide adequate control of the health and safety risks Total 1,055 1,070 arising from work activities, through further consultation with, and training of, employees, the provision and maintenance of 1 UK emissions factors have been used for all data.
All emission factors have plant and equipment, safe handling and use of all substances been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by and the prevention of accidents and causes of ill health.
Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity metric, which will enable the Group to monitor how well we are controlling emissions on an annual basis, independent of uctuations in the levels of their activity.
As Rightmove is a people business, the most suitable metric is Emissions per Employee, based on the average number of employees during the year.
The Groups emissions per employee are shown in the table below.
Emissions per employee 1 1 Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 per employee per employee Scope Source 2015 2014 Scope 1 Company cars 1.2 1.3 Scope 2 Electricity 0.8 0.8 Scope 3 Outsourced data centres 0.6 0.6 Total 2.6 2.7 1 Based on 412 2014: 388 employees taken as the average number of employees in the Group throughout the year.
Emissions per employee remain broadly the same year on year.
We will continue to monitor and look for ways to improve energy ef ciency.
In January 2016, we submitted our first Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme ESOS report, a mandatory energy assessment introduced by the Government in 2015.
The report has highlighted only one area for improvement and minor potential savings in relation to sub-metering of our of ce air conditioning units.
