Directors Report Committee reports Safety & Ethics Committee At a glance Area of focus Matters considered Outcome Product safety incidents in service and the Groups response.
Satisfactory response to incidents and support to investigations.
Product safety Review of product safety policy, assurance framework and safety The framework and systems are robust and provide appropriate management systems including in Marine and Power Systems.
Review of product safety learning and development framework.
Widely deployed training across the Group, tailored to different categories of employees depending on role.
Review of HS&E risk profile and learning from incidents.
Satisfactory process to contain and mitigate against future HS&E emergence of risks, including communication of learning points.
Review of HS&E governance and accountability framework, Model remains satisfactory and was strengthened in the nonlearning and development programme and communications.
aerospace businesses during the year.
Review of global HS&E improvement programmes.
Plans to improve rating in Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Target exceeded and achieved sector Industry Leader.
Sustainability Monitoring of ethics and compliance improvement programme.
Significant progress made in implementing the Groups plans, Ethics and including Lord Golds recommendations.
compliance Monitoring deployment of ABC policies and use of advisers.
Good progress and significant decrease in advisers.
The committee considered the Groups product portfolio in offshore Principal risks marine applications.
We discussed with management the potential safety risk and associated liabilities were the Group in future to be The Board has allocated responsibility to the committee for requested to provide dynamic positioning equipment or systems reviewing the principal risks of product failure and compliance.
fordrill rigs and work-over vessels.
The Group does not presently These topics form a core part of discussions at our meetings, as provide any such equipment for these specific applications.
However described in more detail in the remainder of this committee report.
this resulted in management reviewing its processes for ensuring that novel products, and novel applications of existing products, Product safety cannot be introduced without being the subject of a rigorous safety assessment and a suitability and performance review.
The Group recognises that its products are mission critical toits customers, and the people its customers serve, all over the world.
Throughout the year, the committee received detailed briefings AsRolls-Royce products become increasingly technologically inrelation to elements of the product safety assurance framework advanced, they are expected to always be reliable and safe whenever and safety management system outlined on the following page.
they are used, often in harsh operating environments.
Our This included a review of how the Group is managing product safety commitment to meet this expectation is essential to the Groups assurance while major updates to the engineering processes in the business, its reputation and its sustainability.
As a committee we Groups quality system are being implemented.
draw on our collective industry and regulatory experience to oversee We spent time during 2015 gaining a more detailed understanding the Groups work in achieving this.
of product safety management in the Marine and Power Systems Throughout the year, we were kept regularly updated on aviation businesses.
The committee was assured that progress is being made product-related safety incidents in service and considered the in deploying many of the rigorous safety methodologies used in potential impact on the Group and its products.
We also oversaw aerospace to the Marine business in order to align the Groups the Groups response to a marine equipment product issue.
Power Systems operates its own mature work in reviewing incidents in service involved: monitoring product safety assurance system to comparable standards.
Further managements progress in root cause identification: being briefed shared learning and closer alignment are planned for the future.
on the development and deployment of technical solutions To maintain the highest standards of product safety requires that required: testing the Groups approach inengaging with affected engineering tasks are carried out only by those with a suitable level operators: and overseeing plans for thetimely mitigation and of competence.
During the year, the committee assessed the Groups retirement of any safety risk including through the application of product safety learning and development framework as it applies lessons learned back into product design.
Thecommittee was todifferent categories of employees depending upon their roles.
satisfied with the Groups response in swiftly deploying its safety Toexperience training first-hand, the committee members assessment process to mitigate, control and monitor any potential undertook an employee product safety training module.
product safety risks as they emerged.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 99 Directors Report Committee reports Safety & Ethics Committee SAFETY & ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Product safety policy Safety management system The Groups product safety policy sets out the internal standards In order to help the organisation to follow these five principles that we expect to be met across the Group, through the following and meet the required standards through operational processes, five governing principles: the Group maintains a product safety management system SMS.
During 2015, it was agreed to develop the SMS manual further to clarify how accountability for product safety, in particular the 1.
Leadership Our leaders champion product safety and commitment conforming product element, flows through the organisation: prioritise it so that safety-related tasks receive and and to define the role of Quality and Safety Assurance Boards the right level of attention, time and resource.
accountability inidentifying and addressing causes of non-conformance.
We make accountability for product safety clear and ensure people understand what they The Groups engineering and safety processes must work together are accountable for.
closely in order to ensure that we efficiently produce safe designs for our products.
Safety assessments are undertaken in support 2.
Level of We design our products to achieve a high level of the design of all Rolls-Royce products and during in-service product of safety consistent with their application, operation to support the response to arising safety issues.
safety always ensuring that we meet or better the Thetest applied to all product safety risks is that they are both relevant Group, legal, regulatory and industry tolerable and as low as reasonably practicable.
We assess what potentially those that satisfy all relevant targets.
The targets are set internally could go wrong and put in place controls to by the Group and externally by customers and regulators.
meet the required safety levels, thereby The safety assessment process that has been developed is based reducing safety risks as far as is reasonably upon a standard industry approach as follows: practicable.
Maintaining We are committed to the continuous Safety assessment and improvement ofproduct safety and actively improving engage in setting industry standards and good product practice.
We continually measure our safety performance and rigorously investigate and resolve safety-related issues, systematically embedding the learning from these back into IDENTIFY AND our practices and processes.
Everyone is ASSESS THE encouraged to report any product safety HAZARDS concerns.
Conforming Robust quality is an essential building block of product product safety and by following our processes we can ensure that our products and those of REVIEW AND our suppliers conform to specification.
MITIGATE MONITOR THE THE RISKS RISKS 5.
Safety Everyone who works in the Group shares awareness responsibility for product safety and we are and mindful of the safety implications of our competence actions.
Training is provided to ensure a clear understanding of the product safety policy and CONTROL THE processes.
There is a collective and personal REMAINING RISK responsibility accepted by all.
The product safety policy is subject to annual review by both the Group product safety review board and the committee.
No significant policy weakness or omission was identified during the period of review.
100 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Safety & Ethics Committee The committee reviewed the overall HS&E learning and development Health, safety and the environment HS&E programme and discussed how HS&E culture can be promoted and strengthened.
The HS&E communications plan and initiatives were During the year, we receive a number of briefings and presentations discussed, including the regular inclusion of HS&Emoments at team as part of an annual agreed cycle of HS&E topics.
This enables meetings including the ELT, promotion ofHS&E walks and talks, and oversight, discussion and year-on-year monitoring of the Groups the HS&E Week held Group-wide in October 2015.
In September 2015, progress on key aspects of its HS&E management and assurance.
the committee undertook an HS&E walk with members of management At each meeting, the committee receives HS&E performance at operational facilities in Derby, UK.
reports and a balanced scorecard showing performance trends against the objectives of protecting health, preventing injury and The committee received a presentation on the Groups environmental reducing environmental impact.
Overall, in 2015, this showed strategy, centred around efficient products, advanced technology improvement inall areas except personal safety.
Areas for for future low emission products, and reducing the environmental improvement were identified.
The model for governance of environmental aspects of the Groups The committee also oversees the learning from incidents process that business, product and operational strategies was also reviewed.
examines root causes of significant and major incidents and defines This includes support provided to the management by an measures to mitigate against the risk of similar incidents.
InJuly 2015, Environmental Advisory Board whose members and supporting we were saddened to learn that acontractor working in Italy had died project teams are respected authorities intheir fields drawn from from an electric shock at a customer site.
Adetailed investigation was academia and external organisations.
conducted and a Group-wide HS&E bulletin was issued to share lessons learned and to stipulate actions needed to prevent any similar incident.
Sustainability The Group also suffered two dust fires during the year at one of its facilities in Hucknall, UK.
Whilst these were contained and no-one was The committee oversees and helps guide the Groups approach to injured, again the lessons learned were promptly shared and steps sustainability, as well as monitoring progress towards goals in this taken to mitigate against any re-occurrence at other Groupsites.
In 2015, we discussed how sustainability can be used as We conducted an annual review of HS&E governance and adriver of value creation.
To support this, the Group has been concluded that this remained satisfactory, noting that it had been focusing in the year on reducing what it uses, re-using waste strengthened during the year to include a rolling calendar of material, and recycling end-of-life products.
The committee also examined the HS&E We were delighted that, in September 2015, Rolls-Royce achieved Group risk profile which had been adapted during the year, and Industry Leader for the Aerospace and Defense sector in the Dow Jones received assurance on the steps taken to contain known issues and Sustainability Index.
This marked a significant 17% improvement to mitigate against the effects of future emergingrisks.
In December since 2014 reflecting the Groups progress across sustainability and 2015, we endorsed the adoption of a revised Group HS&E policy.
All scores were well above the The Groups HS&E experts gave progress updates to the committee industry average for all sections.
Of particular note to the committee during the year on the key HS&E improvement programmes: was that the Group achieved industry best scores for product stewardship, corporate citizenship and philanthropy, as well as the the process safety management programme is driving environmental and social dimensions as a whole.
You can read more improvements in the management of high hazard processes, about the Groups approach to sustainability on pages 48 to 51. including relating to chemicals: the electrical safety programme has successfully raised the level of electrical safety management and control across the Group: Ethics and compliance waste control standards and tools, innovation, multi-site There is recognition that the Board and the ELT must continue to solutions and the development of exemplar sites are being used demonstrate leadership around ethical and behavioural standards.
to manage andfurther the Groups waste action programme: and The Board is determined to ensure this is embedded into the culture development of an improved HS&E management system of the business.
The committee plays a vital role in providing continued throughout 2015 and is starting to be deployed.
dedicated focus and attention on behalf of the Board to this critical The committee was satisfied that these programmes will continue area, including reviewing the Groups 2015 ethics and compliance to deliver improvements.
We also learned about the Groups management of the integrity Regulatory investigations ofits infrastructure and assets, in order that HS&E risk can be We previously reported that the SFO had begun a formal investigation.
profiled to reflect age or environmental conditions.
The Group is continuing to co-operate with the authorities in the UK, This year, as part of its occupational health strategy, the Group US and elsewhere.
The committee received regular updates on the hasincreased the level of focus and resources being applied in regulatory investigations.
As the investigations are still ongoing we promoting health risk management, resilience and wellbeing are unable to give any further details or a timescale for when they among the workforce.
This has included the launch of toolkits, willconclude.
workshops, videos and blogs from the Chief Medical Officer.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 101 Directors Report Committee reports Safety & Ethics Committee Disciplinary proceedings under the Global Code ofConduct toemployees through training and ongoing engagement.
Ethical Global Code questions and concerns that are raised by employees and other stakeholders are recorded as contacts in the Ethics Line system.
If an employee is found to have acted in breach of the Companys Global Whilstthe total number of Ethics Line contacts decreased in2015 to Code, the Group takes appropriate action to address that breach.
That 729 2014: 850 contacts this was largely driven by a reduction in the action may include giving a disciplinary warning, imposing another number of questions asked, with the number of ethical concerns raised penalty or, ultimately, terminating employment in the most serious remaining at a similar level to last year at 439 2014:434concerns.
In 2015, there were 33 employees whose employment ended TheEthics Line oversight group, which was originally formed in 2014, for reasons relating to breaches of the Global Code.
continued to review cases, analyse the contact trends and provide Ethics and compliance improvement programme and updates to the committee highlighting any high-risk cases.
We share LordGolds review any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial Lord Gold was engaged in 2013 to provide independent assessment and reporting with the Audit Committee.
guidance to assist the Company in improving its ethics and compliance During 2015, the committee supported and welcomed the culture.
In December 2014, Lord Gold issued a second interim report and introduction ofaglobal network of local ethics advisers appointed recommendations on the results from his detailed review.
The Group has from the existing workforce who are trained in how to respond to been implementing these recommendations in 2015 through its ethics ethical issues raised.
The presence of these 76 local points of contact is and compliance improvement programme under the committees designed to promote speaking-up and tackling of ethical issues locally oversight, and has continued to make good progress.
LordGold attended where appropriate toprovide staff with an alternative to using other three meetings of the committee during the year.
Wediscussed the speak-up channels including the Ethics Line.
results of his review and his observations, including insights from focus groups held with a mix ofemployees in different countries.
Export control During the year, the committee received briefings and a presentation The size, structure and skills of the risk team were kept under review on the export control compliance landscape, the key risks, and the during the year with regard to required resourcing to deliver and Groups export control enhancement programme toaddress those maintain the appropriate level of focus.
This included discussion of the Groups processes and systems Anti-bribery and corruption ABC policies for classification of parts, and the deployment of extra export control In 2014, the ABC compliance team completed a thorough and successful professionals into the business.
review and update of the Groups policies on ABC, advisers, confidential Training information, gifts and hospitality and facilitation payments.
In 2015, The committee reviewed the proposal for an integrated ethics training this work expanded to the review and updating of policies on offset, and communications campaign to engage the Groups employees conflicts of interest and lobbying and political donations together with further, and to create the right environment for our employees to guidance on managing the ABC risks of sponsorship and donations.
speak-up and ask and think and act.
This built on the manager-led Allof these refreshed policies were fully operational by the end of 2015 ethics toolkit discussions undertaken in 2014 whilst bringing a fresh and are being rolled out in the Power Systems business in 2016. approach for 2015, built around a series of filmed scenarios to prompt Completion of this roll-out will mean that unified global ABC policies manager-led group discussions.
Annual ethics training is mandatory will be implemented across the entire Group.
The committee, for all employees across the Group, and the Board and the ELT throughout the year, turned its focus to ensuring the effective undertook this ethics training in the year.
Each member of the ELT also monitoring of the suite of policies and their implementation.
had a personal objective to lead an ethics session with their teams During the year, the risk team also launched a due diligence toolkit, during 2015.
A series of monthly dilemma-based stories drawn from which enables managers across the Group to understand and manage real cases were also published on the Groups intranet during 2015, ABC risks relating to lower risk third parties such as maintenance inviting employees to vote on what action they would take.
repair and overhaul centres, logistics providers and suppliers.
In 2015, a further mandated ABC training programme for employees Following the introduction of the Groups new adviser policy, was rolled out, as well as annual online export control training.
thenumber of advisers engaged has reduced dramatically for Conclusion allbusinesses except Power Systems, which has a large network of distributors and is more reliant on the services of third parties to sell, The committee is pleased with the progress made by the Group distribute and support its products.
However, the Group is applying its during the year promoting the safety and ethics agenda, and in new adviser policies to all Power Systems third parties and this review particular in developing and undertaking detailed improvement is expected to be completed during 2016.
In addition, every new plans.
These plans are making a difference across theGroup.
The proposal to engage an adviser must go through rigorous review by the focus of the committee in 2016 is expected to turn to the challenge Groups advisers and offset panel, presently comprised of the Director of ensuring that the improvement programmes transition into of Risk, Lord Gold, and a partner from an external law firm.
asustainable steady-state position that will provide a strong platform for achievement of the Groups safety, ethics, and wider Ethics Line and local ethics advisers objectives and targets over the years to come.
As part of the committees responsibility, the Groups confidential reporting line, the Ethics Line, was discussed and reviewed.
The Group Sir Frank Chapman continues to improve awareness of the speak-up channels available Chairman of the Safety & Ethics Committee 102 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Directors Report Committee reports Science & Technology Committee SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMMITTEE REPORT Highlights Broad review of key technologies undertaken Technology acquisition process and relevant benchmarks reviewed Technology selection and funding outcomes for 2015 reviewed Deep reviews of selected key technologies for aerospace and marine Groups approach to digitisation as a disruptive enabler reviewed in detail 2015 overview Introduction Principal responsibilities I am pleased to present the inaugural The remit of the committee is to: t o provide assurance on the report of the Science & Technology identification and management of key t o review the strategic direction of the Committee, which the Board agreed to technological risks: Companys research, technology and establish with effect from 1 January 2015. development activities: t o oversee processes for ensuring effective resourcing and development The Group invests more than 1bn each t o provide assurance that significant of required technological capability year in R&D to enable us to conceive, trends in science, technology, software andskills: design and deliver world-class technology and data are identified and incorporated that meets our customers current and into management plans: t o conduct visits to R&D facilities: future requirements.
The Board considers t o assist the Board in its oversight of t o ensure dialogue with the Groups that this key area of the business will major R&D investment and provide engineering and technology leaders benefit from the dedicated focus and assurance on the competitiveness and andemployees: and support of the committee especially in adequacy ofany R&D: helping with the formulation of strategic t o review industry and scientific direction.
Itisthe aim of the committee to t o oversee the effectiveness of key benchmark data and best practices.
provide high level oversight and assurance engineering and technological processes The Director Engineering & Technology, of theGroups scientific and technological and operations, including delivery of and other senior engineering and strategy, processes and investments.
major product development and technology executives, attend the technology programmes, intellectual committee meetings.
Upon its creation, Warren East then a property management and interactions Non-executive Director assumed the with institutions: chairmanship of the committee.
In May 2015, he chaired the first of the two meetings ofthe committee held during the year aplanning session also having taken place in March 2015.
Warren stepped down from the committee when he became Chief Executive in July 2015, and as an interim arrangement Ruth Cairnie chaired the second meeting of the committee in December 2015.
I was appointed as the new chairman of the committee in February 2016.
The membership of the committee presently comprises four independent Non-executive Directors.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 103
