ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 48 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MAKING A POSITIVE IMPACT Rotork believes that being a responsible business leads to being the best business.
It benefits our operational effectiveness, builds on the trust of our stakeholders and protects our reputation.
Sustainability is an integral part of our business model and strategy.
Achieving a positive impact around the world lies at the heart of our commitment to corporate social responsibility CSR and it represents a valuable opportunity to ensure that Rotork continues to be successful in the long term.
We are committed to embedding CSR across all our processes and ways of working.
Rotorks office in The Netherlands donates toys to Reinier fide Graaf hospital 3,759 EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE DIRECT PRESENCE IN 38 COUNTRIES Rotork Malaysia Flood Victim charity drive Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 49 ETHICS COMMITTEE CORPORATE SOCIAL ISSUES COMMITTEE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE THE GROUPS APPROACH IS FOCUSED AROUND FOUR MAIN THEMES: The environment Health and safety Rotork has been a member of the Rotork is fully committed to reducing The health and safety of all employees UN Global Compact since 2003 and its impact on the environment by and contractors is of paramount continues to be included in the preventing pollution in all countries importance in providing a safe working FTSE4Good index where we maintain in which it operates, and to make environment.
Our fundamental an above average score in the global sure it is compliant with any legal principle, if you cannot do a job safely, rankings, UK rankings and industry and regulatory requirements.
Our we will not do the job, is actively sector rankings.
compliance contributes to sustaining promoted to everyone.
This ensures the environment and brings cost that our people remain safe and we Rotork believes that the approach savings by reducing the consumption enhance the effectiveness of our it takes to CSR helps to meet the of energy, water and waste and workforce by reducing the risk of expectations of our stakeholders recycling.
The environmental injury and costs associated with injury and contributes to the success of our programme is described in more or illness.
The Groups approach to corporate strategy by promoting an detail on pages 50 to 53. health and safety can be found on effective and sustainable business.
Ethics and values Our Chief Executive chairs the CSR Ethics and values are fundamental Community involvement Committee and reports progress to to the way in which we do business.
We consider it important to contribute the Board.
The CSR Committee is Respecting internationally proclaimed and engage positively in the a management committee, which human rights, promoting an open and communities we operate in and to be has four sub-committees with each honest culture, having a zero tolerance a good community neighbour around representing one of the aspects of to bribery and corruption worldwide, the world.
One of our corporate values CSR described opposite.
Presentations and selecting suppliers with sound is to produce a positive and beneficial are given by the chairmen of the four reputations in the marketplace are impact in the areas in which we sub-committees to the Board on important principles for the Group to operate.
Further details on community activity and progress in their areas adhere to.
More details of the Groups involvement can be found on pages 58 of CSR during the year.
ethics and values can be found on to 59. pages 54 to 55.
The diagram above sets out our CSR committee structure.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED HELPING THE ENVIRONMENT Rotork is fully committed to the prevention of pollution, to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements and to reduce our environmental footprint by targeting key areas such as energy consumption, water consumption and waste.
We continue with our assembly only philosophy in the majority of our business units where we utilise specialist suppliers for most of our manufactured components and assemblies.
This philosophy has resulted in the majority of our energy being used on lighting, heating and cooling, and IT systems.
With the acquisition of a number of businesses through the year the profile has changed to include machining processes.
As a responsible global entity we continue to influence the environmental performance of our supply chain through our supplier assessment programme.
Tom Whittingham from the Bath office, completed the Edinburgh marathon and raised over 8,000 for ME Research UK Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 51 3 ELECTRICITY MWh ELECTRICITY MWh GAS 1,000m Exc.
new acquisitions 2015 30,893 2015 19,657 2014 10,445 2014 10,445 2013 23,470 2013 23,470 2012 29,305 2012 29,305 Strategy then an estimation on the energy use In 2015, Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG We will improve our operational per square metre of floor space consumption increased by 5% on the efficiency and enhance our occupied will be made.
This estimation previous year and there was an environmental performance in is based on the Chartered Institution of increase of 27.7% on the baseline of order to secure the continued Building Services Engineers CIBSE 2012.
LPG is used predominantly for sustainability of the Group.
Guide F Energy Efficiency in ancillary equipment and occasionally We will work as a business, and in Buildings.
This estimation equates to on heating.
Oil consumption increased the local communities where we 0.57% of total emissions declared.
by 195.8% on the previous year and by operate, to ensure that the 5.4% on the baseline of 2012.
Excluding environment on which we depend is Progress new acquisitions, oil consumption maintained for future generations.
The baseline year remains at 2012. increased on the previous year by 118% We will continue to work in A number of acquisitions have but decreased by 33% on the baseline partnership with our regulatory occurred since 2012 that have affected of 2012.
Oil is used in back-up bodies and respect the regulatory the overall energy consumption, like generators and heating systems.
framework in which we work.
for like figures have been published to As an environmentally responsible show the underlying trends in the The energy projects that were rolled business, we will be open and organisation.
out during 2014 have shown a benefit transparent and report regularly to in reduced energy consumption this all relevant stakeholders on our Energy consumption year.
Rochester USA has shown a environmental performance.
Due to the growth through acquisition reduction of 9.4% in their electricity of the Group during 2015 absolute consumption and Melle Germany has Corporate objectives energy consumption has increased by shown a reduction of 19.9% in Our environmental objectives fall in line 10.6% on the previous year and by electricity consumption.
A number of with our reporting year.
There is 24.5% on the baseline of 2012. other energy reduction projects which a corporate objective of a 3% reduction Consumption excluding acquisitions are currently being implemented have in tonnes of CO generated in scope 1 increased by 0.42% compared to 2014 already started to show their benefits.
2 and scope 2 emissions per m turnover.
and increased by 13.1% on the baseline Bath UK has already shown a of 2012.
Absolute gas consumption reduction of 1.8% in electricity Organisational boundaries increased by 14.9% on the previous consumption against last year and The environmental report covers all year and 48.8% on the baseline year Winston-Salem USA has realised a operations and processes within the of 2012.
A majority of the gas that is 2.4% reduction in electricity physical boundaries of the facilities consumed is for heating which can consumption compared to last year.
and business transportation by be linked directly to cold weather These projects are expected to show company cars or vans, or any private conditions.
On sites excluding new greater reductions when they have cars and hire cars used for business acquisitions, during 2015 gas been completed.
Transportation of consumption increased by 6.8% products by third parties are not compared to 2014 and increased by covered by the report.
Where energy 38.4% since 2012. consumption cannot be verified, normally due to the size of the facility, ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 52 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED As we develop new sites or upgrade our existing sites we will be introducing energy efficient solutions into the building design, and stabilising our energy supply to minimise the use of backup generators, which will help to reduce the environmental impact of our business going forward.
Water consumption Absolute water consumption across the Group has increased by 11.8% on the previous year and by 25.4% on the baseline year.
Consumption, excluding new acquisitions, has increased by 5% on the previous year and by 17.7% on the baseline of 2012.
The majority of water consumption is for domestic purposes only, though there are some additional requirements related to process water in a small number of our sites.
Waste and recycling There are a number of local programmes in place to promote recycling and reduce waste across the Group, this has resulted in a reduction of waste generated by 18 tonnes in absolute terms and an increase in Rotork Singapore employees blood donation recycling rates from 77% to 79%.
new acquisitions Absolute 2015 41.8 2015 79.0 2014 39.8 2014 76.3 2013 38.8 2013 71.2 2012 35.5 2012 73.6 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 53 Environmental incidents Absolute scope 1 and scope 2 SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS There have been no reportable emissions have increased by 9.2% on TnCO e Absolute 2 environmental incidents during 2015.
Excluding Systems are in place to address any new acquisitions, scope 1 and 2 2015 5,725 6,741 environmental incident that occurs emissions have increased by 14.5% on 2014 5,231 6,182 at our facilities and the robustness of 2014 and by 18.9% on 2012.
Emissions 2013 5,024 5,317 these emergency systems are included per m revenue have increased from 2012 4,448 5,396 as part of our internal audit system.
19.2TnCo e to 22.8TnCo e which is an 2 2 increase of 18.8%.
Greenhouse gas reporting SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS TnCO e Exc.
new acquisitions In January 2016, EEF undertook an Conclusions 2 assurance audit of the greenhouse gas A number of global weather events GHG emissions report.
The business have impacted on the energy 2015 5,528 6,174 reports on GHG emissions in line with consumption of the Group over the 2014 4,854 5,367 the GHG Emissions Protocol previous year.
2013 4,844 5,006 developed jointly by the World 2012 4,448 5,396 Business Council for Sustainable High temperatures across Central and Development and the World Resource Southern Europe in June and July Absolute scope 1 and scope 2 Institute.
No significant issues were caused an increase in electricity emissions have increased by 9.2% identified during the assurance audit.
consumption by approximately on 2014 and by 26.6% on 2012.
14,000kWh that was linked to having Excluding new acquisitions, scope 1 GHG is measured across three to run additional air conditioning.
and 2 emissions have increased by different scopes: Continuing cold starts to the year 2.8% on 2014 and by 19.2% on 2012. have seen a further increase of gas Scope 1: Emissions that are direct GHG consumption in our facilities in the emissions from sources that are owned northern areas of USA and Canada.
or controlled by Rotork, these include Since 2012, gas consumption has emissions from fossil fuels burned on increased in these areas by 46%.
site, emissions from owned or leased vehicles, and other direct sources.
Overall emissions have increased as the size of the Group has increased.
Scope 2: Emissions that are indirect Whilst there are a number of projects GHG emissions resulting from the that will start to show benefit through generation of electricity, heating and 2016, this work needs to accelerate to cooling, or steam generated off-site gain greater savings.
2016 targets Scope 3: Emissions include indirect To support the increase in the number GHG emissions from sources not of energy related projects that are owned or directly controlled by the occurring across the Group the entity but related to the entitys following targets have been set for all activities.
Scope 3 GHG emission of our large energy consuming sites: sources currently required for GHG A full energy balance will be reporting include transmission and required for each large facility.
distribution T&D losses associated All easy wins and low effort high with purchased electricity, and steam impact projects will be and well-to-tank emissions for all implemented.
energy, business travel and transport.
A further large energy saving project will be scoped and, where practicable, implemented at each large facility.
Local more stringent targets can be set where needed to support the energy reduction programme of the Group.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 54 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ETHICS AND VALUES Employees Employees are briefed by management Ethics and values are central Rotork has a firm commitment to all its on various matters, including the to the way we do business.
employees regarding wellbeing and Companys performance, at regular Rotorks Ethics and Values development.
Some of Rotorks offices intervals as well as the employee Statement can be viewed on provide health checks for their bonus performance which is profit employees, as well as encouraging related.
Most locations participate in our website, in a number of participation in sports teams or the Companys employee profit linked languages, at www.
com en master-record 4433. regarding charitable activities can be Our ethics and values can be found in the Community Involvement Rotork has built a strong partnership section see pages 58 to 59. with the Institution of Mechanical split into four strands: Engineers IMechE to support its Rotork has an objective and fair engineers in gaining incorporated and Human Rights and Ethical Business recruitment process which promotes chartered accreditation.
Rotork also Rotork is fully committed to respecting equal opportunities across the Group continues to work with IMechE.
internationally proclaimed human in line with the Respect at Work and Leeds which has an IMechE industrial rights as defined in the International Equality of Opportunity policy.
Rotork liaison team who support members of Declaration of Human Rights and the is committed to the principle of equal the Institution and help to promote it International Labour Organisations opportunities in employment to ensure internally and to the wider standards.
Rotork does not accept any that no employee or job applicant engineering community.
form of child or forced labour and receives less favourable treatment embraces the UN Global Compact because of their age, race, nationality, Rotork supports apprenticeship principles throughout the business ethnic origin, disability, sex, sexual schemes for young men and women demonstrating this commitment.
orientation, religion, belief or marital which helps to increase access into all During the year the Board has status.
All employees have aspects of Rotorks business.
considered the content of the Modern responsibilities to ensure that the Slavery Act and associated guidance.
policy is successfully implemented Rotork is committed to improving including, ensuring that selection for diversity across the Group.
Rotork recognises that an open and hiring, promotion, training and work We currently have eight Board honest culture is key to understanding allocation is carried out in a nonDirectors of which six are male and concerns within the business and will discriminatory manner.
As at 31 December investigate any potential wrongdoing.
2015, we had a total of 3,759 Rotork has a whistleblowing policy Employee views and direct employees of which 3,030 were male which can be found on Rotorks communication are part of our values and 729 were female.
We also had website, with an independent external and we run employee suggestion 93 senior managers excluding Board whistleblowing hotline, to facilitate the schemes, an annual Group wide directors, 88 of which were male and reporting of any concerns of employee satisfaction survey ESS five were female.
Full details of wrongdoing confidentially.
and several locations have employee Rotorks diversity policy and targets forums where employees can raise can be found in the Corporate issues to be further considered Governance Report on page 67. by management.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 55 Progress 2016 targets All new suppliers to Rotorks Bath manufacturing Continue to make progress in increasing diversity facility were assessed and passed the approval across Rotork.
Ensure Rotorks diversity policy in its broadest sense Membership of FTSE4Good and UN Global Compact is communicated across the Group.
Continue to communicate the whistleblowing policy Presentations relating to bribery and corruption were regularly through the Rotork e-newsletter.
given by Rotorks legal department to general managers Provide a refresher course in 2016 to all employees who and sales managers.
have received online bribery and corruption training over The whistleblowing policy was communicated to 12 months ago.
all employees in each edition of the internal Rotork Ensure agents confirm in writing they have read and e-newsletter.
understand the information in the bribery and corruption Bribery and corruption training was provided to relevant booklet tailored for agents.
employees in Dutch and Turkish, in addition to French, Ensure a Group wide bribery and corruption risk Italian, Japanese, Portuguese, Russian, Thai, English, assessment exercise is undertaken in 2016.
Korean, German, Spanish and Chinese.
Awareness of bribery and corruption issues were further increased by circulating information to agents in the form of a tailored booklet.
Bribery and corruption guidance on country risk, such as the Suppliers Rotork has a zero tolerance policy on Corruption Perception Index by Rotork operates an outsourced bribery and corruption worldwide, Transparency International.
When manufacturing model, selecting irrespective of country or business working with unknown third parties, suppliers with sound reputations in culture.
Rotorks Ethics and Values after the initial detailed background the marketplace.
Many of the suppliers Statement makes it clear that our checks, Rotork continues to screen have a long term working relationship employees will never offer, pay or these third parties via a large number with the Company, ensuring ingrained solicit bribes in any form.
Rotork does of international sources, which can product knowledge within the not make political contributions in cash detect unethical behaviour including supply chain.
or kind anywhere in the world.
watchlists, sanctions lists and the media, using its due diligence Suppliers are subject to continuous Rotorks whistleblowing policy gives consultants proprietary databases.
automated online monitoring against whistleblowers various ways to alert sanctions lists, watchlists, regulatory senior management, anonymously if Rotork has developed and delivered and court records, and a large number required, to any suspected bribery or anti-bribery and corruption training, of national and international media corruption.
All whistleblowing including an assessment, to all sources and the Company is alerted concerns, however received, are employees working in sales and where any information is uncovered.
investigated and reported to the Audit purchasing roles, as well as to senior Committee.
During 2015, the accountants, all managers and The supplier assessment programme whistleblowing hotline received nine directors including executive and includes CSR themed questions calls covering issues related to health non-executive directors.
The antiassociated with equal rights and and safety, employment and dishonest bribery and corruption training is equal pay, anti-bribery and behaviour issues.
All were resolved delivered as an e-learning module.
corruption policies, charitable giving, satisfactorily.
The ESS for 2015 showed The course has been made available in environmental impact and antia continuing trend of increased numerous languages and almost 100% compulsory or child labour practices.
understanding of how to raise a of employees required to complete the These surveys consider current and wrongdoing concern using the course have done so within the prospective suppliers.
During the year required period, including new are discussed directly with the further steps were taken to publicise employees from acquisitions.
suppliers and any corrective action and promote the hotline.
During 2016, those employees who plan is agreed between the Company have completed the course over 12 and the supplier.
Rotork frequently makes use of months ago will receive a refresher detailed background checks provided course.
Last year, all the Companys Rotork Controls Limited and Rotork UK by specialist bribery and corruption agents received a bribery and Limited, the Groups main UK trading due diligence consultants before corruption booklet which is required companies, and Rotork plc, are dealing with unknown third parties to be read by all employees of the signatories to the Prompt Payment including agents, on prospective agent working on the Rotork account.
This ensures suppliers are paid acquisitions and suppliers particularly The relevant manager for the agent is according to the terms agreed and this where they are operating in higher risk required to sign off that this has encourages good practice to be jurisdictions or market sectors.
Rotork also makes use of objective ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 56 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED HEALTH AND SAFETY Fundamental principles Occupational health Rotork is fully committed As the business continues to grow There have been no occupational to the health, safety and both organically and through diseases reported during 2015. well-being of its employees acquisition, the fundamental principle and contractors.
We ensure of If we cannot do a job safely, we will Rotork continues to promote the not do the job is maintained and well-being of its employees.
compliance to all relevant communicated to all those who work For example, in Chennai India a legal and regulatory for, or on behalf of, Rotork.
welfare camp was run with a particular requirements, and strive to focus on bone mineral and bone continuously improve our Progress density checks.
120 employees The objective for 2015 was to have an participated in the camp which aimed health and safety Accident Frequency Rate AFR below to identify those at risk of developing performance.
The actual AFR for osteoporosis in later life.
Lifestyle 2015 was 0.25 which is a decrease of advice was given by a therapist and Policies, procedures and systems of 19% on the previous year and a some employees had a consultation safe working are in place, supported decrease of 55% since 2009. with an appointed doctor.
with training to ensure the health, safety and well-being of our The AFR is a calculation of accidents Awards and recognition employees during their working day.
resulting in over three days lost time, To ensure high standards of health divided by the average hours worked, and safety performance, a number of multiplied by 100,000. businesses within the Rotork Group have gained or have maintained The number of days lost due to certification to OHSAS18001.
These workplace injuries has increased by include facilities in Bergamo Italy, 0.3%.
This has been significantly Leeds UK, Wolverhampton UK impacted by an incident that occurred and Singapore.
in 2014 where lost time continued into 2015.
The number of minor injuries has increased by 9.6% and near misses have increased by 38%.
These increases are believed to be due to improved reporting of minor injuries and near misses rather than a decrease in health and safety performance.
Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 57 Dave Boulton, Alison Cox MBE, June Boulton and John Inverdale for Cardiac Risk in the Young Assurance Activities Employee satisfaction Survey Targets In 2015, the audit protocol was During 2015, 71% of the workforce The method adopted to set the AFR rebalanced to ensure a greater completed an employee satisfaction target is the calculated average of the consistency in scoring and to focus on survey.
For the question I believe that previous three years AFR results, this risk management processes and Rotork cares about my health and sets the AFR target for 2016 at 0.30. control.
As a result, 51 subsidiaries safety overall satisfaction was at 81%, were subject to a compliance audit this was a slight increase of 1% on the ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE during 2015.
It was expected that the previous year.
For the question In the audit rebalancing would cause last year, I have seen actions taken to 2015 0.25 subsidiaries to have a reduced maintain safety at my workplace there 2014 0.31 audit score by between 5% and 10% was an increase from 76.8% to 79.2%.
Conclusions 2012 0.46 At manufacturing facilities, the Throughout the year we continued 2011 0.46 average audit score dropped from 84% to keep health and safety as a priority 2010 0.38 to 78% which is within the predicted for employees and contractors which 2009 0.56 scoring range.
Sales and service can be seen by the positive results in subsidiaries performed better than the employee satisfaction survey.
Accident frequency rate AFR expected with the audit score falling We continue to learn from events, three day events average hours from 84% to 81%, a reduction below audits and inspections which enables worked X 100,000 the predicted fall.
The average overall us to continually improve our health score for existing subsidiaries dropped and safety performance.
As we move from 84% to 80% which is better than forward we will be looking to improve predicted.
With new subsidiaries our processes and will look at added into the audit score the average innovative practices to continue to has fallen from 84% to 78%.
No immediate actions were identified at any of the audits that were conducted.
Corrective action plans are in place to ensure that issues raised during the internal audit process are tracked to closure.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 58 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Local community involvement Apprenticeship programmes are now Rotork considers it important highlights from the year include: well established throughout Rotorks to contribute to, and engage Leeds UK engaged in the Right to global network of subsidiaries.
Baths positively with, stakeholders Read project that assisted pupils at apprenticeship scheme has run since in the communities in which a local primary school with reading.
the Company began nearly 60 years Dallas USA employees organised ago and similar established we operate and to be a good a food drive for North Texas Food programmes now exist at several community neighbour around Bank that raised a total of 737lbs of Rotork locations.
Rotork values its the world.
We regard this canned foods and non-perishable apprentices and believes in investing as part of our ongoing items.
Their contribution provided in its own talent in order to succeed.
access to over 600 meals for We have also forged links with local responsibilities as a good hungry children, families and universities, colleges and schools in corporate citizen.
a number of the locations where Shah Alam Malaysia deployed we operate.
This links into our corporate values volunteers to the east coast of which include producing a positive and Malaysia for a relief mission In addition to local charitable and beneficial impact in the areas in which following the worst flood the educational activities, Rotork has we operate.
One of the ways Rotork country had seen in 30 years.
supported two major charities in 2015, does this is by having local charity The volunteers distributed WaterAid and Sightsavers.
Following committees at each of our sites which food and helped clean local the progress of the Jeldu Woreda donate to local charitable causes.
Project in Ethiopia which we empowers local employees to decide Wolverhampton UK employees supported in 2014, a new project, how to distribute the funds in their donated 250 to local charity situated in the South East Asian state local communities.
Rotork aims to Compton Hospice, which provides of Timor-Leste, was selected for 2015. contribute 0.1% of profits to local care and support to people with life charitable causes.
Our selected project supported with a Winston-Salem USA employees donation of 60,000 aims to improve raised more than US$4,000 for the the lives of families living in 12 Hospice & Palliative Care Center of communities in rural Timor-Leste over Forsyth County by fundraising and three years.
WaterAid will work with participating in the Annual Hospice the communities to build gravity flow Hope Run.
systems to deliver clean, safe water to the communities.
They will run hygiene programmes to raise awareness about handwashing and provide support for the communities to build handwashing facilities such as tippy taps.
They will Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 Progress 2016 targets 60,000 contributed by the Group to WaterAid.
Donate 0.1% of Group profits to Rotorks nominated international charity.
Donate 0.1% of Group profits to charitable causes 5,000 contributed to Freedom Matters.
local to Rotorks operating site.
Variety of donations made to charitable causes relevant to Continue to support WaterAid, and in particular the the local communities of Rotorks operating sites.
Continue to support Sightsavers, specifically urban based projects in India.
provide training about the importance of toilets to health, inspiring community members to build their own toilets with guidance from local partners.
In addition to our ongoing support for WaterAid, we have also continued our support for Sightsavers, an international charity that works with partners in the developing world to combat avoidable blindness.
Last year, we focused our support on two regions in Ghana, specifically the trachoma and river blindness programmes.
This year Rotork has supported their Urban Eye Project in Kolkata.
Furthermore, following the devastating Nepal earthquake and aftershocks in Sightsavers April and May, the CSR Committee made a donation of 5,000 to Freedom Matters.
Freedom Matters is a charity working on the ground in Nepal to deliver relief supplies to people who, before the earthquake had very little, and afterwards had virtually nothing.
They are delivering basic food supplies, their strategy being that if a family can be provided with enough basic food to meet their immediate needs, they can spend their time rebuilding the other parts of their lives, step-by-step.
