Other information ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION ii a ccounting rules require certain income and costs relating Foreign exchange toour commercial activities to be eliminated from, or added to, Foreign exchange rate movements influence the reported income the aggregate of all the profits of the Group companies when statement, the cash flow and closing net cash balance.
The average preparing the consolidated income statement consolidation and spot rates for the principal trading currencies of the Group are adjustments : and shown in the table below: iii specific tax rules including exemptions or incentives asdetermined by the tax laws in each country.
2015 2014 Change Year end spot rate 1.48 1.56 -5% The Groups total corporation tax payments in 2015 were 160m.
USD per GBP Average spot rate 1.53 1.65 -7% The level of tax paid in each country is impacted by the above.
Year end spot rate 1.36 1.28 6% Inmost cases, i and ii are only a matter of timing and therefore EUR per GBP Average spot rate 1.38 1.24 11% tax will be paid in an earlier or later year.
As a result they only have anegligible impact on the Groups underlying tax rate, which excluding joint ventures and associates would be 26.6% The Groups approach to managing its tax affairs theunderlying tax rate including joint ventures and associates can be found on page 45.
This is due to deferred tax accounting, details The Board is involved in setting the Groups tax policies which of which can be found in note 5 to the Consolidated Financial govern the way its tax affairs are managed.
In summary, this means: Statements.
The impact of iii will often be permanent depending i the Group manages its tax costs through maximising the tax on the relevant tax law.
This includes taking Further information on the tax position of the Group can be found advantage of available tax incentives and exemptions: as follows: ii this must be done in a way which is aligned with the Groups Audit Committee report page 93 The Director of Tax gave a commercial objectives and meets its legal obligations and presentation to the Audit Committee during the year which covered ethical standards: various matters including tax risks and how they are managed: iii the Group also has regard for the intention of the legislation Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements page 116 and concerned rather than just the wording itself: 118 Details of key areas of uncertainty and accounting policies iv the Group is committed to building constructive working for tax: relationships with tax authorities based on a policy of full Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements page 128 to 130 disclosure in order to remove uncertainty in its business Details of the tax balances in the Consolidated Financial transactions and to allow the authorities to review possible risks: Statements together with a tax reconciliation on continuing operations.
This explains the main drivers of the tax rate.
v where appropriate and possible, the Group enters into consultation with tax authorities to help shape proposed At this stage we expect these items to continue to influence the legislation and future tax policy: and underlying tax rate.
The reported tax rate is more difficult to forecast due to the volatility of significant items in reported profits, in particular vi the Group seeks to price transactions between Rolls-Royce group the net unrealised fair value changes to derivative contracts.
companies as if they were between unrelated parties, in compliance with the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the laws of the .
Investments and capital expenditure The Group subjects all major investments and capital expenditure The Groups global corporate income tax contribution to a rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to ensure that they create shareholder value.
All major investments, including Around 95% of the Groups underlying profit before tax excluding the launch of major programmes, require Board approval.
joint ventures and associates is generated in the UK, the US, Germany, Norway, Finland and Singapore.
The remaining profits are The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their generated across more than 40 other countries.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life fact that the majority of the Groups business is undertaken, and ofprojects is performed on a regular basis.
employees are based, in the above countries.
Sales of engines in production are assessed against criteria in In common with most multinational groups the total of all profits theoriginal development programme to ensure that overall value in respect of which corporate income tax is paid is not the same as isenhanced.
the consolidated profit before tax reported on page 107.
The main reasons for this are: i the consolidated income statement is prepared under adopted IFRS whereas tax is paid on the profits of each Group company, which are determined by local accounting rules: 176 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
