32 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility OUR SUSTAINABILITY STORY As a global force in rigid plastic packaging, we are committed to incorporating sustainability into the overall business strategy and helping customers to achieve their environmental goals.
Since the Groups inception there have been ongoing developments in innovative packaging solutions that provide sustainability benefits for the Groups direct operations as well as customers and the supply chain.
T N E M Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information P O L E V E D D N A N G I S E D R E T A I L S L A I F R I E L T L I A N M G W A A N R D 33 THE PACKAGING LIFECYCLE As a packaging manufacturer, RPC has greatest control over the earliest stages of the packaging lifecycle.
However, the influence of actions at the design stage reaches far beyond, to the customer and even the recycling opportunities at the end-of-life stage.
RPC is taking positive steps to tackle sustainability challenges and the packaging lifecycle diagram shows the most significant environmental impacts throughout the supply chain which the Group can control or influence.
Closed loop process Responsible reduction in waste procurement to landfill Research & Sustainable raw development of new materialsource materials such as bio-polymers Consideration of Lightweighting target demographic U se of post R eduction in food consumer recyclate waste Product protection Recyclability SUSTAINABILITY Increased shelf-life Reduce Product protection Energy consumption Waste Water consumption Carbon emissions Product protection Efficient transportation For more information on how our business model is key to RPC throughout all stages of our sustainability, see the business model section on pages 12 to 13 D I S T L R A I B S O U T P I S I O D G N N N I O L I T C A Y R C E E N R I C N M I A E S N U U - F E A R C T U N R I O N I T G C E L L O C L A S O P S I D E S U 34 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility continued PRODUCT DESIGN, DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION Aside from barrier solutions for food products, the Lightweighting Recycled Content Group is also active in developments to reduce Across the industry, packaging has become The use of recycled plastic, sourced from either a product loss in other markets such as innovations progressively lighter while still maintaining the post-consumer or post-industrial origin can also in the way paint is packaged to reduce product loss same technical performance.
RPC has managed improve the environmental impact of packaging.
Portion control packaging to reduce weights of packaging across all The replacement of virgin plastic with recycled or resealable packaging is also another way in manufacturing processes through significant material diverts used plastics from landfill and which RPC can ensure products are protected for investments in tooling, process changes and incineration and also reduces the demand for longer and also reduce product losses.
machinery alongside developments in materials.
This has been achieved while maintaining the Substitution The Groups work in this area has included the technical capability of the packaging and ensuring RPC has developed a number of packs which development of packs incorporating recycled PP, for that it is able to carry out its primary function provide a lighter weight and safer alternative to example in paint cans, with some ranges currently of protecting a product throughout all stages of heavier materials for applications such as sauces, containing 25% recycled content.
Recycled PET supply, distribution and use.
baby food and catering ingredients.
More than for food, drink and personal care packaging and Lightweighting not only reduces raw material 50% of all products manufactured in Europe are recycled HDPE for industrial containers.
The Group usage but can have a positive impact on transport packed in plastics.
According to weight, however, continues to research and develop ways in which efficiencies and can contribute to a reduction in the plastics account for only 17% of the total of either to increase current recycled content levels in carbon footprint of packaging.
The use of plastic for packaging or to develop new applications that can packaging can reduce the environmental impacts use recycled plastics.
Product Protection of packs by reducing resource consumption, Product protection is the key role of packaging reducing carbon footprint in comparison to heavier and RPCs packaging solutions make an packs and improving transport impacts.
important contribution to preserving products and The Rag pack on page 22, shows an example reducing waste.
of plastic packaging in the sauce market where The use of innovative multilayer packaging within heavier materials have historically been the the Group ensures that products have a prolonged prominent packaging materials.
This helps to reduce the energy demands on refrigeration in retail and home environments due to the product being able to be stored under ambient conditions.
It also ensures food remains fresh on shelf reducing spoilage and the high environmental impact associated with food waste.
CASE STUDY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING Methodology Sustainability benefits: Resealable container to keep TBC Tonnes of carbon dioxide productsfreshand reduce food waste Emissions were calculated on an equivalent CO e 2 Lightweight, safe and practical C oi p tr e e rs S atip oa n, t ah l c e I otn at lir a o n f l a o p op d s ro p a e c ch u ialis st i in n p g iT ck h le es, 2015 2014 Lower carbon footprint of packaging in Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Long shelf-life of up to 36 months pesti and sauces, is pioneering the supply of its Scope 1 Emissions Fuel combustion, refrigerant losses, operation comparison to heavier materials Accounting and Reporting Standard underambient conditions products in new polypropylene jars produced by ofcompany owned and leased vehicles 10,607 10,421 with additional guidance and emissions Jar is recyclable after use RPC Corby and RPC Kutenholz with lids supplied Scope 2 Emissions Electricity 287,859 223,036 factors derived from DEFRA and DECCs by RPC Halstead.
The 1kg, 2.3kg and 3.7kg size UK Government conversion factors for Total GHG Emissions 298,466 233,457 jars are blow moulded with a multi-layer PP Company Reporting.
Intensity ratio: EVOH PP construction that allows the contents Included Activities Tonne of CO e per 1m of revenue 244 223 to be pasteurised and sterilised.
2 GHG emissions from the purchase of Emissions electricity, combustion of fuel, operation Absolute emissions have increased due to movements impacting Group revenue and of facilities e. g. refrigerant losses and acquisitions in the period and the inclusion the acquisition of sites in China, where the the operation of company owned and of the full year impact for previous electricity CO conversion factors are 2 leased vehicles.
The intensity ratio has higher than the remainder of the Group.
increased as a result of exchange rate Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 35 MANUFACTURING OUR DIRECT Electricity usage per tonne KWH T ENVIRONMENTALIMPACTS 2,014 2,028 1,996 2,001 1,971 strategy to increase the production of higher added Energy Efficiency value products such as multilayer packaging for Approximately two-thirds of the carbon footprint the food market and complex packaging for the of RPCs products is from the raw materials pharmaceutical and healthcare markets increases used.
The first point of focus is to utilise these the complexity of the manufacturing processes materials as efficiently and economically as which offsets energy efficiency measures that possible.
The remaining one-third of the carbon have been put in place.
footprint is embedded in the energy required at the 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 processing stage when plastic granules or flake Water Efficiency are converted into packaging.
Plastic packaging Water is an important part of the manufacturing manufacturing, by its nature, is energy intensive process, primarily as a cooling agent.
Water usage per tonne L T and therefore accounts for the majority of the Improvements have been made across the direct environmental impacts from the Groups Group to reduce water usage or to re-use it 894 855 manufacturing operations.
within a closed-loop system which reduces 737 737 RPC is constantly working to improve the energy evaporative losses.
708 efficiency of our manufacturing processes through This year the Group water consumption per tonne efficiency projects ranging from lighting alterations has remained constant in comparison to 2014 through to replacing older manufacturing machines despite the lightweighting of products.
with more energy efficient models.
Waste and Recycling This year the Group kWh tonne electricity Polymer is a valuable resource and manufacturing consumption has decreased in comparison to 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 sites operate at a high efficiency in terms of last year.
The Group undertakes a number of salvaging raw materials.
Any material that energy saving initiatives in its manufacturing cannot be re-used is segregated and collected sites, including replacing machinery with more for recycling.
The same applies to many other energy efficient equivalents.
However offsetting materials that are handled throughout the Group this the Group strategy to lightweight packaging such as scrap metal, cardboard boxes tubes, adversely affects the electricity KPI as the same wooden pallets and shrink wrap.
Good progress is amount of energy is required to run the processing being made across the Group on the reduction of machines but with a lower throughput of materials.
Lightweighting benefits are seen at other stages of the packaging lifecycle such as reduced raw material consumption and lower transportation impacts.
Alongside lightweighting the Group summer.
The RPC Superfos facility in CASE STUDY Wetteren is ISO14001 certified and this new installation is a step towards improving environmental performance at the facility.
New energy-efficient cooling Reduced energy and water consumption units in Wetteren as well as optimal production temperatures are the benefits being seen from the new The right temperature in production halls is cooling units at the facility in Wetteren.
crucial for keeping packaging materials in The investment in the two ammonium-based perfect condition at all times not too hot, cooling units provides 6kW of cooling for not too cold.
every 1kW of power input and has resulted For this purpose, new energy-efficient in a reduction of energy consumption by cooling units have been installed at the 50% and a reduction in water usage by RPC Superfos facility in Wetteren, Belgium.
The new cooling units at RPC 60% below the prior level.
The new cooling The new units ensure mould cooling with Superfos Wetteren units do not use any CFC gasses and the added benefit of also providing air significantly reduce the carbon footprint of conditioning of the production halls during the production process.
36 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility continued DISTRIBUTION, RETAIL AND USE The distribution, retail and use stages of the Through the Groups membership of The Retail and Use Stages of the lifecycle are an area where RPC has a minimal Packaging Federation and The Industry Council Packaging Lifecycle direct influence on environmental impacts.
for Packaging and the Environment Incpen the The primary role of packaging within the retail At these lifecycle stages packaging is handled Group also supports a UK based campaign named environment is to protect, secure and deliver predominantly by the retail supply chain and Fresher for Longer.
The aim of this campaign the product contents.
The Group strives to offer the consumer, however, the Group can still have is to communicate to members of the public customers the most appropriate sustainable some control over the environmental impacts at the vital role that packaging plays in ensuring solution for their product in order to minimise these phases.
that food arrives in the consumers home in as environmental impact at this stage of the supply fresh a condition as possible and also the role Distribution chain.
The foundations for this have been achieved that packaging has in keeping products fresh in at the design, development and innovation stage Transport of finished products is an area over the home.
as detailed on page 12, which determines the which RPC does not have a significant amount impact throughout the rest of the supply chain.
This year, as part of the Fresher for Longer of control as it is dependent on where the goods initiative, the Group sponsored a school local need to be delivered.
The Group is focused on At this stage of the lifecycle, product loss, to RPC Groups head office to learn about the ways of improving distribution, for example, by particularly in the food sector, is a major importance of packaging in relation to food increasing full loads of deliveries, identifying areas environmental impact.
For more information on this see the case where back loads could be used in the transport third of all food is thrown away or lost, while at the study below.
network so that vehicles are not empty on return same time around 842 million people are suffering journeys and co-ordinating logistics within from hunger.
In 2013, RPC joined the SAVE FOOD geographic regions.
initiative, a joint campaign organised by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations and Messe Dsseldorf to highlight and fight global food loss and waste.
The initiative now has over 100 members from throughout the food supply chain who, through networking events and ongoing dialogue and discussion, aim to develop solutions to tackle the problems of food waste.
RPC collaborated with Kettering Buccleuch CASE STUDY Academy to sponsor the schools involvement in the project and provide ongoing support and advice through hands-on Fresher for Longer workshop sessions and interactive learning activities which helped students understand During the year RPC Group took part in a how packaging protects food on its journey national UK programme, Fresher for Longer, from field to fork and how it can allow food to educate secondary school students about to be kept fresh for longer in the home.
the problems of food waste and encourage Students were encouraged to create their them to take actions to reduce unnecessary own behaviour change campaigns to get waste and help protect the environment.
their community sourcing, storing and The Fresher for Longer partnership was cooking food in a more environmentallyset up by the Packaging Federation, the responsible way.
Industry Council for research on Packaging The Fresher for Longer schools programme and the Environment INCPEN, the was created and delivered by Global Action Waste-Resources Action Programme Photo courtesy of WRAP Plan, a United Nations endorsed charity, WRAP, Kent Resource Partnership and which has worked with over 3,000 schools the Food and Drink Federation.
central part of WRAPs Love Food Hate Waste campaign.
For more information visit www.
uk fresher-forlonger Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 37 END-OF-LIFE SOLUTIONS FOR PLASTIC PACKAGING The Groups desire to improve the performance of working with the recycling industry for many The use of PCR and PIR diverts end-of-life the packaging manufactured at its facilities does years, collaborating with organisations such plastic from landfill and also reduces energy not end when the packaging leaves manufacturing as the Waste & Resources Action Programme demand in comparison with the sourcing of virgin sites.
RPC has also taken a proactive stance with WRAP and Recoup to research and develop the raw materials.
If it doesnt make economic or customers in designing packaging to optimise use of post-consumer recycled PCR material and environmental sense to recycle then the Group re-use and recyclability as well as to ensure post-industrial recycled PIR material in packaging.
supports energy recovery from plastics through end-of-life collection of packaging.
The Pledge 4 Plastics campaign, launched in energy from waste incineration.
September 2014, is an example of collaboration The Group is keen to promote the collection of on the issue of plastics recycling which the Group post-consumer packaging for recycling into new has been involved in.
For more information on this packaging formats and as such RPC has been initiative see the case study below.
THE SUPPLY CHAIN APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY As one part of the supply chain the Group The Group communicates its sustainability recognises that in relation to sustainability it performance to investors and customers through cannot always act alone and as such actively external organisations such as the Carbon participates as a member or partner of a number of Disclosure Project which encourages disclosure organisations which span the whole supply chain.
and improvements in relation to carbon emissions This participation allows the Group to keep up to and the Ecovadis platform which provides date on developments in the latest fields, offer its participating customers information on the Groups expertise in manufacturing to these groups and sustainability performance in relation to the also to form collaborative partnerships to develop environment, labour practices, health and safety sustainable solutions for packaging.
Launched in September 2014, consumers CASE STUDY were encouraged to pledge to recycle one more plastic bottle, pot, tub or tray each week.
To date over 15,000 pledges have been Pledge 4 plastics made through the Pledge 4 Plastics website.
An extensive toolkit has also been produced Recoup, the UKs leading authority on for use by local authorities and businesses to plastics waste and resource management, promote plastic recycling which includes a of which RPC is a member, has introduced number of transformation messages, such as anational plastics recycling initiative Pledge the one shown here, detailing the products 4 Plastics.
Led by Recoup, the initiative that the consumers collected plastic was developed with partners including packaging can be recycled into.
RPC, Coca Cola Enterprises, Marks & Spencer, Unilever, Nestl Waters, Nestl The initiative was developed in response UK, Veolia Environmental Services, Closed to challenging recycling targets set by Loop Recycling, Valpak, Kent Resource the UK Government for the packaging Partnership, Surrey County Council, industry for the period 2013-17 which mean PlasticsEurope, WRAP and Defra.
recycling levels need to double over the five year period.
The aim of Pledge 4 Plastics is to help increase plastic packaging collected through For more information visit Local Authority kerbside collection schemes.
co. uk 38 RPC Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate responsibility continued Health and Safety communicated across the Group and implemented Ethics where appropriate.
Ideas transferred cover areas The safety of our colleagues, contractors and The Group aims to act responsibly and with such as workplace transport, eye safety, fire safety visitors remains our first priority and we continue integrity, respecting the laws and regulations and ergonomics.
to develop our safety culture.
Throughout our of all the countries within which it operates as businesses our colleagues have been engaged in Safety Week well as internationally accepted standards of improving the safety of our equipment, our working responsible business conduct.
The Group requires Every year we take the opportunity to focus practices and our working environment.
high standards of professional and ethical conduct on safety during RPC Safety Week.
This year from all employees, officers and directors.
the winning slogan was Be Safe.
Accident Statistics These policies are now set out in a Code of Home Safe and all of our sites engaged in fun and This year has seen a significant reduction in the Business Conduct which can be read in full on the informative activities on this theme to convey our groups Reportable Accident Frequency Rate, from Groups website www.
message that we want everyone who enters an 1,197 in 2013 14 to 753 in 2014 15.
RPC site, whether as an employee, contractor or Each business within the Group is expected to We have seen a significant reduction in both visitor, to leave in the same state of health and operate with policies and procedures which are reportable and major accidents, with the number furthermore, to arrive home safely and remain consistent with the Groups values and standards.
of major accidents reducing by 60% over the safe at home.
Our site teams came up with some In all dealings, all employees and other persons previous year.
The Groups site at Halstead recently imaginative activities ranging from first aid training, acting on behalf of the Group are expected to: achieved 1,500 days without a reportable accident.
fire prevention, hazard spotting, and personal engage in honest and ethical conduct, including Other sites who achieved milestone reportable safety pledges.
All of the activities, competitions the ethical handling of actual or apparent accident free periods during the year included RPC and events were intended to improve awareness conflicts of interest between personal and Superfos Lubien with 500 days and RPC Bebo Print and further our safety culture.
Willis RPC Blue Programme maintain effective procedures to prevent Safety Tours We now have a core team of trained Safety confidential information being misused or used Our senior managers, including Board members, Auditors who, in conjunction with our risk for personal gain: divisional executives and site managers carry out management partner Willis, carry out in depth advance the legitimate interests of the Group, regular safety tours of our sites, taking the time to safety audits at our sites.
This year, in recognition having regard to the Groups values and observe, listen and discuss safety with colleagues.
of the acquisition programme, we introduced three standards, as set out in the Code: Putting time aside to concentrate solely on safety different audit types in order to ensure that we has enabled our managers to gain a much deeper comply with all applicable laws, rules and continue to raise the bar on our safety standards.
understanding of the potential causes of accidents.
regulations in every country in which the The Baseline audit was introduced for acquired This has led to more rapid improvements to the Group operates: businesses to set the RPC standard in order that workplace and equipment and greater engagement treat customers fairly, openly and honestly: our Group requirements are clear and that we of our colleagues in safety issues.
can quickly close any gaps.
The A and B audits be intolerant of discrimination, harassment Sharing Good Practice are more in depth and seek to ensure that our or victimisation: safety principles and practices are fully embedded Often during safety tours our colleagues identify maintain high standards of integrity in business in our operations.
We recognise that acquired excellent safety improvements made on our sites.
relationships with suppliers: and businesses will have developed good safety These are shared with all sites throughout the encourage the use of those suppliers who practices and that this approach allows us to learn Group and adapted and adopted by sites to which operate with values and standards equivalent from our new colleagues and rapidly benefit from they are relevant.
Since its launch in the second tothe Groups.
half of the year, nearly 30 novel ideas have been RAFR is defined as the number of accidents resulting in more than three days off work, excluding accidents where an employee is travelling to or from work, divided by the average number of employees, multiplied by 100,000.
Reportable accident frequency rate 1,843 1,245 1,197 1,169 753 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1,500 days without a reportable accident at the Halstead site Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 39 The Group does not employ child or forced labour The European Works Council brings together Community in any of its operations.
A child is as defined in the employee representatives from across the The Board supports initiatives by operating units to International Labour Organisation Convention.
Groups operations to discuss business matters engage with their local community.
Operating units with senior Managers within the Group including Employees and their staff participate in a variety of local Board members.
This involves the provision of activities including projects with local schools, Training and Development information concerning the Group, consultation charity events and factory open days.
RPC continues to train apprentices across all of its and discussions.
In addition there are national and Human Rights divisions, with Oakhams apprentice academy in site-based works councils or employee forums that the UK taking on up to eight new apprentices every The Board supports human rights and expects discuss more local business matters.
Trainees are also recruited each year at RPC our sites to comply with the relevant legislation, An employee newsletter Perspectives is issued Wiko, RPC Bebo Plastik and RPC Formatec in areas including that relating to the workplace, of the regularly in five languages.
Employees are as diverse as process engineering, toolmakers and jurisdiction or country in which they operate encouraged to make their views known to the industrial purchasing.
Colleagues continue to study We recognise that we have a responsibility to directors and senior management of the Group.
for relevant qualifications ranging from mechanical ensure that human rights are upheld in our supply Customers and Suppliers engineering to Chartered Accountancy.
While our supply chain is generally located The Group seeks to be honest and fair in its Diversity in the countries or regions in which we operate, we relationships with customers and suppliers, to will engage with suppliers who source products The Group promotes equal opportunities for all provide customers with standards of product and or materials from at risk countries to promote present and potential employees and does not service that have been agreed and to pay suppliers compliance with relevant local legislation.
discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, and sub-contractors on agreed terms.
age, gender, race, religion, political or other It is Group policy to maintain accreditation to opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
The gender the quality management standard ISO 9001 and diversity of the Group at 31 March 2015 is shown P R M Vervaat encourage operating units to gain accreditation in the table below.
Chief Executive to any specific standards required by the markets Communication 10 June 2015 served or by customers such as the British Retail The Group established a European Works Council Consortium and Institute of Packaging BRC IOP in 1998 which meets once a year and a steering Food Packaging Standard.
Currently 75 of the committee that meets four times a year.
Groups manufacturing operations have ISO 9001 accreditation and 35 operating units have BRC IOP accreditation.
GENDER DIVERSITY IN RPC Male Female Board 5 71% 2 29% Management 159 86% 26 14% All employees as at 31 March 2015 10,434 69% 4,772 31% The course covered a variety of subjects, CASE STUDY including design and manufacture, maths, materials, and mechanical science as well as a personal development plan, all of which RPC Llantrisant tool change will help Rhys to further develop his career.
technician Rhys Jones Part of the course involved studying at the University campus but the project work has achieved an HNC in Mechanical module was based around his current job Engineering following a two year course at RPC.
Overall the course was an excellent challenge and I gained a qualification and skills that I plan to take forward with me during my time at RPC, says Rhys.
