Strategic report Sustainable development Our new sustainable development strategy, Prosper, is embedded in our business strategy and will enable us to secure growth that benefi ts us and local communities.
Our shared imperatives A thriving world A sociable world A resilient world Shared We want a thriving world where We want a sociable world where We want a resilient world where our opportunity incomes and quality of life our beers are developed, marketed, business, local communities and are growing sold and consumed responsibly ecosystems share uninterrupted access to safe, clean water Shared We will accelerate growth and We will endeavour to make beer We will secure shared water imperative social development through our the natural choice for the resources for our business and value chains moderate and responsible drinker local communities By 2020 Directly support more than half Aim to reach all of our beer Secure the water supplies we our target a million small enterprises to consumers with effective share with local communities is to enhance their business growth communication campaigns, through partnerships to tackle and family livelihoods and partnerships to encourage shared water risks moderate and responsible beer consumption For a full list of our 2020 Prosper targets see pages 6 and 7 of our Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015.
Through our five shared imperatives above basic services.
The decisions we make can understanding the small businesses in we aim to tackle the issues that are most help shape their opportunities and enable our value chain, and facilitating access to material for our business at a local and their growth and development.
essentials for their success: by enabling international level.
They give us global focus access to training, advice, financial services and alignment, while allowing local markets Small businesses are critical to the growth of and technology, as well as new markets, to respond to local needs.
These imperatives economies, to the prosperity of communities so small businesses can improve their are shared because we can only tackle joint and to the success of large businesses like operations and financial skills as they risks in partnership with those who also SABMiller.
We have direct buying or selling grow: and face them.
By working together with local relationships with more than 1.5 million small communities, suppliers, governments, enterprises.
The majority are family owned, collaborating with others: by joining forces consumers and beyond, we can develop with many run by women.
These businesses with organisations that share our goals, shared opportunities to the bene t of all.
often face signi cant challenges including we can deliver support more ef ciently limited access to training, business advice, and at greater scale.
For example, A thriving world financial services and markets, and we have expanded our partnership with Our businesses throughout the world unsupportive policies and regulations.
We the Inter-American Development Bank provide direct and indirect employment, have committed to support more than half a in Latin America to focus on business pay taxes, and help to sustain and develop million small businesses in our value chain to and community leadership in six markets, local economies.
Last year we generated grow and improve their livelihoods by 2020. and on measuring impact read more on US$24,299 million of economic value through page 8.
We are also working with CARE our business activities, most of which was We will achieve our goal by: International to develop metrics to measure distributed to employees, shareholders, the impact of our programmes.
aligning it with our commercial strategy: by making our support for small A fair approach to taxation Businesses are an engine of job creation, businesses integral to the way our local Our third Our Approach to Tax report is market development and economic growth.
commercial teams such as sales and published alongside this Annual Report, Yet in many communities we are part of, procurement work, we can be more sharing information on our tax payments and people especially women face the responsive to their needs: principles.
We were delighted that the prior challenges of unemployment and lack of years report was recognised in the PwC access to markets, skills, and sometimes Building Public Trust Awards as winner of the Tax Reporting in the FTSE 100 category.
46 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Further reports All our companies have a sales and marketing Find out more about our sustainable compliance committee SMCC, which ensures development performance in our that any proposed marketing materials Sustainable Development Summary comply with the POCC, and with local laws Report 2015 and our tax payments and and national self-regulatory requirements.
principles in Our Approach to Tax report.
The SMCC has the power to reject, or demand modi cations to, any materials that fail to comply.
In the year ended 31 March 2015, 66% of our employees worldwide had participated in alcohol responsibility training within the last three years and local marketing agencies had joined training on responsible marketing A clean world A productive world practices at most of our local businesses 90%.
We want a clean world where nothing We want a productive world where SABMiller is a signatory to the Beer, Wine goes to waste and emissions are land is used responsibly, food supply and Spirits Producers Commitments.
These dramatically lower is secure, biodiversity is protected align 13 global alcohol companies behind ten and brewing crops can be accessed commitments covering: responsible product at reasonable prices innovation: consumer information and We will create value through We will support responsible, marketing practices: enlisting retailers support to reduce harmful drinking: and reducing waste and carbon sustainable use of land for reducing underage drinking and drink-driving emissions brewing crops through partnerships.
Reduce the carbon footprint per litre Ensure the sourcing of our crops of beer across our value chain by measurably improves both food In the year, to improve the enforcement of legal 1 25%, including by 50% within our security and resource productivity drinking age restrictions, SABMiller undertook breweries, by 25% across our over 10,000 stakeholder engagements with packaging and by 25% across our governments, law enforcement and health refrigeration carbon footprint professionals.
We also featured responsibility messaging and a link to give consumers 1 Against a 2010 base.
access to further information, such as www.
com, on the packaging of more than 70% of our brands.
The total taxes borne and collected by concern to governments, society and SABMiller plc and its subsidiaries and our SABMiller.
We are committed to playing Read the latest progress report at share of taxes paid by our US joint venture our part in addressing the problem in www.
org during the year amounted to US$10,639 all the countries in which we operate.
These We believe that sound principles for alcohol include: excise, corporate and transactional We maintain a comprehensive set responsibility must be backed by action taxes, and taxes borne by employees.
of policies publicly available to help on the ground.
In the year we ran more than Of this total, 71% was paid in developing our employees and partners to meet 100 locally-tailored responsibility programmes countries.
The corporate tax charge for the our demanding standards on producing across our business focused on important year was US$1,273 million 2014: US$1,173 and marketing our products in a way that social issues such as road safety, responsible million, and our effective tax rate was encourages responsible consumption.
retail practices and preventing underage 26.0% 2014: 26.0%.
This year we updated our policy on consumption of alcohol.
We collaborate commercial communication POCC to with local partners governments, nonA sociable world include comprehensive digital guidelines governmental organisations, civil society Beer brings people together.
It plays a part and ensure leading standards for both our groups, and public bodies such as the in celebrating memorable moments and is digital and traditional marketing practices.
police as we believe that responsibility enjoyed in different ways by an amazing We seek to establish a leadership position programmes run in partnership with other diversity of communities all around the in digital marketing by imposing age organisations are more robust and credible, world.
However, the harmful consumption af rmation mechanisms on all of our can engage more people, and are more of alcohol remains an issue of signi cant social media engagement.
likely to achieve the desired change.
Mackay Awards The Mackay Awards, launched in the year to honour our late Chairman Graham Mackay, celebrate and share the best Prosper initiatives and innovations across the business.
With five award categories, aligned to our shared imperatives, entries have to demonstrate both positive social and business impact.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 47 Strategic report Sustainable development continued | A resilient world CO2e emissions from fossil fuel energy Water stress is holding back prosperity and used on site kgCO2e hl lager growth.
The supply of readily available fresh 14.2 13.8 water is nite and in many watersheds quality 12.4 is declining.
Economic growth, driven largely 11.1 10.3 by the middle class, combined with changing 2 9.4 climatic conditions will mean the number of people living in river basins under severe water stress will more than double between 2000 and 2050 and reach 3.9 billion people, 1 or 43% of the global population.
We surpassed this target this year, achieving 2 an average water ef ciency ratio of 3.3 hl hl.
2 In absolute terms, we used 592 million hl Reducing brewery emissions is the first of water to produce our lager 2014: step, but production accounts for just a fifth Partnering to tackle 621 million hl.
of our total carbon footprint.
So we have added additional focus on the key stages shared water risk of the value chain and set a target to reduce 2 our total carbon footprint by 25% by 2020, In South Africa, we have taken a lead role 3.3hl including a 25% reduction in both packaging in the ambitious public-private Strategic water to produce 1 hl lager, and refrigeration.
Water Partners Network, which is part beating our target of 3.5 hl hl of the Water Resources Group WRG.
Returnable bottles and kegs are much In collaboration with others, we created more resource-ef cient and lower-emission a platform for the government and throughout their lifecycle than cans, PET private sector to work together to address Many of our breweries are in areas of water bottles or non-returnable glass bottles.
53% a number of pressing water resource risk.
Our bespoke water risk assessment of our beer was sold in returnable bottles and challenges.
These include taking practical process helps us to better understand the kegs 2014: 49%.
We work with suppliers to action to tackle water use ef ciency nature and extent of local water risk, giving reduce the weight and environmental impact and infrastructure challenges.
Given the us a detailed, watershed-level, site-by-site of all packaging in the relevant market.
success of this approach, we funded picture of our water exposure.
Using these a WRG partnership in Tanzania and are data our breweries are able to identify and During the year we set a target to purchase a leading WRG partner in India.
prioritise risks and develop and implement 100% HFC-free fridges by 2020, and we mitigation action plans.
The process is now introduced a new refrigeration policy that Read more at complete in 46 breweries across 21 countries, all new fridges must be equipped with energy 2 www.
com keeptapsrunning covering 63.8% of lager production volumes.
management devices and LED lights, where available.
Tackling the root causes of water stress will require all sectors of society to work About 99% of spent grain from our breweries collaboratively and at scale.
We have been is reused by farmers for animal feed or for Water to lager ratio hl water hl lager investing in partnerships to secure water renewable energy, creating value as well as for our business growth and for the water preventing waste from being diverted to 4.3 4.2 users around us see case study, top left.
During the year our breweries reused 4.0 3 3.7 or recycled 89.6% of their general waste.
3.5 2 3.3 A clean world Climate change is a threat to local SABMiller is an A list performer in the CDPs communities and to our business.
Our own Carbon Performance Leaders Index.
Read our brewery emissions and the packaging and CDP reports at www.
net trade refrigeration of our beer all have a signi cant carbon footprint.
A productive world Today around a billion people already go In the year ended 31 March 2015 fossil fuel hungry, and demand for food is growing.
Our 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 emissions per hl of lager produced fell by business depends on the same, increasingly 9%, with total CO2e emissions of 1.7 million scarce land and water resources that local 2 tonnes 2014: 1.8 million tonnes, of which communities use for food crops.
Our aim is 0.8 million tonnes were generated from our that, by 2020, the way we source measurably direct use of fuels such as natural gas, coal improves both food security and resource and oil scope one and 0.9 million tonnes productivity for all the crops we buy.
were generated indirectly from the production of electricity and steam we purchase scope two.
48 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report We source locally where practical, though and position papers, as well as guidelines, crops such as malting barley are niche training, and tools for building capability and and can be dif cult to grow, making imports sharing best practice globally.
Individual necessary in some markets.
operations are ultimately held accountable for their own performance, which often forms To effectively support improvements in part of our senior managers performance malting barley, our key crop, we need to objectives and remuneration.
look beyond our own needs to the wider farming system it forms part of.
This helps Our SD performance is measured through Achieving sustainable us understand the role we can play in our bespoke management system, the sugarcane standards enabling farmers to reduce inputs such as Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM nitrogen-based fertilisers, as well as outputs see case study, right and is overseen by such as greenhouse gas emissions.
Water the group corporate accountability and In November Azunosa, our sugarcane management is critical where barley is risk assurance committee CARAC, a farming operation in Honduras, became the irrigated in water-stressed areas.
committee of the SABMiller plc board.
first producer in Central America to achieve The CARAC is chaired by Dambisa Moyo, Bonsucro certi cation, demonstrating that While malting barley remains our largest a non-executive director of SABMiller plc sustainable practices are viable for relatively crop, cassava, maize, rice and sorghum see pages 52 and 53 for a full list of smaller sugar operations in developing are increasingly important for producing members.
Each region also has its own countries.
Our experience at Azunosa places affordable beers that maximise opportunities CARAC, chaired by the regional managing us in a strong position to engage more for local farmers.
Creating markets for director, which meets twice a year to effectively with other suppliers.
In South Africa, sorghum and cassava by using them as review local SD performance and discuss we are supporting the locally developed brewing materials gives small-scale emerging issues.
SusFarms initiative to evolve into a full system subsistence farmers an incentive to increase for verifying good practice.
production, so they can sell the surplus and Transparency and ethics boost their income and food security.
Buying We believe that high standards of ethical Read more at locally also enables us to save costs and behaviour are fundamental to our long-term www.
com bonsucro support local farmers in regions unsuitable future.
We adopt a zero tolerance approach for growing malting barley.
to bribery and corruption and we are a signatory to the UN Global Compact, Aligning sustainable development committing ourselves to universally accepted with business strategy principles in the areas of human rights, labour, All parts of the business are responsible for environment and anti-corruption.
This year, we focused on embedding Prosper in the business and making it relevant Re ecting the priority we give to transparency, for all employees.
Our country managing we launched in the year a new webpage directors used town hall meetings to launch providing additional information about our Prosper in 29 markets, with external anti-corruption framework.
This resource stakeholder events in 18. includes links to some of the key documents setting out our framework, including our Our new Prosper Forum ensures the code of business conduct and ethics and Sustainability Assessment resources and capability are in place to deliver the anti-bribery policy which supplements Matrix SAM our Prosper targets, approve policies, lead it, and describes our range of supporting co-ordinated activities and manage potential policies, procedures and guidance.
It is chaired by SABMillers General Our bespoke management system, the Counsel and Corporate Affairs Director We have also reviewed our whistleblowing Sustainability Assessment Matrix SAM and attended by regional corporate affairs facilities over the course of the year, which was updated this year to re ect Prosper.
directors and senior leaders from each provide all employees the opportunity to SAM KPIs are based on measurable function, such as marketing and sales, make con dential disclosures about outputs such as water ef ciency, carbon supply chain, human resources and legal.
emissions or employee diversity to assess performance towards our 2020 targets.
The sustainable development SD way is Read more at at the heart of our approach to SD, providing www.
com anti-corruption SAM also assesses operations against a consistent framework and focusing global core standards for each of our five all of our operations efforts and resource shared imperatives.
In certain areas new priorities.
It is supported by a suite of policies core standards represent a recalibration of our expectations in terms of overall SD performance.
All our businesses are required to meet these standards which, in many countries, far exceed local 1 3 OECD Global Environmental Outlook to 2050.
During the year we changed the way we measure organic regulatory requirements.
waste to measure dry-matter equivalent, which enables us 2 Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been to understand the actual mass of waste material that could subject to limited assurance by  Visit our SAM portal for more detailed otherwise be hidden by the moisture it absorbs during the LLP.
For further details of the assurance provided see the brewing process.
On a like-for-like basis, 96.0% of waste information on sustainability performance independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35 of was reused or recycled 2014: 95.6%.
the Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015. by country at www.
com sam SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 49 Strategic report People | Valuing and empowering our people Our success is driven by each of the 69,000 people we employ around the world.
Taking action on health and safety We continue to support South Africas Our aim is to reduce or eliminate risks of Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment harm to our employees, contractors, visitors, BBBEE initiatives aimed at growing the customers, consumers and any others economy by including and empowering affected by our business.
More than three-quarters of The South African Breweries In 2014, we launched a new system of Pty Ltd SAB workforce is drawn from governance for groupwide health and safety.
previously disadvantaged groups and 66% This enabled us to standardise reporting of its employees are black.
SAB achieved across the group, share best practice and 79.24 2014: 75.25 in the last annual target improvements.
In 2015 we rolled out BBBEE veri cation, making it a level 3 a new global health and safety programme, contributor to BBBEE.
Safety Around Beverages, which sets out the Road safety minimum standards to which all businesses In an industry traditionally perceived as should adhere.
male-dominated we are committed to Middle-income countries have just half improving gender diversity, particularly among of the worlds vehicles but 80% of its road It is with deep regret, however, that we our leadership.
Not only are women a vital 1 traf c deaths.
With many of our employees report 29 employee and contractor fatalities source of talent in an increasingly pressured on the road in these countries, we aim to in the year 2014: 15.
Six of these resulted talent pool, they are also critical in ensuring minimise this risk.
from accidents involving on-site maintenance our business re ects and understands or repairs, 15 followed motor vehicle accidents, the needs of female consumers a key As challenges vary by country, we have and eight resulted from robberies or assaults growth segment.
developed driver safety training programmes on our staff while on sales or trade visits.
tailored to speci c local risks.
In Africa, a new We have further tightened reporting Women represent 20.6% of our global 4 3 Respect the Road driver safety campaign procedures to ensure that all levels of workforce 2014: 19.7% and 29.6% of our 5 6 trained sales and distribution employees management are aware of each of these executives and managers 2014: 28.4%.
over five weeks in such themes as vehicle incidents.
In each case we undertook an The executive committee of nine people inspection, pedestrian awareness and driver investigation and, where applicable, includes one woman.
Twenty per cent of attitude.
It gave practical tips, from how to implemented measures to reduce the SABMillers plc board are female below 7 drive on gravel roads and understanding and likelihood of such an incident recurring.
the FTSE100 average of 23.6% although managing blind spots to safe long-distance women hold three of our eight independent and bad weather driving.
During the year we recorded 13,028 days lost non-executive director posts 37.5%.
through injury 2014: 12,395 and 490 major 2 Road safety is not an issue we can solve on injuries.
Road traf c accidents accounted Trends vary by region.
In Colombia, El Salvador, Panama for the majority of major injuries and fatalities, South African business has the highest ratio and Peru we are part of Por un buen camino and road safety was identi ed as a top priority of women in leadership roles, while Europe For a safe journey alliances, partnering with worldwide see case study, left.
has the highest business-wide gender NGOs, government and other businesses representation but the biggest gulf between to improve road safety data and knowledge Valuing diversity and equality the percentage of female managers and and promote behaviour changes and We believe that better business decisions that of female executives.
We are therefore effective law enforcement.
come from groups of competent, high-calibre taking a regional approach to strengthening individuals with a mix of skills, experience gender diversity.
1 WHO Global status report on road safety 2013. and backgrounds.
We have clear policies 2 In the year we implemented new reporting guidelines, and processes in place to ensure that we Developing and retaining talent including new standards for reporting major injuries, recruit and treat people fairly and on merit, The global workforce is predicted to aligned with the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, change dramatically over the next 20 years.
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR guidelines.
3 religion, disability or ethnic origin.
The consultancy McKinsey identi es two 13,489 women and 51,845 men as at 31 March 2015.
4 challenges facing global organisations a Information for the year ended 31 March 2015 has been subject to limited assurance by  SABMiller is a signatory of the UN Global geographical mismatch of skilled workers and LLP.
For further details of the assurance provided see Compact and has an established approach to job creation: and a growing pool of underused the independent assurance report on pages 34 and 35 of the Sustainable Development Summary Report 2015. managing human rights risks, taking account talent, driven by an ageing workforce, women 5 2,708 women and 6,440 men as at 31 March 2015. of the UNs Universal Declaration of Human not accessing the labour market and high 6 8 As at 31 March 2015, 61 women and 384 men were Rights and Guiding Principles on Business youth unemployment.
directors of subsidiary companies included within the and Human Rights.
This approach helps our consolidated financial statements.
local businesses to identify and mitigate any We are responding in four ways: 7 Professional Boards Forum, BoardWatch 2015. signi cant risks within their operations and 8 McKinsey & Company, Help wanted: The future of work in advanced economies, March 2012. value chains.
we continue to enhance our career 9 Joint venture companies, such as MillerCoors, did not take support for employees, including a focus part in the survey, nor did the ABI soft drinks business in on identifying the competencies and South Africa or our business in Vietnam.
experiences required to perform and 50 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report grow in role, so it is easier to align We regularly solicit employees views and employee and business needs.
We aim listen to their ideas and in 2014 we conducted to offer appropriate and continuous career our first global employee opinion survey.
development opportunities to all our employees, whether in their current role or to prepare them for a new one.
Everyone is encouraged to take ownership of their own 40,000 development, supported by their manager: colleagues took part in our first 9 global employee opinion survey through our functional academies we offer consistent training worldwide to help employees develop the specialist skills they About 80% of respondents said they believe need to do their jobs.
In the year ended 31 strongly in our strategic direction, are proud The next generation of March 2015 we provided an average of 4.6 to work at SABMiller and are willing to go training days for every employee 2014: 3.9 the extra mile to help the company succeed.
African brewing innovation days, using a variety of techniques, from Almost 90% said that they clearly understand virtual, digital learning to sessions facilitated the goals of their job and that they collaborate The SABMiller Royal Society Exchange by leading educational institutions: well within their teams.
However, only 64% of Programme is designed to develop Africas employees believe they receive appropriate brewing experts of the future.
The exchange, in 2014 we introduced a new framework recognition for a job well done.
We are running over three years, will enable 15 newly to develop leaders across all levels and implementing initiatives across the business quali ed African PhD scientists to partner regions.
This aims to ensure that the talent to improve how we show our appreciation with UK-based academic institutions, needed to provide tomorrows leaders is for the hard work of our people.
conducting research in areas including identi ed early and properly nurtured.
By agriculture and crops, water and sanitation, the end of 2015, 44 managing directors Read about the launch of our new Mackay and renewable energies.
MDs will have completed a Leading the Awards on page 47. business programme aimed at developing the skills and behaviours needed to operate Responsible procurement in a changing environment.
In April 2015, Through our procurement organisation, we also held our first MD forum, bringing we have made the commitment to work only together all our MDs to discuss strategic with suppliers that share our values.
This challenges: and commitment and our minimum requirements are explained in our supplier code of conduct.
we systematically manage the roles most The code, which applies to all our suppliers, critical to delivering our business strategy, was updated this year to include respect for and have a global succession pool land rights.
monitored by the groups executive committee in place for these roles, with We are members of the Supplier Ethical Data candidates from all regions.
In the year Exchange SEDEX, and AIM-PROGRESS, a LAGER we lled 80% of these critical roles with forum of leading consumer goods companies internal candidates.
that aims to enable and promote responsible People perform better when they can be sourcing practices and sustainable supply themselves at work.
Thats why, in 2015, Delivering business success chains.
A total of 976 suppliers are now we launched LAGER Lesbian and gay through high performance registered with SEDEX, a 32% year-on-year everyone respected, our UK network for We recognise and reward strong increase.
SABMiller leads the AIM-PROGRESS lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender LGBT performance.
Our performance management Mutual Recognition workstream, which seeks employees and their allies.
SABMiller is a system provides a framework for employees to reduce duplication in supplier assessments.
Stonewall Global Diversity Champion and to set themselves stretching individual goals.
Through this workstream, in the year we a corporate member of OUTstanding, the These goals are linked to business objectives.
collected 276 ethical audits on our key leading not-for-pro t group in the UK focused Bonus payments and salary increases are suppliers and directly commissioned on advancing LGBT rights in the workplace.
linked to performance against these goals, 118 audits.
and calculated against a combination of Find out more at www.
com lgbt individual achievement and overall company By working with our suppliers on reducing performance.
areas of non-compliance, we have helped 131 of them to improve working conditions Listening and engaging on their sites and meet the standards with employees required in our supplier code of conduct.
Our employees play a crucial role in our Under our supplier accreditation programme, success.
We respect the right to union key global suppliers have also signed up to representation and 42.8% of employees are the key provisions of our anti-bribery policy union members 2014: 40.9%.
Many of our and provided insights into their efforts to businesses have developed productive eliminate bribery and corruption from their partnerships with trade unions on collective supply chains.
