Corporate responsibility continued Pe ople Our vision is to energise the success of business and communities around the world through the imagination of our people and smart technology.
Our people are passionate about working at Sage, and we are passionate about creating an environment where talent is recognised and colleagues can exceed their potential.
At the heart of our people strategy is the colleague experience, which is underpinned by the Sage Academy, a global learning and development platform which provides all our colleagues with the tools they need to be successful, drive their careers and, most importantly, empowers them to delight our customers.
Realigning our Guiding Principles The Sage Values In FY15 we introduced these values which underpin the way we do things.
CUSTOMERS VELOCITY DO THE INNOVATE MAKE A FIRST RIGHT THING DIFFERENCE Our customers are We are action Our colleagues are We create new ways Sage is a great place at the heart oriented and agile: aligned and we trust of doing things and to work and our ofeverything we do: we keep things each other to do the deliver innovative colleagues make a they are why we are simple, deliver right thing to enable solutions which dierence tolocal here and we at pace and our customers our customers communities by wouldntexist over achieve.
need to help their relentlessly without them.
supporting our customers and their businesses to be successful.
52 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Transforming the way we communicate Recognising our people Sage Chatter has broken down geographical and To demonstrate our commitment to driving performance hierarchical barriers to internal communication and has globally we have launched the Platinum Elite incentive established itself as fundamental to driving a One Sage scheme.
Platinum Elite was launched as an incentive to culture.
From inception to global launch, Sage Chaer reward Sages top sales performers.
Top revenue generators took just 60 days to implement.
and an additional 20 non-sales exceptional performers along com platform, Chaer is a global online communications with their partners will be invited to attend the trip of a lifetime portal which provides our colleagues with the ability to St Lucia in January 2016.
Well established local recognition to collaborate through sharing and generating best schemes such as the Sage Europe Awards and North practice, ideas, building global relationships and sharing Americas Extraordinary Customer Experience Awards successes.
Since its launch over 100,000 individual posts continue to appreciate the contributions of colleagues, and comments have been added and over 1,500 groups and celebrate their successes.
created where colleagues can come together regardless Developing our people of their location and communicate with one another On 1 July, Sage Academy was launched.
Sage Academy about a specic topic.
is a global learning and development platform that Code of Conduct supports colleagues in their career development and In June 2015 we launched our first global code of empowers them to win, delight and grow customers.
This policy sets out the business Colleagues across the globe now have access 24 7 to: standards expected by Sage and provides a clear set of Over 3,500 courses rules for all colleagues.
Sage is building a great business The Sage Academy hosts a digitalised training platform the right way and every colleague should demonstrate oering high-quality learning content.
Over 3,500 courses the highest ethics.
The code of conduct sets out clear are available in English as well as courses in Spanish, standards of behaviour for everyone in our organisation.
French and German on everything from web development to time management.
We have partnered with Lynda.
com, a Delivering high performance leading online learning platform, to provide all colleagues Global performance management process will drive us with 24 7 access to thousands towards our One Sage culture.
Its crucial that were aligned of learning opportunities.
During its first 48 hours in assessing performance and through this drive a high almost 2,000 colleagues accessed the site, viewing performance culture globally.
During FY15 we introduced a 300 hours of videos.
consistent global performance management process.
For the first time we have a consistent way of measuring colleagues The Discover Sage series outputs, which is vital to us in delivering high performance.
The Discover Sage video series introduces colleagues to Sage around the world and provides them with a global perspective on Sage, helping them to understand the Sage Academy: A foundation blockfrom leadership diversity and scope of our business.
Sociable Day series development to product training to all things that allow Sociable Day was the first global event delivered by the us to have the intellectual property and the tools for our Sage Academy to promote the use of social media and people to be successful.
make every Sage colleague an ambassador for our brand and our company via social platforms such as LinkedIn, Stephen Kelly, CEO Facebook and Twitter.
The Sociable Day series is available in four parts and helps colleagues master social media.
On 26 May, thousands of Sage colleagues took to social media as part of Sociable Day, achieving 5,000 Twitter mentions and 3.5 million impressions.
SAGE GLOBAL PEOPLE SURVEY Access to English training programmes for all levels Conducted in via GoFluent.
com 11,990 76% 70% February GoFluent is an online centre for English training, available returns of respondents of our people for all non-English speakers who wish to improve their representing are proud to understand 2015 language skills.
a 90% work at Sage our business response rate strategy Five days for training Internal studies conducted in early 2015 told us that the average time a colleague dedicated to learning and development activities was less thantwo days per year.
To demonstrate our investment in training, we want to ensure all colleagues have at least five days per year dedicated to developing themselves.
These days cover the learning a colleague undertakes as part of the Sage Academy as well as classroom training executed locally.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 53 Corporate responsibility continued Diversity Talking Talent and our leadership pipeline Our stance on diversity remains focused on our people During FY15, 14 of our senior leaders have been promoted representing the nationalities and background of our or have taken on additional responsibilities.
To support us in continuing to deliver on this recruited 22 new hires externally into senior leadership commitment, next year will see the creation of a global roles as we strengthen our leadership capability.
The focus diversity and inclusion strategy which will provide us with on our leadership pipeline continues to be underpinned best in class policies and ways of working.
Our ambition is by our global talent management process Talking Talent, to be recognised in the marketplace for our commitment which assesses capabilities, andhighlights strengths, risks to diversity and inclusion.
and opportunities as well as targeted succession plans for key roles.
We have made a number ofhigh prole leadership We continue to support the principles of The Davies Report promotions inFY15 including Brendan Fla#ery as President on Women on Boards and in 2015 we made a commitment for Europe: Lee Perkins as EVP & MD for the UK: Luis Pardo to ensure suitably qualied women are included on the as EVP & MD of Spain: Nancy Harris as EVP & MD for shortlist for all global leadership vacancies.
Canada: and Serge Masliah as EVP & MD for France.
We have also signed up to the UK Government Think, Local initiatives, such as Spains Grow with Sage Act, Report initiative, meaning as well as promoting our programme, are in place to develop our high potential reputation externally as an employer who is breaking colleagues across most regions.
Our focus in 2016 will be down barriers to support women in the workplace, well also to introduce a global approach to developing the capability provide opportunities to input into discussions which will of our talent.
In the UKI there are50 career coaches in impact UK Government policy and legislation in this area.
place to provide support and guidance to colleagues with aspirations to build their career at Sage.
Examples of some local gender-specic initiatives are the UKIs Women@Sage network and in International where the number of females in senior leadership roles has increased fromnone in 2014 tosix in 2015.
In Germany we have engaged with local schools to support girls day which provides female pupils with an insight into a career in information technology.
DIVERSITY Year-end employee count split by region Group and central Europe North America International operations Total 2014 7,062 2,300 3,471 142 12,975 2015 7,050 2,181 3,641 190 13,062 Board diversity Top leadership diversity Total workforce diversity 75% 81% 53% 19% 25% 47% 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Men 6 6 Men 134 127 Men 6,913 7,017 Women 2 2 Women 32 36 Women 6,149 5,958 Top leadership includes the Sage Senior Management Team top 100 leaders plus any individual who is a company director of a group subsidiary.
54 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
