Environment We aim to reduce the energy our business uses and make the most of recycling opportunities.
We comply with local laws as a minimum standard and Sage continues to take part in the global Carbon Disclosure Project.
Greenhouse gas emissions Organisation boundary and responsibility This section includes our mandatory reporting of We report our emissions data using an operationalcontrol greenhouse gas emissions pursuant to the Companies Act approach to define our organisational boundary which 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations meets the denitional requirements of the Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
We include this reporting data in respect of those emissions for which we are responsible.
here in order to provide a complete Corporate We have reported on all material emission sources for .
which we deem ourselves responsible.
These sources align with our operational control and financial control Reporting period boundaries.
We do not have responsibility for any emission Our reporting year is the same as our scal year, being sources that are beyond the boundary of our operational 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015.
For example, business travel other than by car gas reporting year has been established to align with including, for example, commercial ights not within our financial reporting year.
our operational control and, therefore, are not considered to be our responsibility.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data For period 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 Methodology Tonnes of CO 2 Emissions from: Equivalent CO e The methodology used to calculate our emissions is based 2 on the Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including FY15 FY14 mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance Combustion of fuel and June 2013 issued by the Department for Environment, operation of facilities 15,078 15,796 Food & Rural Aairs DEFRA.
We are also using DEFRAs Electricity, heat, steam and 2015 conversion factors within our reporting methodology.
cooling purchased for own use 10,887 9,238 In some cases, we have extrapolated total emissions by Companys chosen utilising available information from part intensity measurement: of a reporting period and extending it to apply to the full reporting year.
For example, this has occurred where Emissions reported above supplier invoices for the full reporting year were not normalised to tonnes of CO e 2 per total GBP1,000,000 revenue 18.09 19.16 available prior to the publication of this years Annual Report & Accounts.
For further details, our methodology document can be found at www.
com company about-sage  The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55 Corporate responsibility continued Scope of Reported Emissions Carbon Disclosure Project Emissions data has been reported for all the Groups We once again took part in this project during the operations in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, France, year under review by reporting our gas scope 1 and Germany, Ireland, Malaysia, Morocco, North America, electricity scope 2 emissions forthe financial year ended Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, 30 September 2015.
Whilst we do use the GHG Protocol Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and the UK.
methodology to measure our GHG emissions we welcome the revised treatment of purchased electricity to provide The emissions that have not been included in this years greater clarity over purchased green and low carbon report relate to building usage in our operations in Belgium electricity.
As market based residual factors are not yet and the United Arab Emirates, where energy usage is not released by DEFRA, it is not currently possible to calculate itemised on invoices.
We have also not included emissions a market based purchased electricity emissions value, derived from refrigerant gas usage in relation to our however we intend to calculate and report within our operations in Belgium, Singapore and the United Arab 2016 CDP submission, where residual factors are Emirates as this information has not been gathered made available by DEFRA.
Reducing carbon and waste Intensity Ratio We have continued to make a concerted eort to In order to express our annual emissions in relation to reduce our carbon footprint, through reducing our a quantiable factor associated with our activities, we consumption, purchasing alternative sources of have used revenue in our intensity ratio calculation as fuel and generation, specically: this isthe most relevant indication of our growth and provides for a good comparative measure over time.
Increased use of bioethanol for business travel fuel: Investing in new technology with lower energy Baseline for 2015 targets consumption including laptops and workstations: The 2013 data forms the baseline data for Selected oce moves to more energy ecient buildings: subsequent periods.
Further installation of LED lighting across the Group: Increased low carbon energy sourcing, including hydropower, wind power, biomass and solar: and Self generation including solar panels and hydroelectric plant.
CARBON EMISSIONS Total CO e by type Sum of CO e 2 2 tonnes 58% 8,840 5,713 Europe 1,456 4,597 AAMEA 591 4,768 North America and Brazil 42% 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 12,000 15,000 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 15,078 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 10,887 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 56 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
