Corporate responsibility Ou r Corporate Responsibility policy Our Corporate Responsibility CR activities provide support to our customers, people and communities and are embedded in our One Sage culture.
Our global CR policy focuses on the areas where we believe we can make the Board reporting most dierence.
Whilst local legal standards apply as an absolute minimum, we aim Our CR policy has been endorsed by the Board, who to achieve best practice in our local markets and share this across the Group.
Sage are updated on CR risks and opportunities by the has been independently assessed against the FTSE4Good criteria and satisfied the Company Secretary.
requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series, which is an equity index designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally Ethics recognised CR standards.
We are commied to conducting business in an honest and ethical manner.
We act according to our Code of Ethics, which is integral to us and sets out a range of principles we adhere to.
In particular, we do not tolerate bribery and Community corruption and are committed to acting professionally, PG51 TO Our local communities are important to us and we want fairly and with integrity in all our business dealings and READ MORE to see them thrive.
During the year, we launched the Sage relationships.
We enforce eective systems and processes Foundation, a global initiative which sets ahigh benchmark to counter bribery and corruption and we continue to for corporate philanthropy and makes a solid commitment create new ways for employees to anonymously report to support our communities.
People As a UK company, The Sage Group plc is bound by the PG 52-54 TO laws of the UK, including the Bribery Act 2010, in respect Given the nature of our business we have not included READ MORE information specically about human rights issues in of our conduct both at home and abroad.
In addition, we will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and this report.
We have a Code of Ethics, available at www.
com, which recognises the importance of corruption in all the jurisdictions in which we operate.
treating all of our employees fairly, covering issues such as As well as ensuring our own conduct is appropriate, responsible employment, diversity and equal opportunities.
we have also put in place procedures to prevent bribery This is an eective way of communicating, at a high level, being commied on our behalf by any associated persons, the principles which should be applied in the conduct of particularly in our subsidiaries, and third parties we work our business.
Our leaders sign a declaration relating to the Code of Ethics toensure thatany additional business commitments Environment or client and supplier relationships they may have are clear PG 55-56 TO We continue to analyse our impact onthe environment.
READ MORE We remain commied to reducing our energy consumption and related emissions where possible, as well as reducing Data protection the wider impact we have through the use of resources We take data security and privacy seriously.
Customer and how much landll waste we generate.
data is handled sensitively, with respect, and in a way that complies, as a minimum, with the requirements Championing business of data protection laws in the countries in which we PG57TO We have tens of thousands of conversations with operate and, where appropriate, regional legislation.
READ MORE our customers around the world every day and have a We also work with local legislative bodies and data privileged position to understand the issues they face and protection agencies and continuously look to to provide support to overcome these issues.
We leverage strengthen our systems and procedures.
this position to champion Small & Medium Businesses, the lifeblood of our economy.
50 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015
