Community At Sage we feel a responsibility and are dedicated to the communities which surround us.
Our people are heavily involved in volunteering and grant programmes.
In June we announced the Sage Foundation, which will extend this work, setting the benchmark for corporate philanthropy around THE SAGE FOUNDATION IS BUILT ON the world.
We want to give our people the tools and encouragement A MODEL OF to go out and work with the organisations and causes they really care about.
We want our people to bring their values and passions into work with them.
2 2 2 The Sage Foundation is built on a 2 2 2 model: donating 2% of DONATING employee time each year five days, 2% of free cash ow to fund the foundation and awardof grants andtwo of Sages smart technology 2% of employee time each year five days, product licences for charities, social enterprises or non-profit 2% of free cash ow to fund the foundation and award as grants organisations.
This model demonstrates Sages commitment to twoof Sages smart technology product licences for charities, philanthropic leadership in the FTSE 100 and is driven by Sages social enterprises or non-profit organisations.
ambition to connect its customers, colleagues and communities within an integrated model.
Its fantastic to see Sage not only take up this mantle, With tens of thousands of non-profit organisations as existing Sage but in doing so, set a new global benchmark for customers, the Sage Foundation will enhance Sages relationship corporate philanthropy.
with charity and social enterprise.
Non-profit organisations will be able to apply for Sage One, Sage Live or X3 products, through the Baroness Martha Lane-Fox, Founder of digital charity newly created donation programme.
com The Sage Foundation will provide support to non-profit organisations At Sage we care and are committed to enhancing and communities around the world by sharing the resources of Sage.
We will help these organisations to create social impact by giving the lives of the less fortunate in a meaningful and our time, money, expertise and technology.
Sage is at the heart of sustainable way.
millions of businesses around the globe who play a vital role in their Ivan Epstein, Chairman of Sage Foundation and communities.
By partnering with the non-profit sector we will free President, International organisations from operational complexity and enable them to run ecient, socially-driven organisations.
The Sage Foundation will benefit from Sage revenues from the non-profit sector: notionally 2% of free cash ow is equivalent to revenue gained from non-profit sector in FY14 SAGE RAISES $30K FOR HURRICANE KATRINA SURVIVORS Ten years after Hurricane Katrina, Sage sta As a bu siness leader, Sage knows rallied behind New Orleans Area Habitat for the importance of safe and stable Humanity during our global Sage Summit in communities.
The Sage investment New Orleans.
Sage sta sold $15,000 worth of in Habitat means that local families Mardi Gras beads.
This sum was matched by will continue to improve their lives the Sage Foundation, to donate a grand sum and their neighbourhoods.
Sage also commied to a global relationship with Jim Pate, Executive Director Habitat for Humanity, with Sage colleagues New Orleans Area Habitat for Humanity volunteering in their programmes around the world through the Sage Foundation.
SAGE COLLEAGUES SLEEP OUT FOR BOYS & GIRLS TOWN In South Africa, 135 of our colleagues slept under the stars, in the middle of the winter, in support of Daryl Blundell, General Manager, to help raise funds for him before he took part in the CEO Sleep Out on 18 June raising funds for Boys & Girls Town.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51
