STRATEGIC REPORT FOCUS ON OUR PEOPLE Developing the capabilities and competencies of Seniors employees to meet tomorrows customer requirements iscritical to the future success of the Group.
My personal vision has always been to attain a CEO position within Senior.
Attending the Management & Leadership, Strategic Marketing and Finance programmes, has been an integral factor Exposure to the Groups in achieving my goal.
Overall, I am a big Executives and other believer in the benefits of developing members within the Senior people and am thankful that Senior family have extended my supported me with this investment.
understanding of the Groupsofferings and corevalues.
Dan Brooks Eric Davis CEO Director Sales & Marketing Senior Aerospace Senior Flexonics Pathway Mexico STRONG ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE The Group benefits from having empowered, The Groups employees are one of its entrepreneurial and highly engaged local mostvaluable assets and the delivery of management.
Our business leaders appreciate ourstrategydepends on the right people, the autonomous environment which they  being in place.
Talent operate in, within a suitable governance and development and succession planning is a control framework.
They are also increasingly keypriority for our business and the Group collaborating across the business.
This isincreasing focus in this area with the culture of empowerment and autonomous recruitment of a Group HRDirector.
collaboration, along with the strong reputation of To operate at the highest levels we need to the Group helps attract and retain experienced invest in our people wherever they are located senior executives from within the industry.
and whatever role they hold.
Our extensive training and development programmes are VALUES designed to help them learn new skills, Seniors values of safety, integrity, customer refineexisting ones and progress internally.
focus, respect and trust, accountability, and Each of Seniors businesses is responsible for excellence along with entrepreneurial spirit continuously developing its people and the skills guide our people in the judgements, actions and training needs of employees are typically and decisions they make each day.
This is reviewed through a performance review and underpinned by our tell it as it is philosophy.
There are a range of Seniors long term goals are underpinned personal development opportunities at local byan absolute commitment to the highest 7,472 levelincluding, specific job-related skills and standards of safety and ethics and to vocational and professional qualifications.
Employees worldwide developing talent across the organisation.
The Group is also working closely with educational bodies and schools to promote Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics subjects at an early age, and is partnering with universities to promote our graduate opportunities and attract more talented young people.
For example, Senior Flexonics Blois has entered into a partnership 6 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In 2015, I attended the Fast Track Advanced Management Programme at Ashridge which focused on developing strategic thinking.
On returning to work, we started working on: What value are we creating It is truly structured to be a journey for our stakeholders?
What is our business strategy?
My journey has Do we have in place the resources, to execute this taken me from a large Flexonics strategy?
We are maturing and growing within the business to the largest Aerospace Senior portfolio, and I feel much better prepared to lead and contribute.
Carl Armbrister Julieta fide Los Angeles CFO CFO Senior Aerospace AMT Senior Aerospace Mexico with a number of local technical and DIVERSITY engineering schools to provide placement As an international Group, with 7,472 people forgraduates, technicians and apprentices.
working globally, we are committed to In2015, the partnership won the regional attracting, developing and retaining the best collaboration award.
Many of our businesses people from different backgrounds and cultures, have also entered into long-standing creating a dynamic workforce that can apply apprenticeship schemes, partnering with local diverse perspectives and backgrounds to education organisations to provide practical 554 competitive advantage.
We believe a diverse work experience to young people.
The high Employees who have workforce enhances innovation and are keen to standard of our schemes has resulted in a received training in the Group improve age, gender and ethnic diversity across number of Senior apprentices winning national Development Programme our businesses.
Seniors employment policies and regional apprenticeship awards.
are non-discriminatory, complying with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity GROUP DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME irrespective of age, race, gender, ethnic origin, In addition to local training and development, nationality, religion, health, disability, marital status, Senior operates a Group Development sexual preference, political or philosophical Programme which seeks to develop midto opinions or trade union membership.
senior-level managers so that they acquire the broader skills essential to operate at higher 14 14 19 management levels.
In 2015, Senior introduced an Operational Excellence module to its Group Female 86 86 81 Male Development Programme to develop a greater A Total Group understanding of some of the best practice B Executive Committee tools and techniques of operations management.
C plc Board The Group Development Programme enables employees from different businesses to learn together and create a common culture.
Since its introduction, 554 employees have received A B C training on the programme.
Employee development, together with a renewed emphasis on succession planning, will remain an important focus for the Group in the future.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 7 Number of employees %
