72 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility First and foremost Serco By being responsible, we will on what they mean, where they will live by its values Trust, support the communities we work.
They will be embedded in serve, strengthen our reputation key people processes such as our Care, Innovation, Pride.
They and brand, enhance our financial leadership model and performance form the foundation for how performance and create sustainable development reviews.
We will we operate and how we value for our shareholders.
monitor this through our annual recognise our responsibilities Corporate responsibility CR is built Viewpoint employee engagement to our customers, the public, into the way we operate through survey.
They sit at the core of our employees, partners, the Serco Management System how we operate and how we suppliers, communities and SMS.
The SMS defines the rules manage CR, details of which and the environment.
that govern the way we behave, our performance in the year are operate and deliver our strategy.
Being a responsible business encompasses a set of Group-wide means ensuring that we: Managing corporate policies and standards, covering responsibility comply with the law as well as subjects ranging from business Our CR framework encompasses: meet the standards we have conduct and ethics including our people: health and safety: human rights, health, safety and set for ourselves: communities: the environment: the environment, and people to deliver on our commitments our marketplace, which covers our procurement and supply chain.
and are open and transparent: relationships with our customers, Every employee completes training suppliers and other parties: and on understanding the principles engage and motivate our our commitment to ethics, human of the SMS when they join Serco.
people, act safely and with rights and business conduct.
This is supported by our Code respect for the environment and of Conduct codeofoconduct.
The Board has ultimate the communities we work in: and serco.
com, which applies to all responsibility for the Groups employees from Board Directors understand and minimise business strategy, which to every member of frontline staff.
business risk and achieve encompasses our approach to Our Code defines what we are appropriate financial returns.
Rachel Lomax is the Board committed to do and the standards sponsor for CR and chairs the we expect.
Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee CRRC.
More Our Governing Principles define the information on the CRRC can be behaviours we expect throughout found on pages 116 and 117.
Alongside the review of our strategy we have worked with This Board Committee has employees to review them.
The oversight of our approach to CR view was that they needed to be and its governance, ethics, risk refreshed and simplified to ensure management, security, and health, consistent understanding.
The safety and environment matters.
result is a set of values Trust, Care, This Committee met four times Innovation and Pride.
While our during 2015, receiving at each Code of Conduct defines what meeting formal progress reports we expect, our values define the on the elements making up our how, and with this the behaviours CR framework.
The CRRC Chair we expect from those who work for reports after each meeting to us.
These will be rolled out in 2016 the Board on the Committees with supporting communications activities, raising any specific issues and tools to enable managers to for Board consideration and action.
have conversations with their teams Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility 73 The Group Chief Executive Officer The divisional Ethics Leads and leaders training.
This has is a member of the CRRC, and is also form the core of the Ethics included training for all staff responsible for promoting the Oversight Group, which meets at on our Code of Conduct, data Groups approach to CR and its least quarterly to review initiatives, protection, equal opportunity effective implementation across issues and share best practice.
This and diversity, and in addition the Group.
This is agreed with has included the implementation for managers and leaders topics the Executive Committee, which of an online gifts and hospitality including competition law, antioversees its implementation.
register: completion of an ethics bribery and corruption, antiand compliance risk assessment money laundering and export Each CR element has a designated to better identify risks across controls and trade compliance.
Group Lead responsible for the divisions: completion of an engaging with divisional leads to We continue to operate our independent review to assess how develop an appropriate strategy, Speak-Up process which current compliance requirements objectives and performance is supported by an online are managed: development indicators, and monitor and report whistleblowing case management of improved processes for the on performance to the Executive system provided by an effective due diligence of third Committee and CRRC.
Each independent third party provider.
parties: and development of a new divisional Executive Management Awareness of Speak Up continues question set for our Viewpoint Team, under the direction of to increase with the results of our employee engagement survey the divisional Chief Executive, employee engagement survey to create a sub-index on culture then develops specific plans to Viewpoint showing that 83% felt within the main index, which was address the elements within the they had received the information included in the 2015 survey.
CR framework relevant to their they needed to understand Sercos business operations and strategy.
Following an initial culture Code of Conduct 79% in 2014, Delivery of these and performance assessment in 2013, Navex Global and with 71% 70% in 2014 feeling against agreed indicators were asked to complete a full they can report unethical conduct are reported to the divisions follow up assessment in 2015 of without fear above the Aon Executive Management Team and our UK operations.
Their findings benchmark average of 67%.
provided to the designated Group were positive with many factors Of the Speak Up cases closed in Lead for review, consolidation and identified in their 2013 report 2015, 96% had been investigated.
This is 63% of cases resulted in some best reflected by the fact that they Ensuring ethical standards corrective action being taken, found that 91% of line managers typically relating to process At the heart of being a responsible and supervisors, and 85% of all improvements, 24% resulted in business is a commitment to staff, either agreed or strongly disciplinary action being taken doing the right thing.
We have agreed that Serco is committed against some all of those continued to develop ethical to ethical business conduct.
involved, and a further 6% resulted governance through the divisional There remain areas where further in one or more employees being Ethics Leads, who report to the improvement would be beneficial, dismissed.
48% of the cases were relevant divisional Executive and plans are being developed to closed within three months of the Management Teams.
responsible for the development We have continued our focus and implementation of the on training with ethical and divisions ethics and compliance compliance topics included within programme, managing our our Serco essentials mandated whistleblowing Speak Up process for all staff and Serco essentials and investigating and resolving plus mandated for all managers issues raised.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 74 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility continued An example of how we have delivering great customer In addition, there has been a sought to manage corporate outcomes, and to achieve greater focus on deeper dives into responsibility is given on page specific groups.
Regular Talent them time after time.
117 in the CRRC Report in relation and Succession Planning Boards We want our workforce and to the independent investigation were introduced in the UK Region people management practices that was launched following across a number of Functional to have an unrivalled reputation a report by Channel 4 News Business areas.
The Boards serve for effectiveness and efficiency.
This included to identify potential emerging undercover recording of staff talent: identify succession Leadership at the Yarls Wood Immigration challenges, opportunities and We are seeking to continually Removal Centre, which is critical role and people risks: raise the bar for the quality and operated by Serco on behalf calibrate performance and capability of our leadership cadre.
of the UK Government, making potential ratings: generate draft In part this has been done through seemingly unacceptable and succession plans: and agree the selection of new leaders and derogatory comments.
A full copy actions and monitor progress.
helping to clarify for new leaders of the independent investigation and those who have remained with Employee Engagement report, its recommendations and Serco what the requirements We measure engagement through Sercos response is available on are for leaders in Serco.
This will our Viewpoint employee survey www.
be driven through a Leadership and drive improvement through Academy and specifically a People our annual engagement roadmap.
programme designed as a gateway We are trusted to deliver essential into a broader, ongoing curriculum Our engagement roadmap for and life-enhancing services that for leadership development 2015 was structured around our communities depend on.
in partnership with a leading quarterly focus areas targeting Delivering great service starts business school.
The first cohorts the key drivers of engagement, with our colleagues.
We depend will commence in 2016.
Group-wide, as per the 2014 on their skills and commitment to results connection to Serco, deliver the services our customers We recognise the importance to recognition, acting on employee expect.
They contribute directly to the business of attracting and feedback and use of employee our reputation and ability to grow.
retaining leaders, and the potential knowledge, skills and abilities.
We have therefore We recognise the privileged role Divisional activity to address driven greater accountability these was additionally supported we are given, and that we must and responsibility for ensuring enable our people to deliver by the coordination of global best the calibre of our leadership practice sharing and the provision great service.
We must also make through our Talent and Succession it easy to manage our workforce of resources and communications.
processes in 2015. with standard, simple and intuitive In 2015, the survey was updated systems and processes: In 2015, our Annual Talent to integrate a series of questions and Succession Review was regarding our working culture We want our leaders to be fit for supplemented by quarterly reviews enabling greater focus on ethics, the future, agile and adaptable, held between the Group Chief integrity, diversity and inclusion.
and clear on the behaviours and Operating Officer, Group Human As referred to earlier, a culture results expected of them.
Resources Director and Divisional index was added to the reporting We want our colleagues to be Chief Executive Officers and configuration for the survey results, highly engaged and passionate Human Resources Directors, to enabling automated reporting of ensure that actions committed to in about service.
We want them employee engagement specifically the annual review are delivered and to share our values and a sense regarding Serco culture.
issues dealt with along the way.
of personal responsibility for Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility 75 The 2015 Viewpoint Survey Adoption of the LMS for In the US, we have successfully was successfully launched and business-specific training has completed the implementation completed in Q3 2015 with a been driven in AsPac, where of a new employee performance strong participation rate 76% capability to manage and report management system, enabling our across the Group, 92% for all training has been built for Serco 8,500 US employees and managers leaders.
The results showed a Immigration Services contributing to align individual goals with 2% improvement in employee approximately 100 courses to company business objectives and engagement and 5% improvement the catalogue, while the same improving delivery of our annual in leadership engagement.
We will capability has been established performance review process.
continue to focus on our priority in the UK for Serco Marine In the UK, we have begun to engagement drivers: connection to contributing approximately 250 implement a new absence Serco, learning and development, courses to the catalogue.
management solution to drive acting on employee feedback and Following the successful pilot for a improvements in managing recognition, in seeking to improve new global recruitment solution at planned and unplanned absence.
Fiona Stanley Hospital in Australia, The system went live to 4,500 Developing systems the project to implement the employees in December and and processes system across our businesses deployment of the system across in the UK, Middle East and our UK organisation will continue During 2015 we continued work to identify and analyse Australia launched in Q3 2015. through 2016.
The implementation will be opportunities for enhancement Diversity of our HR systems MyHR completed during 2016, including Serco is a diverse business.
We robust candidate tracking, talent functionality and enhancements seek to value difference and work with additional services.
pooling to create a searchable to create an inclusive and fair database of prospective Our Learning Management environment for all.
We seek to treat candidates, and an extensive System LMS, fundamental to people fairly and equally, accept and reporting and analytical capability.
delivering essential compliance embrace diversity and, as far as is These two implementation and behavioural training, and reasonably possible, reflect the local successfully implemented in the programmes continue our journey communities in which we work.
to globally consistent learning UK, went live across our businesses Serco seeks to ensure equality, in the Middle East and AsPac.
and recruitment solutions that will diversity, inclusion, and antigreatly improve our capabilities Use of the LMS has been strong.
discriminatory practice in the in those areas.
Both integrate From September 2014 to workplace and community, offers with our existing HR systems, December 2015, the total number fair treatment in every aspect of driving further value.
Although of users globally has increased working life, and fosters a positive not initially in scope, both our from 250 original pilot population climate of employee relations with North American and European to 38,743.
The total number of the intention that all employees businesses have been engaged courses hosted on the system are treated with respect and with the intent to bring them into has increased from 12 to 495, dignity.
We adopt equalityscope in future phasing.
and the total number of course proofed policies and processes to Meanwhile, other new technology completions to date is 219,361 promote equality in the workforce UK 124,754: Middle East 6,829: is being rolled out in our North and monitor its diversity where American business and in the UK.
AsPac 87,778. allowed to do so by law.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 76 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility continued According to our 2015 and Ethics policy and Group bid for and stimulating thinking engagement survey, 76% of standard require us to respect around how any adverse impacts employees believe that Serco the United Nations Declaration can be avoided or mitigated.
This is up 1% of Human Rights and the United human rights issue is uncovered, from 2014.
By comparison, the Nations Guiding Principles on the issue will be reviewed by the Aon global average external Business and Human Rights, and divisional Executive Management benchmark is 71%.
to comply with the national laws Team for appropriate action and if of the jurisdictions in which we significant and has an implication The Inspiring Women in Serco operate.
This includes recognising across the Group, or represents a network launched in 2015, our obligations under the recently significant reputational risk to the sponsored by divisional Chief enacted UK Modern Slavery Group or clarification is needed on Executive, Liz Benison.
the Companys position, the issue objectives for the network have may be raised to the Executive been proposed and a Chapter-led We recognise that we can be a Committee for final decision.
governance framework is being force for good and will consider established.
This complements an operating in countries where there The Investment Committee existing affinity group for women are known risks of potential human provides governance for large or in management in our North rights issues, provided we have an high risk bids, rebids, acquisitions, American business.
Currently approach which we believe can be disposals and strategic there are three chapters at three used to improve others respect for investments that are outside the different locations across the US human rights.
delegated approval authority of meeting monthly.
Included within this We will not knowingly be will represent a network for our is determining Sercos position connected to any direct breach female talent across the business, in relation to new geographic of human rights and will seek to focusing on communication, markets, opportunities or take corrective action if there are development and support activities.
Where those activities any breaches.
We are committed while encouraging mentoring, have been identified as presenting to avoiding complicity in adverse  and the an ethical dilemma which presents human rights impacts or otherwise establishment of career role a significant reputational risk contributing to them, and where models.
The learning from these across the Group, such activities it is discovered that there is such groups is being shared with our will be considered by the complicity or a contribution we other regions.
Corporate Responsibility and will take necessary steps to cease Risk Committee on behalf of the The gender breakdown of or prevent such contribution or Board and any material outcome our workforce is shown in the use our leverage to mitigate any reported or raised to the Board.
remaining impact to the greatest extent possible.
Human rights considerations Human Rights are included as part of risk We use a Human Rights Decision We clearly state in our Code of management.
In addition to Making Tree as a tool for Conduct Sercos commitment to this, during 2015 each division evaluating the human rights the protection of human rights.
completed an ethics, compliance impacts of the contracts we Specifically, our Business Conduct and human rights risk assessment At 31 December 2015, the numbers of men and women employed by Serco were as follows: Number Percentage Male Female Male Female Directors 7 3 70% 30% Senior Managers 73 13 85% 15% Employees 64,084 39,047 62% 38% At 31 December 2015, we had 105,999 employees, of which we had gender information on 103,131.
Source: Serco global HR systems, figures provided on a total headcount basis: includes BPO.
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility 77 which included for example, have with our customers is central goods and the commissioning of the risk of slavery and human to us sustaining and growing our services.
We aim to be professional trafficking taking place in our business.
This is about living the in all our dealings with suppliers business and in our supply chain.
values we stand by Trust, Care, and those we work with.
During 2016, we will continue to We have a Procurement and monitor the outcomes of our third Supply Chain function to ensure We continue to maintain party due diligence and review relationships at all levels with our consistent procurement processes business practices in identified are applied in selecting and customers, so they are aware of risk areas.
how we can help them and we can using suppliers: to manage the risk through appropriate anticipate their changing needs.
In 2016 we will be reviewing These relationships lie with our procurement strategies and training in regards to the supplier selection criteria, ensuring divisional and Group leaders.
protection of human rights and that sourcing initiatives are fair prevention of slavery and human We have strengthened how we and ethical to both Serco and the trafficking in particular.
We will capture contractual obligations participating suppliers: and to also review how we engage with to ensure we are delivering ensure compliance with laws and our suppliers and joint venture and on our commitments: we have regulations, our ethical standards, strategic partners on these issues.
improved operational performance code of conduct and human rights reporting and review, both with throughout our supply chain.
Marketplace our customers and internally: Customers and looked at how we can The relationship between Serco Our principal customers are and its suppliers is an important strengthen and better manage national and local governments.
These component to achieving high We have more than 50 years performance in our business.
In help us to ensure we can better experience of helping them to identify and respond promptly selecting suppliers, Serco works achieve their goals.
By focusing hard to choose reputable business to their concerns and confirm we on the needs of the people they are meeting commitments and partners who are committed to serve, we enable our customers ethical standards and business expectations.
We continue to to deliver better outcomes.
Our place customer satisfaction at the practices compatible with those of front line delivery involves us in Serco.
We continue to enhance our core of our management reporting vital areas of public life, including and incentive structures so we systems and processes for choosing providing safe transport, finding and managing our suppliers.
are fully focused on ensuring our sustainable jobs for the longcustomers receive the high quality Our approach to sustainable term unemployed, helping services they deserve from us.
ethical procurement is included patients recover more quickly, Suppliers in our Procurement and Supply improving the local environment, Chain Group Standard.
It sets out Our approach to procurement rehabilitating offenders, protecting the detailed requirements and borders and supporting the has four main strands: to make minimum expectations of our the most of the benefits of armed forces.
policy of sustainable and ethical competitive supplier selection: Our reputation with our existing procurement.
Specifically, it to optimise the efficiency and customers is vital to our success addresses the expectation that our effectiveness of our processes and and to our prospects of future staff and suppliers have a natural resources: to drive sustainability growth.
Many factors influence our respect for our ethical standards in throughout our supply chain: and reputation, including the quality of the context of their own particular to develop positive relationships the services we provide, how we culture and that relationships with our suppliers.
Our approach deliver our commitments and how with our suppliers are based on takes regulatory, statutory, we engage with our customers the principle of fair and honest ethical and sustainable factors and other stakeholders, such as dealings at all times.
into consideration when making the local communities.
Developing decisions on the purchase of and improving the relationships we Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 78 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility continued Our Serco Supplier Code of bid.
This includes working with We believe it is important Conduct, which supplements our voluntary sector organisations, to recognise and celebrate Serco Code of Conduct, applies which often lack the scale and exceptional achievements by our to all suppliers of Serco, including experience to access major employees, including those made all of the Serco suppliers facilities.
to the communities in which we It formalises Sercos practices Responsibility for relationships live and work.
The Serco Pulse and makes clear that, recognising with our strategic partners lies Awards which has categories in differences in cultures and legal with the relevant contract and relation to community, operational requirements, we expect that divisional management.
excellence, heart and people wherever our suppliers are located, recognise people at every level Community producing products for us or and from every part of the Our communities are primarily the delivering services for us, that they company whose behaviours are people who live and work around are produced and or provided in making a difference, and providing our contracts, but our definition a manner compatible with the high role models that help shape our extends to include the third-sector standards that contribute to the businesses in the future.
In 2015, organisations we partner with to reputation of Serco.
14 divisional pulse community deliver a number of our contracts.
awards have been recognised of Joint venture partners which six received a Global Pulse We encourage our employees Serco is involved in a number of Community Award.
to volunteer their time to local joint ventures with commercial projects.
This not only benefits Serco Foundation partners and customers.
Strong the community and builds the relationships, based on mutual During 2015, the Serco Foundation reputation of both Serco and trust and respect and clarity of Trustees developed a three-year our customers, but it also has a roles, are essential ingredients if a strategy with a vision of being positive impact on the personal joint venture is to deliver excellent a pioneer in applying service development of the volunteers.
business know-how to help charities Working with communities deliver better outcomes for society.
Our divisional management teams contributes directly to our business This will be delivered by supporting are responsible for relationships success.
It helps to enhance our charities seeking improved with our joint venture partners, reputation and build trust with performance, by giving access to supported by members of the our customers and the public, Serco people, methodology and Executive Committee and Board as by demonstrating that Serco experience.
In line with this, in appropriate.
This includes holding is a values-led organisation.
It February 2015 Serco and a global regular strategy and review also helps us better understand charity signed a collaborative meetings with our partners.
community needs and to operate agreement which enabled us to existing contracts successfully, provide direct support to a project As with our suppliers, we continue particularly where we are looking at the implementation of to enhance the systems and delivering services directly their routine immunisation supply processes to seek to ensure that to the public.
The overall our joint venture partners meet the objective of this is to reduce the standards we have set ourselves in Our community activities are as mortality rate in children under five.
our policies and through our values.
diverse as our business, and we manage them at a local level.
In We deployed two experienced Strategic partners 2015 they included support for: the members of our staff who, over We often deliver services as part Nepal earthquake disaster relief: a six-month period, worked of a consortium, either as prime heart research: cancer care: Royal with the supply chain strategy contractor or as a subcontractor.
Flying Doctor Services: schools implementation partners in This allows us to bring together and universities: rural communities: cold chain and vaccine logistics companies with the skills to meet the elderly: and sport and management to: the precise requirements of a community groups.
Develop a procurement re-assessed along with associated reported with specific emphasis manual for use by buying controls.
We operate in a number on lessons learnt and the sharing agencies across the supply of heavily regulated, safety-critical of these across the organisation chain and introducing areas, which place stringent to drive improvement and a stronger governance, requirements upon us.
We seek to focus on environmental issues forecasting and performance have the systems in place to deliver and management to support management framework these requirements, as reflected delivery of the Groups in the regulatory approvals and environmental target.
Redesign the National Cold licences we operate under.
This Chain Vaccine Logistics also means that we have regular We monitor and have objectives Action Plan, to prioritise regulatory oversight.
Together, around a number of performance and maximise its efficiency these factors give us a strong indicators including lost time and effectiveness.
controls framework for managing incidents, physical assaults and our HSE responsibilities.
Introduce international 2015 we reviewed and restated best practice to cold chain We have also reviewed and our safety performance indicator equipment maintenance revised our health, safety and definitions which are recorded on practices and provide a environment strategy for the our safety management system performance measurement next three years.
As a result of this and framework with a focus on that until we meet our aspiration other system enhancements, we achieving service outcomes of zero harm there will always noted a number of anomalies in be more we can do to improve Overall, when the outcomes 2014 data which led to a full review our processes and management of their work have been of historical data.
This identified systems, reinforce leadership implemented, it is estimated that a number of incidents which had and commitment and train and it will enable an additional 500,000 been reported late and a number develop the health and safety children to be fully immunised reclassified when the revised capabilities of our people.
We have have developed some strategic therefore adjusted our 2014 data objectives and set ourselves Health and safety to reflect this along with resetting targets to track our progress.
Our aspiration is zero harm.
2015 targets based on the revised These cover: Nothing is so urgent or important 2014 baseline.
that we cannot do it safely.
a drive to improve and focus on A strong health and safety Reflecting the various safety risk safety culture to increase leader profiles, we track our performance performance seeks to ensure the and employee engagement, safety of our people and protects data for frontline operations which we will measure through separately from our BPO business our reputation.
Wherever they the Viewpoint employee work and whatever their role, our which, whilst having a significant engagement survey number of staff, is a low safety people must adhere to stringent to raise visibility and apply a health and safety procedures.
This brings our safety KPI consistent approach to the rates down.
Given the offshore These procedures are embedded in the SMS and are the minimum management and reporting of private sector BPO sale we will be basing our targets on the 2015 standards that apply.
A core third party incidents, particularly element of this is understanding frontline baseline rather than the in regard to contractors: Group baseline, as this better the safety risks we face as a to review and improve business.
During 2015 a review of reflects the risk profile of the consistency in approach to how Group moving forward.
the potential risks that could lead incidents are managed and to a significant safety event were Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 80 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility continued Overall performance across our appropriate actions taken AsPac an increase in the numbers main KPIs has seen a deterioration and learnings shared across of physical assaults reported.
better understand this, in 2015 we has been driven by an increase completed a reassessment of the Lost time incidents 24% in numbers of physical risk factors that are impacting our Lost time incidents LTIs relate assaults which typically results in operations and the industry as a to any work related occurrences lost time and the more serious whole.
These include: increasing incurring one full lost working day assaults in major reportable issues around new psychoactive or more and provide a general incidents.
This predominantly substances, often referred to as overview of safety performance.
relates to our custodial immigration legal highs: increasing gangThe number of LTIs are normalised operations in the UK and AsPac.
related violence: ethnicity, cultural per 100,000 FTE to give the Lost This is not just a Serco issue but an mix and changing populations: Time Incident Rate LTIR.
In 2015 we industry issue and is one we take consequence management: saw a 10% increase in the number extremely seriously.
For example, and the processing pathway for of LTIs compared to 2014.
This has in the UK the National Offender immigrants.
Recognising this impacted our LTIR by 11%.
This Management Service NOMS evolving risk profile we continue to increase has mainly been driven reports that over the last two years drive a number of initiatives.
These by increases in physical assaults.
there has been just under a 50% include five minute interventions to increase in serious physical assaults.
better manage initial contact: body At 630 our LTIR is above our target worn cameras, placement strategy for 2015 of 548.
For just frontline During 2015 we completed a and heat map assessments.
We staff, the last four quarter rate detailed review of the risks, work closely with our customers of 1,139 is also above our target controls and initiatives being on this issue, for example in the UK of 981.
The majority of physical undertaken in the UK and AsPac we are active participants in the assaults relate to our custodial to better understand and manage National Offender Management immigration operations.
When the risks driving physical assaults.
these are removed slips trips There is significant work being falls and manual handling continue undertaken and a range of As part of this review we have to be the highest contributors to initiatives being implemented, evolved our reporting to cover all LTIs with the underlying LTIR for however the environment physical assaults, as in previous the last four quarters for the Group continues to evolve and this years, but also now monitor at 346 and frontline operations will remain a significant area those defined as serious physical at 673.
This shows an underlying of management attention and assaults, i. e. those that result in good safety performance across continue to impact our broader physical injuries requiring medical the business.
Our target for 2016 safety KPIs.
treatment involving overnight is for a 5% reduction in our LTIR hospitalisation in a medical facility We tragically had two employee based on 2015 frontline baseline or ongoing medical treatment.
One was a at 1,139 2016 target 1,082. call centre operative who was For 2015 our physical assault Physical assaults killed in a road traffic accident in rate at 689 per 100,000 FTE has Physical assaults continue to be India and the second in the UK increased by 25% against 2014, with an area of significant management when a Prison Custody Officer 93% of all physical assaults coming attention as we have seen across received fatal injuries during a from within our custodial and our custodial and immigration physical assault.
This falls operations in both the UK and are fully investigated and where short of our target 533 by 29%.
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility 81 When just frontline performance In regard to our frontline on the environment is reduced, is considered we still see a operations our MRIR is 95.9. or where possible, eliminated by deterioration against 2014 of 26% As with the LTIs the principal applying the most appropriate in our rate and fall short by 30% contributors are those business management systems at contract against target 979.
This reflects an units providing custodial or level whether designed by our erratic performance over the last immigration services and customers or by us.
five years which is reflective of the specifically relating to either Sercos activities are typically changing risk profile.
physical assaults on staff or managed at a local level which injuries incurred during control Within this the more serious means there are a wide range of and restraints, often intervening assaults make up 17% of all initiatives in operation around the in violent incidents between assaults.
For example, in Americas prisoners.
When these operations assault rate at 118 for 2015 is a in Arkansas we upgraded external are removed the MRIR comes 36% increase against 2014 87. lighting at our CMS contract and down to 31.2 which is just above For 2016 our objective is for a also completed environmental our target of 30.
Frontline 5% reduction in the 2015 serious assessments at our fleet business operations excluding custodial physical assault rate at 218 based unit facilities: in the Middle East our immigration operations MRIR is 51 on 2015 frontline operations Dubai Metro operation received a which brings us closer to but still baseline 2016 target 207.
Waste Management Award for a falls short of our target of 40.
All mobile phone recycling campaign: MRIs are investigated and where Major reportable incidents in our custodial estate in the UK we identified corrective actions taken Of the 581 LTIs reported in 2015, upgraded boiler and zone controls and lessons learned shared across 53 9% were classified as major at Kilmarnock and upgraded the Company.
This compares to 35 building management systems at is to achieve a MRIR for frontline reported in 2014.
The increase Dovegate, Lowdham Grange operations of 91. reflects the increase in serious and Ashfield.
Major Reportable Environment Where we are not in control of the Incidents MRI are classed as Sercos aspiration for zero harm working environment, we support fatalities, fractures, amputations, applies as much to the environment our customers in applying their dislocations, loss of sight, chemical as it does to health and safety.
It own environmental management and hot metal burns, electrical makes good business sense to systems and objectives.
burns, unconsciousness caused by protect our reputation and reduce asphyxia or exposure to a harmful our energy consumption and Where environmental initiatives substance and acute illness environmental impact.
have been identified, specific resulting from substance inhalation indicators relevant to the project or ingestion.
Across more than two thirds of are agreed so that delivery and our business, we are working on where possible impact can be We normalise MRIs using the our customers premises and are assessed.
This is monitored within same base 100,000 FTE as LTIs therefore not in direct control the relevant division and managed to produce a Major Reportable of the environment in which we locally to ensure appropriate Incident Rate MRIR.
That is why collaborative ownership and sustainability for 2015 at 57.7 is a 54% increase working with our customers on of projects.
against 2014 37.5 and is above environmental issues is important.
the target we set ourselves at Serco recognises its responsibility the beginning of the year 30. to ensure that any adverse impact Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 82 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate Responsibility continued In 2015 the introduction in the UK our business, with employees who In some cases, we have estimated of the Energy Saving Opportunity are often on customer sites where emissions based on similar Scheme ESOS regulations no operational control is possible.
This is done, for required Serco to present to the As this approach is inconsistent example, where our staff work Executive Committee costed with the financial statements, we in leased premises but have no energy reduction initiatives for have described the classification access to actual consumption a representative section of the of reporting boundaries in detail figures.
In other cases, we have business.
Examples are rainwater in our Basis of Reporting 2015 extrapolated total emissions by harvesting systems: variable speed document, which is available on using available information from pumps to boiler rooms: and early our website, www.
part of the reporting period and upgrades to dated heating plants.
extending it to apply to the full We report all material emission reporting year.
This occurs for the In 2015 Serco again responded sources for which we consider rare occasions where gaps are to the Carbon Disclosure Project ourselves responsible and have identified in our data.
FTSE 350 CDP request for set our materiality threshold at 5%.
information, achieving an improved These sources align with where The sum of all estimated emissions score of 99% compared to 97% in we consider we have operational is below 5% of our global 2014, retaining us in the Carbon control.
The emissions that emissions, so we consider the Disclosure Leadership Index.
have not been included in this potential for error to be immaterial.
years report relate to refrigerant Greenhouse gas emissions In 2015 the total carbon dioxide gases from air conditioning and equivalent CO e was 226,008 Our reporting year for greenhouse 2 refrigeration outside the UK.
This compares favourably gas emissions is one quarter After analysis, we believe these to last years emissions which were behind our financial year, namely emissions are immaterial.
368,012 of CO e and represents a 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2 We do not have responsibility 38% reduction over last year.
We report our emissions for any emission sources that are is due to changes in contributing data using an operational beyond our operational control, contracts such as the removal control approach to defining for example, business travel other of energy associated with the our organisational boundary.
than by our own transport, and operation of Docklands Light This follows the greenhouse gas therefore do not report them here.
Railway December 2014 as well protocol and defines how we meet Scope 3 emissions can be found as reduced UK gas consumption the Regulations requirements in in our annual Carbon Disclosure as a result of mild weather and respect of the emissions we are Project FTSE 350 submission.
the impact of initiatives taken.
Figure 1 provides a breakdown In 2015 we achieved an overall Serco quantifies and reports to of 2015 emissions by type.
materiality level of less than ISO 14064-1 2012.
We have used Figure 2 provides a comparison 5%, although not all divisions the Department for Environment, of 2015 and 2014 Global Scope 1 achieved it.
Our objective for Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and 2 emissions.
2016 is for all divisions to 2015 conversion factors within our achieve a materiality threshold reporting methodology.
We have of at least 5% for greenhouse also opted to use operational gas emissions reporting.
control as the consolidation approach, due to the nature of Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility 83 To express our annual reported Figure 1 % Breakdown 2015 by emission type emissions in relation to the scale of our activities, we have used full time equivalents FTE as our Electricity 46.2% intensity ratio.
This is the most Natural Gas 6.6% relevant indication of the constantly Petrol 0.3% changing nature of our business and provides the best comparative Diesel 12.8% measure over time.
Emissions Fuel Oil 2.2% reported have been normalised to 2.45 tonnes CO e per FTE 3.80 in 2 Specialist Marine Fuel 31.6% 2014.
Our emission intensity for frontline business was 3.53 tonnes Fugitive emissions 0.2% per FTE 6.86 in 2014 and for BPO Propane 0.2% FTEs it was 1.17 1.03 in 2014.
For 2016 we propose to reduce our carbon emissions intensity tonnes Figure 2 Global scope 1 and 2 emissions in Tonnes CO e 2 of CO e per FTE by 3% for the 2 2015 v 2014 frontline operations against our 2015 performance.
168,381 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Scope 1 121,621 Grid electricity purchase 199,631 for our own use Scope 2 104,387 2015 2014 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 84 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors' Report 85 Corporate Governance Report 104 Audit Committee Report 85 Chairman's governance overview 114 Nomination Committee Report 87 Our governance framework116 Corporate Responsibility and Risk Committee Report 88 Leadership 118 Board Oversight 88 Meet the Board Committee Report 92 How the Board operates 120 Remuneration Report 94 Effectiveness 144 Directors' Report 94 The work of the Board 151 Directors' Responsibilities 94 Board effectiveness Statement 97 Accountability 97 Managing business risks and internal control 101 Financial reporting process 101 Business conduct 102 Going concern 102 Engaging with shareholders
