Corporate Responsibility STRATEGIC REPORT SiG RECOGNiSES iTS CORPORATE RESPONSiBiLiTiES TOWARDS iTS SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES, CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLiERS AND iS COMMiTTED TO SOCiALLY RESPONSiBLE BUSiNESS PRACTiCE.
iN 2015 SiG CONTiNUED TO iNTEGRATE CORPORATE RESPONSiBiLiTY CR ACROSS THE GROUP.
The Group implements policies that include social and A confidential and independent hotline service is available environmental issues in our decision-making process, and to all employees so that they can raise any concerns they is investing in the development and wellbeing of its people have about how the Group conducts its business.
SiG believes this approach supports the believes this is an important resource which supports a Group in achieving its business goals as well as growing culture of openness throughout the Group.
As a constituent of the FTSE4Good is provided by an independent third party with a full index of socially responsible companies, SiG is pleased investigation being carried out on all matters raised and a to inform stakeholders of the measures it is taking to report prepared for feedback to the concerned party.
continually develop its approach to CR, including how it ethical trading & Human rights policy monitors and improves performance reporting.
The Ethical Trading & Human Rights Policy covers BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE the main issues that may be encountered in relation to product sourcing and sets out the standards of OF ETHICS professionalism and integrity which should be maintained The Group has in place Group-wide Ethics, Anti-Bribery & by employees in all Group operations worldwide.
Corruption and Ethical Trading & Human Rights policies.
These policies, which are regularly reviewed, underpin the The policy expresses the standards concerning: safe Groups CR programme and support its business integrity.
and fair working conditions for employees: responsible management of social and environmental issues within the ethics policy Group: and the international supply chain.
SiG issues to all employees a Group-wide Ethics Policy which sets out the standards and behaviours that are SiG promotes human rights through its employment expected throughout the Groups operations.
The policy policies and practices, through its supply chain and is designed to ensure that the business conforms to the through the responsible use of its products and services.
The policy can be viewed on There is no separate policy in place which deals the Companys website www.
specifically with human rights: however, SiG will keep The policy sets out the following key principles: under review the need for a specific human rights policy over and above its existing policies.
To abide by the laws applicable to each country of operation: anti-Bribery & corruption policy SiG has a number of fundamental principles and values Not to tolerate any kind of discrimination or that it believes are the foundation of sound and fair harassment: business practice, one of which is a zero tolerance To be a responsible partner within local communities: position on bribery and corruption.
The Groups AntiTo take into account the legal and moral rights of others Bribery & Corruption Policy clearly sets out the ethical in business transactions: values required to ensure compliance with legal requirements within countries in which SiG and its To maintain a safe and healthy working environment: subsidiary companies operate.
To be proactive in managing responsibilities to the Anti-bribery and corruption training is provided across environment: the Group to all senior management through to branch Not to knowingly make misrepresentations: managers and external salespeople.
This training is Not to make political donations: provided via our online training resource, and also includes modules on competition law.
Not to give or receive bribes: SiG values its reputation for ethical behaviour, financial To avoid, and in all cases report conflicts of interest: probity and reliability.
it recognises that over and above and the commission of any crime, any involvement in bribery Encourage employees to report any suspected will also reflect adversely on its image and reputation.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 41 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Responsibility CONTiNUED its aim therefore is to limit its exposure to bribery and SiGs management system is in its tenth year of corruption by: accreditation with the international environment standard iSO14001 within SiGs UK operations.
Registration to Setting out a clear policy on anti-bribery and the standard was successfully renewed in 2015.
Having corruption: an externally verified management system provides Training all employees so that they can recognise and the Group with a continuous programme of review and avoid the use of bribery by themselves and others: improvement for its businesses with a roll-out programme for new business within three months of acquisition and a Encouraging employees to be vigilant and to report target of full accreditation within twelve months.
any suspicion of bribery, providing them with suitable channels of communication and ensuring sensitive The key elements of the management system standard information is treated appropriately: are at the heart of SiGs approach to its Group-wide strategy for environmental matters which demonstrates Rigorously investigating instances of alleged bribery the Groups commitment to environmental management and assisting the police and other appropriate and best practice.
authorities in any resultant prosecution: and Taking firm and vigorous action against any individual s SiG maintains its Environmental Aspects and impacts involved in bribery or corruption.
Register and Corporate Environmental Risk Assessment to record and assess the principal environmental hazards A copy of the Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy is available within the Group.
These evaluations formed part of the to view on the Companys website www.
2015 Management Review process for each business.
Modern slavery act 2015 The Group has continued its excellent record of legal compliance and environmentally sound operations The Modern Slavery Act came into force in 2015 and the throughout 2015 with no prosecutions or actions from the requirement to publish an anti-slavery statement applies authorities.
to companies with financial years ending on or after 31 March 2016.
SiG plc is subject to these new disclosure The emphasis for the Groups environmental objectives requirements for its 2016 financial year end and will for 2015 are derived from its Low Carbon Business Policy, therefore publish its anti-slavery statement in respect of which sets out its aim to reduce the amount of fuel, energy 2016 on its website www.
com within six months and water consumption as well as reduce the waste it of the year ending 31 December 2016. produces.
The progress made by the business is covered in this report.
ENVIRONMENT environmental management carbon management SiGs Environmental Policy and management system is The Chief Executive is responsible for the Groups combined with the Health and Safety management system environmental performance and for the Groups Low to maximise the opportunities for continual improvement Carbon Policy.
that an integrated system provides.
The programme SiGs carbon footprint accounting process has been optimises resources to ensure that communication and verified since 2009 through the achievement of the Carbon auditing programmes are focused and targeted to support Trust Standard CTS and independent auditing on the business.
behalf of the Environment Agency for the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC.
SiG is no longer included The Chief Executive is the Board Director responsible for in the CRC and made its final submission in 2014.
The implementation of the Policy and is the signatory on the Group however continues to publish its carbon footprint Groups Health, Safety & Environment Policy, which is through the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
displayed at each location throughout the Group in the local language.
in order to broaden the scope of its verification to all Group activities, SiG set an objective for 2015 to achieve an internationally recognised verification standard.
The Groups partnership with Carbon Credentials culminated in the achievement of limited verification to iSO 14064-3.
This accreditation has been achieved through a detailed assessment, both qualitative and quantitative, of the Groups Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions assertions.
SiG is committed to maintaining the iSO standard and as such the Carbon Trust Standard accreditation was allowed to lapse at the end of 2015.
Adoption of this standard has provided the Group with a renewed framework for its energy reduction programme.
The achievement and the continuous strive towards www.
com Stock code: ShI 42 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 STRATEGIC REPORT improving carbon emissions has resulted in a significant and invited cyclists and other members of the public to improvement in the business standing in the Carbon sit in the vehicle to gain an understanding of the drivers Disclosure Project from 73 and C in 2014 to 95 and field of vision.
The work in this field led to SiG being part C in 2015.
SiG also discloses its Carbon Footprint and of Transport for Londons finalised bid in the Partnership emissions annually in this report.
Award at the Motor Transport Awards in 2015.
The continued reduction in the Groups GHG emissions Continuing this work on safety with vulnerable roads users has been brought about by investment in energy efficient in mind, SiG has designed a new Urban Delivery Vehicle technology installations across the property portfolio, with features designed to greatly enhance the drivers including refurbishment of existing buildings along with primary vision of critical areas of the vehicle and to reduce the fit-out of new sites.
This has been supplemented with blind spots.
The vehicle was launched at the CLOCS the continued consolidation and upgrade of the Groups progress event in February 2015 and is believed to be the road vehicle fleet.
first of its kind in its sector.
Following the success of the first vehicle, a second Urban Delivery Vehicle went into ROAD RISK POLICY operation at one of SiGs London locations in November SiG recognises that driving is among the most hazardous 2015. tasks performed by its employees and that its vehicles The work carried out on these vehicles resulted in SiG and drivers represent SiG and its values whilst they are on winning the Fleet innovation Award at the Brake Fleet the road.
The Group also recognises the potential impact Safety Awards in 2015. that driving has on the local and global environment.
Because of this, SiG has worked hard to drive the TRANSPORT Occupational Road Risk Policy across the Group, with Along with electricity, road vehicle fuel consumption strong local focus on key elements of the Policy.
makes up 89.8% of the Groups total carbon footprint This process resulted in SiG being Highly Commended emissions 2014: 90.5%.
SiG has targeted an absolute in the Safe Vehicles Award section at the Brake Fleet reduction year-on-year in fuel consumption since the base Safety Awards in 2015. year of 2010.
Due to the growth of the business through acquisition, the number of vehicles and delivery miles The Occupational Road Risk Policy is a key element has increased in 2015 compared to 2014.
However, the of the accident review process across the Group, with business has maintained an overall reduction in its fuel Accident Review Panels ARPs meeting regularly consumption against the base year of 2010 of 16.5%.
throughout the year in each country.
in the UK this is carried out in partnership with the Groups insurers and brokers.
The purpose of the ARPs is to reduce the risk of accidents and minimise the cost to the business.
This is achieved by: raising awareness across the Group of the outcomes of accidents: targeting improvements in the speed of reporting: improving the quality of investigations to identify the causes of specific accidents or trends: and recommending action and further training where appropriate.
The Fleet Operator Recognition Scheme FORS is an over-arching scheme that encompasses all aspects of safety, fuel efficiency, economical operations and vehicle emissions.
FORS is a voluntary scheme for commercial vehicle operators, which is designed to help improve operators performance in each of these areas.
SiG has adopted the scheme across its UK businesses.
in 2015, SiG was awarded Whole Fleet Accreditation status, one of the first large fleets in the UK to do so.
The branch network has a combination of Gold, Silver and Bronze accreditation statuses nationwide for sites operating commercial vehicles.
Work continued in 2015 to minimise the risk to vulnerable road users such as cyclists and pedestrians.
SiG are active champions of the Construction Logistics and Cyclist Safety CLOCS group.
SiG also initiated an Exchanging Places campaign in which employees exhibited a commercial vehicle at various cycling events SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 43 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Responsibility CONTiNUED Early gains were made largely through: greater efficiency A key element of the Groups compliance with the Energy in journey planning and the replacement of older vehicles Saving Opportunities Scheme ESOS scheme in 2015 with new vehicles: the introduction of vehicles fitted with was the reintroduction of the buildings energy audit, which energy reducing features: the introduction of the driver eco has identified a range of opportunities to improve energy training programmes: and accurate efficiency measurement efficiency which will feed into the objectives for 2016 and through the Masternaught telematics programme.
These initiatives along with the earlier Switch have enabled the business to maintain the downward trend Off campaigns and printer copier fax consolidation have during a period of expansion.
enabled the Group to achieve a further absolute reduction of 4.4% in 2015.
SiG continued in 2015 to measure absolute consumption and target reductions across the core business.
This was The projects completed under the Low Carbon Policy since achieved through further consolidation of its branches and the base year of 2010 have generated annual savings in sharing of its fleet, whilst targeting efficiencies across the excess of 1.85 million kWh of electricity, and 850 tonnes broader business in terms of improved km per litre ratios of CO emissions, with a payback period for the capital 2 to take account of the impact of SiGs plans for business projects of less than four years.
in 2016 the business will continue with its programme The Driver Certificate of Professional Competence CPC for replacing inefficient lighting with low energy systems, training programme continued in 2015 across the UK & installing energy efficient hand dryers and providing water ireland and similar programmes are in place across the heaters to replace inefficient kettles.
Mainland European businesses in compliance with EU GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Legislation.
The Group maintains its policy to purchase SiG is committed to providing full and accurate data for its commercial vehicles to the latest Euro standard, and carbon footprint across all of its operational businesses.
low emissions vehicles to facilitate deliveries into Low SiG reports on all emission sources as required under Emission zones across Europe.
the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups in order to further improve the efficiency of vehicle Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in routing, fuel consumption and enable accurate mileage August 2013.
The achievement and maintenance of this measurement, the programme to install Telematics in objective is evident by the achievement of the iSO 14064-3 commercial vehicles has now been completed in all standard in 2015. commercial vehicles under operational control across the SiG uses the emission factors from the UK Governments Group.
GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to SiG is keen to promote driver efficiency and driver safety calculate its GHG disclosures.
in support of its EKO efficient driving programme, SiG Poland has continued to deliver its in order to provide for auditing and assessment of the comprehensive in-vehicle driver training programme Groups carbon footprint accounting process, SiG has used for both commercial and business drivers.
SiG France a period non-coterminous with the Groups financial year, delivered a Twelve Actions in Twelve Months information with current year data reflecting the year to 30 September 2015.
The adoption of this process enables more accurate and instruction programme over 2015, including carbon reporting, enabling actual data to be used as topics such as Access to Vehicle, Load Security and opposed to estimates.
in 2015, 95.2% of calculations are Tachographs.
Estimates are prepared on the basis SiG UK continued to deliver the CPC training programme of applying equivalent emission rates to the remainder of to its workforce in partnership with Mercedes and the Groups footprint.
bolstered its support for drivers with an auditing and advice The comparatives prior to 2013 are also for a twelve month programme through its Fleet Management Trainers.
The period, but are based on the calendar year.
However, highlight of this years programme was the Driver of the the method of collecting data on CO emissions has not 2 Year competition which reached its conclusion in June changed: therefore the prior year numbers have been 2015.
Awards were issued in several categories and the included within this report as the Group feels that they overall winner was Michal Paszt from SiGD Croydon.
The method of collection for each component of CO emissions has been disclosed 2 ENERGY in the footnotes to each table.
Emissions from electricity consumption account for 14.7% of the Groups Scope 1 and 2 emissions 2014: 14.8%.
The Groups carbon footprint includes Scope 1 CO 2 SiG is committed to taking action to improve the efficiency emissions, for which businesses are directly responsible, of its properties through the capital projects scheme for and Scope 2 CO emissions from the generation of 2 replacing inefficient lighting with energy efficient daylight electricity by a third party resulting in indirect emissions.
SiG has invested over The Group has also disclosed Scope 3 CO emissions over 2 750,000 in capital projects since the base year of 2010. which the business has limited control, being third party air This has not only improved the efficiency of the building and rail transportation.
stock, but has also provided a safer working environment.
com Stock code: ShI 44 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 STRATEGIC REPORT in 2015 the processes and procedures used in the UK CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 2 INDIRECT 2 have been audited and assessed by Carbon Credentials Metric Metric Metric Metric who have provided a limited verification to iSO 14064- tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 3.
Previously the accounting process was audited by the 2015 2014 2013 2012 Carbon Trust with the achievement of the Carbon Trust 1 Electricity 12,307 12,870 13,142 14,346 Standard for the UK element only.
The achievement of the Data source and collection methods iSO standard is for the full Group footprint.
Consumption in kWh converted according to Defra guidelines.
As a result, the Groups carbon footprint for the year ended 30 September 2015 has been externally audited by Carbon CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 3 OTHER 2 Credentials, to iSO 14064-3 at a level of limited assurance.
INDIRECT This process has highlighted the continuous improvement Metric Metric Metric Metric in systems and procedures related to carbon management tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes and reporting along with identifying areas where further 2015 2014 2013 2012 improvements can be made.
Third-party provided 1 transport air and rail 352 405 308 349 SiG is a participant in the statutory ESOS, which is the UK Governments approach to implementing Article 8 of the Data source and collection methods EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012 27 EU.
Distance travelled converted according to Defra guidelines.
work to gain iSO 14064-3 verification and its energy audit process, SiG achieved full compliance with ESOS ahead Metric Metric Metric Metric of the December deadline.
This achievement is testimony Emission per m of tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes revenue 2015 2014 2013 2012 to the Groups self-auditing programme and Low Carbon Policy.
Scope 1 27.9 28.0 28.8 31.2 Scope 2 4.8 4.9 4.8 5.5 The Group achieved an absolute reduction of 3.5% in Scopes 1 & 2 as Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined year-on-year, with required by GHG an overall reduction of 16.7% compared to the base year Protocol 32.7 32.9 33.6 36.7 2010.
Scope 3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 The overall footprint of the business for Scope 1, 2 and Scopes 1, 2 & 3 32.8 33.1 33.7 36.9 3 emissions improved, with a reduction of 3.6% year-onThe data relating to CO emissions has been collected year.
The figures represent an overall reduction of 1.7% in 2 from all of the Groups material operations and is based emissions per m of revenue in 2015 compared to 2014 as a result of the measures taken to reduce road vehicle fuel on a combination of actual and estimated results where and energy consumption.
actual data is not available.
The data excludes the impact of businesses divested during 2014.
CO EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 DIRECT 2 WATER CONSUMPTION Metric Metric Metric Metric tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes The Group uses an estimated 1% of its water 2015 2014 2013 2012 consumption for manufacturing processes with the Road vehicle fuel remainder used for welfare purposes.
However, SiG 1 emissions 63,352 65,686 68,560 72,223 does recognise that potable water is a precious resource Plant vehicle fuel and continues to maintain its water recycling and reuse 2 emissions 4,562 4,993 4,934 5,369 practices for the processes in Southport UK and Alizay 3 Natural gas 2,772 2,452 3,372 2,999 France.
Coal coke for SiG continues to identify significant opportunities for 4 heating 45 55 52 70 water consumption efficiencies through the branch Heating fuels audit and bill validation process.
Water efficiency is a 5 Kerosene & LPG 801 832 1,313 943 key element of the specification for new and refurbished Total 71,532 74,018 78,231 81,604 properties and facilities.
All Group companies now report Data source and collection methods their water consumption.
Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
Direct purchase records in litres converted according to Defra 2015 2014 2013 2012 guidelines.
Purchases in tonnes converted according to Defra guidelines.
Purchases in litres converted according to Defra guidelines.
The above data is based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 45 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Responsibility CONTiNUED Non-hazardous waste WASTE MANAGEMENT The Group continues its programme to reduce the Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute amount of waste generated, with the introduction of tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 paperless delivery processes, online activity reports and the consolidation of photocopying facilities.
However, Landfill 4,469 5,626 4,283 8,743 SiGs key measurement of performance for waste incinerated 15 12 12 management is the percentage of waste diverted from Total 4,484 5,638 4,295 8,743 landfill.
Each business within the Group partners with a waste management provider to provide waste segregation other waste diverted from landfill and recycling facilities.
These are monitored centrally Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute and through the health, safety and environmental audit tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 2015 2014 2013 2012 and inspections process.
To maximise opportunities and minimise storage and welfare risks, waste bailers and WEEE Waste, compactors are provided where practicable.
Electrical and Electronic SiG has partnered with its suppliers to provide for waste Equipment 2 8 5 3 take-back schemes for its customers for materials Glass 1 3 3 3 including: plasterboard and plaster products, uPVC Wood 1,145 904 1,324 2,058 windows, fibre ceiling tiles, vinyl floor covering materials Metal 1,249 1,098 977 1,234 and batteries.
This enables the business to comply with Plasterboard 973 2,502 1,258 390 their Producer Responsibility Obligations under waste Paper cardboard 747 588 1,024 1,165 management legislation.
Plastic 353 383 440 762 As a break bulk supplier of products, the greatest Other 8,284 6,573 10,860 8,250 potential for waste production is packaging materials.
By Total 12,754 12,059 15,891 13,865 re-using opened packaging products, purchasing secondhand pallets and bearers, and the operation of packaging Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute return schemes for items like pallets and bearers, tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes branches actively minimise their backdoor waste.
2015 2014 2013 2012 Given the difficulty in measuring the amount of waste Non-hazardous and other waste per m produced, SiG ensures wherever possible that the data is of revenue 5.0 6.7 7.4 8.7 accurate by working with its waste management recycling provider in order to produce its best estimates.
Volume per annum converted to tonnes.
SiG is a member of the Valpak compliance scheme and continues to comply with its commitments under the The above data is based on a combination of actual and Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste estimated data.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT Hazardous waste The Chief Executive is the Board member responsible for Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute health and safety and is signatory to the Groups Health, tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes Safety and Environmental Policy, which is displayed in the 2015 2014 2013 2012 local language at each operating branch.
Landfill 2 60 13 21 The Zero Harm health and safety programme, which was Recycled 28 41 139 279 launched in 2014 and headed by the Chief Executive, is incinerated 65 72 now fully embedded in the business structure.
The initial Total 30 101 217 372 aim of the programme was to provide management with a renewed understanding of the programme and their Absolute Absolute Absolute Absolute responsibilities, and to provide them with the tools to tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes enable them to achieve the objective of the programme, 2015 2014 2013 2012 being the health, safety and wellbeing of employees Hazardous waste and others is the primary consideration for management per m of revenue 0.01 0.04 0.08 0.14 at all levels in the development, growth and day-to-day operation of the business, products and services.
com Stock code: ShI 46 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 STRATEGIC REPORT The aim was re-emphasised at the 2015 Annual Senior The RoSPA accredited SiG Certificate in Health, Safety Leadership Conference, where the Chief Executive gave and Environmental Management programme continues a clear instruction that the Zero Harm message must be to be delivered across the business, with regionally cascaded to all employees and that managers must take based training events provided across the UK in 2015 personal ownership and accountability for health and including managers new to the business.
The Zero Harm safety and in creating a safe working environment.
programme is managed and supported by the Group HS&E Manager and a team of directly employed Health, The success of Zero Harm is endorsed by SiGs Safety and Environment professionals in each part of the achievement for the first time of the Gold RoSPA Group.
The Groups Health & Safety management system Occupational Health & Safety award in 2015.
The award is modelled on the internationally recognised Health & recognises SiGs ongoing commitment to raising the Safety Standard BS-OHSAS 18001:2007, with the SiG standards for health and safety management across UK businesses enjoying their tenth year of certification the Group.
Despite this being a UK award scheme, the following a three year renewal by its partner intertek in submission represents the Groups Health & Safety 2015. programme and the achievement reflects on the hard work and dedication of the Health & Safety Team across The provision of dedicated HS&E professionals enables the Group as well as the leadership of management at all the implementation of a robust Risk Assessment and levels in taking ownership of health and safety and driving Management Review process through which the key the key initiatives.
health and safety risks have been identified.
The Risk Profile of the Group is reviewed annually to inform the The Safety Walks programme for 2015 continued with Groups Health & Safety Plan.
For 2016 the principal Senior Leaders led by the Chief Executive carrying out risk areas in terms of numbers of incidents and potential 420 formal branch inspections and support visits with severity of the risk remain: Occupational Road Risk, branch managers.
This initiative supported the cascade Traffic Management, Loading and Unloading and Storage and accountability element of Zero Harm.
will continue in 2016 with a move away from the checklist, tick-box process to an emphasis on engagement Although an area for growth, manufacturing sites make with operational personnel to support the drive for a safe up less than 5% of the business locations.
recognises the potential for serious harm and a suitably qualified dedicated Health & Safety Manager remains a in recognition of the level of risk posed by road travel key post to provide advice and support to the businesses and deliveries, the Safety Walk programme in 2015 was and to manage the plan for continuous improvement.
broadened to include the accompanying of commercial vehicle drivers on scheduled delivery runs.
SiGs offsite activities continued to expand in 2015 and were successfully supported by the existing HS&E Team.
A range of local initiatives were delivered in 2015 in This included the achievement of industry accreditations support of the Zero Harm programme, including: to: Achilles, CHAS, and BOPAS and SiGs offsite business, Branch Safety Days including interactive toolbox talks RoofSpace receiving the Health & Safety achievement and listening programmes delivered by Regional award from housebuilding contractor Barratt Homes at management in the UK and Safety Walls which were their Partners Awards Event.
Zero Harm branded focal points for Health & Safety information and advice.
Safety information, Personal Protective Equipment dispenser and restricted access stations made from stock products in SiG France along with a Twelve Actions in Twelve Months programme dedicated to improving safety on Loading and Deliveries.
A Safety Week in SiG Poland in collaboration with the construction industrys Agreement for Safety in Construction project and a Perfect Warehouse safety performance competition with the award presented by the business Managing Director.
SiG Germany & Austrias targeted actions to improve access onto vehicles to reduce the accident rate for drivers.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 47 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Responsibility CONTiNUED There continues to be significant improvement in the qUALITY ASSURANCE AND MANAGEMENT Accident incident Rate for SiG in both major accidents SYSTEMS and lost time accidents both over three day accidents The Groups management systems are maintained and RiDDOR or equivalent.
Unfortunately, there was an to a high standard through management review and increase in the UK & irelands over three day accident internal auditing.
A supplier audit programme is in place, incident rate.
This increase was due to an unusually high conducted by way of a questionnaire, and includes number of incidents occurring in December 2015.
Some questions regarding the health, safety and environmental caution is advised when comparing RiDDOR rates as the credentials of the supplier.
Where it is commercially data for 2012 has not been adjusted for the revised over advantageous the quality and chain of custody seven day incapacity definition.
management systems are externally certificated to iSO 9001, with Sitaco Poland and certificated branches in the The Group has a Zero Tolerance to any employee being UK achieving continued certification in 2015. unfit for work due to drugs or alcohol.
in 2015 the UK & ireland business revised its Alcohol & Substance Misuse COMMUNITY Policy.
Although the Company already had in place a As a large organisation employing thousands of people procedure for for cause testing, the revised policy across hundreds of local communities, we recognise that now provided for random testing of employees and we have a duty to actively support those communities.
sub-contractors engaged in safety critical roles.
The purpose of the policy is to minimise the risk of injury due in Poland, for example, SiG colleagues took part in the to alcohol and substance misuse.
in order to support this, Topacz Kids City project, which helps educate children an information and education programme was cascaded at risk of social exclusion about how to function in a to all employees in the second half of the year and the community and be a good citizen.
Working closely random testing programme commenced in January 2016. with Caparol, a leading producer of building paints, our A number of tests have already been carried out.
volunteers taught the children how to be professional painters so they could earn virtual money to spend in the ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS city shop.
uK & Ireland in the UK, we facilitate our community work through our membership of Business in the Community BiTC.
We Rate per 1,000 employees have worked with BiTC for a number of years and the 2015 2014 2013 2012 partnership enables us to ensure we are adopting best Major injury 2.3 2.8 3.6 2.7 practice in all our community interactions.
injury resulting in Through BiTC, we partner with Fir Vale School in Sheffield.
over three absence During the 2014 15 academic year, we delivered 310 days from work 10.8 12.0 11.2 11.2 volunteer hours that reached a total of nearly 700 pupils All RiDDORs 10.6 11.4 13.4 14.1 through a variety of activities, providing them with vital Average UK & ireland business skills for life beyond school.
As a result, over headcount 5,174 4,984 5,070 5,261 80% of the students involved said they understood more Lost work day rate about the subjects and skills needed to follow different number of work days per 100 employees 26.8 35.8 23.3 29.6 career paths and were better equipped to complete an application form or write a CV.
Group Also in 2015, one of our Roofing and Roofline businesses Rate per 1,000 employees took part in the well-known UK TV programme DiY SOS: 2015 2014 2013 2012 The Big Build.
The one hour programme sees the DiY SOS team enlist the help of local tradesmen, suppliers and Major injury 2.2 2.2 2.8 2.2 the wider community to support deserving families.
One injury resulting in episode featured a family living with the consequences of over three absence a stroke, and we helped by providing roofing products for days from work 12.0 15.0 16.7 17.1 a much needed extension to the familys home.
All RiDDORs equivalent 12.0 13.3 16.5 17.9 CHARITABLE DONATIONS Average Group SiG employees take part in a wide range of charitable headcount 9,641 9,454 9,806 10,228 activities to support both local communities and national This includes accidents in non-UK businesses that would meet the charities.
During the year, employees across the Group criteria for reporting in the UK under RiDDOR.
raised more than 45,000 through a wide range of events, from bake sales to cycle rides across Europe.
Particularly notable examples include: an employee in the UK who ran 13 marathons and raised over 3,000 for a local hospice: colleagues in France who took part in the Odyssea race, www.
com Stock code: ShI 48 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 STRATEGIC REPORT raising money for leading cancer research organisation These values were developed by our people and are the institut Gustave Roussy: and two of our senior leaders in guiding principles by which we work with our customers, Germany who dyed their beards to raise almost 5,000 for our suppliers, our communities and each other.
They are a Hamburg Childrens Hospice.
As a Group, we operate a the bedrock of our Stronger Together vision and we bring matched funding scheme, which matches up to 500 or them to life in everything we do.
equivalent raised by employees through charitable efforts DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE like these.
We also support our people in their activities in The skill and expertise of our people is one of our key other ways, like hosting charity dress-down days at work differentiators in the marketplace: developing employees or helping to publicise employees fundraising through is therefore a core part of our strategy.
We also make charitable donations as an organisation.
We want our new joiners to learn as much about SiG as in Poland, as well as our people giving their time to the possible from the moment they arrive.
This year, we have Topacz Kids City project, we donated 5,000 PLN to the created a Group induction Programme that will give new cause see the Community section for more information employees a consistent view of our values, our business about this project.
At a Group level, meanwhile, we and our strategy, regardless of where in the world they continued with an initiative we started last year, donating are based.
it is part of embedding our Stronger Together either 1 or 1 to the British Red Cross and UNiCEF for ethos across the Group.
every completed response to our employee engagement Throughout peoples careers, the Performance survey, SiG Listens.
Our 78% response rate meant that, in Development Review PDR process, launched in 2013, October, we were able to donate 6,222 to the charities.
ensures all managers and employees know what is in light of the crisis in Syria, we decided to add a further expected of them in their roles and that performance is 10,000 to this amount, requesting that the two charities measured and managed.
it also provides an opportunity put the total funds towards their Syrian refugee appeals.
for employees to discuss their career aspirations with their manager, set development plans and take action on those in 2015, the Group made total charitable donations of plans during the year.
in 2015, we trained almost 450 99,451 2014: 111,000, including through our matched managers in how to run effective performance reviews, funding scheme.
and 79% of our people had a PDR discussion compared it is the Groups policy not to make political donations and to 65% in 2014.
Our goal is to make sure all employees no such donations were made in the year 2014: nil.
Employees in the UK can also make charitable donations We recognise that developing our leaders is important, through our payroll giving scheme.
Throughout 2015, our Senior Leadership Team SLT participated in the Raising the Bar programme.
The programme addresses key topics, and, through facilitated training sessions, enables our leaders to learn, share knowledge and shape action-planning.
Topics covered to date include PDRs, Maximising Finance Performance and Leading Change.
Some development initiatives are locally focused.
in the UK, for example, our partnership with Sheffield Hallam University continues to give our leaders the opportunity to develop their management skills while also gaining an academic accreditation, either at advanced Diploma or Bachelor Degree level.
in Poland, courses to grow managers coaching capability have been developed, as has training to improve knowledge-sharing.
in Germany, a programme of leadership and management training is ongoing, with modules including leading self, leading OUR PEOPLE others and leading change.
in France, the introduction One of the key strategic areas of focus across SiG is of a new Learning Management System as part of the improving the performance, engagement and well-being Group-wide training and development strategy is helping of all our people.
employees to manage their development and grow in their career.
Similarly, the Learning Management System in the SIG VALUES UK & ireland has been updated, giving people access Our values are: Trust, Respect, integrity, Commitment, to more training and introducing self-enrolment so that Teamwork and Fun.
people have more control of their personal development.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 49 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Responsibility CONTiNUED Developing high-potential individuals for succession This improvement is testament to the actions we have planning purposes is vital to our future growth.
Early in taken since the last survey, particularly in relation to our 2015, we conducted a review of successors for Executive Zero Harm initiatives for health and safety and the training and Senior Leader levels across the business.
A further we have given to managers about running effective review, started later in 2015, is helping to identify highPerformance Development Reviews see the section potential people at other levels.
From the reviews Developing our people for more about these reviews.
conducted, new development programmes have been We are also delighted to see a three percentage-point designed and new talent pipeline programmes including rise in the management index.
This a measure of the Graduates and Apprentices have been implemented.
way our people view the effectiveness of their managers in areas like delivering feedback, recognising good work, Through these programmes, we will not only be able encouraging innovation and handling poor performance.
to create a recruitment pipeline of talented individuals entering the business, but we will also be able to Of course, there are areas for improvement.
The results accelerate the development and progression of those show that we need to do more to convince our employees already with us.
that we will act on their feedback from the survey.
Our aim, therefore, is to make sure that all our managers share RECOGNISING OUTSTANDING the results of the survey with their teams and that action PERFORMANCE planning and implementation at a Group and local level continues throughout the year.
The results also indicate We remain committed to recognising excellent that we need to: provide greater clarity on our vision and performance and celebrating the success of our people.
strategy: keep helping our people to develop and progress One way we do this is through the annual, Group-wide in their careers: maintain focus on customer service: and SiG Awards.
These awards give our leaders the chance improve the way we recognise our peoples performance to nominate employees at all levels for ideas, actions and celebrate success.
You can read about how we are and behaviours that help us live our values as well as addressing these needs in the internal communications, delivering financial results.
Shortlisted nominees attend Developing our people and Recognising outstanding an awards dinner at the Senior Leadership Conference.
performance sections of this report.
During the ceremony, awards are presented in several categories, and a special Chief Executives Award for INTERNAL COMMUNICATIONS Excellence is given to one outstanding individual who Communicating with our people is a key priority for us.
We embodies our values, has shown consistently excellent want to make sure everyone understands our vision for personal performance and has had a transformational SiG and our strategy for realising that vision.
We are also effect on their business area or function.
keen for our people to share their views and opinions, so two-way communication is very important.
ENGAGED EMPLOYEES Our communications normally start with our senior During September 2015, we ran our employee leaders.
Our channels for reaching them currently include engagement survey, SiG Listens, for the second time the email bulletins, web broadcasts, conference calls and first was in March 2014.
The survey gives our people the face-to-face briefings.
Often, we then ask our leaders to chance to tell us what we are doing well and how we can cascade the messages to their teams via emails and team improve to make SiG a great place to work.
To support this cascade, we provide briefing 78% of employees responded and our overall engagement packs for leaders and managers, which help them share score, at 73%, remained stable compared with the 2014 news and also gather feedback.
it was also in line with the global benchmark for also use intranet articles and updates, posters and desk private enterprises.
drops to keep employees informed.
This year saw a marked rise in scores across a number of As our organisation develops, we are continually areas.
These increases show that our people are feeling evaluating our communications and looking for more even more positive about: innovative ways to reach our people.
We are currently exploring new electronic channels, such as instant the importance we place on health and safety up four messenger, internal social media and other collaboration percentage-points tools.
We are also increasing face-to-face contact our approach to caring for their well-being up five between our operational employees and our leaders percentage-points through Meet the COMEX events and our annual receiving regular and constructive feedback on their programme of roadshows.
in addition, we have introduced performance up seven percentage-points new communication guidelines that will help bring consistency to the way our communications look, read how fairly their performance is reviewed up five and sound.
This is part of how we are helping employees percentage-points to feel stronger together, wherever they are.
com Stock code: ShI 50 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 STRATEGIC REPORT Finally, our employee engagement survey and our people who are starting their careers, whether they are performance review process for employees both facilitate apprentices or university graduates.
meaningful two-way communication between us and our apprenticeships people.
There is more information about both of these Our apprenticeship programmes are going from strength elsewhere in this report see Developing our people and to strength.
in Germany, 25 new apprentices joined us Engaged employees.
in 2015, across two of our Group companies.
These EMPLOYEE BENEFITS high-calibre individuals were selected from around 1,500 applicants.
Fourteen of them are fulfilling roles as We aim to attract and retain the best talent with a fair and management assistants, while the rest are working as consistent approach to both fixed and variable pay, which warehouse logistics specialists.
All receive advanced is regularly benchmarked, both externally and internally.
training, including a new eLearning module focusing on Reward and benefits play a key role in supporting workplace safety training.
As in previous years, we ran the annual Apprentice Forum Our bonus schemes are designed to reward exceptional in 2015.
Attended by representatives from our industrial performance.
For our Senior Leadership population, partner, Rockwool, the forum enabled all the apprentices the bonus operates to an aligned framework across the in Germany to gather together for networking, knowledge Group, specifically focusing on Group-wide deliverables sharing and technical presentations.
Bonus awards are also made in the local operating businesses aligned to local performance results.
We have also created a new training programme in the These are key in driving and rewarding performance at past year, entitled Handel Trifft Handwerk Retail Meets this level.
it gives our apprentices the chance to spend two to four weeks at a construction site, learning about We also encourage our employees to become our products and the way they are used by our industrial Shareholders in the Company.
At the senior level, we partners and customers.
operate a Long Term incentive Plan for our leaders and across our whole business we operate a Share incentive As well as investing in our apprentices, we have spent Plan SiP.
This gives one matching share for each share time developing our apprenticeship supervisors in purchased by the employee up to a maximum of 20 Germany.
The inaugural Apprenticeship Conference for per month.
As at 31 December 2015, there were 971 Supervisors was held in 2015, with a range of workshops, employees participating in the SiP.
presentations and discussion sessions focusing on how SiG, the apprentices and those supervising them SiG will implement the UK Governments National can derive the most benefit from the apprenticeship Living Wage from 1 April 2016, going beyond the legal programme.
requirement and adopting the rate for all employees from age 21 to enhance our Employee Value Proposition.
in the UK, our apprenticeship offering has been running in SiG, we feel that it is important to properly reward for three years and 2015 saw the continuation of the our people for helping to support our customers and Apprenticeship Development Programme, which brings ensuring the success of our business.
Our decision to go the apprentices together to develop their key skills and beyond the legal requirement on the National Living Wage business understanding.
Twenty-five new apprentices reinforces our commitment to do this.
Apprentices who have completed this programme in the past are now employed GROWING OUR TALENT in various roles across our head office, central services The growth and development of talent is key to our and branch network.
Throughout 2015, we have remained committed, across the Group, to recruiting and developing SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 51 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Corporate Responsibility CONTiNUED Graduates EqUAL OPPORTUNITIES in 2015, we launched our new international Graduate Our policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing Programme.
While we continue to recruit graduates into and prospective employees.
Across the Group, we specific functional areas on a country-by-country basis, recognise that our reputation is dependent upon fair and the new programme provides successful applicants equitable treatment of all our employees and we prohibit with insight and exposure across our UK, ireland and discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, gender, Mainland European businesses.
As our first Group-wide disability, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnic talent initiative, the programme focuses on attracting, origin.
Employment opportunities are equally available to developing and deploying high-calibre people who are all.
capable of developing into SiGs future leaders.
During We value diversity of thinking and see this as critical in the two-year programme, graduates will undertake generating new ideas and innovative solutions for our four rotations of six months, and attend five extensive customers.
Employment opportunities are available to development modules.
Each module will concentrate on disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and different leadership attributes such as understanding self, aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
if an emotional intelligence, understanding the business and employee becomes disabled during employment, we key financial skills.
at SiG make every effort to enable them to continue in The first cohort of nine graduates joined us in September employment by making reasonable adjustments in the 2015 through a re-designed recruitment and selection workplace and providing retraining for alternative work process.
Application criteria included a requirement for where necessary.
a specific degree background, such as business studies GENDER DIVERSITY or international business, and a second language.
The selection process involved video interviews, psychometric At 31 December 2015, across the total workforce, 2,036 assessments and an extensive assessment centre 21% of all employees are female and 7,787 79% are encompassing case studies, group presentations male.
Two Board members 25% are female and six and competency-based interviews.
Key stakeholders 75% Board members are male.
Six senior managers from across SiG internationally were invited to attend 9% are female and 63 senior managers 91% are male.
the assessment centres to help select the successful SiG continues to work towards improving its workforce applicants.
The programmes next cohort is due to arrive diversity and this will be an ongoing area of focus in 2016. in September 2016.
Alongside our internal work with graduates, we continue DIRECTORS SENIOR MANAGERS to support Enactus, as a Gold Sponsor.
Enactus is a community of students, academics and business leaders that develops outreach projects to improve the lives of people across the world.
in 2015, we were again involved in the judging process for the Enactus UK National 75% 91% Competition, with more representatives from SiG than Male 6 Male 63 ever before taking part in the judging.
Furthermore, we have established a network of business advisors 25% 9% Female 2 Female 6 throughout SiG in the UK who support individual Enactus teams.
These advisors act as mentors for the teams projects during the year.
in 2016, we will continue to build our group of business advisors to support more Enactus university teams and, over time, we hope to establish ALL EMPLOYEES relationships with the Enactus programme in other SiG countries.
We will also continue our support for the Association of Graduate Recruiters AGR in 2016, having been 79% Male 7,787 members for the last several years.
in 2015, we were involved in sharing best practice ideas across the AGR membership, and we attended AGR events and 21% Female 2,036 discussion groups.
A number of SiG representatives from the Talent and Resourcing teams were also invited to be part of the judging panel for the AGR Awards.
com Stock code: ShI 52 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 53 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 Governance www.
com Stock code: ShI 54 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 56 introduction to Governance 58 59 Corporate Governance 72 Audit Committee Report Nominations Committee 78 Report Directors Remuneration 80 Report Directors Responsibility 99 Statement SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 55 24298.02 30 March 2016 2:38 PM PROOF1
