Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 CR activities Attendance at scheduled committee meetings: We are committed to CR and see it as an integral part of our business.
During the year there were 4 scheduled meetings of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Human rights The attendance gures are detailed below for We have a responsibility to understand our potential impacts on human rights these meetings.
and to mitigate or eliminate these impacts.
We are committed to operating in accordance with the United Nations Global Compact Principles and our Code of Director Meetings attended Conduct supports this commitment.
Whilst not having a specic human rights Gordon Fryett 4 4 policy, we have group policies on Human Resources, Anti Bribery and Anti Andrew Duff 4 4 Fraud, Whistleblowing and Procurement.
These policies are in turn supported Liv Gareld 4 4 by a broader range of policies within Severn Trent Water Limited and Severn Dr Angela Strank 4 4 Trent Business Services to support key human rights.
Freedom of association and collective bargaining We recognise the right of all employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
We seek to promote cooperation between employees, our management team and recognised trade unions.
We believe this fosters a joint understanding of business needs and helps to deliver common solutions aimed at making our business successful.
Internationally, Severn Trent Business Services operates a small number of sales and marketing ofces where union membership is not available due to national law.
It is important that these employees and those who do not wish to join a union are not at a disadvantage.
All Severn Trent employees are encouraged to raise concerns at work through their line manager, however, we recognise that employees may feel inhibited in certain circumstances.
In this case, employees are encouraged to use our condential and independent whistleblowing helpline, operated by Safecall, an independent company which specialises in handling concerns at work.
The service is available internationally and Safecall provides a translation service, allowing any employee, wherever they are in the world, to access it.
Equality Severn Trent believes that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a successful business.
We do not tolerate discrimination under any circumstances and believe in treating everyone equally with fairness, encouragement and respect.
Our Code of Conduct and our group Human Resources Policy govern all aspects of employee rights and diversity.
Underpinning these are individual business level policies which define our approach to a diverse and inclusive environment.
Diversity To ensure our workforce reects the diversity of the customers and communities we serve, we have put considerable focus on monitoring our performance against a range of diversity measures and benchmarks.
We drive actions out of the analysis of the data and have built a plan to enable us to become a more diverse and inclusive workplace.
Our diversity and inclusion plan is supported by our exible working policies which promote part time working, job shares, exible hours and core working hours, with our technology enabling working from home when necessary.
We have also undertaken training with employees involved in recruitment to ensure that we do not have an unconscious bias within the attraction and selection programme.
Throughout 2014 15, we have also focused on increasing diversity in our applicants with a primary focus on our entry level schemes for apprenticeships and graduates.
We have looked at the communications we use to attract new applicants and how we can reach a broader and more diverse range in our community.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 68 Corporate Responsibility Committee continued We continue to take part in diversity initiatives such as the 30% Club and Project 28-40, so we can contribute to the debate and benefit from others experience, and received a rating of Silver this year in the Business in the Community gender and race benchmark survey improving from Bronze last year.
Our gender diversity metrics as at 31 March 2015 are set out in the Nominations Committee report on page 62.
Prevention of child labour and forced labour We will not condone the use of child labour and forced labour under any circumstances.
The highest risk for Severn Trent is through our supply chain, therefore we work with our suppliers to ensure they operate to the same standards we set ourselves.
Our Code of Conduct has been built into the procurement tender process as part of the pre-qualication questionnaire template in Severn Trent Water.
During 2014 15, 169 new suppliers have been required to confirm adherence to our Code of Conduct.
In addition, 20 retrospective assurance checks on existing suppliers have been carried out.
Prevention of bribery and corruption Our group-wide Anti Bribery and Anti Fraud Policy prohibits bribery and corruption in all our business dealings, regardless of the country or culture within which we work.
Employees identied as high risk through a risk review for Severn Trent Water Limited and all employees of Severn Trent Business Services are required to undertake an online training module and examination to ensure awareness of and compliance with this policy.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of our systems and controls to detect and prevent bribery and corruption.
Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Remuneration Committee Philip Remnant Dear shareholder Welcome to my first Remuneration Committee report.
I am delighted to report that in 2014 15 we again delivered on our commitments with significant value for our shareholders and our customers: improved operational performance, the lowest combined water and sewerage bills in the land and higher returns through the growing dividend.
This performance has been reected in the payments under our incentive plans.
Remuneration for the year under review The annual bonus payments to executive directors for the financial year to 31 March 2015 were between 46.4% and 75.3% of base salary, reecting a good year of operational performance with particularly strong improved performance on our quality of interaction with our customers and our impact on the environment.
During the year, awards under the Share Matching Plan SMP vested at 66.2% of the maximum based on total shareholder return performance over the three years to 19 May 2014.
The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards based on RoRCV performance over the three years to 31 March 2015 will vest in full.
Philip Remnant There is a detailed breakdown of the targets set and the payments under the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee annual bonus, SMP and LTIP on pages 79 and 80.
The committee determines, on behalf Key policy developments for 2015 16 of the board, the companys policy on No changes are proposed to the overall structure or quantum of the the remuneration of executive directors, remuneration arrangements.
However, the Remuneration Committee has had other members of the Executive to review the performance measures used in the annual bonus and LTIP to Committee and the Chairman of the reect the new regulatory framework under AMP6 which spans the five year board.
The Committee determines period from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2020.
The committee has consulted with the total remuneration packages and the companys major shareholders and institutional investor bodies prior to contractual terms and conditions for making these changes.
The policy framework Annual bonuses for 2014 15 were based on performance against the Severn for remunerating all senior executive Trent Water balanced scorecard, business unit objectives and personal managers is consistent with the approach performance.
The scorecard Key Performance Indicators KPIs no longer taken for executive directors.
reect the main indicators of performance as we move into AMP6, especially with the introduction of Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs.
ODIs are quantiable, transparent operational targets set for us by and monitored by Ofwat covering aspects such as water quality, leakage, asset stewardship, supply, ooding, customer experience and environmental performance.
Severn Trent Water is rewarded by Ofwat if it exceeds the ODI targets and suffers financial penalties for missing them.
Bonuses for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer for 2015 16 onwards will be based 50% on profit before interest and tax PBIT of Severn Trent Water, 40% on business unit performance including performance against ODIs, performance of Severn Trent Services and health and safety performance and 10% on personal performance.
PBIT has been chosen as a measure as it is an indicator of overall financial performance and reects efficiencies, revenue and other key levers in the business plan.
We believe that the new structure for the bonus provides a stronger link between our financial and operational performance and the rewards earned by executives.
