ETHICS REPORT RUNNING OUR BUSINESS IN AN ETHICAL WAY MAKES BUSINESS SENSE Absolute integrity underpins our approach to responsible business practice, helping us to deliver sustainablegrowth.
Training, engagement andsupport Our engagement strategy focusses on raising awareness among employees that running our business in an ethical way makes good business sense and providing relevant, practical training tohelp them with ethical decision-making.
In 2015, Servomex wanted to engage with all shown above to raise key questions and its employees on the Code of Business Ethics.
The sessions were very A new approach was needed to grab peoples popular for encouraging open discussion attention and Taking time to think was between colleagues and because the dilemmas The value conceived a 30-minute-long interactive were specifically related to the activities of of integrity session tackling three different ethical each team.
So successful, in fact, that many Code of Business Ethics dilemmas.
Employees discussed potential red came out of the session with the same flags, using the Spectris Decisions Guide question whens the next one?
We remain focussed on values and risk-based identify improvements to the programme.
engagement and are dedicated to facilitating Our ethics training and A number of actions have been identified, discussion between all employees in order to engagementstrategy: such as reinforcing local leadership for ethics build an environment in which employees feel Values and risk-based training.
and integrity, and consideration will be given empowered to act according to our shared values.
to introducing new training formats and content Delivery by senior and line managers.
Acquisition integration Face-to-face wherever feasible.
When a new business joins the Group, we work Online modules to reinforce awareness.
Following the launch of our fair competition with the management team to ensure that our New employees, including those who join training programme in 2014, face-to-face ethics programme is rolled out as a priority.
the Group following an acquisition, receive training has been delivered to around 2,000 Aleadership engagement session was held at training on the Code of Business Ethics employees in senior management, business ESGs head office in Kingston, Canada, in March the Code and other relevant topics development, sales, marketing, procurement, 2015 where the management team received within six months of joining.
customer support, legal and contract training on our Code.
An anti-bribery and management roles across the Group to date.
corruption module was also deployed to relevant This training was supported by a fair competition employees, and Group standards on gifts, Refresher anti-bribery workshops were held e-learning training course which was launched hospitality and entertainment and third-party in a number of locations across the Group to to around 3,000 employees.
In2016, a further due diligence have been implemented.
A number of training module focussed on vertical agreements will be initiatives on ethical decision-making and deployed across the Group.
A similar process of integration is now underway working together were also deployed at at Spectraseis, a business acquired in October anumber of our operating companies.
A bespoke Code of Business Ethics e-learning 2015 which is being integrated into ESG.
training course will be launched in 2016 to provide additional interactive training for new In addition, following the results of our 2014 and existing employees throughout the Group.
Ethics Survey, we held follow-up meetings with employees in a number of territories to better understand the feedback received and to 48 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 In addition, during the year guidance was A culture of openness and support Asaresult, actions will be taken in 2016 to issued to operating companies on how to We actively encourage a culture of openness, strengthen our control framework.
A number assess anti-bribery and corruption risks in engagement and communication, so employees ofissues have been brought to our attention by their businesses.
feel they can discuss any issues that arise in the ouremployees in the region which have been course of their work, and raise any concerns investigated, and we are encouraged by their Spectris Integrity Award withtheir managers.
Our independent Hotline willingness to raise their concerns.
We recognise the importance of celebrating www.
com gives our people, andrewarding good ethical behaviour business partners and other third parties the Senior management and throughout the Group.
The launch in 2016 of ability to report concerns anonymously if they  anew initiative, the Spectris Integrity Award, wish.
All reports are followed up and investigated Managers are expected to demonstrate ethical willgo even further to recognise and reward and the results are communicated to the Audit leadership and are required to certify annually outstanding behaviour which reflects our and Risk Committee every six months.
We that they have created and fostered an open absolute integrity value.
makeacommitment to protect the careers ethical culture, including having either dealt andreputations of employees who report withor reported any suspected violations of The Spectris Integrity Award is a Group-wide wrongdoing, as long as they do so in good theCode.
For certification purposes, senior initiative whereby employees are nominated faithand in the best interests of the Group.
management includes the Executive team, from each operating company for demonstrating operating company Presidents as well as the true commitment to our absolute integrity value.
During 2015, 18 reports were received via the Regional Presidents for Asia and South America, The award is designed to emphasise the Hotline and other sources, and the chart below the Finance and Administrative Head in Russia, importance of absolute integrity in our business shows the number of reports received from each Vice Presidents, Country Managers, Senior Sales practice and communicate success stories, region.
Ineach case, reports were investigated Managers and Ethics Officers.
100% of senior providing inspiration for other employees in and resolved and additional guidance, training managers had confirmed compliance for the the Group.
and monitoring made available or disciplinary period ended 31 December 2015 as at the date action taken, as appropriate.
Nominations will be invited from operating companies and the winners will be announced Number of reports received via the All new employees certify understanding and later in the year.
Hotline and other sources from each compliance with the Code upon completion of region during 2015 their initial ethics training.
Anti-bribery and corruption 11 1 A number of actions were taken during the year to strengthen our anti-bribery and corruption compliance framework.
In relation to our third-party management 4 programme, initially addressing our sales channel, comprehensive training was delivered to help reinforce the knowledge and skills of 2 oursales teams and senior management who conduct due diligence and engage with our strategic partners.
This strengthens our Asia North America commitment to an appropriate and effective Europe Latin America assessment and mitigation of third-party risk.
85% of our third-party relationships in the sales channel have been risk assessed to date and allnew and renewing relationships are risk The ethical environment in certain Asian assessed before they are engaged.
We will be extending our riskreviews to other third-party countries continues to be challenging in relation relationships during 2016. to conflicts of interests and fair competition.
