SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY LIES AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS DECISION-MAKING 2015 highlights Sustainability lies at the heart of our business Environmental aims: decision-making, ensuring that we consider both Seek to develop new products which can Used life-cycle impact analysis are we doing the right things?
and are we bemanufactured and operate in the most to design a gas analyser which doing things right?.
It supports our overall  way possible.
strategy to focus on innovative customer Aspire to reduce energy usage and reduces energy consumption by solutions to enhance productivity and deliver minimisewaste.
sustainable growth for our shareholders.
Report externally on our environmental Our business model has enabled us to adapt initiatives and progress.
In addition Reduced the amount of tobuilding a well-governed and profitable Social aims: wastage produced in the business which provides customers with the Create a culture that attracts and manufacture of steel creping products andservices they need economic aims, retainstalent and values diversity.
sustainable growth also means understanding Adopt values consistent with an ethical blades by 20%.
theimpact our business has on the environment approach to responsible business.
environmental aims and operating in a Ensure that our workplaces are safe.
Completed audits in compliance sociallyresponsible way social aims.
Work with our suppliers to help them meet our environmental and social standards.
with the European Energy Foundations for sustainable growth Invest time, resources and money to help local Efficiency Directive.
Economic aims: communities, particularly to promote science and technology in educational establishments.
Build successful relationships with customers, Implemented a supply chain helping them to enhance their productivity and reduce their carbon footprint.
The Company Secretary has overall responsibility management policy.
Developments, Maintain good corporate governance.
including risks and opportunities, are reviewed Maintain a strong balance sheet.
Implemented an anti-slavery annually by the Board within the context of the Focus on operational efficiencies, enhancing overall Group strategy.
profits through sustainable value creation.
and human trafficking policy, ahead of regulatory deadline.
Opportunities and risks We have identified the key opportunities and risks to our sustainability aims and these are set outbelow.
OPPORTUNITIES RISKS Rising energy prices and energy taxes drive Changes in regulation concerning the use customers to seek cost reduction initiatives.
and correct disposal of certain materials in Increasing focus on alternative, non-fossil our products could lead to increased costs fuel energy sources such as wind, solar and for developing replacement products and water power brings new applications for our or potential fines for non-compliance.
technology, including in the development of A very small proportion of our products electric and hybrid vehicles.
andprocesses have potential environmental High cost and increasing scarcity of some risks if not handled correctly.
raw materials drive customers to improve The introduction of new or stricter carbon taxes efficiency and reduce wastage.
in any location may increase operating costs.
Regulatory pressures such as carbon taxes, Loss of key employees in new product landfill taxes, disposal of harmful substances development projects may delay and limits on vehicle industrial emissions productlaunches.
mean customers need products and systems Having operations in many developing areas to demonstrate compliance.
of the world presents ethical risks resulting from a different perception of the way business may be conducted.
42 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Cutting emissions 90% smaller ECONOMIC AIMS Governments around the world are implementing At Spectris, sustainability is not just about ever stricter legislation in relation to air quality.
howwe do business, it is the business we Ourgas analysis products can measure pollutants, arein.
Ourproducts help our clients become enabling combustion processes to be optimised, more sustainable, both economically and thereby reducing greenhouse gas emissions environmentally, because they are designed to generated by industrial processes.
This helps ensure improve productivity, reduce waste and save compliance with environmental legislation and often time, money and resources, including reducing forms part of certification testing.
This is a virtuous circle: our power stations can save anything between 1% products make a significant contribution to the and5% of their fuel costs by improving combustion 80% lighter achievement of a lower carbon world, and these efficiency which means less energy wasted, less Servomex has achieved certification tothe products, in turn, drive our own economic useof natural resources and lower emissions.
Planet Mark programme for its commitment success and future growth.
to reduce its carbon footprint in terms of Supporting renewables emissions by 5%year on year.
New products are designed to help reduce We have world-leading expertise in providing environmental impact for customers solutions for customers involved in renewable One element of this is to consider the energy generation in the following areas: life-cycle impacts ofits products and reduce life-time running costs for customers.
Wind power Wind turbines have to be able to withstand Servomex set four key objectives when extreme conditions such as gale-force winds and designing the new MiniLaser.
Our measurement technology reduce the companys carbon footprint in isused in the research and development of new terms of CO emissions.
Secondly, to reduce 2 materials, helping to identify mechanical stress the companys ecological footprint.
The third on wind turbine components at an early stage aim was to improve efficiency of the raw whilst helping to drive a sustainable inorder to extend their life-cycle and improve materials used in manufacturing the product.
We also provide systems to monitor Finally and most importantly for customers turbine performance remotely, ensuring that to improve energy efficiency through Minimising energy use they are set up correctly for optimum performance reduced energy consumption during the In energy-intensive industries such as cement and that preventive maintenance can be products working life using the softwares and steel production, our materials analysis scheduled where required.
instruments help drive efficiencies by optimising wearand tear, prevents damage and optimises the shape and size of the raw material particles.
efficiency, saving both time and money.
The result was the launch in January 2015 This can generate substantial reductions in ofthe companys most sustainable product energy use and hence carbon emissions.
At 90% smaller and 80% As with offshore wind, maintaining the machinery lighter than many other comparable laser Another important sector for us is pulp and involved in hydropower facilities can be expensive analysers on the market, the MiniLaser paper.
We make durable high-precision ceramic and time-consuming, and small improvements in platform is the first of the next generation blades which ensure that speciality papers and efficiency and uptime can translate into major ofServomex products.
These are designed packaging receive exactly the right quantity and savings.
Our instrumentation can monitor to be lighter, more compact and requiring consistency of coating, which reduces waste and turbines and generators in real time, to predict less energy during manufacture around energy use.
and prevent problems before they require a costly 40% less for the MiniLaser and in operation shutdown in order to be repaired.
MiniLaser around 60% less, reducing both Helping to minimise energy use also involves the companys carbon footprint and the lowering the cost to our customers of operating Solar power customers energy usage.
our instruments by optimising the amount of We also have a presence in the solar energy power they require in use and on stand-by.
This sector, where our equipment helps ensure that is a key objective of our product development the layers of photovoltaic film in solar panels are process and the case study opposite shows an the correct thickness for maximum efficiency.
example of how this was achieved for a product Lighter weight and more flexible panels provide we launched during 2015. for an increased range of applications.
com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED Performance summary 2015 2014 Change Energy consumption absolute MWh 89,030 87,502 1.7% Energy efficiency MWh per m revenue 75.6 75.7 -0.1% 3 Water consumption m 162,325 160,251 1.3% Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO2e 73,324 71,655 2.3% Total carbon emissions perm revenue 62.25 61.98 0.4% Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
In 2013, we established processes to record, and Although Scope 3 reporting is not yet mandatory, In July 2015, we sold our 10,000th wind report on, Scope 1 emissions from company we believe that it is an important area and turbine condition monitoring system.
10,000 vehicle miles and refrigerant gas loss, and Scope control of air travel may be where we can make turbines will provide clean energy to over 3 emissions from air miles.
We now have full the most significant impact on the environment, 11million homes, saving approximately 1 reporting data from 2014 and 2015 for all after electricity.
1 Estimate based on 2.1 MW turbines with 53% efficiency and 1 MW of energy to supply 1,000 homes.
Greenhouse gas emissions tonnes CO2e 2015 2014 2013 2012 Scope 1 11,021 10,380 3,030 2,934 Reducing wastage Scope 2 35,470 35,210 37,024 40,533 Our instruments improve process efficiency and Scope 3 26,833 26,065 7,152 7,564 optimise product quality, reducing wastage of Total gross emissions 73,324 71,655 47,206 51,031 raw materials and scrap rates for our customers.
We also focus on reducing wastage internally Total carbon emissions per mrevenue 62.25 61.98 39.27 41.46 and seek to improve the efficiency of the raw materials used in manufacturing our products.
Notes For example, at BTG we reduced the amount 1 Emissions-releasing activities are categorised into three groups, known as scopes.
These are: Scope 1 direct emissions : ofscrap steel produced when manufacturing our Activities owned or controlled by the company that release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for example from creping blades by 20% through implementing combustion in owned or controlled boilers, furnaces, vehicles: emissions from chemical production in owned or controlled changes to the storage, handling and process equipment.
Scope 2 energy indirect : Emissions released into the atmosphere associated with the companys manufacturing processes as a result of Lean consumption of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
Scope 3 other indirect : Emissions that are a consequence techniques and in-depth root cause analysis.
of the companys actions, which occur at sources which the company does not own or control and which are not classed Thewaste metal is also recycled.
asScope 2emissions, for example business travel, waste disposal, or purchased materials or fuels.
2 Raw Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 data is measured and reported by all Spectris operations worldwide.
This data is converted into carbon emissions tonnes CO2e using the greenhouse gas conversion factors from the 2015 DEFRA DECC Guidelines for Company Reporting.
ENVIRONMENTAL AIMS 3 Our reporting processes, and the above data derived from them, are verified by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
4 Excluding acquisitions and disposals made in the year.
As well as helping our customers to reduce their impact on the environment, it is also a focus forour own efforts and we monitor the use of In 2014, we asked third-party consultants operations in those countries where the key sources of energy electricity, gas, oil and Ricardo-AEA to advise on the implementation legislation has been implemented this is known steam in our efforts to reduce consumption of Article 8 of the European Energy Efficiency as the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme in the andsave costs.
Although we are not significant Directive EED.
This legislation affects Spectris UK and each Spectris facility audited received users of water, we monitor usage throughout larger facilities in Europe and required the areport detailing energy-saving opportunities the Group.
The following table summarises identification and reporting of energy-saving within the time scale.
In those European countries ourperformance.
However, there where the legislation has not yet been fully are a number of European countries where the implemented we are working with Ricardo-AEA legislation has not yet been fully implemented.
and the local authorities to ensure that we can During 2015, we carried out audits at our respond as soon as the local legislation is agreed.
44 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Although we have not set specific Group-wide Our values targets, our aspiration is to reduce energy Absolute integrity.
incentives are in place which encourage Customer focus.
individual operating companies to reduce their Restless innovation.
electricity and water consumption, for example, High performance.
in order to improve profitability, and the opportunities identified by the EED audits will Our people also help to reduce energy use.
Our Servomex Spectris is a specialised and technical business, business has committed to reducing its carbon and we rely on the skills and expertise of our footprint in terms of emissions at the Technical 8,300 people, many of whom are highlySince 2007, Malvern Instruments has Centre in Crowborough, UK, by 5% year on qualified engineers and technicians.
succeeded in reducing electricity usage year and has achieved certification by the We have built our success on a combination per employee by more than 50% from PlanetMark for its commitment to improve of operational excellence and intelligent 21.13 kWh to 10.40 kWh per employee.
This sustainability performance read more about innovation, and we know that such innovation has been achieved primarily by a combination thisin the case study on page 43. requires a way of working which is open, of operational efficiencies and better facility positive and respectful, and supports the management including switching off We continue to be a constituent of the development of new ideas, and the taking electrical equipment outside working hours.
FTSE4Good Index Series and we also participate of reasonable and measured risks.
Initiatives include focussing on improving annually in the Carbon Disclosure Project, a product design which has resulted in not-for-profit organisation which collects climate You can read more about the key role our people increasingly more reliable products with less change data from companies around the world play in our business model and strategy on downtime and energy consumption during and compares their disclosure and emissions pages 19 and 21. product assembly and test, reducing reduction performance.
Our score of 98 out assembly and test process times, and of 100 in the 2015 survey 2014: 89 places Diversity and equality installation of automatic light movement us in the top 15% of companies in our Ours is a diverse business, with operations at sensors atthe facility in Malvern, UK.
sector and underlines our commitment more than 190 locations throughout the world, to environmental accountability.
and employees in over 30 different countries and cultures.
We recruit, develop and promote our Employees by gender and role people based on their talent, commitment and As at 31 December 2015 achievement: everyone is treated equally and SOCIAL AIMS Male Female Total fairly whatever their race, colour, religion, Directors 7 2 9 How we do business national origin, gender, sexual orientation, We have always placed a high priority on the ageor background.
Senior 1 management 127 25 152 standards by which we do business, because webelieve that how we work is as important Our people are key to the success of our Other aswhat we do.
As such, we need a workforce based employees 5,653 2,450 8,103 strategy in this area and in recent years we on a diverse group of talent able to provide Total 5,787 2,477 8,264 haveimproved our governance processes and solutions to a wide range of customers around % of total 70 30 100 oversight, and enhanced our Code of Business the world.
We are aware that our current Excludes contractors.
Ethics, in order to achieve our commitment to employee base is not fully representative of the 1 Presidents or Managing Directors and their immediate manage our business according to the highest geographies we operate in and that the gender reports whoare Directors or Vice-Presidents.
There is more on this in the balance does not reflect the population as a Ethics Report on page 48. whole, as the table opposite demonstrates.
Our values are pivotal to how we operate and This is a common challenge facing the field of science and technology.
We are also essential to our business success and growth.
engineering sector, and our businesses undertake putting in place a process to help women within They underpin the way we work, guide our a range of initiatives to raise the profile of women the Spectris Groupachieve their potential.
This is decision-making and shape our culture.
in engineering and encourage others to enter the described inmore detail on the following page.
com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED Another challenge facing engineering companies is As Spectris grows, there is a need for a more employee training and suggest improvements in how to encourage more young people to pursue structured approach to identify and promote talent working practices where appropriate in order to careers in manufacturing and engineering.
Our across the Group, for example by ensuring that any create a safer workplace.
businesses participate in various initiatives including obstacles that exist for women to progress are student internships, apprenticeships, industrial overcome and that talented women are assisted Accident incident rate 1 placements, participation at school careers days tofulfil their potential.
To address this, a talent Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees and other events designed to raise awareness management programme was initiated during 15 4.5 amongst school children of the opportunities to 2015 which will support the Groups growth work in manufacturing and engineering.
strategy and enable more focussed deployment 14 4.2 of our talent to our most critical activities.
You 13 4.4 Training, development and compensation can read more about our talent management We work hard to build a creative working programme on pages 65 and 66.
12 4.7 environment for our people with scope forindividual 11 2.7 responsibility and personal achievement.
Our We conduct employee satisfaction surveys as training programmes help ouremployees to develop partof an evaluation and measurement process, Excluding acquisitions and disposals made intheyear.
both personally andprofessionally and reach their which also includes monitoring the rate of 1 Work-related accidents or ill health resultinginlost time inexcess of three days.
Wecarry out annual performance voluntary staff turnover in our key regions.
reviews to determine each individuals training Thisiscompared against local data for our needs and assess their performance against the industry sector in order that our management previous years targets.
Our two principal UK teams can identify any unusual patterns and Each of our operating companies is responsible businesses, Malvern Instruments and Servomex, takethe appropriate steps to improve employee for implementing the Group-wide health and have received the Investors in People award for retention.
Voluntary turnover rates are higher safety policy, and for complying with any theirtraining, appraisal, employee development inAsia than in other regions as finding and additional local regulations.
Our Group policy andskills programmes.
retaining staff is a challenge for all companies covers our own employees, sub-contractors and dueto the increasing opportunities in this region.
You can read We encourage our employees to maintain a We monitor the situation closely and make every the full policy on our website.
All our major healthy balance between their working and effort to retain our employees in this highlylocations are regularly inspected by independent personal lives, and offer flexible part-time and competitive environment.
assessors for their compliance with health job-share opportunities to employees with family and safety policy andprocedures.
Staff turnover recommendations for improvements are put % of staff leaving the Company voluntarily intopractice.
A number of our UK offices We do not tolerate discrimination or harassment in haveachieved certification to ISO 18001 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 any form.
Disabled people are recruited, trained seesection on management systems and Total 7.1 5.9 6.0 5.8 6.9 and promoted on the basis of aptitude and ability.
If employees become disabled, every effort is Europe 5.0 3.1 3.2 2.7 3.3 made to retain them and, when necessary, re-train Human rights Americas 7.7 5.8 6.1 5.2 5.8 them for appropriate posts.
Our full employment Our human rights policy is consistent with Asia 10.8 12.2 12.2 13.9 16.2 policy is published on our website.
the Core Conventions of the International Labor Organization, and we comply with We seek to attract and retain the best talent and Health and safety  human rights our compensation and benefits schemes are in As a responsible employer, we take the health standards at all our sites.
The policy includes our linewith other leading companies in our sector, andsafety of our employees seriously.
We are position on non-discrimination, harassment, pay with rewards dependent on the achievement of proud to have an excellent record of safety in our and forced labour.
Human rights considerations individual and corporate objectives.
Our Savings workplaces, but we remain vigilant and track our are also included in the due diligence process we Related Share Option Scheme is available to all accident incident rate as a key performance undertake before any potential acquisition.
This UK employees, and grants to senior management indicator.
Continuous improvement programmes ensures that before we acquire a business, we worldwide under our Performance Share Plan are focussed on health and safety aim to reduce are fully informed of their approach in areas designed to reward loyalty and performance.
accidents and injuries at our sites to as low a level such as non-discrimination, equal opportunities as reasonably practical.
Local health and safety and freedom of association.
Our full human managers and officers carry out regular audits and rights policy is available on our website.
46 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 01-55 Governance 56-97 Financial Statements 98-168 Our customers Community involvement and decisions on charitable donations and sponsorship are We serve a broad spectrum of blue-chip undertaken by local management teams and customers across all key manufacturing vary from one company to another, depending industries.
We work closely with them to on business and regional priorities.
As already understand their business, which gives us a described, many of the activities we undertake unique ability to anticipate and respond to their are aimed at supporting schools and universities changing demands and fosters strong long-term to promote science, technology and engineering.
You can read more about our We also run a number of awards and customers on pages 19 and 20. programmes aimed at encouraging and providing support for young scientists who Our suppliers Aimed at encouraging and supporting young are at the beginning of their careers.
Our business is changing rapidly as we seek scientists who are just beginning their greater competitive advantage through efficiency careers, the annual PANalytical Award We do not give either cash or support-in-kind gains and innovation, in our products and how recognises groundbreaking research using topolitical parties or campaigns.
we work, whilst addressing new regulatory x-ray equipment.
Researchers who have requirements and expectations from commercial never held a professorship and who use Management systems andcertification and social stakeholders and shareholders.
laboratory-scale x-ray equipment as their Our business comprises around 190 offices Focussing on supply chain management is an primary analytical technique are eligible to located in more than 30 countries around the important tool in achieving this.
You can read apply for the award.
The winning article is world.
Although the countries have different more about our suppliers on pages 19 and 21. chosen by a committee composed primarily legal frameworks and requirements, our global OurSupply Chain Management Policy can be of independent researchers, unaffiliated policies are applicable across all our sites and found on our website.
are supplemented by local policies.
We carry out regular inspections at our supplier The most recent winner was Matteo Approximately 60% of our own manufacturing sites and use the SA 8000:2008 Social Bianchini, whose article on the properties of operations by turnover are certified to ISO Accountability Standard to assess our key a promising new Li-ion system, published in 14001:2004 for Environmental Management suppliers against criteria such as workers the Journal of Materials Chemistry, impressed Systems, as is our head office.
The head office and rights, workplace conditions and health, the judges with its inventive approach.
our principal UK offices have additionally obtained safety and the environment.
Mr Bianchini received the PANalytical Award certification to OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health trophy and 5,000 in prize money.
Spectris is subject to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 the Act, which became law in March Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA has 2015.
This legislation applies to three entities in monitoring the carbon implications of air travel independently verified the data associated with the UK: the head office, Malvern Instruments in preparation for the likely future mandatory energy consumption, water usage, greenhouse and Servomex.
We have updated our Supply Scope 3 reporting requirements.
As well as gas GHG emissions, voluntary labour turnover Chain Management Policy to include our carrying out audits of our facilities in relation and accident incident rate.
The LRQA Assurance Anti-slavery and Human Trafficking Policy and to the European Energy Efficiency Directive, once Statement confirming terms of engagement, are working with suppliers located in higher-risk the legislation has been implemented in the approach, opinion and observations is available countries to ensure both they and their supply remaining countries, we will also be exploring on our website.
chains conform to the standards enshrined in the the opportunities for energy savings identified Act.
The policy is published on our website, well by the site audits.
Looking ahead ahead of the deadline of March 2017.
We will continue to focus on growing our Our supply chain will remain a key area of focus business in a sustainable way, both by Our communities for 2016, with further work planned to audit our developing products and services which help Our social responsibilities also extend to the key suppliers against our environmental and our customers to reduce their impact on the communities in which we operate.
We seek to social standards, particularly in Asia.
We will also environment and by looking at our own play a positive role in our local communities be reviewing our supply chain management processes and those of our suppliers in order to and participate in a range of activities and policies and processes to ensure that we are lower our direct and indirect impacts.
compliant with upcoming legislation on, for to measuring key sources of energy and GHG example, conflict minerals, and that appropriate emissions Scope 1 and 2, we are now monitoring systems are in place.
