Strategic Report Sustainability report Sustainability is one of the six key strategic priorities through which we are driving growth and achieving shareholder value.
As we focus on improving the sustainability of our operations we reduce risk, increase resiliency and create opportunities for growth.
Nicholas Anderson Group Chief Executive Dening sustainability Managing sustainability As an organisation, we believe that we have a responsibility to We have a clear and well-dened management structure to help us manage our social and environmental impacts, while helping our achieve our sustainability objectives.
customers, end users and suppliers to do the same.
We recognise that to ensure the success, and sustainability, of our business in the long term, we must: CEO manage our business for on-going financial success: Responsible for the Supported by govern our operations in accordance with all applicable laws Groups sustainability and regulations: strategy Board of Directors take steps to minimise any negative social or environmental impacts of our operations: strive wherever possible to have positive social and environmental Group EHS Executive impacts: and Group Supply Director operate ethically at all times.
Group HR Director Our strategy for growth and the steps that we have taken to achieve on-going financial success, are outlined throughout the Other senior managers Strategic Report, inside front cover to page 63, and our governance Ensure policies, systems and reporting metrics structures and operation are outlined in the Governance Report, are in place to achieve the Groups sustainability pages 64 to 113.
Throughout the Sustainability report, we review the objectives actions that we have taken to manage our social and environmental impacts and ensure that our people act ethically.
We also assess our performance against our sustainability strategic objectives.
Sustainability: core of our strategy for growth Divisional Directors, Regional and General Managers Sustainability is one of the six strategic themes through which we are driving growth and achieving shareholder value.
Sustainability is Ensure the Groups sustainability policies at the core of our business operations, driving our strategy to are upheld and implemented by our innovate and manufacture products that improve the sustainability operatingcompanies and competitiveness of our customers operations, while managing our own social and environmental impacts.
A focus on sustainability drives behaviours that cut costs and increases operational efficiency, while creating new business opportunities and mitigating risk.
Sustainability enhances our competitive edge and helps us to deliver shareholder value.
Employees and organised employee groups Oversee and report on key aspects of sustainability within their workplaces at a local level Environment, Health and Safety Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 54 Annual Report 2015 Sustainability: 2015 strategy update In summary: During 2015 we continued to invest management time into developing and furthering our sustainability agenda.
We allocated Executive sponsor allocated to each an executive sponsor and project leader to each of our sustainability strategicobjective objectives, within our five core sustainability pillars our workplaces, Project teams formed our supply chain, our environment, our customers and our Benchmarking exercise undertaken communities.
We undertook a performance benchmarking exercise and made good progress against each of our objectives.
Product responsibility objective added During 2015 we expanded our supply chain pillar to include an Progress made across all areas objective on product responsibility: To incorporate sustainability factors into our product design process, including energy efficiency, Next steps emissions, serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant and ethically sourced materials.
For more information see Group-wide roll-out of the refined page 60.
Following our benchmarking exercise, we refined two of  our objectives to broaden their scope.
The our customers objective Target setting was widened to include a greater range of environmental impacts, and our supply chain objective to encompass the end-to-end Continuous review and progress against supply chain.
ourobjectives Sustainability objectives To achieve health and safety H&S excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering Our workplaces good behaviours, while targeting zero accidents To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles To act in accordance with our Core Values, upholding a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption To invest in developing the knowledge and skills of our people To focus on continuous improvement in our supply chain with particular emphasis on sustainability Our supply chain To incorporate sustainability factors into our product design process, including energy efficiency, emissions, serviceability, recyclability and the availability of compliant and ethically sourced materials To limit the environmental impacts of our operations through reducing water use and minimising and Our environment managing effluent and waste To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing carbon emissions To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers operations through Our customers helping them reduce their environmental impacts, improve plant efficiency and productivity, and maintain product quality To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and to offer financial support to Our communities approved charities Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK Index FTSE Group confirms that Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible business practices.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 55 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability report continued Our workplaces: health and safety Objective: To achieve health and safety H&S excellence through engagement, empowerment and fostering good behaviours while targeting zero accidents Target: Zero accidents KPI Accidents with over seven Total number of accidents Total number of accidents days of lost time per 1,000 with over seven days with over three days of employees of losttime lost time Number Number Number 2015 3.3 2015 16 2015 24 2014 5.4 2014 26 2014 31 2013 4.4 2013 21 2013 32 2012 5.5 2012 26 2012 32 2011 6.0 2011 28 2011 36 Includes over seven day lost time accidents During 2015, an additional four manufacturing sites became OHSAS 18001 Through focusing on certied: 11 of our 18 manufacturing sites now hold the certication leading indicators we are 2014: eight.
Four of our manufacturing sites have a Behavioural Based driving down our accident Safety BBS programme in place, with the remaining sites preparing to rate and strengthening our implement their programmes.
Actions taken in 2015 During 2015 we embedded a leading indicator programme across our manufacturing facilities and established bi-weekly H&S meetings, attended Mark Wyatt by H&S personnel from all manufacturing sites.
In the meetings, details of Group Environment, Health accidents are presented, along with causes and corrective actions that have been implemented, allowing all manufacturing sites to review and implement and Safety Executive actions to reduce their similar risks.
Changes have been made to the way Overview accidents are investigated: we now use an enhanced 5 why approach and a strengths of defences template, identifying root causes and putting Protecting the health and promoting the wellbeing of our employees is a key strong corrective actions in place.
We are striving for H&S excellence to ensure that our workplaces are safe for our employees, contractors and visitors.
We actively We held a three-day EHS conference, in the UK, attended by all EHS promote a H&S culture through employee engagement, empowerment and supervisors from across the steam business and EHS representatives from the fostering of good behaviours.
We have a well-dened H&S management Watson-Marlow.
The event included performance reviews, best practice structure, with the Group Chief Executive and Board of Directors having sharing, BBS training events and strategy discussions.
overall responsibility for H&S performance, and appropriate management Focused safety moments have been established and are presented at systems in place.
All our operating companies are required to adhere to the monthly executive meetings, and shared across the Group, and we have Group H&S Policy and to have a more detailed local policy in place.
formalised the agenda for reporting on H&S performance to the Board of Directors.
Performance in 2015 Appropriate EHS due diligence surveys were completed during corporate During 2015 our over seven days lost time accident rate fell by 38% to 3.3 acquisitions.
An on-site EHS assessment was completed and an EHS startper 1,000 employees and the total number of over seven day accidents fell up plan produced for our new operating company in India.
We benchmarked our performance against the Labour Force Surveys Estimated rate of self-reported workplace non-fatal Next steps for 2016 injuries with over seven days of absence, 2012 132014 15, in the UK 1 manufacturing sector, a rate of 7.1 per 1,000 people.
Our accident rate was, Continue our BBS implementation programme therefore, signicantly better than the industry average.
Our total number of Enhance our leading indicators programme accidents resulting in over three days of lost time, which includes over seven day accidents, fell by 23% to 24 accidents for 2015 2014: 31.
Generate H&S risk heat maps and accompanying risk reduction plans for all manufacturing sites During 2015 we delivered 10,566 H&S training units across the Group and established a system for recording employee concerns.
During the year Group-wide roll-out of our hand safety campaign 1,644 employee concerns were raised, these were investigated appropriately Implement a H&S training plan for manufacturing sites and, where necessary, corrective action taken.
We enhanced our near miss Conduct an employee H&S survey and outline an reporting, investigation and corrective action implementation procedures: 213 near misses were recorded and investigated this year.
Across the improvement plan Group we now have 25 full time, qualied EHS professionals, as well as All manufacturing sites to hold, or be working towards, part time EHS employees, and during the year over 400 internal continuous certication to OHSAS 18001 by the end of 2016 improvement EHS inspections were conducted in our supply sites.
1 During 2014 we benchmarked against the RIDDOR over seven day accident rate in the UK Excludes recent acquisitions, which are to achieve OHSAS 18001 within an agreed timeframe.
manufacturing sector, but comparable data is not available for 2015.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 56 Annual Report 2015 Our workplaces: employment practices Objective: To promote diversity and equality through employment practices that are free from discrimination and in accordance with international human rights principles Target: 25% women on our Board, as opportunities arise Board gender diversity Senior management gender Total workforce gender diversity diversity Males: 8 Females: 1 Males: 386 Females: 72 Males: 3,821 Females: 1,040 the rights of children and reject the use of forced or compulsory labour, Diversity is an inherent either directly or within our supply chain.
characteristic of our global Our employees have the right of association and collective bargaining, and operations, strengthening we maintain workplaces free from victimisation, harassment or bullying.
our competitive edge We communicate regularly with employees through a variety of channels, and enhancing our ability to ensure that they are informed about and engaged in their part of the to operate effectively business locally, while having a wider understanding of the operations and ethically.
and performance of the Group.
We also undertake condential employee surveys to assess our performance as an employer.
Well-established Frank Richardson grievance procedures allow employees to raise concerns and all employees Group Human have access to a multilingual whistle-blowing helpline.
Resources Director Performance in 2015 Overview Board gender diversity remains unchanged with 8 males and 1 female Our employment practices are founded upon our Core Values and, in on the Board.
Across the Group gender diversity remained relatively particular, the value of respect.
We recognise that if our employment unchanged from the prior year with 3,821 males and 1,040 females across decisions are based on the value of respect, our employment practices the whole workforce, and 386 male senior managers and 72 female senior willbe fair and equitable.
It is inherently difficult to improve performance in the area of Diversity of gender, age, culture, experience and expertise enhance our gender diversity in the short or medium term as entrenched global gender ability to govern and operate our businesses effectively and ethically.
stereotypes and global labour force structural issues result in a shortage of All applicants and employees receive equal treatment during their female engineers.
We are working to address this imbalance through fair recruitment, transfer, promotion, training and assessment of salary and and transparent recruitment processes and compensation packages and benets, irrespective of sex, race, gender reassignment, disability, sexual by seeking to recruit and appoint females into senior management positions orientation, age, religion, beliefs, pregnancy or maternity, marriage or within the Group.
We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by Actions taken in 2015 disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities, and support During 2015 we undertook a benchmarking exercise to review our current the continuing employment of those who become disabled during their performance against best practice, including the UN Guiding Principles period of employment with the Company.
Disabled persons are entitled on Business and Human Rights, and have continued to promote diversity to the same opportunities for training, professional development and within the engineering sector through visiting schools and universities promotion as other Company employees.
and attending graduate engineering shows, highlighting that careers in engineering are available irrespective of gender.
Since 2011 we have used a global grading system to provide transparency within the organisation around promotion and career opportunities: We have undertaken an internal review to prepare for disclosure under the standardise compensation and benets packages proportional to pay forthcoming UK Gender Pay Gap Reporting requirements.
grade: facilitate the objective evaluation of roles and performance: and aid external benchmarking.
Next steps for 2016 We are fully supportive of the human rights principles set out in the Universal On-going assessment of employment practices that support Declaration of Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the International our inclusion objectives Labour Organisation.
Our Group Human Rights Policy recognises that all individuals have the right to lead a dignied life, free from fear and want, Establish an internal HR auditing process and free to express independent beliefs.
It also includes the right of all Prepare to implement UK Gender Pay Gap Reporting employees to equal opportunities and non-discriminatory treatment, security of person, a safe working environment and a fair wage.
We respect Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 57 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability report continued Our workplaces: Our workplaces: ethical business practices training and development Objective: To act in accordance with our Core Objective: To invest in developing the knowledge Values, upholding a zero tolerance approach to and skills of our people bribery and corruption Target: 10 days of formal training per customer Target: Zero incidents of bribery and corruption facing employee We expect employees Average number of formal training days to act with the highest percustomer facing employee Number standards of personal and 2015 7.9 professional integrity at all times.
2014 7.4 2013 7.2 2012 5.6 Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary Overview Overview Our Core Values provide the foundation on which we make decisions and We achieve our strategy for growth by staying close to our customers, manage our global operations.
Our Group Management Code outlines understanding their needs, and applying sector expertise to create the standards that we expect everyone in the Group to meet, including bespoke, value-added engineered solutions.
Developing the knowledge compliance with laws, regulations and Group policies: the promotion of and skills of our people, including sales, customer support, product ethical business practices: the fair treatment of customers: the condentiality development, supply, distribution and logistics, and leadership, ensures of information: and respect for people, communities and the environment.
that we continue to identify and deliver value for our customers, growth that outperforms our markets, and shareholder value.
It is Group policy to conduct business free from bribery and corruption and we will not enter into contractual relationships with third parties We undertake extensive training of our employees in our 48 training centres, who are known to engage in corrupt practices.
Our Anti-Bribery and located worldwide, and have invested in a comprehensive e-learning Corruption Policy is available on our intranet site in 15 languages, and has library.
Our sales engineers also undergo extensive on-the-job training also been disseminated directly to employees.
We operate in compliance and mentoring.
with competition laws and follow international sanctions, embargoes and restrictions.
We do not make political donations.
Performance in 2015 Whistle-blowing facilities are in place globally to facilitate reporting of During 2015 we increased the average number of formal training days suspected breaches of ethical business practices.
excluding on-the-job training for our customer facing employees to an average of 7.9 days per employee 2014: 7.4 days.
We also added 40 new or improved e-learning courses to our online library.
A further 15 senior Performance in 2015 managers attended a two-week Advanced Management Programme, During 2015 we received a small number of calls to safecall our thirdrun by the Ashridge Business School, taking the total number who have party managed, condential, whistle-blowing helpline.
All incidents were attended to 57 since the programme was launched in 2011.
During 2015, thoroughly and appropriately investigated.
80 managers participated in our Aspire leadership programme, taking the By the end of 2015, nearly 4,000 employees had completed anti-bribery number who have participated to 144 since the programme was launched and corruption training, which is available in all major languages across the in 2013, and 11 team leaders participated in our Team Leader Development Group.
During 2015, 400 employees completed a biennial anti-bribery and Programme, taking the number who have participated to 85 since the corruption training refresher course, which was launched during the year.
Actions taken in 2015 Actions taken in 2015 During 2015 we completed the Group-wide roll-out of safecall, our whistleDuring 2015 we announced the launch of a new Spirax Sarco Academy, blowing helpline, with a local toll-free helpline number communicated to with Simon OBrien, the former Regional General Manager for South East all employees.
We undertook an ethical business practices benchmarking Asia and Japan, appointed as Principal.
The Academy, which will be guided by a Board of Governors, will be established early in 2016 and will initially activity and, as a result, created a new business ethics and values page on our corporate website with links to core policy documents.
focus on the customer facing workforce before widening the scope to Employee training continued, including Doing the right thing and antiinclude all aspects of learning and development for our staff.
We have also interviewed and selected 12 of our employees to participate ina pilot nine-month Initiating High Performance Programme.
Next steps for 2016 Next steps for 2016 Establish divisional ethics ofcers Establish the Spirax Sarco Academy Formally recognise the Risk Management Committee as the Complete a pilot of the Initiating High Groups Ethics Overview Committee Performance Programme Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 58 Annual Report 2015 Our supply chain: end-to-end Objective: To focus on continuous improvement in our supply chain with particular emphasis onsustainability Target: 90%, by spend, of Group direct suppliers to have signed our Supplier Sustainability Code by the end of 2016 As we focus on continuous Modern Slavery Act statement improvement within our Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc prides itself on setting high supply chain, and set high standards for sustainable and ethical business practices in its standards for ourselves and operations worldwide.
Included in those high standards is a our suppliers, we improve commitment to respecting and protecting the human rights our operational performance of all individuals and combating all forms of modern slavery and sustainability.
or human trafficking in all parts of our business organisation, including our supply chain.
We are continually developing and Ian Farnworth improving our business practices and policies in line with that Group Supply Chain Director commitment.
We support a strong, collective stand to identify, prevent, and raise awareness of modern slavery and human Overview trafficking practices in all parts of the world.
Improving the sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness of our end-to-end To read the statement in full, please visit the Groups website: supply chain is a key strategic objective for the Group.
com Sustainability Pages ourencompasses all the activities that transport and transform raw materials supply-chain.
aspx and components into a finished product that is delivered to a customer.
We manufacture globally, across 18 manufacturing sites.
Our regional manufacturing strategy improves customer service by reducing lead Performance in 2015 times and ensures that products meet local specifications.
It also During 2015 our updated Supplier Sustainability Code was rolled out to over reduces transport requirements for finished products and provides local 750 direct material suppliers.
Our top 300 suppliers received on-site audits employment in the regions in which we operate.
and we assessed a further 200 suppliers using desktop surveys.
Embedding sustainability criteria into our purchasing processes is central to ensuring the sustainability of our supply chain.
Our Supplier Sustainability Actions taken in 2015 Code outlines the expectations that we have of suppliers, particularly in relation to their employees and their environmental impacts.
During 2015 we expanded the Group Supply Chain function to include a Group Supply Chain Sourcing Manager, a Group Supply Chain Operations In accordance with the Modern Slavery Act, the Supplier Sustainability Manager, and a Group Energy and Environmental Manager, who works Code specifies that our suppliers must not use forced, bonded or nonwith the Group EHS Executive.
With the expansion of the Group Supply voluntary labour, should establish recognised employment relationships in Chain function we are striving to optimise supply chain effectiveness and accordance with national laws, and exercise clarity in relation to wage levels.
sustainability by ensuring that we have robust policies and procedures in We expect our suppliers to ensure that their activities are safe and secure place to support excellence in this area.
for the health of their employees, contractors, the local community and We undertook an extensive review of our supply chain, with a particular the users of their products.
Suppliers should proactively prevent workfocus on manufacturing and internal supply chain effectiveness, and related injuries and illnesses through identifying, evaluating and limiting or identified efficiency improvement opportunities, including service mitigating risks.
performance, inventory optimisation, operations planning and purchasing Suppliers must have a health and safety policy and an implemented health co-ordination.
Encouraging progress is being made as we target excellence and safety management system.
Suppliers facilities must be constructed in our supply chain.
and maintained in accordance with the standards set by applicable We commenced the roll-out of our new Supplier Sustainability Code laws and regulations, and suppliers must avoid the use of substances to suppliers across the Group, and undertook routine supplier visits dangerous to their employees health and safety: including but not limited to and audits.
carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic to reproduction substances.
All products and services delivered by the supplier must meet the quality and safety We reviewed the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and standards required by applicable laws.
undertook an internal review to ensure that we have the systems in place to enable full and accurate disclosure in an annual Modern Slavery We expect our suppliers to operate within the laws of their country, conduct Act statement.
business free from bribery or corruption, and adhere to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the Core Conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
We will not countenance the use of child labour.
Our suppliers are also expected to take steps to mitigate their Next steps for 2016 environmental impacts, improve product quality and source responsibly.
Extend the roll-out of our Supplier Sustainability Code and sustainable sourcing strategy Continue to execute our operational excellence programme Establish a steam business-wide sourcing excellence KPI Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 59 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability report continued Our supply chain: Our environment: product responsibility water and waste Objective: To incorporate sustainability factors Objective: To limit the environmental impacts of into our product design process, including energy our operations through reducing water use and efficiency, emissions, serviceability, recyclability minimising and managing efuent and waste and the availability of compliant and ethically Target: All operating companies to achieve or sourced materials.
be working towards ISO 14001: 2004 by the end of 2016 Target: Continuing compliance with all applicable Excludes recent acquisitions, which are to achieve ISO 14001: 2004 within an agreed timeframe.
EHS standards, while meeting customer expectations of performance and cost.
Employees working in operations % with ISO 14001 % Product responsibility 2015 76 begins with robust R&D processes and 2014 73 consideration of a wide 2013 66 range of full lifecycle 2012 59 sustainability factors.
2011 47 Simon Sprackling Group R&D Manager Steam Specialties Overview Water is a valuable resource that needs to be managed effectively.
We take Overview steps to manage water use across our businesses, for example utilising Ensuring that our products are safe for our customers to use, are rainwater harvesting at some of our manufacturing sites and grey water use manufactured using ethically sourced raw materials and have limited for irrigation purposes.
negative and wherever possible beneficial environmental impacts, begins Reducing the amount of waste generated by operations and the quantity of with robust product development processes.
Our R&D processes are waste sent to landll is an important mechanism by which we manage our well-structured and incorporate best practice in the areas of  sustainability.
Recycling schemes are widely used across manufacture and compliance with safety and environmental standards the Group and we have dedicated contractors to manage waste.
We also such as ISO 14001 and RoHS Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous seek to prevent the creation of waste for ourselves and our customers, Substances.
We apply eco-design principles, avoid the use of hazardous for example through reducing the quantity of packaging materials used materials and place a strong emphasis on in-service performance and and using sustainably sourced and recyclable packaging materials continuous improvement.
Performance in 2015 Performance in 2015 During 2015 we reviewed our R&D project portfolio and completed a ISO 14001 is an international environmental management standard which thorough review of our R&D processes.
These reviews demonstrated demonstrates that the environmental impacts of a business are being exceptional standards of compliance with relevant regulations managed and reduced.
The certication process is rigorous and requires and standards.
external auditing against prescribed standards.
By the end of 2015, 76% of our employees were working in operations covered by environmental Actions taken in 2015 management standard ISO 14001.
During 2015, five operating companies During 2015 we reviewed our project portfolio for alignment with achieved ISO 14001 certication for the first time, taking the total number environmental legislation and sustainability standards: completed a gap ofour operating units with certication to 25. analysis to evaluate our current performance in the area of product design processes for sustainability: and linked sustainability factors with relevant Actions taken in 2015 drivers from within our quality management system to further raise the During 2015 we undertook an internal and external benchmarking exercise importance of sustainability within new product design.
and best practice review of water and waste management and reporting practices.
In preparation for commencing Group-wide waste generation and management and water use data collection during 2016, we established Next steps for 2016 universal denitions for our waste streams and established systems for To fully embed sustainability within our quality reporting on our waste and efuent management and water use.
management system To identify clear targets in respect of sustainability Next steps for 2016 performance expectations Measure all waste stream quantities, water usage and trade To continue to develop our product design and efuent quarterly at manufacturing sites quality processes Establish a framework for approving waste vendors To identify improved processes for the assessment of new Set targets for waste reduction at manufacturing sites product designs against full lifecycle environmental impacts, as well as safety, performance, cost and quality Set targets for water reduction at manufacturing sites Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 60 Annual Report 2015 Our environment: energy and carbon emissions Objective: To minimise the environmental impacts of our operations by managing energy consumption with the aim of reducing carbon emissions Target: To achieve a year-on-year reduction in our CO e emissions intensity 2 CO e intensity tonnes per m Total Group CO e emissions Greenhouse gas emissions 2 2 of ination adjusted sales, scope 1 and 2 tonnes inventory at constant currency tonnes tonnes 45.0 2015 2015 30,050 Electricity 2014 51.8 2014 34,431 25% 3% Business travel 45% 2013 52.6 2013 33,961 Natural gas Other 2012 46.2 2012 29,266 27% 2011 47.3 2011 29,392 Scope 1 and 2 emissions S Sco cope pe 1 1 S Sco cope pe 2 2 During 2015, our total scope 1 and 2 CO2e emissions and our CO2e Overview emissions intensity both fell by 13%, primarily as a result of the We recognise that we have a responsibility to address the threat of climate installation of a Combined Heat and Power plant at our Cheltenham change by managing our energy consumption and reducing our CO e 2 manufacturing facility.
In accordance with national and international directives, we endeavour to continuously reduce the carbon intensity of our business and Actions taken in 2015 implement strategies to minimise our carbon footprint.
In compliance with the EUs Energy efficiency Directive, energy audits We employ an operational control denition to outline our carbon footprint were completed within our European operating companies that meet the boundary.
Included within that boundary are manufacturing facilities, qualication criteria, namely the UK, France, Italy and Germany.
The energy administrative and sales ofces where we have authority to implement audits, which were completed by accredited assessors, identied energy our operating policies.
For each of these entities we have measured and saving opportunities.
We have begun to review these opportunities with the reported on our relevant Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Scope 1 refers intent of implementing some of the recommendations in 2016. to direct emissions from sources owned or controlled by the Company: Scope 2 refers to indirect emissions resulting from the purchase of energy During 2015 several of our manufacturing units began to implement plans in generated off site, including electricity.
Excluded from our footprint preparation for accreditation to energy management standard ISO 50001. boundary are entities where we do not have operational control.
In 2015 this Our Watson-Marlow MasoSine operating company in Germany became included Spirax Marshall Private Ltd and Econotherm.
Also excluded from our second manufacturing site, after Spirax Sarco Korea in 2014, to achieve the footprint boundary are emission sources from operating companies accreditation to ISO 50001. established during 2015 and from companies acquired during the year.
Installation of a Building Energy Management System BEMS and also We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting a Combined Heat and Power plant were completed at our Cheltenham, Standard revised edition and emission factors from the UK Governments UK manufacturing facility.
We have begun generating electricity on GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015 to calculate our total site, and recovering the waste heat produced during power generation CO e emissions gures.
2 to raise steam, which is used in our production and testing facilities.
Utilising the BEMS, we have begun to identify and implement energy saving Performance in 2015 opportunities, such as turning off compressors over the weekend, which is helping to improve on-site energy efficiency.
Our CO e 2015 emissions data have been audited by TV UK Ltd, part of 2 TV NORD Group, who have provided limited assurance as follows: TV UK Ltd is acting as the independent verier of the carbon footprint Next steps for 2016 of SPIRAX SARCO.
Based on our checks and reviews, taking into consideration a materiality level of 10% and a limited level of assurance Establish energy champions across the Group we have found no evidence suggesting that the calculated greenhouse Establish an energy treasure hunt programme for gas emissions are materially misstated and, hence, they are not an unreasonable assertion of the greenhouse gas-related data and information.
manufacturing sites Further, no facts became evident, which led us to the assumption that the Establish quantitative CO e emissions reduction targets for 2 calculation was not carried out in accordance with the applied international manufacturing sites and the Group norm for the quantication, monitoring and reporting of GHG emissions Establish a quantitative CO e intensity reduction target 2 GHG-Protocol.
Quarterly Scope 1 and 2 emissions data collection The emissions for the reporting period 1st January 2015 to 31st December 2015 inclusive are: 16,659 tCO e for Scope 1 and 13,391 tCO e for 2 2 Introduce a reporting and dashboard system for each Scope 2. operating company TV UK Ltd London February 2016 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 61 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Sustainability report continued Our customers Objective: To provide products and services that improve the sustainability of our customers operations through helping them reduce their environmental impacts, improve plant efficiency and productivity and maintain product quality Tonnes of CO e emissions our end users 2 Qdos pumps from Watson-Marlow help packaging saved as a result of purchasing our energy manufacturer halve chemical usage tonnes management products 2015 4.4m 2014 4.8m 2013 4.6m 2012 4.9m Huhtamaki Molded Fiber, a business unit within the Huhtamaki Group, 2011 4.0m located in the Netherlands, manufactures packaging, such as egg trays, fruit trays and cup carriers, from recycled paper.
Qdos pumps, Overview from Watson-Marlow, have revolutionised the dosing of a chemical lubricant during egg tray production, halving chemical use and Helping our customers to reduce their environmental impacts and achieve reducing costs by over 60,000 a year, for a single application.
their environmental targets through improving plant efficiency, reducing energy, water and chemical use, and maintaining product quality and hence Farmers use automated machines to pack eggs into trays.
If avoiding waste, is central to our sustainability strategy and business model.
insufficient chemical lubricant has been used during the manufacture of the trays they stick together, preventing a robot from picking Reducing energy and, hence, CO e emissions is a key sustainability driver 2 them up and feeding them into the packaging machine, causing for our customers wanting to improve their operational sustainability and egg breakages.
We primarily help our end users to reduce their energy consumption and emissions by providing products and The chemical lubricant is only required on the surface of the trays, but services that improve the efficiency of their steam systems and enable them the limitations of dosing pumps meant that Huhtamaki had to add the to recover and reuse thermal energy.
In addition, the design and unique lubricating agent into the mixing tank, before the pulp was moulded action of our pumps can provide substantial energy savings over other into the carton structure.
Following the installation of Qdos pumps, pump types.
For example, our MasoSine pumps, from Watson-Marlow, lubricant is now sprayed onto the surface of the trays, once they have aredesigned to efficiently handle high viscosity uids which other pump been moulded, signicantly reducing the amount of lubricant used.
types would require large electrical motors to pump.
The unique properties of the Qdos pump its ability to deliver a low and very accurate pulse-free ow at a relatively high pressure 7bar Our products and services frequently enable our end users to use water make it the only pump on the market capable of handling the chemical more efficiently and reduce total water consumption on site.
For example, in this spraying application.
The application of Qdos pumps has our steam products enable the efficient return of condensate to the boiler reduced chemical lubricant usage from 240 tonnes per year in 2013, feed tank, preventing it from being lost to the drain: facilitate the capturing to 120 tonnes per year in 2015, despite increased production levels, and utilisation of ash steam, which would otherwise be lost to atmosphere: a saving of 120,000 litres a year.
At approximately 500 tonne, this and improve the quality of boiler feedwater, reducing the need for boiler equates to cost savings of over 60,000 per year.
blow-down and the loss of water that this entails.
Our pumps can also provide our end users with substantial water savings.
For example, within the mining industry the application of a peristaltic pump from WatsonActions taken in 2015 Marlow can result in an average water saving of over 70%, in comparison with common centrifugal pumps.
This can equate to savings of as much as During 2015 we reviewed our objective in this area and broadened it so that it captures a wider range of the environmental impact benets that we offer 900,000m ofwater a year for each pump installed.
our end users, including for example, reducing their chemical use.
The pumping accuracy of peristaltic pumps provides considerable chemical We also completed a review of data collection and identied areas for savings for our customers, within the Water & Wastewater and other industries.
Performance in 2015 We estimate that a select range of energy management products sold Next steps for 2016 during 2015 will reduce our end users CO e emissions by 4.4 million 2 Continue to strengthen our Thermal Energy tonnes annually.
The methodology used to determine these savings has been independently assessed with the assistance of Ricardo-AEA Ltd. Management capabilities The methodology remains unchanged but is reviewed annually by Review our customer sustainability reporting metrics Ricardo-AEALtd taking revised emissions factors into account.
The calculation is based on a selected range of energy saving products for Calculate annual end user water savings from the installed which we can quantify savings with reasonable accuracy.
Many other of base of Bredel pumps from Watson-Marlow our products, such as pressure and temperature controls, will also provide Establish a eld test to evaluate the positive impact of Qdos CO e savings but as these are not easily quantiable they are excluded from 2 our methodology.
pumps on end user energy use and CO emissions 2 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 62 Annual Report 2015 Our communities Objective: To engage positively with the communities in which we operate and to offer financial support to approved charities Group Charitable Trust donations 000 Malaysian home building project 000 2015 141 2014 140 2013 136 2012 132 2011 132 During 2015, Spirax Sarco Malaysia engaged in a home building project for an underprivileged Orang Asli local aborigine family, Omis and Manah.
Overview We seek to have a positive impact within our local communities through Omis, Manah and their three children are one of approximately 12,000 making charitable donations to worthwhile causes and engaging with Orang Asli families living in unsafe or inadequate housing conditions our local communities in a variety of ways, including contributing time, within Peninsula Malaysia.
When Spirax Sarco arrived, the family was resources and expertise, where there is a local need.
Our Group Charitable living in a dilapidated shack measuring just 20m in the Orang Asli Donations Policy guides our community engagement activities and focuses village of Kg Hulu Tamu, located on the edge of the rainforest in Batang donation in the following areas: education: social services for the less Kali, Selangor.
Working as a rubber trapper, with a monthly household advantaged, disabled and abused: healthcare: the arts: the environment: income of less than MYR 900 138, Omis was unable to provide his and disaster relief.
Over a three day period, a team of 25 Spirax Sarco Malaysia Performance in 2015 employees worked with EPIC Homes, a non-profit organisation, tobuild the family a new home.
Building the home was no easy task, During 2015 the Spirax Sarco Group Charitable Trust Trust made 41 working in 32C heat, with little shade, the team demonstrated great donations, ranging in value from 200 to 18,000 to a geographically commitment to build a 40m home, including three bedrooms, a widespread and diverse range of charities.
For example, the Trust donated kitchen and a living area.
6,000 to Young Gloucestershire, a charity that supports young people who are facing challenges in their lives.
A further 58,000 was donated to To prepare for the build, the team attended a Builder Basics charitable causes by our operating companies during 2015 2014: 47,000.
Workshop to equip them with the essential skills, safety training and knowledge to build the home.
Spirax Sarco Singapore provides steam system Andy Wells, General Manager of Spirax Sarco Malaysia, commented, expertise to train engineers in Myanmar This was an extremely rewarding team building exercise for SpiraxSarco, while also giving something meaningful back to the During 2015, Spirax Sarco Singapore partnered with the Myanmar local population.
With safe shelter in place, Omis can now focus on Engineering Society MES to provide steam system training to providing his family with food and ensure that his children have the engineering students in Yangon, Myanmar.
The month long course, which included three weeks of self-study and a week of practical demonstrations and factory visits, was hosted by the Myanmar Engineering Society, with Spirax Sarco providing all Actions taken in 2015 training materials, stationery, time and expertise free of charge.
During 2015 we reviewed our community engagement projects across The course is designed to build the steam systems knowledge base the Group and completed a benchmarking exercise.
We identied key in Myanmar, which is currently very low, and will prepare students areas of focus and the need for an improved reporting framework to drive for careers in industry.
The course also supports the MESs energy performance and reporting in this area.
We continued to engage with management initiative by developing a core of steam engineers the local communities in which we operate, with a focus on educational that will help to reduce steam losses, improve energy management provision, particularly within science and engineering.
and reduce CO emissions within industry in Myanmar.
Further, the 2 knowledge gained by the engineers will help local factories to increase efficiency and improve production standards so that they become safer and more competitive for international trade.
Lastly, the course Next steps for 2016 will raise brand awareness and the reputation of Spirax Sarco in the country.
Establish a Group-wide community engagement framework The first course, attended by over 30 students, was a huge success: Update the Group Charitable Donations Policy so much so that MES plans to run the course three to four times a year in Yangon and two to three times a year in Mandalay.
Facilitate sharing of best practice across the Group Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 63 Annual Report 2015 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Report Strategic Report
