Strategic Report Being responsible What SSE does, matters SSE has an essential purpose at its core providing the energy Sustainability has been a guiding value in SSE for many years.
It helps establish the right standards people need.
This purpose brings significant challenges and for how the business is run and is a driver of responsibilities.
SSE has a responsibility to customers, employees, SSEs broader strategic aims.
This value is defined as: communities and shareholders to ensure this need is met in a sustainable way, both now and for the long term.
Our actions and decisions This is why SSE works hard to help make sure the lights remain on, energy costs are affordable and are ethical, responsible the environmental impact of producing energy is kept to a minimum.
It is also why SSE seeks to make and balanced, helping to a positive difference to peoples lives by being responsible in all that it does.
Providing energy brings challenges: SSE aims to meet them responsibly.
achieve environmental, social and economic well-being for current Purpose and future generations.
Being responsible in all that we do To help people see more clearly how a sustainable approach is at the core of what SSE does, it has developed the Responsible House.
Providing the energy people The roof is SSEs long established core purpose, need in a reliable and sustainable way supported by its Sustainability value one of SSEs six core values.
Core value The aim is for SSE to make a positive difference Our actions and decisions are ethical, responsible and balanced, helping to achieve environmental, social and to peoples lives by being responsible in all that it economic well-being for current and future generations does.
Nine core areas bricks have been identified which best demonstrate SSEs commitment to acting in a responsible way and to describe how it is doing this.
What we Making a positive difference to peoples lives aim to do by being responsible in all that we do The foundation is what SSE considers its first responsibility Do No Harm.
This is the How we do it minimum that a responsible company that Responsible Responsible Responsible wants a sustainable future needs to deliver.
Service Provider Operator Developer This covers a commitment to working safely and ensuring its operations cause no harm to the immediate environment.
Everything else SSE does in seeking to be a responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible company is built on this foundation.
Employer Community Member Buyer More detail on SSEs action as a Responsible Operator, Employer, Buyer and Community Responsible Responsible Responsible Member can be found on pages 56 to 65.
Profits Investment Governance All aspects of SSEs approach to sustainability are covered in the Being Responsible Foundation supplement to this Annual Report and Do no harm on sse.
com beingresponsible 10 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
SSE is one of the UKs largest the productivity and motivation Responsible employer Living Wage employers and of all employees not just those that means its employees who have benefitted from Paying the Living Wage and increasingly its contracted the policy.
employees earn an hourly When SSE first made this rate that exceeds the national is the right thing to do commitment in 2013 it became minimum wage.
The Living the UKs largest Living Wage Wage is set by the Living Wage employer.
Since then SSE Foundation on an annual basis has worked closely with the and is calculated according to Living Wage Foundation to the basic cost of living in the UK.
encourage many other large organisations to take this step.
SSEs motivation for paying the Living Wage is simple.
It is a matter But at the start of 2015, SSE remained the only major energy of basic fairness that people should get a wage they can supplier in the UK to have made this pledge.
SSE believes paying the Living Wage makes an important SSE is now rolling out the contribution to reducing in-work commitment to pay the Living poverty throughout the UK.
Wage across its 2bn-a-year It also makes sound business supply chain.
As of 1 April 2014, sense, with clear evidence that all eligible contracts tendered it improves retention, reduces include a Living Wage clause.
recruitment costs, and increases X More information see pages 62 to 64.
Responsible profits Responsible operator First FTSE 100 company A rating from CDP for to be awarded the our approach to managing Fair Tax Mark climate change impacts In October 2014 SSE became Through the combination of There is no getting away from CDP gave SSE an A rating for its the first FTSE 100 company to be detailed, user friendly analysis: the fact that as one of the UKs performance in 2013 14. accredited with the Fair Tax Mark, clear statements regarding largest generators of electricity CDPs annual report is produced the worlds first independent SSEs attitude in relation to tax: SSE is responsible for the emission on behalf of over 700 major assessment process for identifying and now external Fair Tax Mark of a large amount of CO.
But it 2 global investors with total companies that are making a accreditation, SSE is confident is also the UKs largest generator assets of over US$92tn under genuine effort to be open and that anyone can assess how of renewable electricity and has management.
CDP independently transparent about their tax affairs.
the tax payable on its profits invested over 2.6bn in renewable assessed over 2,000 companies is arrived at and what factors generation assets over the last SSEs starting point on tax is the globally in 2014 with just 187 impact upon it.
recognition that, as a provider achieving an A rating.
of an essential service that every More importantly, SSE hopes In October 2014 SSE was What the A performance rating member of society depends people can be satisfied that its included in CDPs global Climate from CDP demonstrates, is that on, it has a responsibility to approach to paying tax is fair and, Performance Leadership Index, SSE recognises the impact its contribute to the societies in as a result, be confident that SSE one of the most important annual activities have on the environment which it operates.
assessments of how global and that it is taking meaningful organisations are leading the action to improve this impact.
way in managing their impact on the environment.
X More information see pages 59 to 61.
