STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate social responsibility Spire Healthcares ethos reflects our care for the environment and our hospitals local communities.
LOOKING AFTER OUR ENVIRONMENT We have also been invited to participate TOTAL EMISSIONS 2015 % At Spire Healthcare, we realise that we have in the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP tCO e 2 a duty of care to the environment as well programme which evaluates both as our patients and we continue to promote performance and disclosure.
We made our Fuel combustion: stationary a low carbon culture across our hospitals.
first submission to the CDP this year and we 2015 11,150 We continually review how we operate our are delighted to say that our score of 90D buildings and infrastructure to improve made us the second placed new respondent 2014 10,360 carbon efficiency across our portfolio.
Fuel combustion: mobile One of our key areas of focus is our usage Capital investment in low carbon 2015 1,112 of electricity and natural gas.
infrastructure We continue to invest in our engineering 2014 1,124 ENERGY infrastructure to improve energy efficiencies.
Energy targets vs performance Key projects this year included investment Facility operation In 2010, we published our five-year energy in areas such as lighting, mechanical 2015 7,152 reduction targets, aiming to reduce CO e 2 ventilation, building controls, heating and from electricity and natural gas by 10% per domestic hot water services.
2014 6,543 pound of revenue by 2015 on the baseline High efficiency lighting we have now year of 2010.
We are delighted to announce Purchased electricity installed external LED lighting at 32 of our that this was exceeded we achieved a 2015 25,868 hospitals which are benefiting from a much reduction of 32% per of revenue by improved light quality as well as the energy 2014 27,027 1 January 2015. reduction this technology brings.
On the We use the intensity metric of carbon back of the measured energy and aesthetic emissions per revenue, which increases benefits of our internal upgrade to LED in proportion to the growth in our business.
lighting at Spire Leicester Hospital last year, The addition of Spire St Anthonys Hospital similar investment has been made at Spire to our portfolio, for example, added 6% to Southampton Hospital in 2015 where over our energy consumption overnight.
890 fluorescent fittings have been replaced with LED luminaires.
We intend to invest Legislation further in this area during 2016 to ensure Since becoming a publicly listed company we continue to reduce our electricity in 2014, the Group has registered for the consumption and realise our 2020 energy governments CRC energy efficiency scheme reduction targets.
and we will report our carbon emissions to the Environment Agency accordingly.
High efficiency heating and hot water services modular condensing heating Our mandatory ESOS audits have now and hot water boilers were installed at been completed and concluded that due Spire Dunedin and Spire Leeds hospitals in to work already undertaken in improving 2015, which will deliver a reduction in gas energy efficiencies across our estate, consumption at those sites in future years.
the recommendations would be unlikely to produce large energy savings.
The Due to the absence of piped natural gas at recommendations will however be our Spire Tunbridge Wells Hospital, the hot incorporated into our carbon reduction water demand was previously served solely planning for the future.
Two ageing 46 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION and inefficient 2000L hot calorifiers were For Spire Healthcare this captures emissions For purposes of baselining and ongoing heated by an array of electric elements associated with the operation of all our comparison, it is required to express the GHG totalling 38kW each to provide hot water hospitals and other buildings such as clinics, emissions using a carbon intensity metric.
distribution at 60 degrees centigrade for offices and the distribution centre, plus The intensity metric chosen is per revenue.
hospital clinical, domestic and catering company-owned and leased transport.
As Spire Healthcares revenue in 2015 was needs.
Working with our mechanical and Spire Healthcare has no overseas operations, 884.8 million, giving an intensity of electrical consultants, we reviewed more all emissions refer to UK operations only.
51.1tCO e per m revenue, 3% lower than 2 efficient replacement options and opted to Emissions sources 2014 52.6tCO e. 2 install underground liquid petroleum gas All material scope one and two emissions storage cylinders to fuel new high efficiency WASTE are included.
These include emissions LPG condensing modular boilers.
These will The NDC provides the Group with a associated with: provide low pressure hot water and serve collection service, removing cardboard plate heat exchangers for domestic hot fuel combustion: stationary natural gas, and paper for recycling.
Using LPG as a primary fuel source and red diesel for backup generators and NDC ISO 14001 objectives the scheme has provides access to efficient plant, improved mobile vehicle fuel : been extended to the re-use of cardboard control and reduced carbon emissions.
Its packaging at handling units as part of purchased electricity: and capacity can be increased as required to NDC deliveries into hospitals: this has reduce the sites reliance on electricity for fugitive emissions refrigerants, resulted in a 46-tonne 11% reduction heating the main building.
High efficiency ventilation system our There are no known process emissions Central Purchasing continues to work with theatre ventilation plant ensures rapid air and no purchased heat or steam.
our strategic waste management partners exchange within our theatre suites to protect to help direct our general waste away from Methodology and emissions factors our patients from infection.
These systems landfill and into Energy from Waste EfW This report was calculated using the are energy hungry.
Over 86% of our general waste methodology set out in Environmental ageing systems at Spire Yale Hospital with 1,981 tonnes is now being recycled utilising Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, high efficiency control and heat recovery material recycling facilities and 100% of the published by Defra in June 2013. systems that help deliver this critical air residue waste is now being sent to EfW.
in the most efficient way.
Emissions factors are taken from the Defra All the clinical waste generated by clinical DECC emissions factor update published GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS GHG facilities is now either incinerated or in 2015, produced on behalf of Defra DECC This section provides the emissions data pre-treated and the residual sent to EfW.
by Ricardo AEA and Carbon Smart.
and supporting information required by GHG emissions data The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report The GHG emissions for Spire Healthcare and Directors Report Regulations 2013. for the year were 45,282tCO e, 2014: 2 Footprint boundary 45,053tCO e. The facility operation 2 An operational control approach has been emissions are attributable to the use of used to define the GHG emissions boundary, medical gases, carbon dioxide and nitrous as defined in Defras latest Environmental oxide, 5,004tCO e and leakage of refrigerant 2 Reporting guidelines: Your organisation has gases 2,149tCO e. 2 operational control over an operation if it, or This is 2% higher than the emissions reported one of its subsidiaries, has the full authority for 2014. to introduce and implement its operating policies at the operation.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 47
