22 Strategic report Sustainability report We believe that a commitment to sustainability makes good business sense.
We aim to responsibly manage those environmental and social issues which have been identied as material to our business, and to do this in a way which also supports the Groups overall commercial strategy.
SSP Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report 23 Accountability for sustainability is integrated into our management structures, with a named member of the Executive Commiee responsible for each of the four elements of our programme: Marketplace, People, Environment and Community.
The Group Board regularly reviews progress on the implementation of our strategy.
This report provides a summary of our sustainability activity.
More detail, together with relevant policies, is available at www.
Marketplace We are commied to providing quality products and services to our customers, and to ensuring the safety and sustainability of those products, and of the supply chain behind them.
Our customers Customer focus is one of our core business values and we expect our employees to understand our customers needs, making their satisfaction our priority.
Our global digital platform Eat on the Move allows customers to tell us their thoughts via smart phones or other devices to help us understand where were doing well and how we can improve.
As a leading food and beverage provider, we have a responsibility to oer our customers choice and include healthier options within our product range.
We focus our work on SSPs own brands, where we have control over product ranges and customer messaging.
During the year, we have been working closely with the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital Glasgow to develop a product range which is low in salt, sugar and fat and meets the UK NHS healthy eating guidelines.
Sustainable and ethical sourcing We are commied to ensuring that the products we sell are from sustainably managed sources and that the people producing these goods are fairly treated.
We have formalised our responsible sourcing policy, which outlines the approach we expect our purchasing and menu development teams across the world to take.
We are commied to maintaining high standards of animal welfare and endorse the Five Freedoms concept proposed by the Farm Animal Welfare Council.
Our Rail Gourmet business holds a Good Egg Award from Compassion in World Farming in recognition of its commitment to only source cage-free eggs.
During the year, we have also reviewed all of our sh purchasing to ensure that we remove any sh that is on the Marine Conservation Societys Fish to Avoid List.
We are dedicated to buying coees and teas which are certied as having been produced in accordance with ethical and sustainable standards, for example, under the Fairtrade or Rainforest Alliance certication schemes.
We are making good progress towards this objective, with around 90% of coee and tea sold in proprietary brands now from Fairtrade or Rainforest Alliance sources.
24 Strategic report Sustainability report continued As a global business we purchase a wide range of products from a universities, giving our employees the opportunity to achieve an large supply base, spread across many countries, however we also  qualication at the end of their training.
recognise the importance of supporting local producers, especially Our apprenticeship programmes operate in our UK and German for fresh produce and meat.
In the UK, our Rail Gourmet business businesses.
In the past year, we have seen more than 300 has developed relationships with a network of small companies apprentices complete their qualications in the UK.
We now plan to along train routes where it operates, bringing great quality food and launch a chef apprenticeship programme, responding to the current beverages to customers, while also helping to promote and support national skills shortage in the UK and creating a pipeline for qualied these regional businesses.
Our Code of Conduct, which is aligned to the Ethical Trading As part of our recruitment strategy, we work with community Initiatives Base Code, outlines the standards we expect our groups to bring young people from disadvantaged communities suppliers to work towards.
In line with the requirements of the 2015 into the workplace, providing them with pre-employment training, Modern Slavery Act, we are developing our systems to monitor and work experience and permanent jobs.
In the UK, we work with manage any modern slavery risks within our supply chain.
organisations such as The Princes Trust and the Kings Cross Partnership and we run similar programmes that operate across People the Group.
For example, in China we are working with the China Our employees are core to our business success and we invest in our Development Research Foundation to give work experience to young people to enable them to reach their full potential, as well as providing people from rural areas and, in France, we work in partnership with a positive, non-discriminatory and safe working environment.
Ecole fide La Deuxime Chance to support people returning to work.
Employee engagement and recognition Equal opportunities and diversity It is important to us that our employees are fully engaged with the We have a comprehensive Equality and Diversity Policy, which business strategy and objectives.
We achieve this through regular outlines our expectation that all our employees should be treated employee briengs and through updates via our enterprise social with respect and work in an environment in which all employees can network, SSP Connections.
In the UK, sta can provide feedback to realise their potential, free of harassment and discrimination in any us via the Your Shout forum and our recognition platform Celebrate!, form.
We provide training and guidance to all employees to ensure which allows employees to send an e-badge to a colleague to their understanding and compliance with this policy.
In addition, recognise great behaviour and performance.
we also seek to support minority groups within our business, for example, through SSP Americas programme to increase Learning and development internal promotions from minority groups through mentoring and Our bespoke learning and development programmes have been apprenticeships and by creating employee support networks.
tailored to meet the needs of the individual, their team and the operating business.
The SSP Academy, our online learning Disabled persons system, oers more than 6,000 training programmes and has Applications for employment by disabled persons are always more than 10,000 active users across the Group.
Some of our fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant training programmes for Unit Managers and above are aligned to concerned.
In the event of members of sta becoming disabled, SSP SSP Group Group Annual Annual Report Report and and A Accounts ccounts 2015 2015 Str Strategic report ategic report 25 every eort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group centrally and share good practice on energy eciency across our continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy global business.
of the Group that the training, career development and promotion Our LED lighting replacement programmes in the UK, Europe and of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of the Rest of the World, are delivering savings in both emissions other employees.
In the UK, we have trialled the use of smart Employees by gender meters, enabling us to closely monitor energy usage and identify Male Female any spikes quickly.
We have also been testing more energy-ecient refrigeration systems.
Board of Directors 86% 6 14% 1 Senior management 77% 64 23% 21 We regularly look for opportunities to reduce the transport miles associated with delivering our products.
Our business in the All employees 47% 13,618 53% 15,644 United Arab Emirates sources organic produce from local farmers, supporting regional suppliers and also reducing CO2 emissions from Health and safety transport.
In the year ahead, we plan to review our fresh produce We are commied to maintaining high standards of health and sourcing to increase the use of seasonal produce, helping to reduce safety for our employees and our customers at all times.
All airfreight and, in many cases, costs.
employees complete regular training on health and safety, and we monitor performance against key safety performance indicators.
Reducing our waste to landll Reducing waste is a priority for our business.
Across our global Environment operations, we have systems in place to recycle packaging and waste We are reducing the environmental impacts of our operations, cooking oil.
In our Hong Kong business, for example, more than 700 recognising that greater environmental eciency can also make litres of waste cooking oil has been converted into biodiesel.
In the majority of our locations, we do not We have been conducting a number of trials to look at ways to purchase utilities or services ourselves, so we continue to work with reduce food waste.
SSP Americas WasteTrax project is targeting our clients to improve the quality of environmental impact data and waste reductions in various ways, including closer monitoring of look for ways to improve.
waste volumes, reducing waste during food preparation and beer Global greenhouse gas emissions data segregation and recycling donation of waste and unsold food.
This is 2014 15 2013 14 a complex area but we are working hard to nd an approach that will enable us to make significant reductions in the amount of food that Tonnes of Percentage of Tonnes of CO e carbon footprint CO e is thrown away.
2 2 Scope 1 emissions 6,572 8% 11,026 Community Combustion of fuel and As a leading food service provider, it is appropriate that our operation of facilities community investment should focus on projects promoting healthy Scope 2 emissions 76,069 92% 62,052 eating.
We are working in partnership with the Childrens Food Trust, Electricity, heat, steam and a UK registered charity, that aims to improve the food our children cooling purchased for own use eat.
SSP is funding a pilot to establish Lets Get Cooking Clubs in 10 further education colleges in the Greater London area.
16-18 Total 82,641 100% 73,078 year olds in each college aend four sessions, to learn how to cook Intensity measurement simple and healthy meals, how to budget for food, and how to use up Total emissions reported 45.09 40.0 leovers and avoid waste.
above normalised per of grams grams turnover In the UK, our employees and customers have been raising funds for Cancer Research and we have seen almost 500,000 raised for the charity over the past two years.
Going forward, the SSP Foundation registered charity no.
1163717 will be the focus for our fundraising Scope and methodology activity.
The Foundation will work with partner charities on projects We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013.
These to promote healthy eating: and support employee-nominated sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
This data covers the charities in the communities where SSP operates.
Our hope is that continuing activities undertaken by our retailing operations worldwide.
the Foundations grants will support a wide range of relevant good causes in our local communities across the UK.
The methodology applied to data gathering and analysis is consistent with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and the DEFRA Environmental Reporting Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
A full documentation of the methodology used, including collection of data from worldwide operations, exclusions of any non-material emission sources, emission factors used and assumptions made is available upon request.
Kate Swann Chief Executive Ocer Reducing our carbon footprint The largest contributor to our carbon footprint is the electricity 25 November 2015 and gas used to light and power our outlets and we have been working hard to establish systems to collate consumption data
