STRATEGIC REPORT Our people Our people really are our greatest asset.
We focus on ensuring that we have the people in place to provide outstanding care for our patients, as we deliver our growth ambitions.
Perhaps more than most businesses, ours 91% get personal satisfaction from their is one where every member of staff needs work 90% in 2014 : to feel fulfilled, valued and satisfied with 90% feel that they really fit in with the their work.
rest of their team 89% in 2014 : and 158k Providing quality care to our 760,000 89% are proud to work for Spire Healthcare patients is totally personal.
It is delivered, Hospitals fundraised over 158,000 88% in 2014. every day of the year, by our skilled and for their local communities and dedicated staff.
The survey also pointed to a number of areas charities over the last year where we could improve.
Chief among At 31 December 2015, we employed these were: 12,426 people, 3,529 bank workers and 8,897 permanent employees equivalent working together developing interto over 7,800 full-time jobs split between departmental relationships: 1,184 nursing, theatre staff, allied health resource allocation of staff and equipment 1,184 GP clinical education events professionals, and administration and to improve service quality: and were held at our hospitals clinical support staff.
more open and visible senior Our employees are predominantly female: management demonstrating our 7,294 compared to 1,603 male.
For senior values in action.
management we employ 149 female managers out of a total of 247.
18,530 THE CHALLENGES WE FACE Finding, recruiting, developing and retaining Over 18,530 GPs, nurses, ENGAGEMENT AND MOTIVATION the best clinical and support staff is one physiotherapists and other We work hard to foster Spire Healthcares of our biggest challenges, particularly so healthcare professionals unique culture one where every member of in a market where there are too few nurses.
attended these events staff feels fully valued and listened to, where they can do their best for their patients, and Full-time equivalent nursing vacancy rates where they can feel fully appreciated.
within the NHS are at least 7%, 37% of nurses in the UK are 50 years of age or over.
Every year we survey our staffs views on Commissioned nursing student places were how we are doing and ask them how we reduced from 22,000 in 2008 09 to 17,000 could improve.
This year 77% of staff in 2012 13 and only 19,000 in 2014 15, so responded 3% more than last year, and there are not enough new nurses graduating of them 78% said they would recommend from our universities.
And the shortfall is not Spire Healthcare to family and friends as being met successfully by overseas nurses a place to work up from 76% last year and tightening immigration law, through the 72% the year before.
Points-Based System introduced in 2008, Other highlights from the 2015 survey means that 7,000 fewer nurses a year respondents included: are now coming to the UK compared to 10 years ago.
93% believe what they do at work makes a positive difference 92% in 2014 : We are meeting this challenge and responding to staff feedback in a number 92% would recommend Spire Healthcare of ways.
to friends and family if they needed care or treatment 90% in 2014 : Source: Christie & Co UK Nursing Workforce, Crisis or Opportunity?
42 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Providing quality care to our 760,000 patients is totally personal.
It is delivered, every day of the year, by our skilled and dedicated staff.
CAROLINE ROBERTS, GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR Our values IMPROVING STAFF RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION AT LEICESTER Caring is our passion Succeeding together Driving excellence Spire Leicester Hospital is among our by adopting the NHSs language around best, in terms of effective recruitment, pensions, which really helps people with low spending on agency nurses, and the transition.
And we operate a buddy high staff retention rates.
Its far more system and really good induction plan to cost-effective to find good staff and to help new starters through their first few Doing the keep them, than it is to be in a constant weeks in the hospital.
right thing cycle of turnover.
But of even greater Lyn comments, We are able to act faster importance skilled and stable clinical than the NHS which means we can recruit teams deliver the very best care for quickly and flexibly.
For instance, if we our patients.
see a really outstanding person, even if Delivering Overseen by Matron, Alison Dickinson, there are no immediate vacancies in their on our and HR Administrator, Lyn Hall, specialist area, we might offer another recruitment and retention is key to post and give training to fit the role.
promises the success of Spire Leicester Hospital.
Were able to offer a lot of training opportunities, which is a massive draw As Alison says, We have a low rate of to staff.
We also offer taster days in agency nursing staff at Leicester of 1.03% departments so applicants can see for and also a relatively low clinical staff Keeping themselves whether theyd suit life at turnover of 9.4%.
Our recruitment it simple Spire Leicester Hospital.
campaign successfully attracts really great people from both the independent sector and the NHS.
That gives us a broad spectrum of people and skills.
Weve made it easy for potential NHS recruits Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 43 STRATEGIC REPORT Our people continued DEVELOPING OUR LEADERSHIP encouraging nurses to return to practice, EMPLOYEES INCLUDING BANK STAFF Most immediately visible is the helping our current nursing staff in their 31 DECEMBER 2015 % strengthening of senior management, revalidation, and developing our international with the appointments of Andrew White nursing recruitment programme.
as Chief Operating Officer, Peter Corfield 20 Ultimately, we will grow our own through as Group Commercial Director, myself as graduate programmes and clear, long-term Group Human Resources Director and career paths.
Jonathan Paisley as Chief Information 11 54 Officer.
They join a team that aims to go We are also continuing to develop flexible beyond management by process and working patterns and our nursing bank as 15 objectives, to lead through ideas, vision a cost-effective and flexible resource to meet and inspiration.
changing demand patterns and utilise our capacity more effectively.
DEVELOPING SPIRE HEALTHCARES Nursing 2,501 Our People and Talent strategy will seek PERSONALITY AND PEOPLE PROPOSITION to identify, develop and deploy talent Theatre staff 1,367 We are developing a short-, mediumthroughout the business, with the express Allied health professionals 1,872 and long-term set of initiatives that, purpose of meeting our future skills, Clinical support and admin 6,686 taken together, will create a People and experience and capability requirements, and Talent strategy.
to embed succession planning at all levels.
DIVERSITY: Key elements of this strategy will include: During 2015, we supported 133 people OVERALL EMPLOYEES developing a compelling people through our Management Fundamentals 2015 2,261 10,165 proposition that differentiates Spire programme and 11 through our Leadership Healthcare as an employer of choice: Essentials programme.
Management 2014 2,256 10,113 Fundamentals focuses on developing recruiting and resourcing the business 2013 2,010 9,231 the people skills of new managers, while to meet current and future staffing Leadership Essentials is a seven-month, requirements as we grow: four-module, programme designed to SENIOR MANAGERS managing our talent better, so that develop our future leadership cadre.
we identify, deploy, develop and engage 2015 41 25 We intend to review the role and format our people better: and of these programmes as part of the 2014 38 27 better aligning our staff benefits and development of our People and Talent incentives to personal, business and 2013 31 26 strategy going forward.
Clinical staff resourcing is of critical BOARD importance.
We already have a recruitment Caroline Roberts 2015 8 1 delivery plan in place to fill short-term Group Human Resources Director staffing needs and meet the staffing 16 March 2016 2014 8 1 requirements of our medium-term capacity, service and new build expansion.
Male Key elements of our strategy include Female developing our working relationships with local universities, offering placements and The Group employs bank staff staff who do not work regularly scheduled hours, but are directly employed by the Group.
44 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Over 158,000 was raised by the INTRODUCING IMPROVEMENTS AND STRIVING FOR EXCELLENCE Group through various sponsored walks, sporting events, bake-offs and consultant golf days, to name but a few.
CAROLINE ROBERTS, GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR 2015 CHARITABLE HIGHLIGHTS SUSAN HOLLIDAY Chief Nursing Officer, Spire Healthcare I have worked with the CQC since the HEALTHCARE CYCLE CHALLENGE COMMUNITY CHARITY WORK new methodology was introduced In June, we held the second annual Over the last year, each Spire Healthcare about three years ago and, in 2015, Spire Healthcare Cycle Challenge.
hospital continued to fundraise for I became a specialist adviser and important local and national causes.
It was important for Last year, the Challenge covered 620km In fact, over 158,000 was raised by me to see the other side of the CQC, between Spire Healthcare hospitals the Group through various sponsored what they are looking for and how and raised money for Walking with the walks, sporting events, bake-offs and we can be at our best for inspections.
Wounded and Macmillan Cancer consultant golf days, to name but Support.
This year, 200 Spire Healthcare My area of expertise is governance a few.
Next year, it is our aim to go cyclists, joined again by Chief Executive and its my position to support further and raise more, and build upon Officer, Rob Roger, covered 720km over the CQC inspection to enable the the good work our people already do.
six days, from Manchester to London, best rating outcome.
I undertake stopping at Blackpool, Leeds, Bristol, hospital-wide inspections and TOP FIVE FUNDRAISERS Southampton, Portsmouth, Cheam, interview hospital directors, Norwich and Cambridge along the way.
matrons, governance managers, ST ANTHONYS infection control leads and senior Over 5,000 was raised for this management teams.
I look for years chosen charity, Harrisons Fund.
a sound knowledge base of the The charity is named after an eight- 62,300 hospital, their understanding of year-old boy from Surrey who was what is happening, visibility, and diagnosed with Duchenne Muscular vision of the business, and staff CAMBRIDGE Dystrophy, a fatal genetic condition engagement.
This role really helps that affects the muscles, causing me get into the correct mind-set muscular weakness.
The charitys goal for when I do my internal clinical 20,900 is to raise as much money as it can reviews in Spire Healthcare hospitals.
for the worlds best researchers working on a cure for Duchenne.
There are few people working in PARKWAY the independent sector that have, like me, joined the CQC as specialist advisers.
Private hospitals do operate 11,800 differently from their NHS counterparts and advisers who know the independent WASHINGTON sector bring a wealth of experience and expertise to the role.
The CQCs new methodology of 10,400 inspecting hospitals has presented differing views but ultimately they are looking for good leadership, HULL AND EAST RIDING management and governance of the organisation.
7,600 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 45
