Responsible buyer SSE aims to be a responsible procurer of sources, major suppliers performance on is to set high standards, work in partnership with goods and services and to treat the companies several responsibility criteria including carbon its contractors to improve performance and it does business with in an ethical and fair way.
emissions, taxation, compliance, employment engage with exemplar companies to learn SSE procures over 2bn of goods and services policies and environmental impact.
This provides SSE with considerable ability to encourage responsible business Prompt payment code CEMARS practices through its supply chain and to Recognising that prompt payment is critical to SSE is annually accredited through the Certified work in partnership with all its suppliers to many suppliers, particularly smaller companies, Emissions Management and Reduction achieve long term sustainable benefits.
SSE has voluntarily signed up to Institute of Credit Scheme CEMARS and proactively encourages Managements Prompt Payment Code in the UK.
all its suppliers to seek this accreditation or an Responsible procurement equivalent measure of the actions they are Responsible procurement charter Encouraging responsible taking to improve their environmental impact.
Through its responsible procurement charter SSE business practice sets clear standards that ensure its relationships Living Wage Supporting local supply chains with contracting businesses are conducted SSE became an accredited Living Wage employer SSE is committed to achieving the highest ethically, sustainably and within the law.
From 1 April 2014 all new relevant levels of engagement with local suppliers.
charter covers areas such as health and safety, contracts issued by SSE are Living Wage compliant, SSEs award-winning Open4Business portal bribery and corruption, employment practices, ensuring employees of contractors working specifically targets small to medium enterprises conflicts of interest and environmental impact.
regularly on SSEs sites are paid at least the and is an easy-to-use platform through which The charter makes clear that SSE also expects its Living Wage.
local companies can do business with SSE and its suppliers to comply with all applicable local laws core contractors.
The portal is open to potential and regulations and to respect internationally Contractor safety suppliers in Highlands and Islands and North of recognised human and labour rights.
SSEs overriding commitment to the safety of its England regions and allows local suppliers to employees also extends to the employees of view SSE opportunities, register as a supplier To further support this charter SSE is developing contractors working on its sites.
Contractor safety and respond to notices free of charge.
During its a Responsibility Dashboard which will track and performance is included in Board level reporting first two years of operation, over 60m of local benchmark, from internal and external data and is key performance indicator.
SSEs approach contracts have been awarded through the portal.
Responsible community member Like any other responsible member of the donation from SSE.
The programme, launched Kinross, and North Lincolnshire.
The fund is community, SSE seeks to make a positive in October 2014, has provided matched funds expected to deliver around 50m in funding for difference by being an active contributor of almost 25,000 across a variety of national strategic regional projects over the next 25 years.
to the communities it operates within.
causes and many local sports clubs and community groups.
Following the storms of December 2013 Being the difference which caused severe disruption across the UK With around 20,000 employees throughout Investing in communities network, SSEs Network business established the UK and Ireland, SSE continues to make a SSE operates an industry leading community a new Resilient Communities fund, to support positive impact across a wide range of local investment programme, delivering financial communities in its network distribution areas in communities.
SSE employees are empowered support to a diverse range of community preparing for future emergency weather events.
to Be the difference for the causes, charities projects near to its renewable developments.
It will fund initiatives that will improve community and communities they care about.
Over 25 local community funds and a resilience in dealing with extreme weather events.
regionally-focused Sustainable Development The fund is expected to distribute 1.3m over the Volunteering Fund are all managed in-house.
SSEs volunteering programme enables employees to take a day off from work Through its community investment funds, SSEs heritage to support community initiatives that are in 2014 15 SSE provided almost 4m to SSE is acutely aware that it is the custodian of important to them.
During 2014 15, over 5,000 community projects in the UK and Ireland, a legacy arising from over 70 years of association volunteering days were used to support 542 supporting initiatives such as: energy efficiency with communities across the country.
Preserving projects across the UK and Ireland.
Initiatives programmes: local apprenticeship schemes: that heritage is the first priority, with the included over 100 people assisting with the and infrastructure upgrades such as rural digitalisation of both the Hydro and Southern renovation of the Community Lido in Hillsea and broadband and lifeline services.
A new company providing marshalling support for the annual archive will open to the public in the summer of Maggies Bike & Hike event around Loch Ness.
The SSE Sustainable Development Fund aims to 2015 and it is anticipated that these archives will support larger scale transformational projects at provide valuable content for a proposed new Fundraising a regional level see case study on page 34.
The SSE visitor centre at Pitlochry, in Scotland.
SSEs matched funding programme enables fund launched in the Highland region last year employees to support charities and local groups and during 2014 15 expanded to three new local by matching their fundraising efforts with a authority areas Scottish Borders, Perth and 65
