CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Responsibility is central to our vision to be an industry leader.
Our established Corporate Responsibility framework focuses on five key areas: People, Health and Safety, the Environment, Customers and the Community.
Sports Direct has developed Key Performance Indicators KPIs to ensure we deliver on our commitments.
These KPIs are further discussed in this report and in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review, and are based solely on our UK operations, unless expressly stated.
OUR PEOPLE PERFORMANCE & REWARD The Group employs over 27,000 people, across 19 countries and various sectors, from We reward the hard work of our participating employees with the Share Schemes.
The Sport, Fashion, Lifestyle, Gyms and Brands, and our people are what makes the Sports Share Schemes are dependent on the achievement of pre-determined underlying EBITDA Direct Group such a success.
targets, as well as satisfactory performance of the individual employee.
Our whole people ethos revolves around Right Person, Right Place, Right Time and we The targets for the 2011 Share Schemes were: are committed to the continued development of our people to meet our future growth 2012: Underlying EBITDA of 215m - Achieved plans.
Nurturing our people to reach their full potential and promoting internally where 2013: Underlying EBITDA of 250m - Achieved ever possible have been tools that have been used by the Group for over the last 30 2014: Underlying EBITDA of 260m - Achieved years and are fundamental to our continuing success.
2015: Underlying EBITDA of 300m - Achieved ATTRACTION AND RETENTION All four of the 2011 Share Scheme targets have now been achieved.
Under the 2009 As a Group, we like to train and retain our staff to ensure that valuable knowledge Share Scheme c. 27m shares in total vested, and a further c. 21m shares are expected remains within the business.
The Group uses a number of incentives to retain our to vest under the 2011 Share Scheme.
people, including regularly holding employee appraisals, to see the areas where we, as an employer, can improve.
We find that regular appraisals also highlight the knowledge The Group also has several policies and systems in place to ensure staff welfare is gaps which our employees have, and allows us to offer staff training which will develop monitored and maintained.
These are laid out in the diagram below.
During FY15 18.7% of our UK salaried staff left the Group, a decrease from 19.2% in EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FY14.
We estimate that this figure will remain relatively low during the 2011 Share & DIVERSITY POLICY Scheme vesting periods.
28 Our Share Schemes are utilised to attract, motivate and incentivise our people and potential future employees.
We have found that creating a shared goal has improved employee satisfaction levels.
TAILORED RIGHT TO A Store Manager stability with Sports Direct is currently sitting at 92%, this is an increase EMPLOYEE TRADE UNION of 6% on the FY14 figure.
Assistant Manager and Footwear Manager stability currently HANDBOOK sit at 86.5% and 90.3% respectively, which is an increase of 6% and 4% across the positions.
SALARIED STAFF TURNOVER SINCE FY10 STAFF FORUM FY10 17% GRADUATE RECRUITMENT During 2014 we ran our Graduate Recruitment Programme, Talent Bank.
The eight FY11 17% week programme offered graduates placements in our Ecommerce and Finance team with the opportunity to complete projects within the Group and compete for rewards, FY12 17% and the opportunity of a permanent role at the end of the programme.
The scheme is FY13 paid, with interns working on projects similar to those in the work environment.
The 15.5% programme ensures that we are bringing in new talent and the Group is constantly FY14 19.2% evolving with new ideas and ways of thinking.
FY15 18.7% ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIVERSITY KEY HIGHLIGHTS: Diversity within the Group is essential and we believe this plays an important role in Total workforce total Group : 27,207 a successful business.
At all times we try to ensure that our people meet the diversity, Hours invested in training: 58,000 cultures and values of our varied customer base.
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE TRAINING PROGRAMMES Our Board currently has a 14% female representation, with further details being The aim of our Staff Training and Development Department is to use the International shown on page 33.
We are in the process of looking to recruit another female for the Training Centre to provide the best, state of the art facilities for our team to flourish Board, although we consider that the necessary skills and experience are of paramount into champions.
Our goal is to give every member of our team the opportunity to be importance, with diversity being of lesser significance.
inspired, stimulated, motivated, and empowered.
We know that it takes every single team member to make a difference and improve the performance of the business.
Females make up 32% of our senior management team.
While we appreciate that work could be done to ensure that the figure is more balanced, we are satisfied that the We have continued to focus on the need to proactively develop our teams competence team possesses the appropriate balance of skills and knowledge.
As positions become base and leadership capabilities in order to meet the rapidly changing requirements available the necessary level of consideration will be given to ensuring diversity within of the Group.
Training is an area in which we have continued to invest, and in FY15 the team.
alone, over 58,000 hours were invested into training and developing the team at Sports Direct.
Our overall UK workforce base consists of 46.4% females, proving that discrimination for factors including gender will not be tolerated within the Group.
The law is paramount We are committed to continue offering a great portfolio of training courses, the majority when we recruit employees and we aim to ensure that both male and female of which are housed in our very own facilities.
The portfolio has continued to grow as it candidates are provided with equal opportunities to apply for and work in all positions has year on year with three areas receiving more emphasis: across the Group.
Home Grown Talent Management Programme A BREAKDOWN OF GENDER DIVERSITY: Customer Service Training 29 Management Induction Male Female Directors 6 1 We have an international approach to training by adopting our principles to those in the countries in which we trade.
Teams from Austria, Estonia, Czech Republic, Dubai, Other senior managers 37 17 Malaysia, France, Portugal, Holland, Cyprus, Switzerland, Kuwait, Belgium, Iceland, All UK workforce 11,450 9,899 Hungary, Slovenia, Slovakia, Poland have all attended sessions.
HOME GROWN TALENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME TALENT & CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT The Home Grown Talent Management Programme allows us to place the right In the last year we saw the launch of our new competency framework, known as the person in the right position at the right time.
It is a structured programme which Success Factors.
The seven Success Factors provide the behaviours that lead to great shows staff that outstanding performance can lead to further opportunities to progress performance in individual job roles within Sports Direct and include the qualities and within the Group.
It helps retain talented and key individuals, which in turn reduces skills that help people to be successful.
In short its what our best performers do and recruitment costs.
they describe how we need to be.
Our talent management activities are open to the majority of our workforce, with a We have worked on embedding the Success Factors in to all of our people practices focus on those who consistently show high-potential.
It is part of our culture to develop since launch in November 2014.
Firstly by introducing new recruitment tools and high-potential employees to grow into future Group leaders, and is a method which we providing our store manager population in the UK with competency based have used since day one.
We believe that producing a common standard of behaviour interview training.
for those in leadership roles will improve the likelihood of the Group achieving future goals, and enable us to retain real talent, by allowing it to flourish.
Secondly, we launched our new annual appraisal across UK Retail, Head Office, Warehouse and Transport.
Each division has a Success Factor framework of its very The Programme encourages our workforce to better themselves each and every day.
Our people review and agree performance within their annual appraisal and set At the end of the Programme, providing the individual has proved to be worthy of development goals to achieve in the coming year.
opportunity, key positions will be offered to these who have shown that they are ready to take the next step in their careers.
With the introduction of the Success Factors we have created a mechanism of identifying and developing internal talent across the Group to support our future growth plans.
Our teams have a variety of development opportunities using different methods.
We encourage growing within ones current role or taking on new challenging tasks, learning from others, supporting individuals in realising their potential and providing formal training opportunities.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED CUSTOMER SERVICE TRAINING FOOTWEAR MASTERCLASS During the year our customer service programme has continued to play a pivotal role Aimed at managers responsible for the footwear department in their branch, the when working with Sports Retail store staff.
The training model has continued to be Footwear Masterclass is a three day residential course which focuses on one of the key used by Store Managers, through a combination of seminars and eLearning.
departments in a Sports Direct store.
Typical subjects covered include merchandising, staff efficiency, best practice, health and safety, policies, and procedures.
The Sales through Service Model STARS reinforces the key elements of successful customer service: E LEARNING It is important that all staff are engaged with who we are and what message we want Smile to give to customers, and we believe that delivering effective induction training is key Talk to this.
Without a proper induction, there is the risk of staff not understanding Ask compliance issues or policies, low productivity and poor motivation, poor customer Recommend service and lost sales.
Sale Recently we implemented a new, interactive induction programme that would create The training works in conjunction with our 5 Star Commission Scheme, and aims pride in Sports Direct and ensure consistency and structure in foundation training.
to assist growth expectations by showing staff how developing their behaviours can The induction programme is available to all UK Retail staff, aimed at engaging new provide a better service to customers and drive sales.
starters and re-energising existing colleagues.
MANAGEMENT INDUCTION Sponge UK, a specialist eLearning company, have been engaged by the Group to New and existing managers have attended the two week residential induction develop an online induction that complements the existing face-to-face training that the programme, which is based at our Shirebrook campus.
The programme consists of Group offers.
The current modules focus on the four main areas, being sales and service, a mixture of shop floor based training and classroom centred activities, with typical health and safety, merchandising, and day to day operational information.
subjects including merchandising, administration, delivery processes, health and safety, These areas are the first in a planned suite of courses that will cover all aspects of the shop closure processes, product training, and retail business skills.
HIGH PERFORMING MANAGERS As it is important for staff to be able to access the learning on the go, the course has Our elite group of high performing operational managers are offered training via work been designed to work on tablets and smartphones, as well as desktop computers.
based schemes which look to further develop their skills.
The training schemes include The induction programme is one of the very first Adapt eLearning courses, and we have topics such as effective leadership, team engagement, performance enhancement and 17,000 users who currently feel the benefit of this.
managing through change, with the activities based on real work situations.
We have 30 found that the training makes an immediate difference to the problem solving, analytical HEALTH AND SAFETY and inter-personal communication skills of those who have been trained.
As the Company continues to grow there has been increased focus on creating a consistent method of evaluating health and safety performance.
Going forward we are INTERNAL PROMOTION REFRESH PROGRAMME looking to set targets and monitor our performance.
Members of the retail team who are put forward for internal promotion are invited to attend the Operational and Managerial Refresh Programme.
This is a five day residential In relation to the UK workforce we have calculated the figures per 100,000 hours course that consists of shop floor operational training combined with style and behaviour worked using a 12 month rolling average.
The number of accidents involving the modules covering communication, leadership and decision making.
warehouse workforce as at April 2015 was 5.9, compared to 2.8 at April 2014.
Increased footfall and decreased workspace due to ongoing building works, have both BRAND TRAINING contributed towards the increase.
The number of accidents involving the store, office and Robust training programmes to inform and train staff on product innovation and brand distribution workforce has remained static with 2.5 as at April 2015 and April 2014. initiatives continue.
This ensures that the links between Sports Direct and the major brands are stronger than ever.
In relation to the general public we have calculated the figures per 10m store turnover using a 12 month rolling average.
The number of accidents involving the general public Sports Direct is still a heavy user of Nike Sports Knowledge Underground SKU and had decreased over the course of the year and was 3.9 as at April 2015, compared to continue to be one of the front runners in terms of percentage completion worldwide.
SKU provides another eLearning opportunity for the Sports Direct team which allows staff to gain essential foundation knowledge on Nike Products.
This foundation Over the course of the year there have been no environmental prosecutions or knowledge is then taken one step further on the Nike Training days held at the Sports work-related fatalities.
The days are hosted by Nike Experts EKINs and take the foundation knowledge from SKU to a higher level with interaction and involvement.
ENVIRONMENT The Nike Graduate Scheme then encourages those who attend the training day to We recognise that we have a responsibility to manage the impact our business has on transfer their learning to the team in-store.
By doing so they gain the recognition of the environment, and we are committed to reducing this both now and in the future.
becoming a Nike Graduate within their store.
Sports Direct works exclusively with Nike We continue to comply with the Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment, and have on this exceptional training initiative.
identified key areas where we can make a difference, in particular energy usage in our stores, transport and waste management.
Sports Direct works with adidas and Puma to provide bespoke training initiatives to support the continued growth of adidas and Puma products.
Through 2014, many team We are continuously aiming to reduce our carbon footprint.
The single most significant members attended specialist adidas sessions, which focused on product knowledge and element is electricity, which makes up 84% of the footprint.
The carbon footprint spread selling skills.
More dates are in the diary for 2015 to support and capture the main across all UK sites is detailed in the chart opposite.
product releases and new innovations in sporting technologies.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS 1 APRIL 2014 - 31 MARCH 2015 This is the second year of mandatory reporting of this data.
To provide analysis against previous years we have shown comparative data for electricity-related emissions, which accounts for 84% of our GHG emissions in the current year.
Electricity 84% The table below details Electricity vs. Revenue and shows a pro rata increase of 15.9% across the year.
Diesel 12% Year 2015 2014 Other 4% 2 CO e Emissions from electricity Tonnes 80,160 63,393 2 1 CO e Emissions from electricity Tonnes m 35.6 30.7 Electricity vs.
Sales Turnover Index 2012: 100 117.6 101.5 2 1 Not including non-UK revenue, in line with the CO e emissions reported.
The growth of our Company has increased the number of our stores and therefore the absolute GHG emissions.
Our chosen intensity ratio of electricity-related emissions per WASTE REDUCTION m revenue has increased by 15.9%: 11.5% of which is due to a change in DEFRAs We are actively reducing the amount of waste we send to landfill and segregate waste to conversion factor, the remainder due to the inclusion of a number of newly acquired ensure that we recycle as much as possible.
fitness centres which are more energy consuming and therefore have this effect.
THIS YEAR WE RECYCLED: GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS REPORTING 1 6,127 units of electrical equipment 2014: 7,099 units Reporting period 1 April 2014 - 31 March 2015 94 tonnes of waste paper 2014: 78 tonnes Baseline year FY12 9,526 tonnes of cardboard 2014: 9,230 tonnes Consolidation Operational control 235 tonnes of metal 2014: 147 tonnes approach 618 tonnes of plastic 2014: 558 tonnes Boundary All UK entities and facilities either owned or under operational All stores now use biodegradable carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
Emissions from air conditioning and This is actively promoted in-store through high levels of staff engagement.
refrigeration units are excluded due to the cost of data 31 collection.
These are expected to be a negligible % of scope Looking ahead, we will continue our commitment to minimise waste and improve energy 1 emissions.
Consistency Other than the emissions declared for the period 1 April with Financial 2014 31 March 2015 to be in line with the CRC Energy CUSTOMERS Statements Efficiency Scheme, there are no inconsistencies with Financial Customer service is at the forefront of our business.
We aim to provide customers with Statements.
an enjoyable experience both in-store and online and ensure all our products are safe Emission factor DEFRA May 2013 and fit for purpose.
data source Assessment The Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ISO 14064-1 2006.
We Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to queries is a continuous process.
methodology have used the 2014 UK Governments GHG conversion factors.
All written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of the nature of the complaint so that trends can be assessed and appropriate action taken.
Materiality Materiality was set at Group level at 5%, with all UK facilities threshold estimated to contribute 0.5% of total emissions included We have an online customer contact form that reduces the time it takes for our Intensity ratio Emissions per m revenue customers to contact us and increases the volume of contact.
Online communication has reduced the amount of time it takes for us to respond to queries thereby increasing our 1 The emissions declared are for the period 1 April 2014 31 March 2015 to be in line with the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme.
service levels, while reducing the print and postage costs for both the Group and customers.
Scope 1 GHG emissions are calculated based on the purchased quantities of commercial fuels using published emission factors.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are primarily calculated We are continuously working to improve customer service at all levels within the Group from metered electricity consumption and published emission factors.
from the retail stores, Head Office and through to our website.
2 CO equivalent factors are used which ensures we have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Regulations.
Group UK Only UK Only Year 2015 2015 2014 2 Scope 1 CO e emissions 14,129 12,801 11,206 2 Scope 2 CO e emissions 116,335 82,455 64,747 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 130,464 95,256 75,953 2 CO e emissions Tonnes 2 CO e Emissions Tonnes m 46.1 42.3 36.8 EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED DUNLOP COMMUNITY Dunlop works together with its sponsored professional golfers Lee Westwood and Darren SUPPLY CHAIN Clarke to supply clothing to their golf schools.
These are junior player development We are committed to responsible business practices in our own business and within our schemes which provide qualified coaching and mentoring to youngsters.
We continue to procure merchandise from manufacturers who have proved to uphold ethical employment and trading practices, and we have a strict Code of Ethics Over 40,000 worth of clothing has been provided through sponsorship to the schemes that we require every supplier to adhere to.
The Code provides for the fair treatment of so far.
workers, ensuring a safe environment in accordance with the local and national laws where workers are treated with respect and paid fairly for what they do.
The code LONSDALE also ensures there is no child labour and no use of illegal means or materials in the Lonsdale is the Official Equipment and Fight Sports Apparel Supplier for the RAF and the production of goods.
We are the proud sponsor of the RAF annual Novice Championships, The Lord Wakefields.
We have longstanding relationships with our suppliers who have demonstrated that their work practices are consistent with Sports Directs standards.
Approximately 40% of our At a grassroots level, Lonsdale is also a sponsor of the England Boxing Lonsdale Golden current suppliers have been working with the Company for 10 years or more.
We have Gloves School Championships and provides 50 pairs of golden gloves, worth 2,000 to worked with two leading supply chain companies in Singapore and South Korea for a the finalists free of charge.
Using their local knowledge and experience helps benefit the business EVERLAST and the communities in which they operate.
Both businesses have the highest social Everlast supports a variety of organisations throughout the year, including both and business ethics code which aligns with our own Code of Ethics, the BSCI Code of sports-oriented and charitable programmes.
A long-standing supporter of the most Conduct which is based upon the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the prestigious amateur boxing competition in the US: the New York Golden Gloves, Social Accountability 8000 SA8000 Code.
Everlast is the official fight glove and apparel sponsor.
The organisation celebrated Sports Direct relies on those supply chain companies to inspect the premises of all its 88th year in April.
Frequent inspections are carried out randomly to ensure Since 2006, Everlast has also served as a proud supporter of The Breast Cancer that goods meet our quality standards as well as assessing continued compliance with Research Foundation BCRF.
Each year, Everlast donates a portion of the sale SA8000 and our Code of Ethics.
We cease immediately to work with suppliers who do proceeds from selected pink products to help the foundation provide funding for clinical not meet our criteria.
Last year, Everlast donated $57,433 to BCRFs research efforts 32 We comply with an internationally recognised list of chemicals that are banned for use to find a cure.
The supply chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are then ANTIGUA GROUP taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to ensure that banned chemicals Antigua supports a wide variety of sports related and charity related events throughout are not being used.
These include The Phoenix Childrens Hospital Annual Golf Classic, The CHARITY Scottsdale Charros Foundation, The Jerry Colangelo Prostate Cancer Event and The Year on year we dedicate money, clothing and equipment to worthy charities, to Salvation Army.
ensure that sport can be enjoyed and appreciated by all backgrounds.
Sport is not only Antigua is also heavily involved in the promotion of Junior Golf in Arizona and around important to leading a fit and healthy lifestyle, but should also be seen as fun.
Antigua has sponsored The Antigua Junior Tour in partnership with the dedications go some way towards allowing sports to be enjoyed by a variety of unlikely SWSPGA for over 20 years and also supports Girls Golf, The First Tee and The Junior sportsmen and women.
In recent years, Antigua has helped to create the Antigua KARRIMOR National High School Golf Invitational which invites teams from all over the United Karrimor became the official clothing and equipment supplier to the charity team States to participate.
The seven man squad successfully completed the challenge of a lifetime, The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of rowing the English Channel for three great charities: Saving Faces, The Royal Marsden Directors on 16 July 2015, and signed on its behalf by: Cancer Charity and Sail4Cancer.
The novice team were fully equipped with Karrimor gear to take on this gruelling venture, with the aim of raising 30,000.
Congratulations to the team on their outstanding achievement.
Dave Forsey Chief Executive SLAZENGER CHANCE TO SHINE Slazenger is the exclusive cricket equipment supplier to the countrys most recognised 16 July 2015 grassroots cricket development programme, Chance to Shine.
Each project provides structured coaching and a competition programme for a group of schools who would not have otherwise had the chance to participate in the sport.
By 2013, the programme had reached one third of all primary and secondary schools amounting to almost 7,000 schools and has supported two million young people, almost half of whom are girls.
Over 600,000 worth of cricket equipment has been supplied by Slazenger to enable the programme to run successfully.
