Directors Report Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee SHEAC Report The SHEAC advises the Board on safety, health and and Paul Smith bring substantial operational experience to the SHEAC through their roles and environmental matters including policy, targets responsibilities within SSE.
The Chief Executive and strategy.
regularly attends meetings and the Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary to the SHEAC.
Meetings and activities in 2014 15 The SHEAC met five times during the year and Members and meetings details of attendance are set out in the table Attended opposite.
Meetings are routinely held on the Independent scheduled non-Executive during the same day as Board meetings and the SHEAC Membership Director Membership financial year Chairman reports to the Board after each meeting.
The work of the SHEAC is designed Jeremy Beeton Committee Chairman Yes July 2011 5 5 around the following priorities: Sue Bruce Yes September 2013 5 5 - Safety support progress towards SSEs Jim McPhillimy No November 2008 5 5 ultimate goal of working without anyone getting injured: Mark Patterson No January 2013 5 5 - Health promote the health and well-being Paul Smith No November 2008 5 5 of people working for SSE: and 1 - Environment encourage effective Thomas Thune Andersen Yes February 2009 2 2 environmental management throughout SSE.
1 Thomas Thune Andersen retired from the Board on 17 July 2014.
In support of these priorities, the key matters considered by the SHEAC during the year principally fell under five main areas: targets and priorities: performance: organisational structure, Introduction Role incidents and trends: and communication.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present The role of the SHEAC is to advise the Board this report which explains the role, composition on safety, health and environmental matters.
In addition, an important aspect of the work and activities of the SHEAC during the year.
It provides a leadership forum for non-Executive of the SHEAC is to gain a better understanding Directors to work with management and of the safety, health and environmental issues I assumed the role of Chair when Thomas shape policy, targets and strategy to improve affecting SSEs operational sites.
During the year, Thune Andersen stood down from the Board safety, health and environmental performance.
members of the SHEAC visited various sites in July 2014.
SSE demands of itself and those The SHEAC is responsible for: throughout the UK and Ireland and met with contractors who work for us high standards and - ensuring adherence to SSEs safety, health front-line management teams.
the best safe working practices.
We operate in a and environmental policies: hazardous industry with inherent risks relating to - setting Group targets and strategy for Safety safety, health and the environment.
By utilising improved performance: SSE operates in a hazardous industry with pro-active management, proper standards of - monitoring Group performance against inherent risks.
Safety is SSEs first core value: training, supervision, a lessons learned system these targets: We believe all accidents are preventable.
and rigorous compliance: we minimise risks to - enhancing the awareness and the We require all business to be carried out safely ourselves, those who work for us, the public importance of safety, health and and responsibly, or not at all.
Our goal is to and our environment.
environmental management and work without anyone getting injured and whilst ensuring consistent performance: and 2014 15 has been a good year in terms of SSE has aligned its business specific safety, health - making recommendations to the Board performance and improvement, a colleague and environment plans to seven enduring goals where action or improvement is needed.
tragically lost his life on 26 February 2015 in this year.
This has been very well received by the a road traffic accident on the A9 in Scotland.
SHEAC and is making a real difference in SSE.
The SHEAC works alongside management Details of SSEs safety performance are who oversee implementation of safety, health provided on page 59. and environmental matters within SSE based Jeremy Beeton around seven enduring goals, which deal with Health Chairman of the SHEAC contractor safety, the Safety Family, process SSEs occupational health and well-being action safety, driving, health and well-being, plan provides the basis for workplace health environment and crisis management.
programmes and initiatives, all designed to help employees have a healthy mind and body Composition as well as minimise risks from occupational Members of the SHEAC are appointed by exposure to illness and disease.
the Board following recommendation by the Nomination Committee.
The current Environment membership of the SHEAC is set out in the table SSE is committed to reducing the negative opposite.
Jeremy Beeton took over the position impact of its activities by finding new and of Chairman from Thomas Thune Andersen on more sustainable ways to operate.
However, 17 July 2014 and brings a wealth of experience producing and delivering the energy that from his background in engineering and major people need also produces large amounts construction projects.
Sue Bruce provides of greenhouse gas emissions.
Details of valuable insights from various senior roles in the greenhouse gas emissions are reported public sector.
Jim McPhillimy, Mark Patterson on pages 60 and 61.
We require all business to be done safely and responsibly, or not at all 89
