Strategic Report Sustainability overview continued Responsible employer SSEs long-term success depends on being able to retain, develop and attract employees with the skills and commitment necessary to meet the needs of customers and achieve other business goals.
It aims to do this by being a responsible employer that recognises the contribution an engaged workforce makes to its achieving its business goals and to society as a whole.
Valuable people economic value of the people it employs full 72% of employees believe they work in a business SSE wants to be a great place to work: details can be found in the report published in unit committed to working efficiently.
This is a characterised by the engaged, motivated and March 2015 Valuable people: Understanding 12% increase from last year and demonstrates committed people who already work throughout SSEs Human Capital see sse.
SSEs focus on continually driving improved the company and an ability to attract a talented efficiency and its employees commitment to and diverse range of new people to meet SSE now knows the value of the Human Capital support this.
it employed on 1 April 2014 was 3.40bn.
It has also identified some of the key drivers of this SSE shares the detailed survey results with That is why SSE has clear priorities for how it: value over time, including the value that can be all employees and develops and implements - engages with the people who work for SSE created from investing in this asset.
For example, detailed business by business action plans and recognises the different needs they have: this analysis has established that for every 1 based on the findings of the survey.
- creates sustainable employment opportunities SSE invests in its Apprenticeship programme, that attract a talented and diverse range of 4.29 of economic value is created and shared Partnering with employee representatives new people into all levels of the business: between wider society, SSE and the individual.
SSE has a positive partnership approach with - invests for the future to ensure each individual four recognised trade unions across a number can perform to the best of their ability: and This new knowledge helps demonstrate of different collective bargaining tables.
This - ensures it is constantly seeking to do the right the business case for SSEs people strategy.
includes a well-established Joint Negotiating things, particularly in how people are treated It endorses the concept of human capital, and Consultative Committee JNCC which throughout the company.
evidences the value of creating sustainable involves lay and full-time representatives from employment, and will continue to shape SSEs four recognised trade unions.
The JNCC is SSE has a very particular ethos regarding its Human Resource strategies in the future.
supported by Joint Business Committees which people.
It follows an in-house operational model seek to deal with key employment issues within which means it prefers to directly employ the Engaging employees each of SSEs main business groups.
people it needs, does not out-source core work SSEs long-established teamwork value is the and does not offshore core work outside of the primary driver of positive employee engagement All SSEs employees are able to seek UK or Ireland: it strives to create sustainable jobs throughout its range of businesses: membership of trade unions and the majority and seeks to limit redundancy through the use are currently represented by these organisations.
of redeployment and retraining: and it invests in We support and value our colleagues and The company understands the importance of the long term value of employees and seeks to enjoy working together as a team in an open involvement and open communication and grow its own talent.
works with employee representatives to enable employees to understand the business and their This approach is deeply embedded within the A great place to work crucial role in contributing towards its success.
culture of SSE and plays and important role in SSEs annual company-wide, externally the value SSEs employees create.
facilitated employee engagement survey had Meeting employees different needs an exceptional 92% response rate in 2014 and SSE aims to support its employees through Understanding the value the results showed that SSE has an employee its employee benefit packages but recognises of SSEs human capital engagement index of 73% the benchmark the different needs across its workforce.
Many companies claim that their people are level for UK private sector companies.
During 2014 15 SSE became is SSEs number one value and this is clearly SSE is proud to be one of the UKs largest the first major company in the UK, and one of recognised by SSEs employees, with 94% Living Wage employers guaranteeing that less than a handful globally, to quantify the believing that SSE takes safety seriously.
all employees will receive at least the Living Wage SSEs workforce: Key statistics Total Geographic Gender split Average Annual Total employees split % male female age retention rate recruitment 2014 15 19,965 UK 97% 70 30 40 87% 2,319 ROI 3% 2013 14 19,894 UK 96% 70 30 41 91% 2,157 ROI 4% 62 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
3. rate, which is independently set to ensure people to provide key skills or perspectives that can recognition of running an accredited and can cover the basic cost of living in the UK.
not be found from within SSE.
sustainable Graduate programme for the SSE believes paying the Living Wage makes an last ten years.
important contribution to reducing in-work During 2014 15 SSE recruited externally a total poverty throughout the UK see page 11. of 2,319 people into roles across the UK and The impact of SSEs Apprentice and TST Ireland.
Significant areas of recruitment included programmes was assessed in SSEs groundIn keeping with SSEs commitment to creating Customer Services and Energy Networks.
This found that sustainable jobs for the long term, it has taken for every 1 SSE invests in its TST programme, proactive measures to help employees plan and Managing performance 7.65 of economic value is created and shared save for their financial future.
It has proactively SSE has in place a wide-ranging performance between wider society, SSE and the individual.
enrolled all new employees into its pension management system, designed to make sure For its Apprenticeship programme the impact schemes since 2005.
Employee pension that all employees are able to fulfil their potential is 4.29 for each 1 invested.
contributions attract contributions from the and contribute as much as possible to the Company and also offer free life cover.
These achievement of SSEs goals and the delivery in SSE also supports the Barnardos Works proactive measures have resulted in 97% of practice of SSEs values.
Above all this system programme, which aims to give long-term employees choosing to look after their future aims to ensure the safe operation of SSEs unemployed young people the opportunity to by saving in one of SSE pension schemes.
businesses and the reliable provision of gain comprehensive waged-work opportunities, services to all its customers.
Since SSE offers a range of benefits which help it began in 2008, a total of 105 young people employees share in the ongoing success of Alongside assessing performance against have taken part in the programme with SSE.
These include both an employee Share agreed objectives, the process assesses the Incentive Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
extent to which every individual, including the Giving everyone the best Employee participation in these schemes senior management team, demonstrate and opportunity to succeed is now 52% and 41% respectively.
support SSEs core values of Safety, Service, SSE is committed to providing the support any Excellence, Sustainability, Efficiency and employee needs to develop their competences SSEs full range of employee benefits reflects the Teamwork.
The process also focuses on the and skills, and through this their contribution to differing needs and interests of its employees.
development of the skills and competencies SSE.
It has extensive in-house training capabilities, Particular focus is given to contributing positively which are critical to the future success of SSE including three technical and general training towards employees wellbeing.
Employees and to the energy sector in the United Kingdom centres located in Berkshire, Rhondda Cynon Taf have the opportunity to buy additional holidays, and the Republic of Ireland.
These centres are equipped to medical cover, gym memberships, as well as run a range of technical, customer service, and discounts on products and services for the home Investing for the future management training programmes which enable and family life.
Recognising that employees can Tackling skills shortages people to train in the type of work environment in require advice and support for a range of personal Around 50% of the energy industrys skilled which they will work, in a realistic, controlled and and professional reasons, a free comprehensive workforce is expected to retire by 2023. safe way.
These programmes are supplemented employee assistance programme is also available.
To ensure it has the right mix of skilled by user-driven e-learning programmes which employees for the future, SSE offers a range also cover specialist topics such as diversity, Opportunities for flexible working of structured development programmes suited risk management, anti-bribery and corruption SSE has a wide variety of flexible working to the development needs of school leavers, policies, and business separation.
arrangements in place across all of its businesses.
apprentices, trainee engineers and graduates.
This includes over 1900 employees 85% women: The focus of each programme is to ensure that During 2014 15, over 45,000 training interventions 15% men working some form of part-time those participating gain skills which create were delivered, split over the following four areas: hours to meet their personal circumstances.
In sustainable career opportunities that can be addition, SSEs career break policy has enabled used for their future benefit and for the benefit Internal Training Provision employees to take time out to spend with their of SSE.
Every trainee who starts on a programme family, travel, study and work within their with SSE is guaranteed a full time position with Management 5,047 communities with the peace of mind that the company on successful completion of Technical 6,544 they have employment to return to.
Customer Service 7,383 E-Learning 26,440 Over 11m was invested in these programmes Recruitment 2014 15 in 2014 15 and currently, 550 individuals are progressing through them.
A total of 64m has Scotland 40% been invested since 2007.
SSE will expand these England 44% programmes for 2015 16, with the creation of Ireland 2% around 200 new opportunities and the planned Where necessary, SSE also invests in external Wales 14% introduction of new training programmes.
In 2014 15 a total of 1.1mwas invested in almost 5,000 training The value of SSE growing its own in this way interventions: on top of the 11m investment is evidenced by the very high retention rates it made in targeted development programmes.
Retention rates for the Apprentice and Typically these interventions support the Sustainable employment Technical Staff Trainee TST programmes are development of specialist and professional skills Attracting diverse new talent above 90%, against a national average of 76%.
or provide SSE with completely new skill sets SSEs ethos is to grow and develop the skills The Graduate programme has a retention rate such as the specialist disability awareness training it needs from within the organisation and of 78% which is 14% above the national average, delivered to over 100 employees across all of our to support that it attracts new talent to fill and in 2014 15 SSE received an award from major Customer Service Centres during 2014 15. employment opportunities it has created or the Institute of Engineering Technology in 63 Strategic Report Sustainability overview continued Responsible employer continued Doing the right thing Progress in 2014 15 - Ensuring all recruitment is fair establishing Ethical working SSE has a long standing commitment to new external recruitment and internal SSE seeks to act honestly and with integrity promoting greater diversity, but its statistics appointment processes to ensure, amongst in its dealings within the Company, and with indicate that there is much progress yet to other things, that the shortlist for every job in customers, investors, regulators and business be made: SSE is gender diverse.
SSE also intends to pilot partners.
SSE sets very high standards of - Of the available workforce in the UK and the practice of blind CVs, where CVs given behaviour and employees are given clear Ireland 51% are women, yet only 30% of to recruiting managers do not include names, guidance on best ethical practice through a the people employed in SSE are women.
regularly updated Doing the right thing code of - Of the senior management team, 30% are business practice.
This outlines SSEs policy on women.
There are 66 direct reports to SSEs such things as equality, bribery, anti competitive Executive Directors and Managing Directors SSE employee gender diversity behaviour and the companys whistleblowing 20 women and 46 men.
SSE also keeps employees and managers - A large proportion of the available updated with key changes to employment policy workforce in the UK and Ireland is over 35, Male 70% Female 30% and legislative requirements through the use of but the majority of SSEs new recruits are e-learning which, for example, has been used to under 35. train all managers on the Bribery Act provisions.
- A large proportion of SSEs energy supply customers are over 50, but SSEs customer Human rights service teams are predominantly under 30.
Like other companies operating in the UK, SSE is governed by the Human Rights Act 1998, During 2014 15 SSE committed significant the aim of which is to give further effect in resources to researching, and better UK law to the rights contained in the European understanding, the challenges it faces on SSE Senior Management gender diversity Convention of Human Rights.
The Republic diversity and inclusion.
This included extensive of Ireland, the only other state in which SSE in-house survey work on attitudes and views on employs people and carries out operations diversity, more detailed data gathering, internal Male 70% Female 30% and investments, is also party to the ECHR.
research through business forums, interviewing SSEs approach is to comply with the spirit many of SSEs generation Y employees and and letter of human rights legislation and working with external facilitators to benchmark responsibility for doing so rests with its SSEs approach and performance.
Priority areas for action Equal opportunities Ensuring that SSE delivers improved levels of SSE has in place a comprehensive range of diversity and inclusion is the responsibility of policies to safeguard the interests of employees SSEs Executive Committee.
In response to the and potential employees.
Like many responsible review and analysis undertaken in 2014 a new organisations it has an actively-managed equal strategy and plan of action was agreed in opportunities policy, in keeping with the spirit, March 2015. as well as the letter, of the law in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
This is designed to Over the next year SSE will focus on the ensure fair and equal treatment of employees following key initiatives: and potential employees across the seven - Setting new targets SSE will adopt a series protected characteristics, as defined in the of new targets in each business to help ensure Equality Act 2010.
It seeks to develop these greater diversity in terms of age, gender policies and practices over time, in line with and ethnicity.
Targets will be ambitious but the emergence of new guidance and evidence achievable and will apply to key areas including of responsible practices.
For example, only 10% of SSEs current female Promoting diversity and inclusion workforce are in positions that pay 40,000 FTE SSE recognises the positive business benefits full time equivalent or more.
SSE has set an that arise from different views, perspectives overall target to increase this to 25% by 2025. and ways of working, from a mix of people - Creating a more flexible workplace diverse from different personal and cultural working groups within each business area will backgrounds.
Encouraging more difference review and establish how flexible working in SSE assures broader debate, leading to arrangements can be more widely promoted better decisions, which results in better in each business area.
- Addressing this issue at entry level helping encourage greater take-up of key subject It is business critical that SSE actively encourages areas, skills and technical competencies, greater diversity, but to be successful SSE must at all levels of education, to ensure there is also ensure it is inclusive in how this diversity a broader and more diverse talent pool for is recognised, encouraged, developed and SSEs recruitment and development supported.
