Strategic Report Sustainability overview Sustainability Meeting economic, social and environmental responsibilities SSE has an essential As an energy provider and a leading its day-to-day operations and SSE also wants to make information Company, SSEs economic, social decision-making, and by being about its sustainability impacts purpose at its core and environmental impacts are transparent about the impact it is more accessible and transparent providing the energy significant and subject to scrutiny making.
The reporting of SSEs for all stakeholders.
The following people need and a and debate, which in turn create sustainability impacts financial pages provide an overview of responsibility to ensure expectations on the part of and non-financial is integrated key areas of sustainability that are customers, politicians, regulators throughout this Annual Report.
known to be of particular interest this need is met in a and other stakeholders.
Details of the significant social, to stakeholders.
environmental and economic SSE seeks to proactively meet these impacts of each business are Further detail on SSEs responsible expectations and to fulfil its core included in the relevant business approach is provided in the Being purpose by being responsible in overview sections.
Responsible supplement to this 56 SSE plc Annual Report 2015 1.
3. report and through the dedicated Total carbon emissions Employee engagement index Total taxes paid m area on SSEs website sse.
com tonnes CO e 2 being responsible.
These resources also contain: data and KPIs which support SSEs sustainable approach: 16.74m 73% 506.2m policy statements covering key issues such as bribery, diversity, human -34% -5% 17% rights and corporate governance: Total scope 1,2 and 3 carbon emissions from Results from annual, company-wide, externally Total taxes paid including employment and relevant case studies.
Carbon intensity from SSEs facilitated, employee engagement survey.
taxes, business rates, environment taxes and generation also fell 17.7%.
In 2014 15 the participation rate was 92%.
