Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report Chairman visited the Groups operations in Aberdeen to see the preparations 7.1 Introduction from Helen Mahy, Chairman being made for the roll-out of the new hydrogen powered bus fleet and to of the Health, Safety and Environmental discuss the expected challenges of operating vehicles on hydrogen fuel.
Committee The UK Bus management team in West Scotland hosted a site visit and The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee assists the Board to fulfil its Committee meeting in December 2014.
The visit focused in particular on the responsibilities by recommending Group policy in these areas and monitoring environmental initiatives being undertaken in West Scotland, including the compliance with the Group policy.
challenges of operating vehicles on 100% bio fuel and the alternative fuel technologies being tested by the Group and elsewhere.
The Committee was In order to formulate and monitor the Groups policies, I believe that it is briefed on route planning and technology initiatives to help to ensure the important to involve a range of contributors from the Groups businesses and safe operation of new long distance inter-city coach services in Europe under to ensure that the members of the Committee actively engage with those the megabus.
businesses to help the Group to evolve its health, safety and environmental strategy over time.
By bringing contributors together at its meetings, the The Committee Chairman spent time with the North America management Committee aims to share knowledge between the Groups businesses and to team, viewing the new vehicle maintenance facility in Chester, New York, challenge its business managers and safety advisers to promote sustained visiting Megabus operations in Washington and Atlanta, and seeing the improvement over time.
facilities and operations of Dillons, Baltimore and American Coach Lines of Atlanta.
The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel and In the Committees 2014 evaluation of its performance, Committee members health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
agreed that it would assist the Committee to bring an external view point in to the meeting from time to time.
We invited one of our external legal advisers who had advised on a recent incident to use it as a case study on the operation of the Committee.
The presentation gave an opportunity to examine in detail the way in which the Group management team had responded to the incident and to discuss the ways in which the Group as a whole learns from incidents arising from its operations.
Helen Mahy In their 2015 evaluation of the performance of the Committee, Committee Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee members indicated that they would like to explore further the potential for 24 June 2015 emerging road safety technology to enhance the safety of the Groups road vehicles and would like to receive a briefing on the new Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
These briefings and suggestions made by Committee 7.2 Composition of the Health, Safety and members for improvements to the agenda and reports to the Committee will form part of the work of the Committee and executive management team Environmental Committee over the new financial year.
The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is Committee members attend meetings of the Safety Committees of summarised in section 4.9. individual business units from time to time.
The Committee allocates time in The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee its agendas to receive detailed briefings on areas of specific interest or are available on the Groups website at concern to it.
During the year, presentations were received on a range of topics, including how safety risk analysis is applied by the UK Rail Division, the http: www.
pdf development of rail safety plans, alternative fuel technologies for road vehicles and megabus.
The Committee was briefed on road safety technology solutions being introduced on new Group vehicles 7.3 Operation of the Health, Safety and and technologies that are in development.
In order to gain a greater Environmental Committee understanding of the challenges of driving a rail vehicle on the South Western area rail infrastructure, members of the Committee were given the The Committee considers health, safety and environmental risks, mitigations opportunity to drive a train simulator at the South West Trains driver training and issues across the Group and reports to the Board on these matters.
Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants, where The Committee reviews the Groups analysis of health, safety and required.
environmental risks and its strategies to address those risks.
The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators across the Group as Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and well as information on significant incidents involving the Group.
Key safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the operating division.
Training, where relevant, is provided to the Committee on Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee liaises with the challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
As Remuneration Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to incidents occur, the Committee, aided by the safety management teams, is form part of the Executive Directors personal objectives.
able to analyse those incidents and learn lessons to further improve the Groups safety processes.
Members of the Committee review entries for the annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, which reward employees for excellence in the areas of The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe safety, environmental, community, health, customer service and innovation.
health, safety and environmental management in practice.
During the year, the members of the Committee visited the Groups UK Bus operations in Northampton and Bedford, seeing the benefits of the recent re-development of the Northampton bus station and relocation of the depot, and were briefed on proposed re-development work in Bedford.
The Committee Stagecoach Group plc | page 39
