St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 42 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility WE SEE FUTURE GENERATIONS Acquiring brownfield sites, remediating and transforming them into cleaner, greener and brighter environments where business and communities can thrive: this is the essence of what we do.
Photo: We regularly engage with the schools and communities related to our sites including pupils from the newly built John Locke Academy, St. Andrew's Park, Uxbridge, who created hoardings for the site.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 43 245 4699 100164 165176 Our approach In addition, we also continue to support a number of CSR initiatives which are not part of our 10 objectives.
These prove As a brownfield regeneration specialist Corporate Social our innovative and broad-minded attitude to CSR: we are Responsibility CSR lies at the very heart of who we are and constantly mindful of the positive impact our projects can have what we do.
We are constantly cleaning and greening up on the community, the environment and the economy.
brownfield land across the country and from dilapidated and disused sites we seek to create thriving and inspirational Our CSR results new communities.
We invest much needed time, money and expertise into these areas and across the entire lifecycle of our projects, we continue to ensure that environmental, social and community considerations are integrated within our day-today practices.
3 Exceeded We actively promote responsible construction and Achieved 5 development that reflects our approach to CSR and look to our On target employees, our partners and our supply chain to enable us to achieve our short and long-term goals.
2 Our CSR objectives th For the financial year ended 30 November 2015 we established a set of 10 CSR objectives and are pleased to report that these have been achieved, with good progress For more information on our CSR results, goals and approach please see our made against longer-term objectives.
These objectives have February 2016 CSR booklet or visit: www.
co. uk since been reviewed and updated by the CSR Steering Group to ensure that we continue to strive for improved performance CSR Steering Group during 2016.
The CSR Steering Group, chaired by the Group Construction Both strategic and long-term, our objectives focus on: Director, meets quarterly to review progress against our CSR objectives and to ensure the Company maintains a best ensuring sustainable business: practice approach to CSR activities across its operations.
creating better environments by greening and cleaning up brownfield land which makes up 90% of our developable portfolio : and supporting the communities in which we build.
Photo: We engage the local community on our sites through events, Photo: We create new, and preserve and enhance existing, public spaces initiativesand projects.
within and surrounding our developments.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 44 Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility continued Employee diversity Training and development We recognise our responsibility as an employer to look after We are proud to have a good level of staff retention.
the wellbeing of our staff.
We are committed to providing Well-motivated staff not only perform better but they an inclusive working environment where everyone feels enhance business stability and this is reflected in the effective valued and respected.
The diverse range of talent, skills management of our projects and the business as a whole.
and experience across the business is reflected in the new In the period, 76% of management had more than three years communities that we build and ensures our continued success.
On face value there has been a decline on the previous 12 months but the proportion reflects the growth The Company adheres to a clear equality policy which sets out of our management team by 5% to 63 2014: 60.
We have individuals rights and obligations as defined by the Equality Act been successful in attracting more senior professionals into 2010.
This policy covers the responsibilities and approach we the business over the period and this in turn is evidence of the have to our employees and our duty to avoid discrimination in strength and appeal of the Company.
all aspects of recruitment and employment.
During the first half of 2015, our management team completed The charts below set out the number of men and women training sessions, produced by Farscape Developments and th employed full-and part-time as at 30 November 2015, Pinsent Masons, from which staff initiatives were identified across our business and split between the Board, our senior and have since been implemented.
We have received positive management and our employees.
feedback from this programme and we will continue to run In considering appointments to the Board and to senior these sessions for new management staff throughout 2016. executive positions, it is our policy to evaluate the skills, Further training opportunities have also been identified and are knowledge and experience required by a particular role being pursued.
with due regard for the benefit of diversity and to make an In addition, due to the geographic spread of our UK-wide appointment accordingly.
development portfolio, many staff are required to drive Nomination Committee ReportPages 66 to 69 significant distances to fulfil their role.
To ensure they are safe and best equipped to do so, during 2015 all staff with a Board diversity company car, van or car allowance were invited to attend a driver training course in partnership with The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Following the success of this 22% exercise, we are seeking to carry out further training in 2016.
TOTAL 7 Male 2 Female All employees are encouraged to maintain their Continuing 9 78% Professional Development CPD and support is provided for staff to attain qualifications and professional memberships relevant to their role.
Finally, we remain committed to taking on bright new talent Senior management diversity and nurturing skills into appropriate areas of our business.
We have increased our CSR target to create opportunities for 8% a total of 25 full-time or equivalent trainees graduates across TOTAL the business.
11 Male 1 Female 12 Human rights We support the United Nations Universal Declaration of 92% Human Rights and have policies in place to ensure that we act in accordance with our principles in relation to areas such as anti-corruption, diversity and whistleblowing.
Employee diversity TOTAL 45% 177 Male 147 Female 324 55% All employee diversity 43% TOTAL 195 Male 150 Female 57% 345 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 45 245 4699 100164 165176 Photo: We encourage staff to maintain their Continuing Professional Photo: We are committed to supporting charities in the vicinity of our Development.
Health and safety We encourage responsibility for the identification and mitigation of health and safety risks at an individual level.
We are committed to safeguarding the health, safety and Regular and appropriate competence training is provided for welfare of our employees, contractors, subcontractors, our employees, contractors and subcontractors to ensure that customers and visitors to our sites.
health and safety considerations remain at the forefront of We have a comprehensive safety, health and environmental any activity.
SHE management system in place, which is integral to our We measure our health and safety performance through business.
This is supported by detailed policies and procedures accident frequency rates AFR, measured as the number of in respect of both our development and residential activities: reportable incidents x100,000 being the number of hours a these are continually refreshed to ensure they reflect any person works in a lifetime divided by the total hours worked by changes to regulation or best practice.
The SHE Steering Group, chaired by the Group Construction th For the 12 months to 30 November 2015 the AFR for our Director, monitors the Companys SHE management system.
development sites and for St. Modwen Homes was 0.09 and It receives reports from senior management, reviews incident 0.00 respectively, both significantly outperforming the industry and accident prevention performance and agrees initiatives benchmark 0.40.
With the number of man hours worked in designed to continue the promotion of a positive safety culture the year exceeding 3m we are pleased to report that there across St. Modwens activities.
The Steering Group reports on were no health and safety prosecutions, enforcement actions its activities to the Board.
or fatalities arising from our activities during the year.
We engage independent consultants to ensure compliance Working with charities with Construction and Design Management regulation, with particular focus on our residential activities through Due to the variety of projects across our portfolio, we have St. Modwen Homes where we are the principal contractor.
chosen not to focus on a single national charity.
Instead, we All St. Modwen Homes sites are registered with the support a number of local charities linked or in close proximity 'Considerate Contractors Scheme' and a number have been to our development sites.
awarded certificates of performance beyond compliance, which For more information and to see case studies on some of the charities we recognise consideration to the locality, the workforce and the havesupported throughout 2014 15 please see our February 2016 CSR booklet, alternatively please visit: environment that goes beyond statutory requirements.
co. uk charities Specialist external consultants carry out regular health and safety audits of all our sites under development.
Regular risk assessments of our properties are undertaken using an online management system, with implementation of any resulting actions monitored by the Property Board.
St. Modwen also operates a pre-qualification process to ensure the selection Approval of Strategic Report ofcompetent consultants and contractors.
th The Strategic Report for the year ended 30 November 2015 has been approved by the Board and was signed on its behalf by Bill Oliver Chief Executive st 1 February 2016 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 46 Corporate Governance WE SEE STEWARDSHIP Photo: Technology Retail Park, Rugby which was 100% pre-let to major national retailers before being sold to Aberdeen Asset Management for 17.4m.
