SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Responsibility.
We believe that this approach is not only beneficial to stakeholders, but also contributes to the economic sustainability of the business itself.
co. uk 29 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Responsibility.
Issues pertaining to corporate responsibility are reviewed within Our corporate responsibility our internal control and risk management processes.
Ethical In 2015 we will, programme is designed to: trading issues in the supply chain are considered as a risk to the drive environmental sustainability improvements business and are reviewed in accordance with risk management together with protocols.
You can read more on how we manage our risks on respect workers in the supply chain pages 46 to 49.
Gloucestershire support the communities SuperGroup interacts with Our role in the community ensure the welfare of our colleagues Youth employment remains an important social issue in the UK College, introduce and in many other countries where we operate.
The investment We believe that this approach is not only beneficial to in our careers website has received overwhelmingly positive stakeholders, but also contributes to the economic sustainability apprenticeships at feedback from schools and careers advisers as it has raised of the business itself.
awareness of the variety of careers young people can pursue Governance and risk management and has shown them how to take that first step in building a our head office in career in our industry.
Our paid intern sandwich placement of corporate responsibility programme was very successful and resulted in a number of We remain committed to corporate responsibility at all levels Cheltenham.
participants joining SuperGroup in permanent roles.
In 2015 in our business, with our ethical trading manager and energy we will, together with Gloucestershire College, introduce environmental manager ensuring that the Executive Committee apprenticeships at our head office in Cheltenham.
and Board are apprised fully on the progress we are making against our objectives.
This team works with departments across the business to identify opportunities for operating in a more sustainable manner as well as helping to implement and monitor their success.
co. uk 30 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Report.
Our collaboration with the University of Gloucestershire and their raised, address harassment and bullying and to ensure equal Human rights and health and safety BA Honours in Fashion Design enabled colleagues from our opportunities.
Our whistleblowing policy and hotline continue We are committed to upholding human rights and we welcome in-house design team to support the next generation of to operate to give visibility to issues that might not have been Financial Financial the implementation of the United Nations Guiding Principles of Statements.
designers by sharing their knowledge and experience, providing resolved through normal business channels.
Our Ethical Trading programme work placements and facilitating year one projects.
Our incorporates the principles of the California Transparency in Our colleagues are from wide and diverse backgrounds, partnership with the Princes Trust, providing work experience Supply Chains Act by working to prevent human trafficking and sexual orientations, nationalities and ethnic and religious to young people in our stores, continues and we are delighted slave labour in all of our factories around the world.
With continued global expansion, diversity amongst our that this programme has resulted in a number of participants colleagues will increase.
We respect cultural differences, and We recognise the importance of health and safety and are becoming permanent colleagues.
learn about and embrace these differences in each territory in committed fully to providing a safe and healthy environment for which we operate.
We recognise that diversity contributes to our colleagues and customers.
A risk management process including monthly inspections, annual auditing, and trend our success We recognise the benefits of encouraging diversity across the analysis is followed to identify hazards or increased risks within Equality and diversity are fundamental values supported business and believe that this will contribute to our continued the Group and ensures that mitigating controls are effective.
We take our responsibilities under our success.
All appointments are made based on merit and are Health and safety policies and procedures are reviewed regularly equal opportunities policy seriously and we give full and fair measured against specific objective criteria including the skills to ensure they are robust and continue to improve further our consideration to applications for employment by disabled and experience needed for the position.
We are committed to health and safety standards.
This, along with the ongoing people.
In the event of a colleague becoming disabled, every increasing the participation of women at the Board, Executive training programme for stores and head office colleagues run effort is made to ensure that their employment with us continues Committee and senior management level.
As illustrated in by our health and safety team, has ensured that the reportable and that appropriate training is arranged.
We respect individuals the table below, as at 25 April 2015, more than half of our accident rate remains extremely low at just four for this financial and their rights in the workplace and, with this in mind, colleagues were female: year.
Colleagues are encouraged to report any health and safety specific policies are in place to prevent or, where issues are concerns they may have either internally, through an escalation procedure, or via the independent whistleblowing hotline.
No reports or calls regarding health and safety have been made Male Female Total in this financial year.
We have invested substantial amounts in Role No % No % No installing and upgrading our physical security and fire detection 1 Group Board directors 7 88% 1 12% 8 systems to protect colleagues and customers.
1 Executive Committee 5 62% 3 38% 8 Senior managers 10 56% 8 44% 18 Other employees 1,698 45% 2,110 55% 3,808 Total employees 1,717 45% 2,122 55% 3,839 1 Each group includes Julian Dunkerton, James Holder and Euan Sutherland.
co. uk 31 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Responsibility.
Pre-approval: Having integrated our ethical trading team into Our colleagues share in our success Strong collaboration our sourcing team, we have established a comprehensive Sharing in our success is something we value highly and, for In any one season we will work with over 130 factories globally technical and ethical pre-approval review process to ensure the fourth year running, colleagues have the opportunity to join most of our production is in Turkey, India and China.
Longthat any new factories we work with meet our requirements.
At this years annual general meeting term stable partnerships are critical to our success and many This demonstrates a more proactive approach to improving AGM we will seek approval to offer both a share incentive of our core suppliers have been our partners for over ten our supplier relationships.
plan and a company share option plan to ensure that a wider years.
We work together to encourage transparency and to population of colleagues can benefit from the Groups success, improve continually to achieve a stable supply base.
As part Improved audit integrity: We are moving to a semito allow us to recognise personal contribution, and to deepen of this, we have integrated our ethical trading team into the announced ethical audit model this is where factories are engagement with the Company and brand.
sourcing team to form one integrated operational function.
provided a one month timescale during which an audit will Combined with regular factory visits by our colleagues, the high take place as opposed to an exact date to provide us with Integrity of our relationships visibility of ethical trading further reinforces our commitment greater visibility on the day-to-day working environment in our We remain focused on the safety of and ensuring fairness to our suppliers.
The new structure also supports a greater supply base.
We also continue to complete unannounced for all workers in the factories that manufacture Superdry understanding within the business of challenges faced by audits to check results where performance is below the products.
We seek to ensure that suppliers comply with factories and allows us to focus on core improvement areas requisite standards.
154 ethical trading audits across nine local and international legislation and recognised standards when working with our suppliers.
countries were conducted during the year which enabled us of best practice.
to identify issues relevant to particular suppliers and to put in Ethical Trading Initiative place action plans to address these issues.
Our responsibilities As a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative we learn from trade We are committed to producing high-quality products unions and non-governmental organisations as well as other Supporting improvement: We have been working closely responsibly and our suppliers must sign up to our Ethical brands how to address ethical trading issues collectively.
with suppliers of our core outerwear and accessories to Trading Code of Practice Code of Practice.
Based on the deliver sustainable ethical and productivity improvement.
conventions of the International Labour Organisation, the Code Key initiatives Given the success of this in improving core management of Practice sets out the minimum standards expected from We continue to partner with locally based experts, as detailed systems, we will roll this programme out to key suppliers over suppliers and their employees and covers safe and fair working below, to support us where we identify the need for greater the next three years.
We are also establishing a team of locally conditions: no forced labour, child labour, discrimination or transparency and improvement.
based experts to provide corrective action support in key physical maltreatment: freedom to associate and collectively sourcing countries.
bargain: and fair wages and reasonable working hours.
All factories participate in our established ethical audit programme and are audited regularly by a globally recognised third party audit provider.
Where factories fall short of the Code of Practice, we work with them to achieve sustainable improvement.
co. uk 32 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Environment Value We are passionate about being a more sustainable business.
Not only does sustainability drive innovation, it is also the right way to run our business, helping to protect people and the planet and, in turn, enhancing our reputation.
co. uk 33 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Corporate Responsibility.
Carrier Carrier bag charge bag charge As part of the Welsh and Scottish carrier bag regulation we raised approximately 11,000.
These funds have been donated to our chosen charities, the Marine Conservation Society to clear litter from Welsh beaches, and Scottish charity Trees for Life to help restore native forests across the Highlands.
Renewable energy: This financial year, 89% of our UK Environment and Communities electricity was generated by solar wind and hydro schemes, How we create environmental value delivered in partnership with a renewable energy supply Reducing our environmental impact is vital to the economic company an increase of five percentage points on last year.
sustainability and success of our business.
The SuperGroup During the same period, four stores in the Republic of Ireland Environmental Policy, sanctioned by the Chief Executive Officer, were also powered by renewables for the first time and other commits us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, energy Superdry territories will see green energy as the primary source consumption and waste.
In line with this policy, we continued of power over the coming year.
several projects and also introduced new projects as detailed below to lower our energy and resource consumption.
Lighting: Following a successful trial in our Nottingham store in the UK, we upgraded our store lighting systems in 20 stores Energy efficiency: The roll out of automated smart meter to new energy efficient LED technology.
This has reduced total readers for real time monitoring of energy use continued in electricity consumption in these stores by 20% on average FY15 and 82% of UK stores now have these meters fitted.
Any achieving a combined annual saving of 660,000 kilowatt abnormal energy consumption is therefore flagged and we hours of electricity enough to power over 150 UK homes.
can promptly investigate and resolve the issue, avoiding It is now standard that all new stores are fitted with LED energy waste.
After successful trials, all new UK and mainland Europe stores Textile recycling: Over 80 tonnes of waste textiles from our UK are being fitted with a building management system so that design, sampling and warehouse teams was recycled in FY15.
heating and lighting can be controlled and adjusted remotely.
This maximises energy efficiency we have already realised cost savings of 10% per year versus similar stores without this system.
The system is currently in 21 stores and we plan to retrofit older stores in FY16.
co. uk 34 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Report.
Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Financial Financial Statements.
1 May 2014 5 May 2013 to 30 April to 6 May 2015 2014 Emissions from: Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 355 321 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 9,422 7,439 Emissions per million of revenue 19.13 18.00 We have measured our operational and wider carbon footprint Cheltenham Design Festival: This ongoing association saw FY15 CO by emissions source 2 for the past five years, identified the largest climate impacts and us donate in support of the 20 week Design Academy for local prioritised resources accordingly.
Our methodology is to report 1418 year olds.
We offered 17 young people a one day work on all of the emission sources required under the Companies experience taster session at our Cheltenham head office, giving Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations them first-hand experience of working for a design-led company.
These sources include all of our owned and operated Princes Trust: We provided sponsorship and work placements Retail stores and office space.
We do not have responsibility for six young people as part of the Get into Retail programme for any emission sources outside this.
Data has been prepared run by The Princes Trust.
This course gives young people aged in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 16 to 25, who are work ready but do not have vocational skills, and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors a mixture of practical training and work experience.
Given its from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company success, we plan to run a full Get into Retail programme with Reporting 2014.
The Princes Trust during the summer of 2015.
Electricity consumption Working with our communities Charity of the Year CARE International: Over 50 colleagues Gas consumption Superdry360, our charity and community support programme Company owned vehicles participated in the CARE Prima Challenge on Exmoor.
By launched in 2014, continues to grow and is a platform Refrigerant leakage completing a marathon course on foot, bike and canoe they for charitable projects supporting the local, national and Legend five helped CARE generate funds to support some of the worlds international communities in which we operate.
In FY15 we most vulnerable communities.
Further fundraising activities were raised or donated a total of approximately 175,000.
In FY15 carried out in store and at our head office.
our key initiatives included: Match funding: A five-fold increase from the previous year as we matched 8,656 in support of our colleagues chosen charitable causes.
