Strategic report Governance Financial statements Corporate social responsibility At Synergy Health, we recognise the Employee engagement Our values importance of corporate social responsibility Regular two-way communication with Achievement We believe our success comes CSR, and understand that we have a wider ouremployees is vital in ensuring that from our focus on exceeding expectations and obligation to run our business in a responsible weallshare in the common goals and our commitment to go that extra mile, however and sustainable way for all our stakeholders.
values, foster innovation, and deliver small the difference may seem.
We are committed to upholding the highest serviceexcellence.
Integrity We believe that the way we work is professional and ethical standards and we We have a number of systems in place as important as what we do.
We care deeply encourage and support all our people in thatenable us to understand the opinions about the quality of our work and inspire trust having a positive impact in everything they ofour employees.
Our annual employee by delivering on promises.
do, whether it is in the workplace or the local engagement survey is a useful tool for community.
We recognise the importance of Accountability We take personal feedback, and we also hold employee managing day-to-day activities in a responsibility for our actions and are equipped forumsand works councils within the Group.
responsible way, being accountable for the to take the right course of action.
We continue to utilise an internal social impact of all operational activities on the mediaplatform to communicate Innovation We achieve the best possible environment and on those around us, and achievements, our daily challenges, insights results by working with customers to creating a working environment in which into the different business units, and access developnew ways of solving problems ourcolleagues can flourish.
Our regional to thought leadership across the business.
teams incorporate CSR within their roles andresponsibilities.
Diversity Ethics Our policy is to recruit the best available Our ethics policy can be found online at We categorise our CSR efforts into the people who are aligned with and embody following three areas: www.
com investor-relations ourcore values of achievement, integrity, code-of-ethics Caring for our people accountability and innovation.
These values apply throughout the Group regardless of Caring for tomorrow Caring for tomorrow seniority of position.
Synergy is committed to Synergy is committed to taking reasonable Caring for our stakeholders equality, judging applications for employment actions to minimise the risk of adverse neither by race, nationality, gender, age, impacton the environment from our business.
Caring for our people disability, sexual orientation nor political bias.
As a consequence of the services we supply Employee training and development to the healthcare market, the demand for We passionately believe that our future Our success is based on being able to attract, energy in our business is high, however, we successis dependent on attracting and develop and retain talent at every level of the continue to reduce carbon emissions and our retaining people from a cross-section of our organisation.
We have a proven track record environmental impact per unit by striving for communities, and in doing so we will create of developing careers and helping employees greater energy efficiency.
This provides an exciting growth in Asia and the Americas has helped environment for ambitious people and is Energy and carbon reduction diversify our senior leadership community.
central to attracting talented individuals.
Synergys utility consumption has Ourapproach is focused on developing and decreasedby 0.5% in the past year, due We promote a supportive and inclusive enhancing the leadership and management toour continuing focus on energy efficiency.
culturefor all our employees and third capability of the entire organisation.
There has been a reduction in electricity partybusiness partners.
However, we also consumption of 1.08% and a reduction in recognise that there is a need to create the Synergy continues to invest in its gasconsumption of 0.34%.
There has been right environment to support our diversity GraduateProgramme, established in 2008. aslight increase in the use of oil but this strategy.
The senior leadership team continues Our graduates perform a variety of roles on formsonly 0.55% of total energy consumed to look atdeveloping our business to improve the two-year programme, and report into a by the Group.
its attractiveness to new recruits, as well as to senior manager to ensure that they receive provide support networks for minority groups to the necessary development needs.
A number positively support their personal development.
ofemployees initially recruited on the programme are performing in senior andmiddle managementpositions.
Employee, senior management and Director numbers by gender as at 29 March 2015: Male Female Directors 6 1 Senior Managers 61 14 All employees 2,850 2,820 Board: Directors of the plc including Executive and Non-Executive Senior Managers: Members of the Senior Leadership Community excluding Board Employees: All Synergy employees 27 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate social responsibility continued Total MWh inthousands 2015 2014 Gas 188,100 177,200 Electricity 78,500 69,300 Oil 1,300 1,400 Total 267,900 247,900 Data on the Groups carbon emissions is this expertise can be called upon to help find shown on page 60 of the Directors report.
solutions for customers in relation to the processing of their products.
Transport pollution Our delivery network is very important to the During the year we have introduced two major service we offer our customers, especially in computer software systems in our AST and our businesses which directly serve hospital HS business units, which will improve the customers.
However, each of our facilities has quality of our systems and enhance our an objective to provide our logistics services service offer.
as efficiently as possible, reducing the impact Our 2015 strategic report, from page 1to Financial responsibility of vehicle pollution.
To achieve this, we page 28, has been reviewed and approved We expect our shareholders to receive fair continued our programme to electronically bythe Board of Directors on2 June 2015. reward for our business performance.
We monitor driver fuel efficiency, and we have arecost aware and carefully manage our broadened our focus on route management, ownand our customers costs.
We manage Dr Richard M Steeves improving efficiencies.
financial risk systematically and communicate Chief Executive our financial performance in a clear, concise Caring for our stakeholders 2 June 2015 manner.
Securing fair reward for our Our business depends on healthy shareholders allows us to invest in the future relationships with customers, business of the Group, reward our investors, and satisfy partners and suppliers.
We build and our suppliers and lenders appropriately.
nurturestrong relationships that are mutuallybeneficial, making sure that we As a public company we proactively deeply understand the people we deal with communicate our financial performance and sothat we can anticipate their needs and future expectations in a clear and concise always aim to exceed their expectations.
Managing this flow of information helps ensure that we are valued fairly in the Our relationships with our customers market.
We understand the importance of growthrough delivering service excellence, maintaining relationships with the financial open and honest communication, and community, including investors, analysts and building trust.
Our success in this area is the financial media, that are built on trust.
We demonstrated by the long-term relationships seek investor feedback throughout the year, we have fostered with customers around both informally through our investor relations theworld.
team, as well as through investor roadshows Quality management and one-to-one sessions with ourGroup Chief Synergy Health is heavily regulated by Executive and Group Finance Director.
international healthcare standards and Our next Annual General Meeting, to ourfacilities are certified to the applicable beheldon 23 July 2015, will provide standards by internationally recognised Notified anopportunity for shareholders to raise Bodies across all regions.
Regulatory bodies questions to the Board.
We will continue to such as the US FDA and MHRA also routinely communicate regular formal updates during inspect us, and all our facilities across all the course of the year, including final and regions have implemented effective quality interim results, interim management management systems, which are maintained statements, and trading updates.
We take pride in the level of compliance we achieve and this is valued by both our hospital customers and the many multinational healthcare medical device manufacturers that use our services.
We have a pool of technical expertise within our management team, and we harness this expertise using technical working groups so that we can continue to develop and improve our Quality Management System.
In addition, 28 Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
