15 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Performance People We have an ambitious approach to engaging with our colleagues and continue to foster and develop our unique culture, founded on our mission to make Britain better off through our values, the Brighter Basics.
Colleague engagement Colleague performance and development In 2015, we have seen an increase in our engagement levels for the In addition to our Careers Festival, we have continued to invest in fourth year in a row, a key contributor to our business success.
In particular, this year we have made navigation improvements to TalkTalkU, our online learning hub.
Our annual engagement survey helps us to uncover how our people We also continue to offer our people mentoring and coaching sessions are feeling about working for TalkTalk, whether they are proud to work to support their development.
Our annual performance management here and feel able to recommend us as a place to work.
Last year, the process provides a mechanism to drive achievement, with all colleagues feedback informed our Great Place to Work strategic priority and saw participating in a performance related variable bonus pay scheme.
us commit to delivering improvements across four key areas: working environment, career development, our systems and processes and Colleague benefits and share ownership reward and recognition.
Key deliverables have included: We continue to offer a comprehensive range of voluntary benefits, working environment refreshes at a number of sites and the so colleagues can make choices to suit their lifestyle.
We evaluate introduction of more collaborative working areas: these on an annual basis to provide the best possible suite of options.
a Careers Festival to help our people develop their skills at TalkTalk Share ownership remains an important part of our culture and a key and explore new opportunities: indicator of employee engagement.
Over 65% of our people currently participate in our Sharesave and Share Match Schemes, and this year the launch of Workday, our new HR information system, providing we were very proud to win the ifs ProShare Annual Award for Best our colleagues with a consumer grade one-stop shop where they overall performance in fostering employee share ownership for can manage their lives at TalkTalk, and our People Managers with companies with 1,001 to 15,000 employees, which recognises innovation real-time people data that empowers them to make better and strength of communication in the design of company share management decisions: and programmes in the UK.
launch of the TalkTalk Share Match Plan TalkTalks first Share Having so many of our people as shareholders creates great Incentive Plan SIP.
engagement and alignment with the interests of our investors.
In our 2015 survey, we have once again driven an increase in colleague We believe in our colleagues being advocates for our products and engagement, from 73% up to 76%.
We have now seen a 20 percentage continue to offer free home phone, broadband, fibre and TV to all point increase in engagement since our first survey in 2011 56% and colleagues, as well as half-price mobile packages.
remain committed to continuing this journey.
Levels of participation also remain very high, with 92% of our people taking part.
Colleague consultation One Voice forum One Voice is a consultation and information forum consisting Leadership development of80nominated colleague representatives, management and The quality of our management is vital to our future success and we members of our People Services team.
The forum meets regularly have continued to develop our leaders through our ongoing programme todiscuss how the key issues we face as a business might affect Leading a Brighter Business.
This year we evaluated the success of ourcolleagues, to share colleague feedback and to discuss other the programme so far and, of the 550 employees who have completed relevant colleague matters.
all four parts of the modular programme, 86% report having made positive changes as a result of what they have learnt and 68% report having seen changes in our leaders.
16 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Performance People continued Colleague communications and events Gender and diversity In May 2014 we launched a new intranet site, The Wire, which has Our people come from different backgrounds and cultures, creating become a critical communication and collaboration tool for the a vibrant working environment that thrives on new ideas and fresh business.
The tool supports blogging at all levels of the organisation, thinking.
The importance of diversity, equality and non-discrimination so colleagues can continue to enjoy Dido Hardings weekly blog, is highlighted in our Equality Policy and underpinned by our People aswell as regularly hear from members of the senior management Brighter Basic We can be ourselves here, which guides the respectful group and their colleagues.
way we behave towards each other.
Through our engagement survey we know that over 80% of our people agree they can be themselves The tool also supports news sharing, social updates from our people at work a value we hold dearly and one we believe gives us a and document sharing, so it plays a key role in helping us to work more competitive advantage.
A breakdown by gender of the number easily with one another across the Company.
All of our colleagues ofpersons who were Directors of the Company, senior managers inthe UK have access to The Wire and this summer we are taking andother colleagues as at 31 March 2015 is set out below.
cross-company collaboration even further when we bring 5,000 ofour partners onto the platform as well.
For the last three years we have brought all of our UK-based colleagues Directors Senior All TalkTalk management team employees and partners together for a one-day conference, All Hands, where wecommunicate our strategic priorities for the year ahead.
This took place in April 2015 in Manchester for all UK-based colleagues and 2 22 partners, followed by a tour in which our Executive committee will 738 share the same content with our partners overseas.
We also host an annual off-site festival called the Great Getaway, where colleagues 9 73 1,361 and their families come together for a day out filled with fun activities and musical acts.
Colleague recognition Male Female Celebrating colleagues who champion our culture is very important to us and we continue to recognise the individuals who are actively living our Brighter Basics through our On The Spot award scheme.
Once a year at our All Hands event we also recognise the Superheroes amongst our colleagues and partners who have made an outstanding contribution to the business over the past year.
Last year, our 14Superheroes were rewarded with a trip to London where highlightsincluded a dinner with Dido Harding at the Gherkin.
