19 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Performance Sustainability review Helping make Britain better off through digital inclusion, environmental sustainability and stronger communities.
We believe that it is not just about the money: digital connectivity, coupled with digital skills, can transform our economy, society and environment, and make Britain better off.
We believe that, by harnessing our people, customers and supply partners, we can help make our community a brighter place.
Digital inclusion Ambitious about Autism This year we continued to support our long term charity partner TalkTalk was a founding partner of Go ON UK in 2012, when we Ambitious about Autism, the national charity for children and young pledged to work with the Government to help make the UK the people with autism.
They raise awareness, support specialist schools worldsmost digitally capable nation.
We provide funding, our and campaign for change.
We raise funds to support their online expertise on online safety and digital inclusion, and general community, Talk about Autism, where families can share their supportto the Go ON UK programme.
experiences, get support and help others to understand the condition.
This year we have focused on supporting Go ON UKs pathfinder Our main fundraising event was the TalkTalk Digital Heroes Auction scheme in the North West.
TalkTalk partnered with Tinder Foundation inNovember: FY15 saw a tremendous 360,000 generated to run a tailored programme called Internet Start in theNorth West, FY14:300,000.
Our people also support Ambitious about designed for digitally excluded senior citizens to helpthem get online Autismthrough various Give Something Back initiatives.
at home with a bespoke broadband package that suits their needs Apps for Good and to provide support with digital skills training through UK Online For the second year running we have supported Apps for Good as Centres.
Our employees have also been encouraged tobecome one of our Digital Heroes Foundation hero projects.
Apps for Good digital champions and support Internet Start by volunteering at isan open source education movement that works with schools participating UK Online Centres in the North West.
toenable young people to create mobile and social apps to solve The TalkTalk Digital Heroes Foundation problems that matter to them like us, they believe in the power Since 2011 TalkTalk has supported and celebrated various projects, ofdigital technology to make our communities a better place.
charities and individuals who use digital technology at a very local Aspartof our partnership, we provide the funds for four schools level to make a positive social impact.
Last year we formed the nearour headquarters in London to run the Apps for Good course.
TalkTalk Digital Heroes Foundation, which has enabled us to support These schools are also supported by volunteers from TalkTalk.
our community initiatives, including the TalkTalk Digital Heroes We also sponsor the Connected Communities category in the Awards, our Digital Heroes Auction as well as a number of elected Appsfor Good annual awards, where over 6,000 students enter hero projects.
Our people also support the work of the Foundation, giving up their Code Club time to take part in volunteering opportunities as part of our Give Code Club, our other Foundation hero project, connects volunteers Something Back employee scheme.
with primary schools that would like to run an after school coding club TalkTalk Digital Heroes Awards 2014 for nine and ten-year olds.
Code Club provides the lesson structures Once again we ran our flagship annual awards, in conjunction with for the volunteers and theaim is that after two years of the course, GoON UK, the charity Citizens Online, and the Daily Mirror.
The every child will be able tobuild a website or an app themselves.
awards encourage local communities to nominate individuals who Ourpeople also volunteer torun coding clubs ScratchAthons use digital technology in a socially positive way at a very local level.
atlocal schools in the North West.
In FY15 we introduced nine new categories covering themes TalkTalk Digital Champions suchasEmployment, Education, Sustainability, Healthy Living We launched a Digital Champions programme in 2013 under the andVolunteering and Fundraising.
We awarded over 70,000 wider auspices of Give Something Back, our scheme that givesall ingrants and prizes.
ofour employees paid time off to allow them to volunteer and fundraise for good causes.
Since launch, we have worked with The judges were our Chairman, Sir Charles Dunstone: the UKs TinderFoundation and their UK Online Centres to turn over DigitalChampion, Baroness Lane Fox: the editor of the Daily Mirror, 150ofour employees into Digital Champions.
Lloyd Embley: and a new guest judge, 2012 Digital Hero winner ClareSutcliffe from Code Club.
They crowned Andrew Mulholland Once trained, the TalkTalk Digital Champions are then matched with ofNorthern Ireland, who was winner of the Next Generation category, their local UK Online Centre so they can help others learn basic digital as the national TalkTalk Digital Hero 2014 and awarded him the overall skills and enjoy all the benefits the internet can offer.
Andrew was recognised for his outstanding work As well as providing volunteering support, local centres such as the indeveloping courses and leading workshops teaching hundreds Mercy Foundation Centre in London and the Hamilton Davies Trust ofchildren across Northern Ireland about computer science.
Hisprize inIrlam, have received financial benefit to help continue their money will go towards designing his trial to teach secondary school GetOnline programmes and services to our communities.
Since teachers how to use Raspberry Pi computers in the classroom.
theprogramme was launched we have now fulfilled over 100 volunteering opportunities in UK Online Centres across Britain.
20 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Strategic report: Performance Sustainability review continued Reporting year Child internet safety Our reporting year is the same as our fiscal year, being 1 April to TalkTalk understands that all ISPs play a very important role in helping 31March.
This greenhouse gas reporting year has been established to keep children safe online, and that there is much we can do to help to align with our financial reporting year.
our customers take an active role and protect them and their families from security risks and inappropriate content.
Global greenhouse gas emissions data For the year ended 31 March 2015: We offer all of our residential customers a free service, called HomeSafe, Tonnes of which quickly and easily protects all the devices on a TalkTalk broadband Emissions from: CO e 2 connection.
It is built into our network and stops users from accessing Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 2,550 content in categories they have indicated are inappropriate.
We also have a similar service specifically for Business customers called Electricity, heat, steam and cooling WorkSafe, which is free with all Business Broadband and Superpowered purchased for own use 15,863 Fibre Business Broadband services.
Companys chosen intensity measurement: Emissions reported above, normalised to tonnes of We have now set up HomeSafe in such a way that new customers CO e per average gigabit of bandwidth tCO e Gb 16 2 2 have to make a conscious choice about whether or not to enable it on their home network, and all of our existing customers have now Average gigabit of bandwidth for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 1,182Gb s. also been prompted to consider whether to opt into the system.
Wewill remind all of our customers about the service once a year, sothat they can adjust their settings if their needs or usage Total CO e by emission type 2 havechanged.
As well as offering our customers the safety they deserve online, Combustion of fuel and 14% wetrain colleagues on internet safety so they can help their local operation of facilities communities.
In FY14 we supported Safer Internet Day through Electricity, heat, steam ourpartnerships with Internet Matters, the UK Council for Child andcooling purchased Internet Safety and F-Secure.
forown use In FY15 we continued to support Internet Service Matters, an 86% independent not-for-profit organisation that provides information, support and advice on child internet safety.
It is the first of its kind inthe world and we hope the Internet Matters online portal becomes the single most authoritative tool for parents to get quick and easy Organisation boundary and responsibility access to the best available resources.
TalkTalk has supported We report our emissions data using an operational control approach Internet Matters campaigns such as cyber bullying to inform to define our organisational boundary, which meets the definitional parentsabout whole-home parental controls like HomeSafe, requirements of the Regulations in respect of those emissions for helping them make the right choices for their household.
We have reported on all material emission sources that we deem Environmental sustainability ourselves to be responsible for.
These sources align with our operational Greenhouse gas emissions control and financial control boundaries.
We do not have responsibility This section includes our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas for any emission sources that are beyond the boundary of our emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report operational control.
and Directors Report Regulations 2013 the Regulations from activities for which the Group is responsible.
21 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Methodology The Group did not make any political donations in the current We have used the main requirements of the Department for orprioryear.
Environment Food & Rural Affairs Defra updated greenhouse gas We focus primarily on providing time and money via engagement reporting guidance, Environmental Reporting Guidelines, issued withthree key stakeholder groups: byDefra in June 2013: data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme: and emission factors from the Engaging with our supply partners Department of Energy & Climate Change Defras 2014 update.
In November 2014, TalkTalk hosted our fifth annual fundraising auction on behalf of Ambitious about Autism.
This year our focus The Groups journey to improve carbon efficiency began in 2011 wasthe TalkTalk Digital Heroes Auction: an evening to celebrate when our Chief Executive Officer set our objective: to reduce our TalkTalk Digital Heroes and benefit Ambitious about Autisms digital CO emissions intensity, in tonnes of CO equivalent per gigabit 2 2 projects and new college, continuing the events alignment to our tCO e Gb, by 25% by April 2021, relative to FY11.
Our supply partners were invited to attend, with The scope of emissions captured by this objective is more wide ranging manydonating unique lots for the auction.
than those required to be disclosed as part of the Regulations.
The Engaging with our customers scope is extended to include CO emissions from all sources, including 2 We continued three customer driven, cause related fundraising those for which the Group is not directly responsible including, for initiatives established last year.
The first was our commitment to donate to Ambitious about Autism Our internal tracking also shows that our approach is working, as for every call made to our UK directory enquiries number: 118 111. despite growing the network in line with customer usage and volume, we have improved energy intensity for the third year running: Our second initiative continued to reward customers who return to us routers that have been diagnosed as end of life.
We pay for tCO e Gb 2015 2014 2011 2 the postage, refurbish or safely recycle the equipment and then 1 2 Energy, transport donate 1 to charity on their behalf.
and hotels 61 91 317 Our third initiative is a donation to the charity Cool Earth when 1 Primarily electricity, but also some natural gas and backup generator fuel.
customers add our unique Global Minutes Boost option to their 2 Includes rail, air and car travel.
Cool Earth is the only charity dedicated to protecting Sustainable forestry endangered rainforests through engagement with indigenous We display FSC and PEFC certification marks on the envelopes communities, one of the most effective ways to minimise CO 2 ofourconsumer direct marketing and bills, recognising our decision reaching our atmosphere.
tosource paper from certified sustainable sources.
In fact, where Engaging with our colleagues possible, we replace printed materials with an online equivalent.
The Groups Give Something Back initiative includes Company ThisAnnual Report is printed on certified 100% recycled paper.
donations for our people who raise funds for a registered charity oftheir choice.
Hundreds of our people took part in fundraising Community investment overthe year supporting charities such as Cancer Research UK, During the year, the employees and the Group were responsible BBCChildren in Need and Band Aid.
forgenerating 725,000 FY14: 640,800 of income for registered charities.
Of this, 365,000 was direct cash donations from the Group FY14: 340,800.
Other achievements in the year We retained both our FTSE4Good Index membership and Carbon Saver Gold Standard certification.
