STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION t n e m e v e i h c A C r e a t i v i t y s e u l a V e S c p n e STRATEGIC REPORT | CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY What progress have we made on our sustainability journey?
We approach corporate responsibility CR from a stakeholder perspective: in terms of our workplace, the environment, our marketplace and the communities of which we are a part.
We seek to continually improve the way that we manage, perform in and report on CR matters.
Our Values Our Values define what we stand for and how we behave with our customers, Safety suppliers, investors, the communities we operate in and with each other.
Core We have a combined team of Values Values and Ethics Ambassadors who promote our Values and the right way of doing Respect Integrity business to colleagues across the Group.
Governance Management and performance Engagement and reporting Governance of CR is overseen by Workplace Engagement the Boards Corporate Responsibility We have undertaken a thorough review of We have worked more closely with Committee see page 56. safety management and accident prevention stakeholders this year, particularly this year, including the introduction of external customers, and use their feedback to inform The Chief Executive is the director with auditors to review safety management and our approach to and reporting on CR.
controls at all our major sites see page 38.
FTSE4Good CR matters are considered within the Environment Tate & Lyle is a member of the FTSE4Good Groups risk management and reporting Our Sagamore plant in Lafayette, US CR index www.
com products processes see page 34. changed from coal to gas, to fuel its indices FTSE4Good.
combined heat and power CHP energy system: thereby reducing CO e emissions 2 Reporting by up to 56,000 tonnes per year.
The scope, principles and methodologies we use in reporting CR performance are Marketplace provided in CR Reporting Criteria Annual We are on track to surpass our sustainable Report 2015 at www.
com agriculture target, with programmes currently CR2015.
being implemented for 24 agricultural raw materials and ingredients see page 42.
Our internal audit function reviewed the CR information and data in this Annual Report Community to confirm its accuracy.
We support communities locally and globally in the areas of well-being, education and We gained independent external environment see page 43. assurance over selected environmental data on pages 41 to 42 in this Annual Report from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their assurance statement is at www.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 37 a e d m r o f r e P T e a m w y o t r i l k i b a t n u o c c A STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility continued Safety Recordable Lost-work We have no higher priority than safety, for incident rate case rate Workplace our employees and for everyone who comes Change Change versus versus to our sites.
Our Executive Safety Steering Our employees are critical in delivering our 2014 2013 2014 2013 Committee, chaired by our Chief Executive, strategy.
In line with our Values, we believe Employees 0.73 70% 0.29 222% meets throughout the year to review our that everyone should be safe at work and safety performance and improvement Contractors 1.13 20% 0.39 77% be treated fairly and with respect.
Our senior executives Combined 0.85 47% 0.32 146% undertake annual executive safety audits Our policies and control arrangements at the majority of our sites around the world addressing human rights include: In 2014, two of our US plants won four US each year.
Corn Refiners Association CRA Safety Our Code of Ethics, and the internal and Awards between them.
Our annual global external communication and training Our ultimate goal is to have no accidents safety week saw many employees and their around it and no injuries.
We have undertaken a families, alongside contractors, taking part in The Companys position and practices thorough review of our safety management activities across our sites worldwide.
We also on equal opportunities and diversity programme during the year, including the conduct regular contractor safety summits, The Companys Speak Up introduction of external auditors to review to discuss expectations and share best whistleblowing arrangements see safety management and control at our major practice with contractors, and to support page 52 manufacturing sites.
As a result, we have our plant-level contractor safety programme.
Our controls for managing standards overhauled our safety programme and in the supply chain see page 43. accident prevention arrangements at External benchmarking Group and site level, as explained below.
To put our safety performance in context Employee profile and because many of our employees are At 31 March 2015, Tate & Lyle employed Performance located in the US, we compare our results 1 4,759 people 2014 4,523.
The number As reported in last years Annual Report, with US industry averages, as shown in the of employees increased during the year, three contractor employees working at our graphs on page 39. primarily due to our acquisition of Winway Singapore facility were severely burned Biotechnology in China and the formation when performing a steam line break of Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech in Brazil.
procedure in April 2014: two of them later How are we died.
Then, in June 2014, the site manager 1 of one of our grain elevators died when a Employees by division overhauling our farm utility tractor he was driving overturned.
as at 31 March 2015 We very deeply regret these tragic safety programme?
Speciality Food Ingredients 44% investigated, both internally and externally.
Central functions 9% Current key initiatives include: Actions, based on findings, have been taken to prevent these types of accidents from Global implementation of the 1 reoccurring, as explained below.
3 SafeStart training programme Elimination and engineering out Calendar year of hazards 2014 2013 2012 1 2 Fatalities 3 2 0 Reinforcing administrative controls for example, Permits to Work for 1 One employee and two contractors.
higher risk activities 2 One employee and one external truck driver.
2 Improving behavioural safety and a strong safety culture The safety performance indicators of 1 recordable incident rate and lost-work Employees by geography Contractor safety programme case rate for employees and contractors as at 31 March 2015 Ergonomics, manual handling and combined saw an increase of 47% and 1.
North America 44% hand safety initiatives.
Europe, Middle East and Africa 36% 2014: both the number and severity of 3.
Latin America 12% incidents increased compared with calendar 4.
Asia Pacific 8% year 2013, when we had our lowest levels ever recorded.
The more severe incidents 1 4 ie those that require more time off work were predominantly ergonomic manual 3 handling issues: therefore we are currently reviewing and reinforcing our ergonomics and manual handling programme.
2 1 Includes employees of joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
38 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 1 Safety performance Ensuring the safe condition and design of process equipment Recordable incident rate Lost-work case rate We work hard to ensure that all equipment Number of injuries requiring treatment Number of injuries that resulted in lost-work is checked thoroughly through preventative beyond first aid per 200,000 hours days per 200,000 hours maintenance programmes and periodic risk assessments.
We carry out internal Tate & Lyle employees Tate & Lyle employees risk assessments on driers and storage Contractors Contractors systems, and integrity checks on concrete silos, tall structures and other process 2014 2014 0.29 0.73 equipment.
We also brought in external trainers to help us with mechanical integrity, 1.13 0.39 combustible dust, flammable liquids and 2013 0.43 2013 0.09 vapours, static electricity hazards, hazardous area classifications, and process 0.94 0.22 safety management.
2012 0.63 2012 0.19 Behavioural safety and safety culture 1.43 0.43 How people behave each and every day is at the heart of staying safe.
Many of our plants had previously been trained on the Number of incidents combined 2014 Number of cases combined 2014 SafeStart www.
com behavioural safety programme, and we have been holding refresher training and also 67 25 introducing the programme at those sites not previously covered.
We also developed a PAR campaign, communicating that US industry sector employee averages US industry sector employee averages everyone has the permission, ability and 2 2 2013 and Tate & Lyle employees 2014 2013 and Tate & Lyle employees 2014 responsibility to act by stopping operations Beverage and processes if they see an unsafe act or Beverage 1.5 5.5 and tobacco and tobacco condition.
Using these two programmes, Food 1.5 Construction 5.0 manufacturing we reinforced the importance of conducting Food 1.3 3.8 Construction manufacturing thorough pre-job hazard assessments.
1.0 Private industry 3.3 Private industry Occupational health and well-being Chemical manufacturing Chemical manufacturing 0.5 2.0 We contract with external occupational 0.5 Energy products manufacturing 1.6 Energy products manufacturing health professionals to monitor and 0.29 Tate & Lyle 0.73 Tate & Lyle safeguard the health of employees at work, and to provide information, advice and 1 We report safety performance by calendar year.
support to them on general health and 2 Source: US Department of Labor, December 2014. wellness matters.
Relationship with employees Taking action to prevent accidents for ongoing improvement were identified We believe in equal opportunities for all, Early in 2014 we analysed 10 years of safety as eliminating and engineering out hazards, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, data.
This analysis indicated that 47% of ensuring the safe design of process age, marital status, disability, race, religion our serious incidents were related to working equipment and improving behavioural or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
Therefore, we implemented a fall safety.
Below we report on some of the prevention protection campaign across actions we have taken so far in these areas.
Our policies, practices and procedures all sites, using external experts on the for recruitment, training and career hierarchy of safety controls to address Eliminating and engineering out hazards development promote equality of opportunity.
hazards and prevent incidents, and installed Looking for ways to eliminate and engineer We are committed to treating people with new equipment to make it safer to work at out hazards so preventing accidents before disabilities fairly in all respects, including height.
For example, we replaced barrier they occur is a key area of activity, and we regarding applications, training, promotion chains with self-closing gates: installed used external experts to improve our and career development.
An employee who platforms instead of using ladders and understanding of prevention through design becomes disabled would, where appropriate, scaffolding: and installed pedestrian for example, by removing hazards before be offered retraining for a more suitable role.
barricades anchorage points near potential new equipment is installed.
We reviewed floor and wall openings.
and updated our minimum standards on Diversity and inclusion equipment safety and communicated these We believe in a culture where all employees During the year, we appointed external to all sites, and launched a Lifesaver contribute to the performance of the Group auditors to carry out a thorough review of campaign to eliminate hazards of severe and have the opportunity to develop fully our safety systems and procedures at our injury.
We also looked at vehicle safety, and according to their individual abilities.
We aim major manufacturing sites.
This has been have implemented an on-site vehicle safety to attract a diverse workforce that reflects very helpful in identifying improvements both programme globally, including with our the communities in which we operate.
Our at global and site level.
Overall, the auditors contractors, based on the US Occupational Diversity and Inclusion Council works on concluded that Tate & Lyle does have a Safety & Health Administration OSHA creating awareness of diversity and inclusion good safety management programme, and standard for powered industrial trucks.
issues, tracking inclusion metrics, and that people generally know what is expected championing our diversity and inclusion of them: whilst key areas on which to focus programme across the Group.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility continued Progress during the year included: Gender diversity as at 31 March 2015 Appointment of two women to the Groups Environment Board of Directors Executive Committee 1.
Men 70% 7 We aim to operate our business with Establishing Employee Resource Groups 2.
Women 30% 3 a strong regard for environmental across five different areas of interest: and sustainability.
By using resources such providing platforms for employees to as energy and water more efficiently, and support and celebrate our unique 1 reducing waste, we seek to improve our strengths environmental sustainability while also Enhanced cultural diversity from the controlling operating costs.
We work to acquisition of Winway Biotechnology, the address environmental considerations Chinese manufacturer of polydextrose and 2 across the life-cycle of our products, from the formation of Tate & Lyle Gemacom our agricultural supply chain to how our Tech in Brazil products are packaged and transported.
Further embedding diversity and inclusion into our recruitment practices.
Implementing our strategy, by growing our Speciality Food Ingredients business, Employee engagement Senior managers and statutory is gradually changing the shape of our We believe that employees who are 1 directors manufacturing operations.
We are committed to Tate & Lyle, our goals, Values 1.
Men 82% 122 producing more speciality products which and strategy, and to each other, are happier 2.
Women 18% 27 involve additional manufacturing steps and ultimately deliver better results.
compared with Bulk Ingredients products, and this generally means using more energy Good internal communication is essential to 1 and water resources and producing more this.
We communicate with our employees in waste.
We are working to mitigate this a number of ways, from Group-wide media 2 through continual improvements in resource including our intranet and our quarterly and operational efficiency, and waste employee magazine which is published in reduction programmes.
13 languages, to face-to-face dialogue such as site-wide meetings, functional meetings Policy and standards and small group or team meetings.
Our environmental policy and standards apply to all our activities globally and we aim We continue to invest in helping employees to integrate environmental considerations and managers stay up to date with the latest 2 into all major decisions.
We review our requirements of their roles.
Courses provided All employees environmental policy annually and undertake during the year included a supervisors 1.
Men 74% 3,042 communication and awareness across the development programme, a people 2.
Women 26% 1,094 Group, including through induction and management development programme, other training at our manufacturing facilities.
stakeholder management and influencing, 1 Our policy is available on our corporate and sales training.
A significant amount of website www.
training was provided to further embed our performance management principles and 2 Our facilities operate under local our refreshed employee induction process.
environmental authorisations and permits and we require strict compliance with these at all times.
If a site breaches an operating limit, we seek to take steps immediately to resolve the issue and prevent reoccurrence.
1 Gender diversity for senior managers, excluding Our internal global compliance audit statutory directors, is 44 77% men and 13 programme confirms conformity with our 23% women.
environmental and food safety, quality and 2 Excludes employees of joint ventures where we do not have management control.
health and safety management standards.
Additionally, our rolling programme of external, independent environmental compliance audits assures compliance with regulatory requirements.
Within our own operations and joint ventures, we focus on those aspects of our activities that have the greatest potential impact on the environment, namely the use of energy and consequent air emissions and carbon footprint, water use, and waste management.
Beyond our own operations we focus our attention on our agricultural raw material and ingredient supply chain, the transportation of our products to our customers, and our product packaging.
40 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Environmental sustainability targets and achievements We have four medium-term environmental sustainability targets.
Target by end of 2016 Calendar year 2014 status Examples Reduce CO e emissions 10% reduction in CO e emissions In October 2014 our Sagamore plant in Lafayette, US changed from 2 2 from energy use by 12.5% per per tonne of production versus coal to gas, to fuel its combined heat and power CHP energy tonne of production baseline 2008 system: thereby reducing CO e emissions by up to 56,000 tonnes 2 1 year 2008 per year.
Implement packaging Programmes initiated with Recent projects include changing from shrink wrap to stretch wrap reduction programmes with customers representing 35% to secure pallet loads at a Food Systems manufacturing facility in customers representing 50% of sales Europe, reducing their wrapping film use by about 75%: and moving of sales additional product sacks from bleached to unbleached paper stock.
Implement transport Programmes initiated with We have implemented several projects shifting regional product efficiency programmes with customers representing 35% distribution from road to rail in the US.
customers representing 50% of sales of sales Implement sustainable We are on track to surpass our Corn is by far our largest agricultural raw material ingredient by agricultural sourcing sustainable agriculture target, volume.
We buy corn from the corn belts of the US and Europe.
programmes for our top 20 with programmes currently being We are engaging with the US National Corn Growers Association agricultural raw materials and implemented for 24 agricultural NCGA, with other growers representatives, and with corn growers ingredients by volume raw materials ingredients see directly, on sustainable agriculture alongside other matters such as Our Marketplace section for food safety and quality.
more details 1 We recognise that installing new air emissions control equipment at several locations over the next few years, and the manufacture of more speciality products, will make it more challenging to reduce our energy use and CO2e emissions in the medium term.
1 Operational performance Environmental performance Our biggest challenge is that our strategy to grow our Speciality Food Ingredients Energy use Water use business means producing a greater Gigajoules GJ per tonne production Cubic metres per tonne production proportion of speciality ingredients, which 2 2 are generally more resource-intensive to 2014 4.62 2014 4.50 manufacture than bulk ingredients.
We are 2013 4.62 2013 4.34 working therefore on capital projects and operational practices that will help us control 2012 4.59 2012 4.29 this in terms of our direct environmental performance: whilst also working on transport and packaging, and sustainable Primary carbon footprint Waste to landfill agriculture in our supply chain.
Tonnes CO e per tonne production Tonnes per 1,000 tonnes production 2 Energy use and carbon emissions 2 2 2014 0.375 2014 8.80 In calendar year 2014, compared with 2013, 2013 0.376 2013 7.25 energy use per tonne of production was flat.
Since 2008 we have reduced energy use 2012 0.371 2012 7.11 per tonne of production by 6%.
Our carbon footprint from energy use reduced slightly 1 We report environmental performance by calendar year.
Data for 2012 and 2013 is restated to include down 0.3% per tonne of production in our McIntosh facility which reopened in 2012 in line with our methodology for incorporating new sites 2014.
Since 2008 we have reduced CO e 2 set out at www.
emissions per tonne of production by 10%.
2 Refers to 2014 data that has been externally assured by Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. Their assurance statement is at www.
Group greenhouse gas GHG emissions for the period 1 January to 31 December 2014 in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e were: 2 From combustion of fuel and operation 2 of facilities Scope 1 2,266,975 tCO e 2 1 2013 2,291,999 From electricity, heat, steam and cooling 2 purchased Scope 2 1,247,700 tCO e 2 1 2013 1,213,099 2 In total Scope 1 and 2 3,514,675 tCO e 2 1 2013 3,505,098 which equates to an 2 1 intensity of 0.375 tCO e 2013 0.376 2 per tonne of production.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Corporate Responsibility continued We have reported on all of the material During 2014, we saw a significant increase in Sustainable agriculture interest from customers around two of these emission sources required under The Our products are derived from agricultural Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report areas in particular, in terms of how we can raw materials, principally corn, and it is help them meet their own objectives and and Directors Report Regulations 2013. important that we have a robust, sustainable We report GHG emissions in line with the targets on sustainable agriculture, and our supply chain.
In 2012 we announced a use of the Sedex www.
com GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and sustainable agriculture target, to implement Reporting Standard.
The scope, principles ethical compliance platform within our own sustainable agricultural sourcing business and our supply chain.
and methodologies we use in reporting programmes for our top 20 agricultural raw CR performance are provided in CR materials ingredients by volume, by the end Product safety, quality and Reporting Criteria Annual Report 2015 of 2016.
We are on track to surpass this at www.
sustainability target, with programmes currently being Our products adhere to the highest implemented for 24 agricultural raw Water use standards of food safety, quality and materials ingredients.
Each year, all of our Water use per tonne of production increased by 3.8% in 2014, due to the increased manufacturing facilities are externally Our programme has five steps: certified to the Global Food Safety Initiative, production of speciality ingredients, and 1.
I nitial sustainability social, environmental one-off site-specific factors such as the and the international quality standard and economic risk assessment for each ISO9000, and we have well-established replacement of a cooling tower at our of our agricultural raw materials Decatur, US facility, which caused a global processes and procedures to ensure ingredients that we comply with these standards.
Our significant but temporary increase in water use.
Since 2008 we have reduced water use control arrangements include: in-process 2.
R equests to individual suppliers for testing: our global compliance audit per tonne of production by 2%.
During the ingredient-specific information on social, year, new water re-use and recycling projects programme: annual product traceability and ethical and environmental matters, recall testing, both globally and locally at were implemented across many of our sites, standards and certifications including Dayton and McIntosh, US.
each facility: and independent food safety 3.
Follow-up discussions with suppliers on audits of every manufacturing site.
their responses Waste to landfill We consider sustainability criteria in the Our waste to landfill increased significantly 4.
Establishing sustainable sourcing criteria by 21% per tonne of production in 2014.
This development of new products, and use a for each material ingredient sustainability evaluation tool as part of our was due to a number of factors, including: 5.
M onitoring of compliance against the process changes at our Decatur, US facility innovation pipeline to: agreed criteria: whilst seeking continuous that, whilst improving the operational Identify any potential sustainability improvement in management, reporting efficiency of process equipment, led to a concerns early in the product and performance.
significant increase in the volume of inert development process waste going to landfill: severe winter Evaluate sustainability issues as product Our customers are increasingly interested conditions in the first quarter of 2014 that development progresses, to avoid or in this area, and we are working closely with disrupted our waste water treatment plant at reduce any potential adverse impacts several key customers to support them in Lafayette Sagamore, US: and construction such as the use of energy and nontheir own targets and ambitions around waste being created by expansion work at renewable resources, and to leverage sustainable agriculture.
several sites including Loudon and positive impacts such as health and Sagamore, US.
Since 2008 we have wellness benefits.
In 2014 we joined Field to Market reduced waste to landfill per tonne of www.
org, the US alliance production by 8%.
Our aim is to help our customers provide for sustainable agriculture, to help define, consumers with healthy, nutritious foods measure and advance sustainability in US and beverages as part of a normal balanced agriculture, particularly with regard to corn.
We aim to ensure that our ingredients, Marketplace and any claims we make regarding their Conduct of commercial relationships The food and beverage industry is our benefits or efficacy, are supported by clear, We are committed to ensuring a safe, open largest market sector and accounts for 70% demonstrated science.
and responsible culture in all our business of Group sales.
Other industry sectors we dealings wherever we operate, in line with sell into include industrial, animal feed and In line with our strategy, we focus particularly our Code of Ethics our Code, and we personal care.
on growing our Speciality Food Ingredients expect the same standards of our business division, and as such the majority of our new partners and suppliers as we do of our own Over the last few years, stakeholders such product development is in this area.
Our Code is made available as customers and investors have been our speciality sweeteners and fibres improve in 13 languages and is communicated looking for increasing volumes of information stability, thereby helping to extend consumer internally via our intranet, through local around sustainability and corporate product shelf life and assist in avoiding food Ethics and Values Ambassadors across responsibility matters.
In 2013, we carried waste, which is an important food industry the business, and via training programmes.
out a review with the help of an independent sustainability issue.
Our platforms deliver Externally, we require all our suppliers and consultant to confirm our understanding innovative ingredients with substantiated business partners to comply with the of the CR issues of most interest to our health benefits to customers worldwide.
standards set out in the Code.
The most important issues For example, DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose, a for external stakeholders are: the safety, new product we launched in February 2015, integrity and functionality of our products: is a monosaccharide simple sugar found the sustainability of our agricultural raw in nature and made from corn, and has materials ingredients: and the CR standards 90% fewer calories than, and is 70% as within our own business and supply chain.
sweet as sucrose normal table sugar, but tastes just like it.
42 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Our Code is supported by a set of Standards Global partnerships on particular subjects, and this year we We have further developed our global Community carried out a review and updated several partnership programmes during the year.
of these, including the Group Competition We have a strong history of community Well-being: for the third year running, Anti-trust Standard, the Group Gifts and involvement and during the year we we have supported the homeless charity Hospitality Standard, and the Group continued to support communities both Crisis www.
uk in the UK Standard on the Engagement of Agents and local to our operations and globally.
and the Northern Illinois Food Bank Payment of Commissions.
out train-the-trainer meetings for our local Our approach Both organisations provide immediate, Ethics and Values Ambassadors in the US For Tate & Lyle, community involvement practical assistance to those in need.
and in Europe, Middle East and Africa, to is about having a positive and lasting Education: we are progressing enable them to help their colleagues uphold relationship with the community: changing development of a wider bursary the Code both internally and with our lives for the better.
We focus on three scholarship programme across selected business partners and suppliers.
specific areas: universities internationally, assisting undergraduates to access courses in Well-being: to provide practical assistance Standards in our supply chain STEM disciplines.
This year we provided in the area of well-being from health issues We communicate our Code to our suppliers the first four of eight fellowships to including nutrition through to general through our contracts and other University leaders in Vietnam, building welfare, such as supporting food banks engagement with them.
Our purchase capacity in higher education by increasing Education: to develop young peoples contract terms and conditions include the skills in educational leadership and knowledge and understanding of science, requirement that suppliers comply with the governance.
We also provided bursaries technology, engineering and mathematics standards set out in our Code, and that they scholarships to the University of Illinois, STEM subjects, and their preparedness should require similar standards from their Purdue University and Richland for a career in a STEM-based discipline, own suppliers.
Specifically, suppliers must Community College, US: and, ran a US either academically or vocationally uphold international business standards and National Merit scholarship programme.
Environment: to promote environmental be fully compliant with all applicable laws Environment: we are entering our sustainability and good environmental and regulations, including but not limited to third year as a corporate partner management, addressing issues of those regarding freedom of association and of the environmental research and climate change, natural resources and collective bargaining, non-discrimination, engagement charity Earthwatch conservation.
anti-corruption anti-bribery, and the www.
org, with whom prevention of child or forced labour.
we are working on the ecology, Overview of the year conservation and sustainable In the year ended 31 March 2015, charitable Our procurement function has a process to harvesting of seaweed in Asia.
donations were 435,000 2014 501,000. assesses the environmental, social and governance risks of suppliers based on their Local programmes partnerships source country where independent ratings Community spend by area We seek to engage with local communities of human rights risk are applied, and the Year ended 31 March 2015 where our principal facilities are located.
item itself being supplied with reference to Employees at each location can make their an external sustainability risk assessment 1.
Well-being 42% own decisions as to the specific projects of our agricultural raw materials ingredients.
Education 27% they support and the partnerships that they As set out above, our sustainable agriculture 3.
As a result, we support a range of programme specifically addresses these 4.
Other 10% initiatives and organisations in our local issues in our agricultural raw materials communities worldwide.
ingredient supply chain see page 42.
1 4 Well-being: we supported a wide variety In addition, having used the Sedex social of well-being initiatives this year, including: and ethical compliance system child community care centres in www.
com across our own Johannesburg, South Africa: and local manufacturing facilities for almost 10 years, 3 hospices, healthcare and food aid we are now using it with our suppliers as charities in Europe and the US.
one of the tools to promote and assure Education: this year, support provided, 2 good practices.
included enhanced maths and science delivery in the Decatur, Lafayette, Loudon Reporting concerns and McIntosh school districts in the US: We encourage our employees and road safety events for children near Mold, business partners to come forward with UK for the second year running: and, any information concerning actual or bursary scholarship funds to help students alleged breaches of our Code.
We provide access higher education.
an independent, anonymous third-party Environment: this year we supported reporting service through free phone a number of environmental initiatives, numbers in 47 countries and by email.
including improvement works to local park We promote this Speak Up service across The Strategic Report from page 1 to and conservation areas, and the provision the Group, and externally via our corporate page 43 of this Annual Report was of a rejuvenated local parking and website.
Any issues reported are approved by the Board on 27 May 2015. community information area in Koog, investigated by members of our Speak Up Netherlands.
On behalf of the Board Committee see page 52.
Company Secretary 27 May 2015 Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 43
