GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued Senior Independent Director Board succession planning Appointment of Nick Hampton In addition, the Committee recommended Corporate Following Tim Lodges indication that he was that Liz Airey, with eight years of Board ready for a new challenge, the Committee, service and having very good experience Responsibility supported by the Executive VP, Human of the UK market and institutional Resources, appointed The Zygos shareholders, should be appointed as Partnership to assist them in the search Senior Independent Director with effect Committee Report for a new Chief Financial Officer.
Partnership, which is a signatory to the Dear shareholder Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of Chairmanship of Committees Last year, I wrote of our deep shock and Conduct, has worked on other assignments The Committee reviewed the chairmanship sadness at the tragic fatalities at three of with the Group and proposed a number of of the Board committees and recommended our sites.
candidates who were interviewed by the that Anne Minto, who has significant Chief Executive and Executive VP, Human remuneration experience, be appointed As explained on page 6, very sadly, two Resources.
The final candidate, Nick chairman of the Remuneration Committee contractors died in an accident that Hampton, was then interviewed by the with effect from 1 January 2015.
The occurred in April 2014 and then in June Chairman and four non-executive directors.
Committee also recommended that 2014, one of our colleagues died in a tractor In line with our standard process for senior Douglas Hurt, with his extensive experience accident at one of our grain elevators.
executive recruitment, an independent as the former Finance Director of IMI plc, We are extremely saddened by these losses external assessment of capabilities was be appointed as Chairman of the Audit at our sites.
These accidents have been undertaken by YSC, a specialist business Committee with effect from 1 March 2015. thoroughly investigated internally and psychology company, before the Committee externally and we have ensured that the recommended that Nick Hampton be Committee membership families and others affected by the accidents appointed Chief Financial Officer from With regard to the composition of the Boards have been supported.
The recommendation Committees, the Committee recommended was approved by the Board.
that Sir Peter Gershon step down as a Against this tragic backdrop, the Groups member of the Remuneration Committee safety performance has improved Appointment of Paul Forman with effect from 1 June 2015, in line with significantly since June 2014.
We have As explained last year, the Committee practice in other large listed companies.
overseen managements efforts to re-focus retained Spencer Stuart to assist the and refresh our approach to safety which is Committee with the search for an additional All recommendations were approved by set out on page 38, and I have personally non-executive director who could serve on the Board.
visited a number of our sites in the US during the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
the year to meet local safety management Spencer Stuart is a signatory to the Succession planning Group Executive and review safety activities.
We continue to Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code Committee review safety at each Committee meeting.
of Conduct and has a good understanding Another key area of focus this year was of the Groups business as it has previously the refreshment of the Group Executive On 1 March 2015, we welcomed Douglas assisted in the identification of individuals Committee.
Members of the Committee Hurt to the Committee as he succeeded Liz to fill other senior executive roles.
Spencer participated in the interview processes and Airey as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Stuart prepared a long list comprising met with the Chief Executive and Executive I would like to thank Liz for her contribution a diverse range of potential candidates VP, Human Resources to provide feedback.
to the Committee since its inception and meeting the specification.
The search The Committee agreed that Gabriella look forward to working with Douglas on consultants and the Chairman then Parisse, Joan Braca, Jim Stutelberg, the Committee.
identified a subset of this long list to meet Pierre Schoumacher and Rowan Adams face-to-face with the Chairman.
Following be appointed to the Group Executive I look forward to meeting shareholders at these initial interviews, the Chairman Committee during the year and these our AGM.
recommended a short list of candidates appointments were subsequently approved to be interviewed by a working party by the Board.
William Camp comprising the Chief Executive and two Chairman of the CR Committee other members of the Committee.
Talent management The Committee also reviewed the wider The Committee subsequently discussed succession plans and talent management the results of these interviews and also process and the progress made to embed reviewed the candidates anticipated ability HR processes to assist in retaining and to provide the necessary time commitment developing existing employees while to Tate & Lyle.
The Committee recommended attracting new talent into the Group.
that Paul Forman be appointed as an additional non-executive director.
This Performance evaluation recommendation, together with the The Committee undertook a performance Committee memberships proposed for evaluation of each member of the Group Paul, was approved by the Board and Executive Committee and reported its he joined the Board on 1 January 2015. conclusions to the Remuneration Committee.
56 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Composition and constitution Work undertaken during the year The Committee also undertook a detailed The Committee comprises four nonAs explained in the Audit Committee report, review of the Groups approach to managing executive directors and the Chairman of the directors agreed that the issues relating intellectual property, focusing in particular the Company.
The Committee oversees the to the supply chain disruption experienced on actions being taken to protect our new Groups processes and measures used to during the year would be addressed and products and new product pipeline.
In manage social, environmental and ethical monitored by the Board.
Further information addition it continued to monitor the ongoing risks and associated internal controls.
is set out on page 52. efforts to tackle cyber security and agreed to review this more frequently over the The Committees terms of reference, which During the year and up to the date of this course of the year ahead given the quicklyare reviewed annually, can be found on the Annual Report, in addition to the work evolving nature of this general risk.
outlined in the Committee Chairmans letter, the work undertaken by the CR Committee Committee effectiveness Main responsibilities of the Corporate included the following: The Committee Chairman led the 2015 Responsibility Committee effectiveness review which concluded These include: Safety that the Committee continues to operate The Committee undertook a series of effectively.
The Committee agreed to revisit Monitoring the Groups approach to detailed reviews focusing first on proposals the scope of its work to ensure that it corporate responsibility and ensuring it to re-focus and refresh the approach to continues to focus on, and devote sufficient aligns with Group strategy safety and subsequently on the discussion to, the appropriate issues going Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups implementation and evolution of the forward.
The Committee also agreed to policies and procedures relating to a safe initiatives.
The Committee also received provide more direct feedback to presenters working environment reports from the VP, Global Quality and and authors of papers to ensure that the Approving, or recommending to the Board Food Safety on the operation of the Groups information provided evolves in line with for approval, CR policies quality assurance processes.
The Committee Chairman Reviewing the implementation of will continue to meet with presenters before appropriate environmental policies Diversity and inclusion each meeting and also share feedback Monitoring the effectiveness of workplace The Committee received an update on with them after meetings.
policies concerning employee relations, the implementation of diversity and equal opportunities, travel, entertainment inclusion initiatives and agreed the areas and conflicts of interest of management focus for the next 12 to Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements 18 months.
Satisfying itself that the Group has appropriate policies, systems and controls Business practices in place in respect of the risks falling within The Global Ethics Director provided regular the Committees remit.
updates on the implementation of the Ethics Strategy across the Group.
In addition, Meetings during the year the Committee reviewed the operation of The Committee met five times during the the independent confidential reporting year.
Membership of the Committee and whistleblowing line.
Further information attendance during the year were as follows: on this is on page 52.
Number of meetings Number of Community Directors as at eligible to meetings The Committee received an update on 31 March 2015 attend attended implementation of the community 1 William Camp 5 5 involvement programme and the evaluation Sir Peter Gershon 5 5 of the global partnership programmes.
2 Douglas Hurt 1 1 Environment Virginia Kamsky 5 5 The VP, Sustainability provided the Dr Ajai Puri 5 5 Committee with updates on the Groups Former Committee members environmental performance and initiatives 3 Liz Airey 4 4 on a regular basis.
2 Joined the Committee on 1 March 2015.
Internal control and risk 3 Ceased to be a member of the Committee on The Committee received regular reports 28 February 2015. from management and the VP, Group Audit and Assurance in respect of the policies, The Committee has also met once since systems and controls in place in respect of the end of the financial year and prior to the the risks falling within the Committees remit.
signing of this Annual Report.
The Committee reviewed the output from the annual review of the effectiveness of controls falling within its terms of reference and then reported to the Board on this review.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 57
