DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT the purchase of carbon credits from Voluntary Carbon At Ted Baker we believe in being open and honest in the way Standard VCS validated projects: we do business, this includes doing the right thing by all of our We are constantly reviewing the waste our business generates stakeholders throughout our supply chain and operating in a fair in an effort to achieve our overall aim of sending no waste and sustainable manner.
We approach our social, environmental to landfill.
We participate in the Wastepack Compliance and ethical commitments SEE with the same focus and attention Scheme as part of the Producer Responsibility Obligations to detail that permeates the rest of the business.
To ensure that we Packaging Waste Regulations 1997, and continue to reduce continue to meet our responsibilities in these important areas we unnecessary packaging: designed a three pronged plan, named Ted3, in 2012.
We work with the National Industrial Symbiosis Programme In 2015 we are developing our sustainability strategy NISP to recycle as much waste from head office as we can to include every department.
through their network of charities, such as Scrapstores: We have been working with charity Newlife to ensure that all HOW WE WORK faulty garments returned to store do not end up in landfill.
The Chief Operating Officer has been given specific responsibility Since March 2014 all faulty returned garments are sent to for overseeing the formulation of the Groups policies and Newlife for re-sale as secondhand garments: procedures for managing risks arising from social, environmental Through relationships with charities Oxfam and Newlife we and ethical matters.
In addition, the Board has tasked four members have been able to ensure that our end of life garments are of the Executive Committee to oversee specific areas of our SEE utilised in the best way, raising over 415,000 and diverting agenda for the Group.
These Executive Committee members over 35 tonnes of waste from landfill: participate because of the relevance of their departments to our We are part of the Sustainable Clothing Action Plan SCAP, ongoing commitment in these areas Brand Communication, a DEFRA sponsored action plan, organised to improve the Product Design, Production and Special Projects Interior sustainability of clothing throughout its lifecycle by bringing Design.
Our full time Teds Conscience department coordinates together industry, government and third parties.
SCAP these areas and the Groups cross-functional team which is members collaborate to develop sector-wide targets along responsible for addressing SEE concerns of the Group the Teds with the tools and guidance necessary to achieve them.
SCAP 2020 signatory, we are challenged to reduce carbon, water and the amount of waste generated or consumed by OUR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS our products by 15% by 2020: and We believe in three very important areas of sustainability: As part of SCAP, we participate in the Metrics group.
Protect: The Group is committed to protecting the environment group identifies the key industry metrics that businesses within our properties and throughout our entire supply chain should measure and is working on a tool to measure by reducing the use of resources and increasing efficiencies baseline carbon, water and waste footprints.
It also identifies wherever possible: improvement actions that businesses could take in this area.
Product: The Group is committed to purchasing the best possible products for use and sale within and throughout Ted ETHICAL AND SUSTAINABLE SOURCING and associated businesses at the same time as ensuring that the As part of our commitment to Product, we place great people and environment within the supply chain are treated importance on ethical and environmental sourcing within well: and the Group.
We believe that our products should be produced 3.
Practise: The Group is committed to practising what it preaches in factories that are committed to providing a fair and safe by implementing a robust strategy to achieve our goals and environment for their workers.
Our trusted partners within the targets by educating and inspiring our teams.
supply chain are one of our most valuable assets.
All Ted Baker suppliers are governed by our Company Code ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS of Conduct, which is based on the Social Accountability As part of our commitment to Protect, the Group has engaged in International standard, an internationally recognised a number of environmental projects during the course of the year: benchmark for ethical excellence, and can be found at: We continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project www.
co. uk legal documents Ted to measure and disclose our greenhouse gas emissions and Baker Code of Conduct.
Our score increased from 71% in Through our partnership with MADE-BY, a non-profit the previous year to 89%: multi-stakeholder initiative set up to improve sustainability All of our business travel within scopes 1 and 3 is within the fashion industry, our Social Scorecard for CarbonNeutral.
This means that the unavoidable emissions 2013 was released during the year and can be found at generated by air, road and rail journeys, required to visit our www.
stores, trustees and suppliers, have been offset in full through The scorecard shows an increase in the percentage of 28 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE product sourced from MADE-BY benchmarked factories.
A We continue to encourage our employees to donate unwanted key focus for the forthcoming year will be for us to continue items through our Oxfam Collects Collection Point.
to work with these suppliers to improve social certification As of December 2014 we have started to collect donations for through the implementation of a Ted Baker specific audit the leftover restaurant food that will go to Magic Breakfast program.
Our 5th Scorecard will be released in May 2015. a charity that provides underprivileged school children in This will be our final scorecard with MADE-BY as they are London with much needed breakfast before school.
We donated product and raised money for other charities During the period we completed a social improvement during the year including The Tope Project, a charity that program with a key supplier as part of our partnership with organises Christmas dinners for young care leavers in London.
As a result of this project we have seen a marked We keep two Buckfast bee colonies on the roof of our improvement in the participating factories social practices London head office from which we had a hugely successful and working environments.
honey harvest for the fifth year running.
COMMUNITY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In order to Practise our goals and achieve our targets we place The Group has for a number of years, participated in the Carbon great importance on the Teducation of our employees to support Disclosure Project and is now required, in accordance with The the community in a number of ways.
Throughout the year we Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report have supported various charities and taken part in valuable and Regulations 2013 the Regulations, to report its greenhouse exciting projects.
Our employees are our greatest asset.
To make the most The Group has adopted a greenhouse gas reporting of their innovation we have Teds Conscience team to policy and a management system based on the ISO 14064-1:2006 encourage colleagues to be more environmentally and methodology, which has been used to calculate the Groups socially aware in both their jobs and their personal lives.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions in the period for activities within the Our Teds Conscience Manager gives twice yearly store financial control of the Group.
team training sessions to ensure our sustainability agenda is In measuring the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, communicated across the business.
all the Groups stores, warehouses and head offices around We release a quarterly Teds Conscience Newsletter for the world were taken into account.
The space occupied by the the warehouse and retail teams to advise members on our Group within concession stores is excluded from Scope 1 and policies, plans, targets and partners.
2 calculations because the Group has neither financial nor Teds Conscience Manager issues a monthly DO operational control over a concession area.
Such emissions are SOMETHING email initiating sustainable and included in the Groups scope 3 figures which are published in environmental activities and competitions to inspire our annual Carbon Disclosure Project Report.
everyone in our head office.
The Groups GHG emissions during the period are disclosed in the table below.
2015 2014 2 Scope 1 Direct CO emissions tonnes CO2e 220 238 2 Scope 2 Indirect CO emissions tonnes CO2e 4,538 3,125 2 Total tonnes CO e emissions 4,758 3,363 2 tCO e per sq foot 0.014 0.011 2 tCO e per thousand GBP sales 0.012 0.010 GHG emissions have been calculated using the appropriate 2014 UK Government Conversions Factors for Company Reporting.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 29
