DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE PEOPLE training, to in-house developed Hand Made by Ted bespoke The incredible talent, enduring commitment and passion of courses focusing on management and leadership skills, brand the Ted Baker team are key factors in the success of the Group.
Distinct career paths exist across We encourage team members with learning and development the Group and inter-departmental and international transfers opportunities, nurture their growth and potential, and recognise play a large part in retaining and growing talent as well as ensuring and reward their contributions.
This is illustrated by the energy the Ted story translates across the Globe.
Our manpower and and inspired performance of our team who drive innovation and succession plans are monitored and evaluated regularly to the Groups growth.
highlight skills and learning gaps, anticipate vacancies and harness talent.
During the period we launched the Ted Academy, REWARD AND RECOGNITION our platform for Learning and Development across the business, Remuneration is reviewed annually and a benchmarking and new initiatives will be introduced in the next financial year analysis is undertaken against market intelligence to ensure we including a Ted Diploma to develop cross functional knowledge.
remain competitive and commensurate across all areas of the business.
Our reward packages includes bonus schemes linked DIVERSITY to sales targets and individual and corporate performance.
We The Group believes in respecting individuals and their rights in encourage all employees to join our Save As You Earn scheme the workplace, and that diversity supports the dynamic of our which provides Ted with confidence in the commitment of its team to deliver success.
With this in mind, specific policies are team.
Ted also provides a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP for in place setting out our stance and commitment to managing key senior employees throughout the business spanning a three harassment and bullying, whistle blowing and equality and year award period.
The LTIP is currently in its second tranche diversity.
Our team represents a wide and diverse workforce of issue and it is anticipated that this will continue on a rolling from all backgrounds, sexual orientation, nationality, ethnic and yearly award basis to enhance annual total reward mechanisms religious groups.
We support sponsorship of visa applications, following the maturity of the first scheme.
During the period we where appropriate, to retain specific talent within the business.
celebrated the fourth year of Wisdom Awards, our scheme that With continued overseas expansion our workforce is becoming recognises long serving members of the team and provides a more diverse and we respect cultural difference and actively seek chance for them to celebrate and share their Ted stories.
to learn about each territory we operate within.
Our commitment to diversity across the Group LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT continues and consideration to diversity and gender is given with Individual performance is reviewed bi-annually with each team a view to appointing the best placed individual for each new role.
member to discuss personal and career development and to The charts below demonstrate the gender split across the Board set, and assess performance against, goals and objectives linked of Directors, the Groups leadership and senior management to personal growth and business development, as well as Teds teams and global employees as at 31 January 2015. environmental and social commitments.
We invest in training which ranges from outsourced specialist and technical skills 2015 2014 MALE FEMALE TOTAL MALE FEMALE TOTAL Ted Baker Plc Directors 2 - 2 2 - 2 Executive Committee and other senior managers 30 40 70 25 25 50 Global employees 995 1,842 2,837 882 1,642 2,524 UK NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA TOTAL MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE MALE FEMALE Plc Directors 2 - - - - - - - 2 Executive Committee and other senior managers 30 40 6 7 1 6 2 4 96 Team members 665 1,107 170 339 104 309 61 86 2,841 30 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELFARE CULTURE Our duty and commitment to the well-being of our team is Our brand values are important in everything we do and are supported by activity such as private healthcare, occupational instilled in team members at their initial induction and at health, health seminars and funding for flu jabs.
During the Teducation sessions with the Founder and Chief Executive period, we conducted a Wellness health assessment day and telling the story behind the brand.
Employees are encouraged to we offer health and fitness classes to our team members at our always ask: Would Ted do it that way?
We also run a Childcare Voucher Scheme.
An cultural journeys through a host of events including our well Employee Assistance Programme further supports our genuine attended Family Days at Tedquarters where we open our doors to concern for the well-being of our team.
family and friends to experience life at Teds home.
The prevention and identification of risks and accidents is supported by an external Health and Safety service EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT provider and ongoing training of management teams.
In The Group places considerable value on the involvement of addition, the Group employs a dedicated Health and Safety team its team members and continues to keep them informed on member to strengthen our knowledge and commitment in this matters affecting them and the Group, communicating in a way area of the business.
that aligns with the brand tone of voice and actively encourages feedback.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES BroadcasTED communications and e-postcard messages from Applications for employment by persons with disabilities are Ted.
Team representatives are consulted regularly on a wide always fully and fairly considered, focusing on the aptitudes and range of matters affecting team members current and future abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of interests.
Team members are regularly informed of the Groups the Ted team becoming disabled during their employment, every performance and any factor affecting its performance during the effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group year, in addition to business development initiatives to maintain continues and that where appropriate reasonable adjustments interest and encourage participation.
are made and relevant training and education of the wider team is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of persons with disabilities should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other team members.
Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 31
