Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT We are conscious of the role we have to play in minimising the environmental impact of our activities.
We operate an energy efficiency helpline to provide advice to Members on how they can reduce their energy usage: we enable qualifying Members to access free home insulation: we actively promote Feed-In Tariffs: and we encourage Members to monitor their energy usage by providing regular meter readings.
Since moving to an online Member application process, we have reduced the amount of printed marketing materials we are using, and seen a significant increase in the proportion of new members choosing not to receive a paper bill each month.
We participate in a waste paper recycling programme, with a certificated saving of 457 trees and 61,330kg of CO2 during the year 2014: 298 trees and 39,370kg of CO2 : we also recycle all of our cardboard, and use only fsc-certified paper.
We recycle both mobile phones and toner cartridges, within the scope of our annual Charity Partnership.
During the year we completed the refurbishment of our new Head Office building, Merit House.
The refurbishment of Merit House ensured that the building which was previously under-performing was made compliant with current environmental efficiency regulations.
In refurbishing the existing building, we have also minimised the environmental impact from carbon emissions when compared to demolishing and constructing a new building.
Key aspects of efficiency incorporated into the refurbished building are set out below: modular office LED lighting: PIR daylight saving light sensors: high efficiency air conditioning system: highly efficient lift motor and control system: percussive water saving taps: efficient sensor flush systems: and fresh air quality improved providing 10 litres second per person.
In addition, upgrades were made to the thermal envelope of the building leading to greater energy efficiency and insulation values.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS STATEMENT The greenhouse gas GHG emissions statement below provides a summary of the Companys greenhouse gas carbon emissions from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015.
It gives a summary of emissions from fuel combustion and the operation of our facilities which include our offices and company cars, scope 1, and from our purchased electricity use during the year scope 2.
We have adopted the operational control approach, as defined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition 2004, therefore emissions associated with our Members energy usage, the activities of our independent distributors and the supply of energy from Npower are not included in this statement as they are outside the Companys operational control.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Global GHG emissions TOTAL EMISSIONS TONNES CO2e 2014-2015 2013-2014 Emissions from fuel combustion and 34.8 70.5 fugitive refrigerants scope 1 Emissions from electricity, heat, steam and 903.1 995.0 cooling purchased for own use scope 2 Total emissions 937.9 1,065.5 Intensity: Emissions per full time employee FTE 1.20 tCO2e FTE 1.56 tCO2e FTE Methodology We have reported on all the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our own business activities over which we have operational control.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data gathered from our own operations, and emissions factors from UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT During the year we chose Breast Cancer Campaign and Prostate Cancer UK as our joint Charity Partners and were delighted to support the activities of our Staff, Members and Partners in helping them raise a total of 82,000 during the year.
HUMAN RIGHTS This report does not contain information about any policies of the Company in relation to human rights issues as it is not considered relevant to understanding the development, performance or position of the Companys business.
STRATEGIC REPORT APPROVAL The Strategic Report, set out on pages 1 to 34, which incorporates the Financial and Operating Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial Review, Principal Risks and Uncertainties, People and Organisation and Corporate Responsibility, has been duly approved by the Board.
By order of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 22 June 2015 34 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015
