Environmental and social review Wherever we work, we want to help make life a little easier for our customers, colleagues and communities.
Our approach business in the round and sets out We want to help everyone who shops our strategic priorities: our corporate with us enjoy a better quality of life responsibility is a fundamental part and an easier way of living.
Instead of a separate, printed corporate responsibility report, we We also want to help tackle wider social now publish further details on our and environmental challenges which corporate responsibility, our policies our customers care about and which and our key data online.
In addition are material to our business, for example we are refreshing our approach to our making it easier for customers and materiality assessment as we continue colleagues to live healthier lives: listening to ensure we understand what reducing food waste and tackling food matters most to our customers, colleagues, poverty: and working with our suppliers suppliers and stakeholders.
All of this can to source responsibly and sustainably.
While the last year has been challenging Our governance for Tesco, we remain incredibly proud Our new Chairman, John Allan, of the efforts we have made to tackle has taken on the role of chair of our sustainability issues, support important Corporate Responsibility Committee causes and help local communities.
following the retirement of Jacqueline As we begin the process of renewal Tammenoms Bakker from the Board.
and change, we are committed to More detail about the governance of this listening to and working with our Committee can be found on page 40. customers, colleagues and stakeholders from across society to ensure that we We also work closely with our Expert align our approach to value creation Advisory Panel, made up of four with their expectations.
independent corporate responsibility advisors, who meet four times a year Our reporting to provide valuable input and act as As we reset many aspects of our business, a critical voice to our activities.
More so we have changed our approach to information on this can be found online reporting.
This report looks at our at www.
com society for information on: Our approach Ongoing activities Our latest case studies 18 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information As an example of our approach to creating sustainable value chains, take a look at our work on bananas: Were proud to be the first retailer to publish data on food waste within our own operations, and were working with our suppliers and customers to reduce food waste from the farm to the fork.
Suppliers We want to make sure no edible part of the banana crop is wasted, so we work with dedicated banana farms to use as much as possible of the banana crops they produce.
We sell small bananas in our Everyday Value and Goodness ranges, and we sell single bananas in our One Stop stores.
Own operations To minimise damage to the bananas in our stores, we train our colleagues in how to treat food.
A key part of that is our Love Bananas campaign this helps colleagues to understand how to handle bananas in order to minimise bruising.
Customers Customers tell us they want to reduce waste within their own homes, and were doing lots of little things to help including adding WRAP food waste hints and tips on our fresh food packaging, and creating a meal planner on our Real Food website, which suggests recipes for customers who want to use up their food.
Within our own operations, our overriding priority is always to minimise any food waste but where waste does occur, customers tell us they want us to give edible food to charity.
We have made great progress on this over the last year, and we will be looking at what more we can do to ensure no edible food is wasted.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 19 Environmental and social review continued Our people Respecting human rights We know that consistently addressing We are determined to respect the human human rights risks and concerns across Our approach rights of our customers, our colleagues a global supply chain can be complicated.
The challenges our business has faced and our suppliers, within all of the Only by being open and responsive and over the last year have been incredibly communities they work.
having strong relationships, can we find difficult for our colleagues, but despite out about issues and work to solve them.
this, we are extremely proud of the focus We are committed to upholding basic We must work in partnership to do this which colleagues have continued to place human rights and fully support the UN both with our suppliers and with experts on doing the right thing for customers Universal Declaration of Human Rights and non-governmental organisations and delivering outstanding service.
and the International Labour Organization NGOs on the ground.
It is also why we Core Conventions.
We are a founding were strong supporters of the UK A key principle throughout the member of the Ethical Trading Initiative Governments new Modern Slavery Bill transformation process has been, and our industry-leading team of labour and the clause on transparency in supply wherever possible, to make sure standards experts support our suppliers chains, and look forward to reporting colleagues are the first to know of any to work towards fully implementing its against this in future years.
changes within the business which will Base Code.
We always investigate affect them.
This commitment to be open allegations of human rights infringements Governance and monitoring and transparent will continue once the and take action when needed to ensure Our governance committees consider transformation process is complete.
financial and non-financial risks to our business and the Compliance and We have worked hard to do everything we We want everybody to have their human Corporate Responsibility Committees can to support colleagues and offer expert rights upheld and we know our customers, in particular consider risks related to advice as they face changes to their roles colleagues and suppliers do too.
our Human Rights Policy, which are and the organisation.
We have continued maintained on our company risk register.
to expand our training programmes to Our customers want to buy great help colleagues grow and develop.
The products that are produced safely and This year we launched a new Code importance of diversity in the broadest responsibly.
Only by protecting human of Business Conduct, supported by sense also remains critical to our business, rights can we give our customers this a company-wide training programme and the ratio of male to female colleagues confidence, as well as ensuring we are to help colleagues follow key policies: at year end is outlined below.
In addition, a good neighbour wherever we operate.
this included a section on our approach the pay gap between men and women to human rights.
We have strong, consistent people policies that are designed to make Tesco Furthermore, we now have protector Our diversity Male Female a great place to work: where everyone lines for both colleagues and suppliers, Board of Directors 10 77% 3 23% is welcome and feels confident to be so any concerns with business conduct Senior managers 614 76% 195 24% themselves in a safe environment.
Directors Senior managers 3,847 69% 1,732 31% We are building even stronger partnerships To review our full policy visit Directors and managers with trusted suppliers so we can ensure www.
All employees 220,257 43% 297,545 57% that we deliver great, safe products that are responsibly produced.
Changes since year end mean that our Board is now made up of nine men and one woman.
20 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Food waste Tesco UK food waste by category breakdown % breakdown of total tonnage value 55,400 In 2014 15 we have calculated that 55,400 tonnes of food were wasted tonnes in Tesco stores and distribution centres Food waste in our in the UK which is equivalent to 0.9% own operations UK of the number of food products we sold in our stores over the same period.
The chart on the right shows the breakdown of this food waste by category.
This has decreased by 1,180 tonnes compared to 2013 14.
Bakery 36% Impulse 6% Frozen 2% Produce 25% Meat, Fish & Poultry 5% World Foods 2% Independent limited assurance provided by KPMG Convenience 9% Grocery 4% LLP.
It is important to read the data in the context Dairy 8% Beers, Wines & Spirits 3% of KPMGs full statement and Tescos reporting criteria at www.
Greenhouse gas emissions Our net carbon footprint in 2014 15 For more information on our carbon was 5.6 million tonnes of CO e. targets and how we calculate our carbon 2 footprint, including reporting standards Our overall net carbon intensity per square and an Independent Assurance foot of retail and distribution floor space Statement from our auditors ERMCVS, decreased by 4.3% compared to last year, see www.
and 40.9% since 2006 07, surpassing our 2014 15 annual reduction target.
com society for more information on our policies and disclosures Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 21
