62 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTED TO MAKING TOURISM MORE SUSTAINABLE Thomas Cook provides boundless opportunities for people to enjoy OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY new experiences, discover new cultures and create fantastic We recognise that the sustainability landscape has changed memories.
We believe that responsible tourism is capable of dramatically since our last sustainability strategy was launched generating positive economic and social development whilst in2010.
This, along with the changing role of the travel and tourism minimising environmental impact.
At Thomas Cook, we are committed industry and social and geopolitical changes since 2010 have to making all holidays more sustainable.
prompted us to review how we manage sustainability and our long-term ambitions.
Our vision for sustainability is simple.
For us it is how we meet our needs today and contribute to the future of our business, the In 2015, Thomas Cook undertook a materiality review, to reassess environment and the people and communities with whom we work.
both what is important to the business and stakeholders, as In this way we aim to create a strong and robust business that will well as what the main impacts and risk areas were in respect operate responsibly, generating benefit for the communities with ofsustainability.
This review gave a new perspective to what the which we work over the longer term.
material impacts are for Thomas Cook as an organisation and now drives our efforts to deliver the most benefit to the communities HOW WE MANAGE SUSTAINABILITY withwhich we work and to reduce our environmental impact.
We see sustainability as the responsibility of every employee and an Sustainability at Thomas Cook is now split into three focus areas: activity that requires strong leadership, beginning with the Group People, Planet and Responsible Business.
Each of these areas CEO Peter Fankhauser.
The Board retains responsibility for the longis explored over the following pages and further detail can be term success of the Group and the Health, Safety & Environmental found inour 2015 Sustainability Report, which is available at Committee has oversight of the consistent policy for managing health, thomascookgroup.
The Committee met four times during the year and information on activities of the Committee during the year can be found on page 83.
FULL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT View and download the full Sustainability report here: thomascookgroup.
com  OVERVIEW PEOPLE PLANET RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY AT OUR HEART CONTINUING THE TRANSFORMATION THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 63 PEOPLE Thomas Cook has a long tradition of social commitment and PEOPLE 2020 TARGETS charitable activity.
We work to create thriving communities where our employees live and work, as well as where our customers travel.
By collaborating with industry partners, supporting destinations and We will engage and investing in communities, we are ensuring a high-quality service for residents and visitors alike.
support our employees Our Code of Conduct covers all values material to our business, including how we operate sustainably by engaging with the and the communities communities in which we work and to which our customers travel, through to protecting the children who travel with us, and live in where we live the destinations we operate in.
The Code of Conduct represents a commitment we each make and a philosophy that is embedded within every aspect of our behaviours and fundamental to how we deliver and work.
holidays to our customers in a responsible way.
We aim to: Child safety and protection is an important issue for our business and we remain fully committed to the UN Convention on the Rights of Destination Communities the Child.
We believe it is our responsibility to promote and safeguard Support at least one sustainable community project in each childrens welfare and are committed to The Code an industryofthe main regions we operate in driven international code of conduct.
The Thomas Cook Childrens Home Communities Charity aims to improve childrens lives by working with partner Conduct at least three local community projects around key organisations.
Its remit gives particular emphasis to the provision Head Office locations of safe clean drinking water, improving education, well-being and Child Protection healthcare facilities.
The Thomas Cook Childrens Charity has raised Implement the Group Child Protection strategy over 5 million in the last five years through customer donations, Supply chain payroll giving and staff fundraising initiatives.
It engages staff at all Get 90% of our suppliers including central purchasing, levels and covers all activities, no matter how small or big, to create hotel contracting and agency contracting to sign up to benefits for their local communities.
andcomply with our Supplier Code of Conduct During the year, the Company also established the Safer Tourism Foundation, which aims to improve the safety of holiday makers travelling abroad with a particular focus on the dangers of carbon monoxide.
The Company agreed to underwrite the first 1,000,000 to be raised for the Safer Tourism Foundation andacknowledges the kind donation of its former CEO, Harriet Green, of 580,375 Ordinary Shares in the Company to support the Safer Tourism Foundation as part of that initial 1,000,000 fundraising.
MANAGING HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS We understand Thomas Cooks business impacts individuals and communities around the world.
Thomas Cook operates a Human Rights policy across all operations and we are working with NGOs and other partners within the tourism industry to better understand and mitigate our impacts upon individuals and communities.
Thomas Cook Group is committed to ensuring that there is no slavery or human trafficking in its business or supply chain.
To this end, we will be undertaking a review of our existing supply chains and putting in place appropriate measures to ensure transparency in our supply chain in line with the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 64 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY & SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED PLANET The environmental impact of the travel industry is considerable, with PLANET 2020 TARGETS around 5% of all global carbon emissions coming from the travel and tourism sector.
We will protect and At Thomas Cook, we run one of the most efficient airlines in the industry, with only 71.5g CO per passenger kilometre, compared 2 with an average for the five largest European airlines of 93.11gCO 2 conserve the planets per passenger kilometre.
We are working to make our airline more efficient, and collaborating with the rest of the airline industry to natural resources.
We are also investing in the next generation of aircraft to provide better performance and customer experience.
We aim to: We work with and support the International Civil Aviation Organisation, whose aim is to produce a successor to the EU Offices Retail Reduce electricity consumption by 60% Emissions Trading Scheme by 2020.
Obtain 50% of our electricity from renewable sources In 2015, we have continued to invest in our airline fleet, with a full Reduce paper usage by 60% refresh of the interiors of the vast majority of our existing planes as Purchase all of our paper from sustainable sources well as the purchase of new aircraft.
Each of our upgraded aircraft Hotels delivers greater comfort and a superior experience for passengers, Implement a local sourcing policy for food and beverages whilst reducing weight to achieve greater fuel efficiency.
at all own-brand hotels Airlines Our efforts to reduce our environmental impact go beyond reducing Reduce on-board waste fuel usage and carbon emissions.
We also work hard to reduce the Achieve a 12% increase in fuel efficiency, as compared use of water in our facilities around the world, to use sustainable to 2008 products and materials wherever possible, to reduce our production of waste and to produce our own renewable energy, such as our extensive solar PV panel installation at Copenhagen airport.
We work with colleagues across the tourism and airline industry to make the most of technological developments to decrease energy use and to share best practice.
2015 2014 Tonnes of CO2 Tonnes of CO2 Greenhouse gas emissions equivalent equivalent Total Scope 1 Direct emissions 4,013,671 3,969,957 Total Scope 2 Indirect emissions 22,172 32,539 Total emissions 4,035,843 4,002,496 Total emissions million turnover 0.00054 0.00043 We have reported on all the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors reports Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We only have responsibility for the emission sources that are included in our consolidated financial statements.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, data from EU Emission Trading Scheme and emission factors from the UK Government GHG Conversion Factors Guidance 2015.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 65 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Sustainability is driving and shaping our new culture and is at the RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 2020 TARGETS heart of our customer-centric long-term strategy.
For us this means having the best people, products and processes in place to create and sustain a thriving business.
We will bring cost This means we need to examine every part of our operations, todeliver financial, social and environmental progress.
savings through LOCAL ECONOMIC IMPACT resource reductions Two years ago we launched an exciting range of excursions so that customers could immerse themselves in the culture of a inorder to create destination and create lasting memories of their holiday.
These Local Label excursions are designed to bring a place, its people and their long-term value.
traditions to life: celebrating authentic food and drink, sharing personal stories with local people, and contributing to the protection of ancient sites or natural habitats.
Local Label excursions are a We aim to: key tool in helping us promote local employment and economic Destinations development in-destination and ensuring that the benefit of tourism Have at least one Local Label excursion in every is experienced by local communities.
staffed destination Hotels ANIMAL WELFARE Have at least 20% of our customers stay in accommodation Our customers demonstrate strong demand for visits to animal certified with a GSTC recognised sustainability certification attractions and wildlife-viewing opportunities whilst on holiday.
Reduce water volumes to an average of 350 litres per guest We recognise that these activities can have a positive socio-economic per night at all Concept hotel accommodation benefit and can help to promote biodiversity and education initiatives.
Reduce electricity consumption measured per customer We are also acutely aware of the welfare of animals impacted by atall Concept hotel accommodation tourism.
Our Group Animal Welfare Policy commits us to upholding Customers minimum standards of welfare for animals whose lives are impacted Be recognised as green and responsible business by by tourism, and to protecting animals from neglect and cruelty.
our customers We work closely with the UKs travel industry association, ABTA, To measure and improve our hotel & accommodation and otherindustry partners and animal welfare NGOs worldwide to health & safety independent audit performance scores reduce the negative impact on animals.
We continue to address animal welfare in our supply chain with a view to reducing the animal-related activities offered in each destination.
By focusing on a select number of animal attractions, wecan have greater oversight to ensure each product is more enjoyable for customers as well as having a positive impact on animalwelfare and local development.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 67 governance CREATING STRONG FOUNDATIONS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE
