Corporate governance report continued Corporate Responsibility Committee report Corporate responsibility is at the heart of how our business operates.
We believe that doing business responsibly is the only way of doing business.
Much of our focus this year has been on ensuring that we have listened to our customers, colleagues, suppliers and stakeholders to ensure we understand what issues matters to them.
Although it has been a very challenging year for Tesco, there has been some real progress on issues that matter to our customers and that are material to our business.
John Allan I am particularly pleased to see the determined steps which have been made on key Corporate Responsibility Committee and areas, such as health and food waste, and how this has been balanced with an increased Nominations Committee Chairman focus on essential areas to our business including our relationships with suppliers, our environmental impact and the enormous commitment of our colleagues in helping to Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance raise funds for good causes in their communities.
Members Number Actual Going forward, the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee will continue to support of possible meetings meetings attended the development and evolution of our CR strategy.
attended John Allan Chairman John Allan Appointed 1 March 2015 Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Sir Richard Broadbent 2 2 Chairman to 1 March 2014 Activities during the year Patrick Cescau 2 2 As our business goes through a process of renewal, our Corporate Responsibility Committee Resigned 7 April 2015 discussed the importance of putting our customers and their local communities at the heart Deanna Oppenheimer 2 2 of our activities.
Jacqueline 2 2 Tammenoms Bakker The Committee discussed a wide range of reputational insight, and the challenge that Chair from 1 March 2014 we face in regaining our customers trust.
They recognised that getting the core of our until 28 February 2015 business right is key to regaining this trust, in addition to demonstrating that we are a Mikael Olsson 1 1 Appointed 2December responsible business through our actions, rather than our communications.
2014 This year we have built closer links between our Corporate Responsibility Committee and our Expert Advisory Panel.
This has been very beneficial in sharing best practice Corporate Responsibility Committee and through bringing an outside voice in to the Committee meetings.
responsibilities The Corporate Responsibility Committee Despite the challenges faced by the business, great progress has been made this year.
was established in 2012 to ensure that the This includes: Board maintains an adequate focus on corporate removing confectionery from checkouts in all our stores across the UK: responsibility in its widest sense.
The Committees through our Neighbourhood Food Collections in the UK, with FareShare and the Trussell terms of reference are available at www.
Trust, we have collected an additional 11.3 million meals, bringing the total since 2012 The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: to 21.5 million, to help feed people in need: Define the Groups corporate and social obligations since our Eat Happy Project launched in March 2014, 685,000 children have found as a responsible citizen and oversee its conduct out where their food comes from, as well as how to cook nutritious meals through in the context of those obligations participation in Farm to Fork Trails, Online Field Trips and Lets Cook courses: and Approve a strategy for discharging the Groups corporate and social responsibilities in such we have launched a new Code of Business Conduct, followed by a company-wide a way as to command respect and confidence training programme.
Identify and monitor those external developments which are likely to have a significant influence on Given the substantial changes to the Board it was decided that it would not be appropriate the Groups reputation and or its ability to conduct for a formal review of the effectiveness of the Committee to take place this year.
However, its business appropriately as a good citizen the Committees effectiveness was considered as part of the internal Board evaluation.
and review how best to protect that reputation or that ability Oversee the creation of appropriate policies and supporting measures Monitor the Groups engagement with external stakeholders and other interested parties Ensure that appropriate communications policies are in place and working effectively to build and protect the Groups reputation both internally and externally 40 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Nominations Committee attendance Nominations Committee report The primary focus of the Committee during the year was Board succession planning.
Members Number Actual The Board appointed a new management team, Dave Lewis as CEO and Alan Stewart of possible meetings meetings attended as CFO, following a search led by the former Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, attended with support from the Non-executive Directors.
Both are excellent appointments John Allan Chairman for the Company with the right blend of experience, leadership and values to lead Appointed 1 March 2015 the transformation of the business.
The Committee also identified and recommended Sir Richard Broadbent 5 5 the appointment of three new Non-executive Directors, Richard Cousins, Mikael Olsson Chairman to and Byron Grote, who bring broad skills and experience to the Board.
1 March 2015 Patrick Cescau 5 5 In the coming year Board composition and effectiveness will be a key focus for the Resigned 7 April 2015 Committee along with developing succession plans for the longer term to ensure Stuart Chambers 5 5 appropriate plans are in place to meet the needs of the business.
Ken Hanna 5 5 Richard Cousins John Allan Appointed 7 April 2015 Nominations Committee Chairman Nominations Committee responsibilities Activities during the year The Committees terms of reference are available The Committee divides its time broadly between reviewing Executive management at www.
Where matters discussed development and succession planning, and reviewing Board development.
relate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director chairs the meeting.
Given the substantial changes to the Board it was decided that it would not be appropriate for a formal review of the effectiveness of the Committee to take place this year.
However, The key responsibilities of the Committee include: Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition the Committees effectiveness was considered as part of the internal Board evaluation.
Identifying, nominating and reviewing candidates for appointment to the Board Appointments Putting in place plans for succession This year the Committee discussed the restructure of the Executive leadership team around Reviewing the leadership needs of the the core capabilities of customers, products and channels, and the need to continue organisation, both Executive and Non-executive Reviewing the Groups talent planning programmes developing the Board structure and appoint further Non-executive Directors to strengthen Reviewing Board succession over the longer term, the Board with additional skills and plan for future retirements.
in order to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience and to ensure progressive refresh During the year, in addition to the Executive appointments, the Committee identified and of the Board recommended two appointments to the Board.
Richard Cousins and Mikael Olsson joined Monitoring of the Groups compliance with the Board as Non-executive Directors on 1 November 2014.
Richard brings valuable UK corporate governance guidelines and corporate experience to the Board and Mikael brings valuable retail and international experience.
In addition, the Committee recommended the appointment of Byron Grote as a Non-executive Director.
Byron has extensive executive and non-executive financial and strategic experience and joined the Board on 1 May 2015.
Biographies of these new Directors are available on pages 28 and 29.
Appointments are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee prepared role specifications for the Chairman and Non-executive Director roles and considered a number of factors when making new appointments, including what the new Director will add to the balance of skills and experience on the Board and whether the Director will be able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his or her responsibilities.
Candidates are required to disclose all material commitments to the Committee as part of the process.
We worked with the external search consultancy Lygon Group and JCA who do not have any connection with the Company, as well as using our own networks, to identify candidates.
The Committee also considered a number of changes to the composition of the Boards Committees to ensure appropriate balance and succession potential.
Diversity Tesco approaches diversity in its broadest sense, recognising that successful world-class businesses flourish through embracing intellectual, experiential, geographical and skills diversity as well as other factors such as gender, marital status, race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability or trade union affiliation.
With regard to gender diversity which is the focus of significant current attention, we accept the spirit and aspirations of the Davies Report, including the representation of women at the highest levels in the organisation.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 41 Corporate governance report continued At the year end we had three women on our Board representing 23% and three women on the Executive Committee representing 23%.
Women in senior management positions across the Group account for 31% as a whole.
We believe that the focus must remain firmly on understanding what it takes to develop women and to retain them in senior positions.
Senior roles are very demanding for all, regardless of gender, and we are determined to develop a culture and an environment where our people can advance whilst having the time to be good parents, partners and active members of their local community.
Our policy is to find, develop and keep a diverse workforce at all levels within our Company and we are committed to increasing the percentage of female leaders.
We set a target in September 2011 for women to represent 32% of senior management and 21% of Business Leaders and Directors.
We are close to our target with 31% of senior managers and 24% of Business Leaders and Directors being women.
42 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out principles and specific provisions on how a company should be directed and controlled to achieve standards of good corporate governance.
In September 2014 the Financial Reporting Council made changes to the Code.
The 2012 version of the Code applies to the Company for the year ended 28 February 2015.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
The Board considers that the Company complied in all material respects with the Code for the whole of the year ended 28 February 2015 except with regards to Code provisions B.
6.2 External evaluation of the Board, B.
6.3 Performance evaluation of the Chairman and C. 3.7 Tender of external audit contract every ten years, as explained on page 32.
The notes below are intended to facilitate the assessment of the Companys compliance with the Code for the year ended 28 February 2015 but they should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report as a whole.
1 The Boards role The Board is the custodian of the Companys values and of its long-term vision, and provides strategic direction and guidance for the Company.
The matters reserved to the Board for its decisions are detailed in a formal schedule.
Matters which must be considered by the Board include: the Groups strategy: annual budgets: oversight of risk management processes: changes to the capital structure: and material transactions or litigation.
The Board held seven scheduled meetings in the year ended 28 February 2015 and ad hoc meetings were also arranged to deal with matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
It is expected that all Directors attend scheduled Board and relevant Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting.
Details of Board and Committee membership and attendance can be found on pages 35 to 37 and 40 to 41.
All Directors are covered by the Groups Directors and Officers Insurance policy.
2 A clear division of responsibilities There is a clear delineation between the role of the Chairman and CEO.
Their role descriptions were agreed by the Board in 2012 and are summarised below: Chairmans responsibilities: ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and engagement between Executive and Non-executive Directors: ensuring an annual evaluation of the Board is conducted and leading the performance evaluation of the CEO and Non-executive Directors: plus ensuring that the Committee Chairmen conduct evaluations of their Committees: building an effective Board: the induction of new Directors and further training for all Directors as required: and communicating effectively with shareholders and other stakeholders and ensuring the Board develops an understanding of the views of the stakeholders.
Group CEOs responsibilities: leading the development of the Companys strategic direction and implementing the agreed strategy: identifying and executing new business opportunities: managing the Groups risk profile and implementing and maintaining an effective framework of internal controls: building and maintaining an effective top management team: and ensuring effective communication with shareholders and key stakeholders andregularly updating institutional shareholders on the business strategy andperformance.
3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman was independent upon his appointment to the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring its effectiveness while taking account of the interests of the Groups various stakeholders, and promoting high standards of corporate governance.
4 Non-executive Directors Patrick Cescau was the Senior Independent Director SID throughout the year ending 28 February 2015.
He stepped down as a Board member on 7 April 2015 and was succeeded by Richard Cousins.
Richard was selected for the role because of his experience and expertise, both as an Executive and Non-executive Director with retail and international experience.
A biography is available on page 28.
In his role as SID, Richard Cousins provides a sounding board for the Chairman and is available to assist in resolving shareholder concerns should alternative channels be exhausted.
The SIDs role also includes responsibility for the Chairmans appraisal and succession: and to hold at least one meeting each year with the Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Chairman also has one-to-one and group meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
1 The Boards composition The Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and Committee members.
A number of changes have been made to the Non-executive representation as detailed on page 35.
During the year the Board comprised a majority of Non-executive Directors.
At the year end the Board comprised the Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and 10 Non-executive Directors.
All the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent under the criteria set out in the Code.
2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors is led by the Nominations Committee.
Further details of the appointments process can be found in the Nominations Committee section on page 41 and biographies of our Directors can be found on pages 28 and 29.
The appointment of the Chairman was led by the SID with support from the Non-executive Directors.
3 Time commitments The Board makes a careful assessment of the time commitments required from the Chairman and Non-executive Directors to discharge their roles properly.
This is discussed with candidates as part of the recruitment process and a commitment tothe appropriate time requirements is included in engagement letters which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Executive Directors are permitted to hold one Non-executive Directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
4 Training and development All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular area of focus, which is designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups culture and operations.
The programme has evolved over time to take into account feedback from new Directors and the development of best practice, and incorporates a wide-ranging programme of meetings with the senior management across the Group, attending results and broker briefings, comprehensive briefing materials and opportunities to visit the Groups operations across the world, including spending time in-store and in our distribution network.
The Chairman agrees a personalised induction plan with each new Director and ensures that it meets the individual needs of that Director.
The Chairman reviews each Directors development needs as part of the annual performance evaluation process and puts appropriate arrangements in place for specific training.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Directors skills and experience as a group against those needed to continue to enable the Board to oversee and support the Groups diverse operations in the future, and identifies anygaps.
This informs the approach to ongoing refreshment of the Board as well asthe training plan for the current Board.
Training is arranged to help develop theknowledge and skills of the Directors in a variety of areas relevant to the Groupsbusiness.
All Directors have the opportunity to refresh and increase their knowledge of the Group through visits to Group operations and meeting with senior executives across the business.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 43 Corporate governance report continued B.
5 Provision of information and support Board papers are circulated a week before each meeting to give the Directors and Committee members sufficient time to fully consider the information.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may takeindependent professional advice at the Companys expense in conducting their duties.
6 Board and committee performance evaluation During the year the Board undertook an internal review of its performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors, with the exception of the former Chairman and the Audit Committee: further detail can be found on page 36.
An external evaluation was due this year however this has been deferred to later this year.
Further information can be found on page 32.
7 Re-election of Directors All Directors were subject to shareholder re-election at the 2014 AGM and, with the exception of Stuart Chambers and Ken Hanna, all of the current Directors will be standing for election or re-election by the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Information about the Directors can be found in their biographies on pages 28 and 29.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and business reporting The Directors statement of responsibilities for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 can be found on page 74.
Information on the Companys business model can be found on pages 8 and 9 and its strategy can be found on pages 3 to 7.
The Directors confirmation that the business is a going concern can be found on page 71.
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 are contained in the Directors Report on pages 70 and 71.
C. 2 Risk management and internal control systems The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group has appropriate risk management and internal controls in place and that they continue to work effectively.
Successful management of risk is supported by controls, management oversight and sources of assurance.
There is a comprehensive process for the review and consideration of risk at Tesco.
Risk Registers are in place for all businesses and key Group functions also maintain a specific Risk Register.
The Group also maintain a Group Key Risk Register which describes key risks faced by the Group and their likelihood and impact, as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate them.
Group risks are determined by discussion with senior management and are reviewed by the GroupExecutive Committee and then agreed by the Board.
Actions are followed up by Internal Audit.
The Company maintains a comprehensive framework of internal controls addressing the key strategic, financial, legal, reputational and operational risks to the business and the accountability for operating these controls rests with senior management as a first line of defence.
Colleagues are required to confirm annually that they complied with the Code ofBusiness Conduct which sets out individual obligations and responsibilities for anyone working at Tesco.
A number of key management committees play a role in monitoring compliance with internal controls.
The Group Compliance Committee is responsible for monitoring legal compliance across the Group, including receiving reports from the individual business unit compliance committees.
The Audit Committee reports each year on its assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal controls systems.
Throughout the year the Committee receives regular reports from the external auditor covering topics such as quality ofearnings and technical accounting developments.
Internal Audit and senior management also regularly provide updates to the Committee and any significant breaches of control, together with the appropriate remediation arrangements are discussed.
The Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal controls during the year.
To support the Board in its annual assessment, a report is prepared by Internal Audit which describes the arrangements that the Board has put in place for internal control and risk management systems and summarises the key issues or non-compliances arising from those processes.
The Control Environment has not been fully effective in the year.
This has manifested itself primarily in the events around commercial income and the resultant impact on the financial statements.
The business has invested significant time and resource to understand, evaluate and remediate the control weaknesses.
Clear control improvement plans are in place.
The Annual Risk Management Process as described in the principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 22 to 25 there is a comprehensive process for the review and consideration of risk at Tesco.
Risk Registers are in place for all Business Units and for some key Group Functions, including Group Finance.
Risk Registers are considered regularly by subsidiary boards to assess their control systems and have all been reviewed at least once in the last year.
The Group Key Risk Register was reviewed by the Executive Committee and the Board.
During the reviews all the Group risks were challenged and refreshed.
The Internal Audit Programme a risk-based programme of Internal Audit is conducted annually and the findings of those audits, together with the monitoring of the progress of managements remediation programmes is reviewed by the Board.
Evaluation of the Control Findings from External Audit PwC are not a part of Tescos internal control system.
However, they do form an assessment on the financial control environment as they conduct their audit work and this is another point of reference and information for the Board and senior management to consider on the operation of our controls.
Assessment of compliance activities at a Group and business unit level the results of a number of other key compliance activities are also considered during the review of the effectiveness of risk management and internal control arrangements.
These include: the outputs from the Group and Business Unit Compliance Committee processes: the returns from the Annual Code of Business Conduct declaration process: the results of the Key Financial Controls Self-Assessment process: the results of store-based compliance reviews of stock, cash and price integrity processes: the results of the Group Technical and Trading Law assessments including ethical audits: the outputs from the Tesco Bank Risk Assurance and Compliance process: reports from the Fraud and Code of Conduct Investigations: and the results from the Information Security reviews and incidents that occurred in the year.
Whilst an internal control system cannot guarantee that losses will not occur, the Board is satisfied that management has remained diligent in their efforts to ensure that an appropriate level of control remains in place.
C. 3 Role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee supports the Board in its responsibilities in relation to corporate reporting and risk management and internal controls, and with maintaining a relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Audit Committees report on pages 37 to 39 sets out a description of the work of the Committee.
44 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information D. Remuneration D. 1 Level and elements of remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 69 explains the work of the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration received by the Directors.
D. 2 Development of remuneration policy The development of our remuneration policy and our rationale for the level and structure of the remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 69.
E. Relations with shareholders E. 1 Shareholder engagement We are committed to conducting constructive dialogue with shareholders to ensure that we understand what is important to them and enable clear communication of our position.
The Chairman, CEO and CFO hold regular meetings with shareholders and update the Board on the outcome of those meetings.
Investor Relations keep the Board informed of broker and analyst views, and report and present formally to the Board twice a year.
In addition we carry out a survey each year of a cross-section of shareholders in order to assess shareholder perception of the Company.
We support greater engagement with institutional shareholders as envisaged by the Stewardship Code.
We are also keen to develop engagement with private shareholders through various channels of communication, including the AGM, the Companys website and social media.
E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM Our 2015 AGM will be held in London on 26 June 2015.
The whole Board is expected to attend the AGM and be available to answer questions from shareholders present.
To encourage shareholder participation, we offer electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
At our AGM all resolutions are proposed and voted upon individually by shareholders or their proxies.
All votes taken during the AGM are by way of a poll.
This follows best practice guidelines and allows the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 45
