60 STRATEGIC REPORT PEOPLE INSPIRING AND DEVELOPING OUR TALENT Having the right people, in the right roles, focused on the right ENGAGEMENT SURVEY priorities is key to the execution of our profitable growth strategy: Change within Thomas Cook continues at pace.
During these times, both in terms ofsupporting our New Operating Model and to ensure feedback is more important than ever so each year we ask employees that we keep our customers at the heart of all we do.
Embedding a to tell us how we are performing as a company and an employer.
high performing and customer centric culture is pivotal to drive the In September 2015, we ran our third annual Group-wide employee change we need to see and remains a keyfocus as we aspire to be engagement survey Every Voice.
the worlds best-loved holiday company.
More than three-quarters of our people completed the survey VALUES AND WAYS OF WORKING 76% this year, a one percentage point increase on last year, with almost 7,500 comments shared with us and read by Peter Our Code of Conduct expresses our core values and beliefs what Fankhauser.
This volume of responses tells us that our people want we do and who we are.
These principles provide a solid and unified to contribute to the development of the Company and be part of our framework across the Group, guiding our behaviours and how positive change.
we conduct ourselves at work.
Awareness is raised through the induction process and as part of annual performance reviews, when The Groups overall Core Index score, which is a measure of employee employees are asked to remind themselves of the Code and confirm engagement with the Company, improved by four percentage points they have read and understood how it applies to their role and what to 72% with a positive shift in most geographical segments and we can expect of each other.
This follows a four percentage point increase in2014, so a clear pattern of year-on-year improvement.
COMMUNICATING AND ENGAGING WITH One of our biggest improvements this year was the understanding OUREMPLOYEES and engagement with the Companys Strategy and Objectives, which Regular, effective, two-way communication and collaboration is improved by six percentage points to 72%.
This is excellent progress important at any time, but never more so than during transformation and a clear indicator that we are taking our people with us in our and change.
Employee engagement is driven through understanding journey and that they have a better understanding of where were and we target different employee groups through a number of going and what we need to achieve together.
communication forums and channels: Results are cascaded throughout the organisation and action Our Thomas Cook Leadership Council TCLC comprises our top plans are developed collaboratively at a segment and departmental 150 senior leaders and is used as a forum for informing, engaging level to ensure that we act upon the findings and that our people and involving our leaders in our transformation.
The TCLC meets feelinvolved and engaged in making a positive difference.
two to three times a year and the sessions, which are increasingly participative and collaborative, are designed around strategy RECOGNISING PERFORMANCE execution, planning and calls to action as we move forward with ourNew Operating Model.
Feedback tells us that these sessions Improving our business performance and driving profitable growth inspire and engage members, providing a forum for alignment requires focus, commitment and engagement from our people.
ofstrategic goals and sharing best practice.
Strategic objectives are cascaded down through the organisation Regular digital communications and face-to-face all employee todrive successful execution and provide focus through effective town halls take place across all parts of the Group, hosted by useof personal objectives.
the local leadership, where plans and progress are discussed.
Embedding a high performance culture is enabled by our Participation and feedback is encouraged to ensure communication Group-wideonline performance and development system, MyPAD is two-way.
During 2015, we have Our collaborative intranet, HeartBeat, launched in 2014 and has enhanced MyPAD from a user perspective and have continued to been revamped during 2015 to support our changing organisation, develop our leaders and managers to ensure effectivereview and to increase and improve collaboration across the Group.
meetings take place at least twice a year.
The new attractive and vibrant site encourages our people to work together, collaborate and share.
It provides a channel for socialising We have continued throughout 2015 to place great emphasis on pay as well as sharing important news and information consistently for performance through our employee incentive plans.
These plans through a variety of digital methods including news articles, blogs, provide our employees with awareness on how their performance and videos.
impacts on the success of the Company.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 61 We remain committed to operating a performance share plan Our Apprenticeship programme makes brilliant career opportunities forour executives and senior leaders across the Group, who can available to school leavers by opening doors to a hugely exciting impact and influence results, aligning their interests with those industry with enough variation to fill their entire career if they ofour Shareholders.
We reward and celebrate employee successes through From The Within Thomas Cook Germany we continue to invest in internships Heart, our online recognition scheme, which is underpinned by our and apprenticeships.
During the year, we gave 120 interns their first Group values.
experiences of working in the travel industry through our university programme Talent Circle.
During 2015, 26 people joined us, moving TALENT DEVELOPMENT AND from our dual education programme into our travel agencies and SUCCESSIONPLANNING our German Head Office, They will finish their apprenticeship after three years with a Chamber of Commerce certificate or a Bachelors We continue to strengthen our leadership capability by attracting degree.
We are really proud of the 80 apprentices we have on high-quality talent via external appointments and by developing board.
This brings our total number of internships to over 200 from our internal capability.
In 2015, we conducted our first Group-wide different universities, many of them remaining with Thomas Cook Talent and Succession Review using a consistent methodology and after completing their studies.
For the dual education programme, we approach, holding separate sessions with our Group Management recruit nearly 70% into our business.
All of them are well educated, Committee GMC and PLC Board.
This process has enabled us to gain highly motivated and committed to Thomas Cook.
Both programmes a better understanding of our talent pools deeper in the organisation are a valuable investment in Thomas Cooks future.
and strengthen our leadership pipeline.
We have delivered our second Executive Development programme for a further 50 senior leaders DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION during 2015.
As a global organisation our focus on delivering world class customer Our Emerging Talent programme focuses on fast tracking newly service is supported by a strong customer centric, international identified talent to create a leadership pipeline for senior roles, culture with diverse and mobile leaders.
We believe diversity can andwe will deliver two aspects of this programme in 2016. openup new ways of thinking, will help us reach out to be closer toall of our customers and will drive profitable growth.
APPRENTICESHIPS We continue to focus on making strategic appointments at a senior In the UK, we are proud to achieve an Outstanding rating across level to strengthen our diversity.
Our Code of Conduct, Values, all areas in the recent Ofsted inspection of our Retail Apprenticeship Leadership Behaviours and recruitment and selection practices programme.
This unprecedented result in travel apprenticeships puts ensure we treat people fairly and free from any discrimination.
the Company at the forefront of UK businesses recognised for an incredibly successful work-based learning Apprenticeship programme To support this further we launched Group-wide Diversity Principles in for school leavers.
Each year, more than 200 new school leavers are 2015.
We are committed to creating an inclusive working environment introduced into the business to complete a two-year programme in which each employee is able to fulfil their potential and maximise which leads to an NVQ Diploma in Travel Services: a Technical their contribution through training, career development and fair Certificate in Travel Geography and Functional Skills Qualification promotion regardless of personal characteristics.
The graphs below show the split at different levels within the organisation as at 30 September 2015: GENDER DIVERSITY Plc Board GMC TCLC TC Group % % % % 63 92 77 31 Male Male Male Male % % % % 38 8 23 69 Female Female Female Female FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
