SECTION HEAD STRATEGIC REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Minimising environmental impacts and footprints makes the Group more responsible, more profitable and more resilient.
The Groups approach to environmental sustainability A Word on Governance is deliberately nuanced between doing the right thing, leadership and maximising current opportunities for The Groups approach to sustainability works because commercial reward.
Directionally, the Group looks to work there is leadership from within the Divisions as well as by investing in the right behaviours as much as the right stewardship from the CEO.
This model allows integrated equipment and is instinctively collaborative.
It gets a return, decisions to be made and for sustainability to be managed right now, on its environmental investment as well as in much the same way as any other business priority.
making it more resilient in the future.
There are now better supply chain partnerships, resource efficiency and customer service.
The Groups work is The Group is not energy intensive, nor does it have based on a set of shared values and these have become a readymade end consumer audience from which to coded into its cornerstones.
It is useful to consider the understand better building requirements.
Its main role is material environmental issues within the context of these that of a distributer: positioned between builder and product cornerstones.
The five cornerstones are Making Decent manufacturer, with a large fleet of vehicles and a large Returns, Keeping People Safe, Upholding Family Values, logistics capability as well as global sourcing programme Working for our Customers and Being the Best.
and lots of small community based branches.
Making Decent Returns Engagement and Materiality How can the Group grow in size and yet shrink its The Group undertook a major check on its stakeholders in carbonemissions?
2015 as well as continuing with its valuable Non Executive Travis Perkins recognises that it must play its part in Environmental Advisory Panel and work with industry reducing carbon emissions to avoid dangerous climate bodies and non-governmental organisations NGO.
The Group has set itself the The check-up was refreshing, revealing and at the same target to reduce its carbon intensity tonnes of CO per 2 time reassuring.
Customers, colleagues, investors, suppliers, million pounds of sales by 28% by 2020 compared to academics, NGOs and regulators were polled and the Group 2013.
To do this, it must achieve what is in many ways the got some very clear messages.
holy grail of carbon emissions from business to continue to grow the business while at the same time reducing the The Groups environmental performance matters to them, Groups carbon footprint.
they want it to tackle wastefulness and Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions and absolutely see it involved in solutions Such a decoupling is entirely feasible.
Indeed, reducing for reducing construction and product impact across energy use makes sense economically as well as product life cycles.
A desire to be clearer about water environmentally, so is a major focus of attention for the impacts was also evident.
By using less electricity, heating oil, gas and vehicle fuel, it can reduce carbon emissions significantly.
In addition for every tonne of carbon, litre of diesel or kilowatt hour of electricity it does not use, there is a corresponding financial benefit that can work straight through to the bottom line.
The Group is making progress in several ways.
84 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Travis Perkins PLC CO e Emissions The Group is also working to increase its use of 2 50 renewable energy through solar panels.
Efforts to reduce Transport Ener y Combined tar et carbon emissions in the Groups head office began with engagement and behavioural change programmes to 37.5 ensure everyone is using energy more efficiently and contributing to saving carbon by switching lights and 19.5 21.1 19.2 computers off when not in use.
After ensuring everything 25 possible was being done to reduce consumption, solar panels, provided by one of the Groups own businesses, 28.5 12.5 Solfex, were installed to Ryehill House in Northampton in 17.8 18.6 16.2 2015, making it the first Travis Perkins office able to produce its own energy.
0 2013 2014 2015 2020 Travis Perkins is also making efforts to reduce energy use in Year its many branches.
Launched in 2014, the Constant Energy 2015 data is Office of National Statistics deflated figures.
It uses best available financial data at the time the report was produced.
Conversation challenges Wickes store managers and their 1 colleagues to think more actively about conserving energy.
Over half of the carbon emissions under the Groups Each store manager, deputy and key holder undertakes an direct control are from its transport fleet.
This is perhaps energy management e-learning course, leading to an energy not surprising given that it has the UKs biggest ownermanagement qualification from the Energy Managers operated fleet with around 4,000 vehicles on the road and Association.
During 2015, 57 members of staff completed responsibility for up to 9,000 drivers.
The Group has two the course.
Store managers who have completed course are main areas of focus for reducing fuel use and emissions encouraged to join the Wickes online energy community, from transport.
Through education and behaviour change, to continue the Constant Energy Conversation with their the Group has been able to reduce the emissions from colleagues throughout Wickes and the Travis Perkins Group.
The Group also trials and uses new technology so that further improvements in efficiency and Combined, these initiatives have helped to reduce the Groups economy can be achieved.
Ensuring that delivery routes overall tonnage of carbon emissions from 206,587 in 2014 are the most efficient possible helps reduce mileage and to 204,490 in 2015 including one notable achievement of an emissions, and the Group is looking at alternative fuels and 11% reduction in emissions from electricity use.
The table on has started trialling a new biogas powered tractor unit which page 86 outlines the performance in 2015 compared to the travels between Northampton and Wakefield.
An important aspect of the Travis Perkins energy strategy is to improve the lighting of its offices and stores through the installation of LED lamps.
Over 90 new stores were opened in 2015, all of which were fitted with LED lighting.
1 This report includes data for companies where Travis Perkins plc has operational control.
It excludes activities and data relating to the Mosaic Tile Company Limited 49%, Toolstation Europe Ltd 49%, Toriga Ltd 49% and Staircraft 15%.
Ryehill House, Northampton ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 85 Tonnes CO e per m of deated sales 2 STRATEGIC REPORT The Group has considered direct GHG emissions and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Scope 1 and Scope 1 and indirect GHG emissions Scope 2 from all 2 emissions are calculated using the UK Government 2 activities and operations where it has operational control Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2015.
of Scope 1 and 2 data is from measured sources with the remainder extrapolated from expenditure on fuel.
The Group has reported on all of the emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e Tonnes 2 Comparison year 2014 Reporting year 2015 Scope 1 Direct emissions from burning gas and solid fuel for heating and 132,295 138,859 4 from road fuel use for distribution Scope 2 74,292 65,631 Indirect emissions from the Groups use of electricity 5 Intensity Tonnes of Co e from scope 1 and 2 sources per million pounds of 37.24 35.42 2 inflation adjusted sales Can the Group Really Send Nothing to Landfill?
Supplying building materials on such a large scale means One way the Group is making progress is through its that there are many opportunities to improve waste partnership with Recipro a web-based exchange for management, increase recycling and recovery rates and surplus materials which allows surplus materials and minimise waste to landfill.
In 2015, the Group diverted dead stock from branches to be matched with local 42,767 tonnes of waste, resulting in a diversion rate of 88%.
community groups, charities and local schools who require However, as depicted in the graph, 2015 proved to be a building materials.
The partnership delivers notable benefits challenging year with an overall increase of waste generated to everyone involved: the Group can reduce waste sent to as result of a number of factors including the addition of landfill while community groups and charities can access approximately 48 new sites, including a new 700,000 quality materials at little cost.
square foot primary distribution centre, two new regional Travis Perkins waste partnership with SUEZ has also yielded distribution centres, closure of 3 distribution centres which some excellent results, with several technologies and involved disposing of unwanted damaged product and systems being used to move waste up the waste hierarchy improved data accuracy as a result of appointing a new and away from traditional landfill disposal.
principle is a circular economy in which all materials used As the Group approaches its goal of being a zero waste to make products are recycled or recovered back into the to landfill business by the end of 2017, finding ways to economic cycle.
improve increasingly requires imagination and creativity.
Another example is the long term partnership SUEZ has While the Group is fully committed to reducing waste and entered with CEMEX to supply solid recovered fuel SRF, reuse and recycling wherever possible it is aware that its as an alternative to coal, to its Rugby cement plant and to overall recycling rate remains lower than many of the major others across Europe.
A dedicated waste treatment SRF customers to which it supplies products.
The Group intends processing plant has been built by SUEZ next to the CEMEX to start looking closely at how they are achieving higher Rugby cement plant to supply the fuel, which is made recycling rates over 95% in some cases to see what it can from general waste.
Travis Perkins offices and stores in learn and apply to its own operations.
the Midlands region are now sending waste to the plant for processing into SRF.
2 F ugitive emissions from domestic refrigeration, vehicles and building air conditioning have been excluded in 2013 as they were not material to the Groups overall emissions.
3 10% of the energy data is estimated due to supplier data provision constraints.
4 Scope 1 CO e emissions include 27,907 tonnes from buildings and 110,951 tonnes from transport.
2 5 Carbon intensity is referenced to turnover, which is adjusted to allow for inflation, relative to baseline year.
86 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT Travis Perkins Waste Tonna e 10.0 Diverted from landll 7.0 Landll 8.9 5.0 7.5 6.1 2.0 1.5 1.2 0.9 0.0 2013 2014 2015 Year 2015 data is Office of National Statistics deflated figures.
A proportion of the Groups waste data is estimated.
Does Travis Perkins Water Footprint Really Matter?
Although the Group is not a water-intensive business, its Travis Perkins was one of the first, and remains one of operations nonetheless have a significant demand for water, relatively few, companies in the UK to voluntarily disclose ranging from water required for wash basins and toilets information on water risks and use to CDP formerly in offices and stores, to water used for cleaning its hire Carbon Disclosure Project.
One of the many benefits of equipment after use.
participating in CDPs water program is that it improves understanding of the Groups vulnerability to water-related Several of the Groups businesses offer hire solutions for risks.
For example, over 99% of Travis Perkins total water customers, creating a need to clean returned tools and 6 footprint comes from suppliers water use, so the Groups equipment after use and before being re-hired.
To help main challenge in the years ahead is to ensure its global reduce the water required, wash racks have been installed, supply chain is resilient to water shortages that could lead allowing equipment to be washed down in a secure unit, to temporary or permanent restrictions of certain products.
which both recycles water and prevents run-off.
Water passes through a series of filters and absorbent pads Analysis of the water impacts associated with the goods remove hazardous oils and sediments, before being stored and services that the Group procures see How can the in hazardous waste containers.
This results in the final water Group positively influence its suppliers?
section below being clean and safe and reducing any risk of polluted has helped reveal product categories that might require run-off entering drains and local rivers and watercourses.
increased water resilience in the future.
The Group is Initiatives such as this have helped reduce water also introducing an expectation that all suppliers in water consumption across the estate from 373,482 cubic metres intensive sectors will need to provide an Environmental in 2014 to 336,404 cubic metres in 2015.
Product Declaration EPD to quantify the water impact, among other environmental data.
How Does Environmental Performance Affect Travis Perkins Bottom Line?
Implementation of environmental improvement measures, as described in the previous sections, is not just good for the environment.
It also has a direct financial impact on the Group, which it quantifies each year to identify competitive advantage and improved profitability.
In 2015, environmental improvement measures accounted for over 7 million of savings.
Pete Clowsley - Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury 6 Vitalmetrics completed a supply chain screening exercise by product category, for further information please visit www.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 87 Tonnes of waste per m of yard sales and core sales STRATEGIC REPORT UPHOLDING FAMILY VALUES What does Travis Perkins do When Things go Wrong?
For a business as large and diverse as Travis Perkins, and The Group volunteered information about spillages that may despite continual improvements to site management have impacted local water quality eight times.
Of these, four policies and procedures, it is a huge challenge to eliminate were due to non-Group vehicle leakages on or near its sites.
All spillages were contained quickly thanks to continued good awareness and operating procedures.
All were small in The Group recorded eleven incidents in 2015 that, although nature involving hydraulic oil, diesel or paint.
The Group was minor, required a discussion with environmental regulators.
not prosecuted in 2015 for any environmental offences and Regulators contacted the Group about abandoned shopping there are no ongoing cases with any environmental regulator.
trolleys and littering on two isolated occasions.
It was also contacted about elevated sediment limits in its effluent at one site caused by its failure to empty the sites drain interceptor.
Travis Perkins Environmental Incidents and Complaints 60 Reportable incidents & complaints 13 45 Non-reportable incidents & complaints 11 11 12 30 40 15 28 27 10 0 2013 2014 2015 Tar et Year How can Travis Perkins Positively Influence its Suppliers?
The Group utilises over 9,000 suppliers, giving it the problems and to ensure that its environmental standards opportunity to positively influence the environmental are met.
In a few cases, stronger measures are sometimes awareness and performance across a diversified supply needed, and the Group is not afraid to take those steps.
The Travis Perkins Supplier Manual, updated in 2015, Over the last few years the Group has been working hard describes what the Group expects of them, and what they to better understand the energy, greenhouse gas, water and can expect of the Group.
waste performance of its suppliers, and to openly share A major initiative planned for 2016 is to better communicate and report that data.
The objective is to encourage more the Groups values to its suppliers in the form of clear cooperation between suppliers and to lead the way for policies and expectations.
This will include asking for more the UK building materials industry.
In 2014, Travis Perkins help with reducing resource and energy use, challenging commissioned VitalMetrics to undertake an extensive product design to lower lifetime impacts and asking for analysis of the greenhouse gas, water, energy and waste increased disclosure in the Groups most resource-intense impacts associated with the goods and services that it categories.
In 2015, this research was recognised by the USA Sustainable Purchasing Leadership Council SPLC, which The Group relies on 1,235 own-brand factories, operating in presented VitalMetrics with its Supplier Leadership Award.
51 countries, to supply goods to its businesses.
Assessing these factories technical and environmental performance The results of this research, completed in 2015, give the is extremely important, and thorough auditing procedures Group a comprehensive overview of the environmental are in place.
In 2015, 380 factories were visited and impacts of its supply chain.
For example, scope 3 carbon assessed.
Where issues were identified, either at the point emissions represent by far the largest share of the total of manufacture or when goods were received at the Groups carbon emissions of Group operations, accounting for 97% 7 central warehouse in the UK, positive action was taken.
Travis Perkins believes in working with suppliers to solve 7 V italmetrics completed a supply chain screening exercise by product category, for further information please visit www.
com 88 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Incidents & complaints Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT WORKING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Where does Travis Perkins Timber Come From?
Travis Perkins owns and manages one of the UKs largest ensures country-level traceability, with forest-level networks of sites that operate with Chain of Custody traceability for products for which the risk is deemed higher.
These controls allow business to pass responsible During 2015 Travis Perkins worked to increase the number sourcing assurances on to its customers.
of incidental timber suppliers who have Chain of Custody controls by offering them a discounted service, and by For over a decade the Group has been steadily increasing declining to do business with suppliers who have not.
the quantities of responsibly sourced material.
The creation and enhancement of habitats, biodiversity, landscapes, flood The Group is always open to working with organisations protection and carbon sinks is possible through responsible able to provide intelligence that helps inform purchasing forest management.
It has been a member of WWFs Global Forest and Trade Network GFTN in the UK since 2003.
All The Group procures timber from over 45 countries GFTN members are committed to progressively sourcing worldwide, and estimates that in 2015, 97% of the timber forest products from well managed sources.
In 2015, Travis purchased was Forest Stewardship Council FSC or Perkins was among the top performers of companies Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification assessed, achieving the maximum score of three trees.
When timber is imported, the Group Travis Perkins Timber and Timber Product Purchases 100% Other certied 0 13 16 FSC 18 75% 50% 96 84 81 75 25% 0% 2013 2014 2015 2017 Tar et Year ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 89 Timber purchased STRATEGIC REPORT currently being trialled.
When the Group delivers building How can Travis Perkins Contribute to a materials to a clients site, it takes back the resulting Low Carbon Built Environment?
packaging waste to one of its distribution centres recycling centres.
This allows it to make the most efficient use of As the need for new homes in the UK continues to increase, the return journeys of its fleet, making it easier for clients one of the key challenges will be ensuring those that are to recycle: all they need to do is separate different types of built are as energy efficient as possible.
As the biggest distributor of building materials in the UK, the Since 2012, Travis Perkins has also operated a kitchen Group is ideally placed to help improve the environmental and bathroom waste collection service for customers performance of new and existing homes and buildings requiring an installation project.
The scheme, introduced across the UK.
Because of this, it established Sustainable in partnership with Hippo, aims to ensure that waste from Business Solutions SBS in 2010 to provide integrated installations is appropriately disposed of and that a high solutions for low carbon construction, energy efficient percentage of it is diverted from landfill.
Depending on buildings and renewable energy projects.
the size and type of project, Wickes via Hippo will either Since its inception, SBS has adopted a fabric-first approach provide a van collection service or Hippo bags of the to developing and delivering products, recognising that appropriate size to be filled on site.
As a result, an estimated the first-and most important step in building low carbon 95% of the old kitchens are now being recycled rather than housing is to design in excellent heat retention, achieved by landfilled, with over 23,000 Wickes installation projects are good insulation.
More recently, SBS has also begun to offer expected to have benefitted from the service in 2015 alone.
renewable energy technologies to customers, including air In 2015 the Group launched a paint take-back scheme, and ground source heat pumps as well as solar in partnership with construction and property services panel solutions.
firm Willmott Dixon and recycled paint supplier Paint 360, to help reduce waste paint sent to landfill.
Through the Knowledge-sharing and technical services have been scheme, waste paint is collected directly by Paint 360, to added to the SBS offer and in 2015 the business introduced be recycled into new high quality paint ready for resale its Renewable Heat Incentive RHI e-learning modules.
This scheme embodies the This online training enables installers to meet their RHI principles of the circular economy, and shows how the installation requirements.
construction sector can shift to a model in which waste is Another important development during the year was the reduced and materials reused to save resources.
Groups acquisition of a majority stake in the Underfloor Heating Store.
The new business gives the Group access to online and retail customers, complementing its trade-only specialist supplier of solar heat, solar power, underfloor heating and heat pumps, Solfex Energy Solutions.
There are major opportunities for the Group to ensure that new, low carbon technologies are made more widely available throughout the construction industry.
SBS, Solfex and the Underfloor Heating Store all played an important role in 2015 in helping to deliver these solutions across a broad range of customer groups, underpinning the Groups commitment to sustainable construction.
How is Travis Perkins Taking Back What Customers Dont Want?
The construction industry produces around 100 million tonnes of waste annually, about a third of all waste produced in the UK.
As the biggest distributor of building materials in the UK, it makes sense that a certain amount of this waste relates to Travis Perkins packaging or surplus products.
In order to reduce construction waste, it is hence important that the Group is not only limiting its own waste, but that it uses its size and influence to help its customers improve their recycling rates too.
One way in which this can be achieved is through the waste take-back partnerships with major clients, which are 90 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT BEING THE BEST How is Travis Perkins Leading The Way?
The Group has a responsibility to operate and act in a way In 2015, the Groups new Omega Warrington Distribution that demonstrates leadership across all areas of business Centre was opened, which demonstrates best practice in including environmental performance.
many areas of environmental management and achieved a 8 BREEAM Very Good score.
Among the sustainable features For example, the Group supports the sharing of knowledge that allowed the building to attain this score are a series and expertise on sustainability through the Leadership of measures designed to reduce energy use and carbon Intelligence Club, a partnership between BRE and Sustain emissions, minimise water consumption and encourage Worldwide.
Created to pool expertise and insights from more sustainable travel habits.
industry leaders, the partnership identifies  issues of industry importance and drives The sustainable solutions implemented at Omega, such as a improvement in best practice.
rainwater harvesting system and solar panels not only help the Group reduce its impacts on the environment, but also The current research focus of the Leadership Intelligence lower the cost of running the building.
Several measures Club is the sustainable and resilient procurement of were also adopted to encourage more sustainable forms of materials and products in the construction industry.
By transport, including: charging points for electric cars, showers, being a member of this partnership Travis Perkins Group bike shelters and lockers for cyclists.
demonstrates its commitment to sustainability and to working towards a sustainable supply chain.
By sharing In 2015 Travis Perkins was a finalist for three Sustainability expertise and supporting a collaborative approach, the Group Leadership Awards, one relating to its customer waste also helps sustainable procurement solutions and practices partnership with Crest Nicholson, one for energy to spread more quickly across the industry.
management and another or carbon management.
8 The Buildings Research Establishments Environmental Assessment Methodology.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 91 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION Craig Sharples and Sharon Walrong - Travis Perkins plc, Warrington 92 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION GOVERNANCE & REMUNERATION 94 T he Board, Committees and advisers 98 Corporate governance report 104 Audit Committee report 110 Directors remuneration report 126 Nominations Committee report 128 Directors report 132 Statement of Directors responsibilities ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 93
