CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Committees role The Committee exists to support the Board in promoting ETHICS & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE within Tullow, and with people who work with Tullow, the importance of ethics and compliance.
This is to ensure the continued success and business integrity of the business and protect value as part of our risk management processes.
Ethics means the Tullow values and the culture that exists in the business to do things that are morally good and ethically sound.
Compliance means ensuring that we meet all the requirements of legislation within the business and specifically the UK Bribery Act.
The Committee supports and reinforces our commitment to being an ethical company and to providing extra assurance to our stakeholders that our policies and approach are adequate and effective.
Committees main responsibilities The Committees responsibilities are to: DEAR SHAREHOLDER Advise the Board on the development of strategy and Tullows good reputation for business integrity is one policies on ethical and compliance matters: of our most valuable assets.
A shift in sentiment Keep under review key ethical and compliance risks and could seriously impact our ability to operate, and monitor the effectiveness of respective mitigation loss of reputation is one of our key risks.
activities and controls: In 2015 we have strengthened our ability to promote Evaluate the ethical and compliance aspects of Tullows and monitor ethics and compliance throughout the culture and make recommendations to rectify any Group.
As part of the Major Simplification Project and deficiencies identified, with an emphasis on the example the consequent reshaping of the business, we replaced set by management and the senior leadership team: the existing Ethics & Compliance Committee with Oversee development and monitor implementation a formal Committee of the Board.
The Committee and effectiveness of the Code and other policies will support the Board and the business in protecting and standards in relation to ethics and compliance: and promoting Tullows core values, encouraging Make recommendations to the Board on approval strong ethical behaviour throughout the Company, of amendments to the Code and other policies and ensuring that we fully comply with all and standards mentioned above: relevant legislation.
Receive reports and review findings of significant internal and external investigations, audits and During its first year the Committee approved Tullows reviews regarding ethics and compliance policies revised Code of Ethical Conduct, and comprehensively and procedures: reviewed and challenged our investigation processes, and our culture of compliance, with positive results.
Liaise with and report to the Audit Committee on relevant standards and procedures, the adequacy We will not be complacent and look forward to building of systems to raise concerns and any significant on this progress in 2016. fraud or error reported to the Committee: and Review compliance performance across the Group Ann Grant based on monitoring, auditing and investigations data.
Chair of the Ethics & Compliance Committee The Committees terms of reference will be reviewed 9 February 2016 annually and can be accessed on the corporate website.
The Committee currently comprises two non-executive Directors, Ann Grant and Steve Lucas, and one Executive Director Ian Springett, who now has executive responsibility for Ethics & Compliance across the Group.
Ann Grant is Chair of the Committee and chaired all meetings throughout the year.
In addition to the core Committee members, the Chairman and functional heads from across the Group attended the meetings to contribute to specific agenda items and discussions.
Regular visiting attendees in 2015 included management team members from Ethics & Compliance, Legal, Organisation Strategy & Effectiveness and Internal Audit.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Committee activities during 2015 The Committee was briefed on and oversaw Ethics & 2015 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE Compliance initiatives across the Group during the year COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS which included: New structure and reporting lines Increasing the profile of the Ethics & Compliance Formation of Ethics & Compliance function with the Board and Executive: Board Committee Reviewing how Tullow leaders manage Ethics & New and improved Code of Ethical Conduct Compliance within their Business Units and functions Oversight of internal investigations and to improve compliance processes and to reflect best their closure practice and lessons learnt from internal investigations: Updating a number of standards, policies and Ethics & Compliance Committee membership procedures including those pertinent to expenditure Meetings out related to public officials: of a total Committee member possible Greater oversight and scrutiny of consultants who are Politically Exposed Persons PEPs : Ann Grant Chair 3 3 Steve Lucas 3 3 Considering Tullows ethics and compliance culture and its Tone from the Top through monitoring our Ian Springett 3 3 assurance processes, reviewing the whistle-blowing statistics and the outcomes of related investigations: Additional attendees who provide support and input to the Committee process include: the Chairman: Group Reviewing, providing feedback and ultimately approving Ethics & Compliance Manager: General Counsel: VP the revised Code of Ethical Conduct: and Organisation Strategy & Effectiveness: and Group Monitoring the response to internal investigations, Internal Audit Manager.
looking for trends in the findings, identifying any systemic issues and highlighting lessons learned.
Looking forward to 2016 Supporting the Ethics & Compliance Team in communicating and embedding the revised Ethics & Compliance strategy, including the new Business Integrity approach: Developing a process to review and assure the effectiveness of Tullow culture: and Reporting to the Board on Ethics & Compliance matters by using revised reporting tools.
