STRATEGIC REPORT RESPONSIBLE OPERATIONS IMPROVING OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE As a responsible operator, Tullow manages non-technical, and above-ground, risks with the same rigour and focus with which it manages the technical challenges of exploring for and producing oil and gas.
We drive continuous improvement in process and Process safety occupational safety, environmental and social performance, In 2015, Tullow carried out improvements to the health management, security, and the protection of human management of asset integrity on the Jubilee FPSO to rights, through clear policies, standards and guidelines.
ensure we were operating the facility in line with our These are reinforced by structured assurance activities commitment to the standard of the UK safety case regulatory and ongoing performance management.
We reviewed the physical facility, the processes and procedures used to run the FPSO, the organisational Our non-technical risk performance is measured through structure and the professional competencies of our staff, a KPI made up of our Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate as well as our approach to maintenance planning.
and 14 measures covering occupational and process safety, asset protection, health, environment, social performance We had a particular focus on the identification and operation and regulatory compliance.
of safety critical elements on the FPSO.
We found that in early 2015, we were taking too long to formally assure This KPI accounts for 10 per cent of Tullows Group compliance with operating specifications for a number scorecard for determining Executive Directors and of these safety critical elements, creating a backlog.
To employees performance related pay.
See pages 17-21 address this, we improved our planning and accelerated for more information.
In 2015, we achieved an overall work to manage the backlog.
performance of 7.3 per cent out of a possible 10 per cent for 2015.
During routine inspection activities a worker was exposed to carbon monoxide levels that resulted in hospitalisation.
Occupational health This was a high potential and IGP Tier 1 Process Safety For a second year in a row Tullow has reduced its Lost Time Incident.
The investigations identified many lessons Incident Frequency LTIF.
In 2015, we achieved a LTIF of including improved focus on planned sequencing of jobs, 0.30, which represents a 48 per cent improvement on our risk assessment and toolbox talks, the use of non-standard 2014 performance.
isolations and gas test requirements.
During 2015, two contracted drilling rigs one operating in The Board EHS Committee commissioned an audit of Ghana and the other in Kenya achieved two years without asset integrity during 2015 and found that many of the a Lost Time Incident LTI.
This is a good achievement given areas requiring improvement had been identified within the that both rigs are in challenging operating environments.
Business Unit and that plans were already being developed This performance reflects the combined efforts of Tullow, to rectify those weaknesses.
There were, however, areas our rig contractors, and all service providers.
requiring additional focus, including how we manage change on the facility and document management for safety critical Notwithstanding these improvements, we regret to report elements.
Action plans are now in place, which are the tragic death of two sub-contractors at the year end and monitored monthly by Senior Management.
The first involved a sub-contractor temporarily working on the Jubilee FPSO who had contracted malaria.
Climate change The second involved a TEN FPSO sub-contractor working Tullow acknowledges the global threat posed by climate for the main contractor responsible for the construction change and recognises the need to reduce greenhouse gas and commissioning of the TEN FPSO in the shipyard in GHG emissions.
Our activities and products contribute to Singapore.
In-depth investigations into both fatalities have climate change and we accept our responsibility to comply been carried out and specific actions have been identified with emerging climate change legislation and regulation, and implemented to further improve the accurate diagnosis and to reduce our GHG emissions as far as is reasonably and effective management of malaria symptoms and our practical through appropriate voluntary initiatives.
oversight of control of work.
Demand for energy is forecast to grow, and we expect fossil fuels to continue to play a role in the global energy mix over 46 Tullow Oil plc 2015 Annual Report and Accounts % of total man hours 1 the coming decades.
We also expect new policies, laws and Human rights regulations aimed at reducing emissions of GHGs, and we Tullow is committed to respecting internationally will adopt a business strategy that responds to these recognised human rights, as set out in the Universal developments.
As an Africa-focused company, we will Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration continue to support our host Governments and communities across our operations.
as they seek to use oil revenues to fight poverty and to At the end of 2015, Tullow Kenya conducted an promote sustainable, inclusive economic development.
externally-led review of our performance in Kenya against Tullow will aim to minimise GHG emissions both in project the requirements of the Voluntary Principles on Security design and in our operations, and adopt a business strategy and Human Rights VPSHR, which Tullow works to meet that is responsive to legal and regulatory developments across our global operations.
The audit reviewed Tullows designed to address climate arrangements with private change.
We will also security providers, who do maintain transparency in not carry firearms, as well We made significant progress in 2015 in our our performance reporting as the Kenya National Police performance in Responsible Operations with a and align our activities Service KNPS.
with the actions that our reduction in our Lost Time Incident Frequency The audit found there host Governments take Rate and improvements across a had been good progress in to manage climate change.
efforts to train both private Tullows Group total scope 1 security providers and KNPS emissions, which in 2015 staff on the requirements included gas and diesel from of the VPSHR and concluded our offices as well as emissions from our operations, that the training was delivering results.
Several opportunities 1 were 752,539 tonnes CO e 2014: 799,551 tonnes CO e for improvement were noted in the review, including 2 2 and 122.07 tonnes of CO e per 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon the reporting of security related community grievances.
2 produced 2014: 123.84 tonnes CO e. Total scope 2 We have also been working towards a formal Memorandum 2 emissions were 4,631 tonnes of CO e 2014: 4,173 tonnes of Understanding covering how Tullow and the Kenyan 2 of CO e and 0.75 tonnes of CO e per 1,000 tonnes of Government will jointly implement the VPSHR for some 2 2 hydrocarbon produced 2014: 0.64.
Full details of years, but this has not yet been achieved.
Getting this in our Basis of Reporting can be found online.
place remains a priority as the project approaches the development phase.
Water use in East Africa Securing the water we need for development in East Africa Emergency and crisis management will be a challenge for Tullow, especially in the Turkana Tullow conducted tests of its three tier Crisis Management region of Kenya.
The design figure for the maximum amount System during 2015.
The system was also tested in real time 3 of water needed for full field development is 24,000 m day.
in Ghana this year when our Accra offices were flooded As part of pre-development planning for our projects in during some extreme weather.
Despite challenges across Turkana, we are considering a number of options, both the city, Tullow was able to resume full operations within underground and surface, for water sourcing and 24 hours.
A number of lessons were learned from this management, with more detailed planning due to take emergency and our approach to business continuity place in 2016.
We are committed to working with national, planning will be a focus area for 2016. county and local government and all stakeholders in coming up with the best sourcing option for the development.
Group total air emissions breakdown has been restated because of a previously understated proportion of methane in vented gas from the Jubilee FPSO.
LOST OR REDUCED MAN HOURS RESULTING FROM CO E EMISSIONS PER 1,000 TONNES OF 2 COMMUNITY RELATED OPERATION STOPPAGES HYDROCARBON PRODUCED 20,000 4 261 98 100 124 122 300 250 15,000 3 200 10,000 2 150 100 5,000 1 50 0 09Y 11Y 11 12Y 12 13Y 13 14Y 14 15Y 15 0 0 0 09Y Jan 11Y12Y Feb 13Y Mar 14Y Apr 15Y May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Scope 1 CO e Scope 2 CO e 2 2 lost reduced man hours resulting from community stoppages % lost reduced man hours compared to total man hours Kenya % lost reduced man hours compared to total man hours Group www.
com 47 lost reduced man hours
