SOCIETY WE NEED TRANSFORMATIONAL World leaders met in Paris in December The consequences of this agreement go 2015 for the UN Framework Convention far beyond the actions of governments CHANGE FOR THE GOOD OF on Climate Changes 21st Conference of alone.
The impact will be felt in banks, SOCIETY AND BUSINESS.
The result was a stock exchanges, boardrooms and 2015 proved to be a pivotal year, with historic agreement supported by an research centres as the world absorbs the groundbreaking global agreements reached unprecedented movement of private sector fact that a unique project to decarbonise on both climate change and development.
The new legal agreement to tackle the global economy has begun.
To realise the ambition zero carbon, zero climate change is supported by plans from Previously, in 2014 we identified four areas poverty will require the private sector, every country to reduce emissions and a for action where we want to see sectorgovernment and civil society to go beyond range of commitments from companies, wide transformation: eliminating business as usual, working in partnership investors, cities and regions.
deforestation: sustainable agriculture and to achieve change at scale.
Unilever worked with the World Business improving livelihoods: access to clean In September 2015, the United Nations Council for Sustainable Development drinking water, sanitation and hygiene: adopted 17 Sustainable Development Goals WBCSD, World Economic Forum WEF, and womens empowerment.
Essential to SDGs a roadmap to 2030 that will require UN Global Compact and We Mean Business delivering change in these areas are the concerted action and partnership between Coalition to encourage companies to step Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP, governments, civil society and business.
up their efforts to address climate change which sits at the heart of our business in their own operations.
Speaking in Paris model, our Sustainable Living brands that Unilever has been an early leader on the at an event hosted by the UN Secretary bring the USLP to life, and global coalitions SDGs through both the UN High-level Panel General and President Hollande of France, and partnerships that take it to scale.
and our engagement with the UN Global our CEO Paul Polman urged business Compact LEAD group of sustainability leaders to continue to deliver positive ELIMINATING DEFORESTATION leaders.
We also partnered with Global momentum.
Unilever led by example and As part of our commitment on climate Citizen and Project Everyone, campaigning announced ambitious targets to be carbon change, Unilever is working to help end organisations focused on motivating young positive in its own operations by 2030. deforestation, which accounts for up to people about sustainability, to raise public 15% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
As the world We have made good progress on our looks towards the implementation of the sustainable sourcing and deforestation SDGs, we are supporting the recently agendas by working in collaboration with established Global Commission on Business an increasing number of growers, traders, and Sustainable Development which seeks manufacturers and retailers who have all to work with business leaders across pledged to rid their supply chains of sectors to broaden support for marketdeforestation.
ALL PALM OIL IN OUR EUROPEAN AND AUSTRALIAN SOURCING PALM OIL SUSTAINABLY FOOD BUSINESSES IS TRACEABLE TO CERTIFIED The Sei Mangkei palm oil processing PLANTATIONS plant in Indonesia, opened in 2015, is creating a more traceable and certified supply chain for our palm oil derivatives and reducing process steps.
THE NEW PLANT GENERATES 400 JOBS DIRECTLY AND MANY MORE INDIRECTLY.
100% Close to 100% of palm oil sourced for Sei Mangkei is fully traceable.
24 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 AS THE WORLDS LIPTON TEA 100% RAINFOREST ALLIANCE CERTIFIED LARGEST TEA COMPANY WE ARE SETTING STANDARDS In 2015 Unilever reached the landmark of having all tea in its Lipton teabags sourced from Rainforest Alliance certified estates after an eight-year investment programme.
THE SECURITY OF OUR SUPPLY HAS INCREASED WHILE LIVELIHOODS HAVE BEEN ENHANCED.
In March 2015, we announced that all palm as we strive to reach our sustainable Addressing hunger is also about reducing oil bought for our European and Australian sourcing targets and improve the food waste.
A third of food calories food businesses is traceable to certified livelihoods of those in our supply chain produced are never eaten.
To combat this, plantations, a crucial milestone towards and surrounding communities.
Working in Unilever helped shape the Consumer our aim of eliminating deforestation.
global partnerships, we have identified a Goods Forum pledge, working alongside number of crops and countries that require the World Resources Institute, to halve food Going beyond that, our new palm oil targeted, integrated action to improve waste by 2025 within member company processing plant in Sei Mangkei, sustainable agricultural practices, link operations, and reduce food waste among Indonesia, underwent testing in 2015 and smallholders to our markets, address food consumers and through the supply chain.
It nutrition gaps, improve business skills and To help achieve this, we have a new represents a US$130 million investment provide finance.
partnership with the Global Foodbank and will source palm oil from known and Network allowing us to redirect food certified sources for our global use.
In support of this approach, we formed that is still fit to be consumed.
Also, a number of new partnerships.
In 2015, In addition, we are working with the Climate Unilever is supporting the Champions Unilever, Acumen and the Clinton Giustra Policy Institute and IDH in Indonesia to 12.3 coalition that seeks to tackle food Enterprise Partnership CGEP launched create a long-term landscape management loss and waste.
Our CEO, Paul Polman, the Enhanced Livelihoods Investment plan to help smallholders sustainably is a champion along with other business Initiative to improve the livelihoods of as improve their yields and livelihoods.
leaders and representatives from civil many as 300,000 smallholder communities society and government.
At the same time, almost all our paper and across Africa, South Asia, Latin America board across our supply chain came from and the Caribbean.
It is a three-year BETTER HEALTH AND HYGIENE certified sustainably managed forests or US$10 million investment plan to spur THROUGH HANDWASHING, CLEAN from recycled material by the end of 2015. economic growth by backing private WATER AND SANITATION enterprises which link smallholders to We aim to help improve the health and CHAMPIONING SUSTAINABLE Unilevers global supply chain and well-being of more than 1 billion people AGRICULTURE AND IMPROVING distribution networks.
As part of this ambition, we are LIVELIHOODS In 2015, Unilever and the Global Alliance focusing on improving access to safe Our ambition is for sustainable approaches for Improved Nutrition GAIN created drinking water, sanitation and hygiene to agriculture to become mainstream and a Nutrition Intervention Program which facilities WASH which underpin healthy to improve the livelihoods of smallholder aims to improve the health and nutrition of and productive lives.
This supports SDG 2 End Hunger.
Its aim is to reach Smallholder farmers and family farms smallholder farmers, from helping them produce 70% of the worlds food.
Working to diversify their diets to providing better with these producers is critical for Unilever information on nutrition.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 25 SOCIETY CONTINUED With our global reach, portfolio of At the same time, in India we have launched International PSI, Amsterdam Initiative WASH-related brands and experience Clean India, Clean habits.
This is a mass against Malnutrition AIM and Bottom in changing behaviour, we are helping media, behaviour change programme of the Pyramid Institute, we are creating to deliver progress on SDG 6 Ensure designed to promote the use of toilets and inclusive distribution models empowering sustainable access to water and sanitation the importance of handwashing and safe women to improve their livelihoods, for all and develop the market solutions drinking water practices.
The initiative teaching them basic job skills and driving which will transform WASH provision.
aims to reach 75 million people by 2019 life-changing behavioural change in For instance, in 2015 Lifebuoy secured in support of the Governments Swachh their communities.
funding from the Childrens Investment Bharat Abhiyan Clean India Mission.
A specific issue for women in many Fund Foundation CIFF to roll out our countries is the burden of collecting water, Lifebuoy School of Five hygiene education EMPOWERING WOMEN which takes an estimated 200 million hours programme in rural Bihar, plus funding Women make up a large number of our a day.
Our Sunlight brand, with WaterAid, from the UK Department for International consumers and 32% of our workforce, Oxfam and NextDrop, published a major Development DFID to reach children but many still face discrimination and report in 2015 on the problem.
It revealed in Bangladesh and Pakistan.
There is a strong why the interlinkages between water, partnerships have committed to reaching human rights and business case for sanitation and gender equality must be almost 10 million children by 2020 with helping to reverse this.
Empowering recognised by governments, civil society life-saving education about handwashing women could be one of the biggest levers and businesses.
of transformational change and SDG 5 Gender Equality is an enabler across We are also supporting the UN Women To extend our reach and impact, we have all the SDGs.
HeForShe IMPACT 10x10x10 movement joined with CGEP and DFID to launch a which engages 10 key IMPACT champions new partnership named Transform.
The According to international advocacy from government, business and academia initiative will identify and fund new social organisation Women Deliver, women including our CEO Paul Polman to enterprises that help realise the SDGs, re-invest 90% of their income in their drive change from the top.
Each IMPACT initially focusing on bringing innovative families, so including more women in champion has pledged to make gender WASH solutions to market.
Overall, the the economic cycle will have a positive equality an institutional priority, committing Transform plan aims to improve the health impact on growth and the progress of to real change within and beyond their and well-being of 100 million people by families and communities.
2025 through job creation, improving Unilever is committed to improving womens incomes and providing support to marketIn summary, the groundbreaking rights, skills and opportunities.
We aim to based solutions.
We are also deepening our agreements of 2015 set a new climate empower women across our value chain: existing partnership.
We are in the fourth and development framework that sends a from smallholder farmers and distributors year of a partnership between Domestos signal to businesses and investors that will to consumers.
We want to leverage the full and UNICEF, which helps individuals gain drive real change in the global economy.
Unilever footprint to drive systemic change improved access to toilets.
Much more needs to be done but we have and achieve gender equality.
now passed a tipping point as the world Through a range of global partnerships has recognised that delivering social and including the CGEP, Population Services environmental benefits will provide a positive opportunity for businesses with purpose to win in the 21st century.
THE OMO BRAND GREW 15% SAVING WATER IN BRAZIL 229 billion litres The campaign helped Brazil save IN UNDERLYING a potential 229 billion litres of water.
SALES DURING THE WATER CAMPAIGN PERIOD In 2015, Omo launched #1RinseIsEnough, a successful education campaign to help consumers save water in Brazil during the countrys worst water shortage, helping the brand grow at nearly double the market rate.
THE CAMPAIGN DOUBLED VISITORS TO THE OMO WEBSITE WITH A 290% INCREASE IN DWELL TIME.
26 26 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
