REPORT OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE MEETINGS Meetings are held quarterly and ad hoc as required.
The Committee ATTENDANCE Chairman reports the conclusions to the Boards.
Four meetings were held in 2015.
Taking into account the Committees terms of Louise Fresco 4 4 reference, Unilevers corporate risks and the priorities the Chair Committee sets itself for the year, the Committee works to a structured agenda, enabling members to focus in detail on the Laura Cha 3 4 responsibilities assigned to them.
Feike Sijbesma Member since April 2015 1 2 The agenda covers Unilevers Code of Business Principles the This table shows the membership of the Committee together with their Code, litigation and investigations as well as occupational safety, attendance at meetings during 2015.
If Directors are unable to attend product safety and quality, the USLP and corporate reputation as a meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda well as a range of strategic and current issues.
items with the Committee Chair.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to be attended.
CODE OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES The Code and associated Code Policies set out the standards of conduct expected of employees.
Compliance with them is an HIGHLIGHTS OF 2015 essential element in ensuring Unilevers continued business success.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Review of Unilevers Code of Business Principles and implementing these principles, supported by the Global Code and Responsible Sourcing Policy Policy Committee which is chaired by the Chief Legal Officer.
Milestones on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Launch of first human rights report The Committee is responsible for the oversight of the Code and Code Policies, ensuring that they remain fit for purpose and are appropriately applied.
The Audit Committee also considers the PRIORITIES FOR 2016 Code as part of its remit to review risk management.
Compliance, particularly social compliance, by third parties The Committee maintains close scrutiny of the mechanisms for Progress on the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP compliance with the Code and Code Policies as ongoing compliance Corporate reputational risk assessment is essential to promote and protect Unilevers values and standards, and hence the good reputation of the Group.
At each meeting the Committee reviews the completion of investigations TERMS OF REFERENCE into non-compliance with the Code and Code Policies and is alerted The Corporate Responsibility Committee oversees Unilevers to any trends arising from such non-compliance.
conduct as a responsible multinational business.
The Committee is also charged with ensuring that Unilevers reputation is In addition, the Committee keeps a close watch on compliance with protected and enhanced.
A central element of the Committees role Unilevers Responsible Sourcing Policy for suppliers and its new is the need to identify any external developments that are likely to Responsible Business Partner Policy for third parties.
By initiating have an influence upon Unilevers standing in society and to bring a new policy specifically for business partners such as these to the attention of the Boards.
distributors, Unilever is making a step change in its compliance approach.
Unilever piloted the Responsible Business Partner The Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors: Louise Policy in a number of countries during 2015.
Fresco, who chairs the Committee, Laura Cha, and Feike Sijbesma, who was appointed to the Committee on 30 April 2015.
SAFETY The Chief Marketing & Communications Officer attends the The Committee reviews quarterly scorecard analyses of progress Committees meetings.
on occupational safety and product safety.
These scorecards are The Committees discussions are informed by the perspectives complemented by regular in-depth discussions so that Committee of the Groups two sustainability leadership groups, both of which members may reassure themselves that Unilevers systems and are chaired by the Chief Marketing & Communications Officer.
The first is the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan Council a group Occupational safety remains a priority for Unilever.
The Committee of experts from outside the Group who advise Unilevers senior welcomed Unilevers increased focus on road safety, especially leadership on its sustainability strategy.
The second is the Unilever the ban on using mobile phones and other electronic devices Sustainable Living Plan Steering Team the group of Unilevers while driving.
senior executives who are accountable for driving sustainable growth.
The insights from these groups help to keep the Boards The ban was introduced because mobile phone use is considered informed of current and emerging trends and any potential risks one of the leading causes of vehicle accidents worldwide.
Research shows that drivers using mobiles even hands-free are four times more likely to be involved in an accident.
And 90% During 2015 the Committee reviewed its terms of reference of of road deaths happen in developing and emerging countries, the the Committee and, on the recommendation of the Committee, same regions in which Unilever is seeking to grow its business.
the Boards approved minor changes to the terms.
Between 2007 and 2015, car accidents were the main cause The Committees terms of reference and details of the Unilever of death and life-changing injuries to employees and members Sustainable Living Plan Council are available on our website at of the public.
com corporategovernance and The ban came into effect in July 2015 and was supported by the www.
campaign Motor On, Mobile Off to alert employees to the new mandatory safety practice.
The Committee will continue to scrutinise this area to ensure risks are mitigated.
62 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN USLP MONITORING REPUTATION Unilevers Purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace and A global business working in many countries comes across the USLP is at the heart of Unilevers vision to accelerate growth in numerous issues in its everyday operations.
It is crucial therefore the business whilst reducing its environmental footprint and that the Committee seeks regular briefings on the systems and increasing its positive social impact.
processes in place for managing issues.
The Committee requests an annual summary of the most material issues Unilever is dealing But Unilever recognises that change needs to be driven on with, which in 2015 included issues such as climate change, food a wider scale to tackle the worlds major social, environmental and beverage taxes, the responsible use of technology and human and economic issues what is needed is fundamental and labour rights.
Compliance with Unilever standards, including transformational change to broader systems.
To this end, social compliance by third parties, and vigilance on Unilevers Unilever is combining its own actions with external advocacy on standing in society will continue to be a priority for the Committee public policy and joint working with partners, focusing on three in 2016. areas where it has the scale, influence and resources to make a difference: eliminating deforestation: sustainable agriculture and Given the Committees role in ensuring Unilevers reputation is smallholder farmers: and water, sanitation and hygiene.
In all well managed, it can also seek independent views on how Unilever these areas, empowering women is crucial to eradicating poverty is perceived in society.
One of the major annual surveys of and accelerating development.
reputation in sustainability is conducted by the research agency Globescan.
Its methodology draws on the views of over 800 Given its strategic importance, the Committee monitors progress sustainability experts across more than 80 countries.
It reveals against the USLP and any potential risks arising from it and the that an increasing number of them see that corporate leadership Groups transformational change agenda that could affect in sustainable development is mainly driven by making Unilevers reputation.
sustainability part of the companys core business model.
38% of respondents said that Unilever is integrating sustainability into its EMBEDDING SUSTAINABLE LIVING INTO THE BUSINESS business strategy, putting it well ahead of others in this respect.
In July the Committee was briefed on two important workstreams to further embed sustainable living into the business to drive LITIGATION REVIEW growth.
The first is the development and piloting of a structured The Chief Legal Officer reports to the Committee on litigation and approach to defining the business case for sustainability.
This regulatory matters which may have a reputational impact including simple framework seeks to quantify four primary value drivers for environmental issues, bribery and corruption compliance and the business more growth, lower costs, less risk, more trust competition law compliance.
For further information on legal and is intended to provide strategic input into business planning proceedings please see note 20 on page 131. across categories and functions.
The second is a methodology for defining Sustainable Living brands which enables brands to EVALUATION OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY generate a systematic view of their progress across social and COMMITTEE environmental factors.
As part of the internal Board evaluation carried out in 2015, the Boards evaluated the performance of the Committee.
FIRST HUMAN RIGHTS REPORT The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own In 2014, the Enhancing Livelihoods pillar of the USLP was performance in 2015.
Whilst overall the Committee members expanded with new commitments covering fairness in the concluded that the Committee is performing effectively, the workplace, opportunities for women and inclusive business.
Committee has agreed to further enhance its effectiveness by The promotion of human rights across Unilevers value chain holding further knowledge sessions on topics such as assessing is an important component in these commitments and the the impacts of the USLP.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee welcomed the publication of Unilevers inaugural will maintain its independent view of Unilever, and will keep this human rights report in June.
view centre-stage in its critique of the Groups reputation and The new UN Guiding Principles Reporting Framework provides standing in society.
comprehensive guidance for businesses to report how they are implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Unilever was the first to adopt the new principles and the Louise Fresco first to produce a detailed, stand-alone report using the Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee framework.
Enhancing Livelihoods, Advancing Human Rights Laura Cha outlines Unilevers objectives to respect human rights and to Feike Sijbesma actively promote them across all areas of the business.
The report highlights Unilevers work to empower women, Further details on the USLP can be found in Unilevers online Sustainable progress in the fight against sexual harassment, and the steps to Living Report 2015, to be published in April 2016. address health and safety issues across the supply chain.
It also describes key areas of focus for the future, which include human www.
com sustainable-living rights issues beyond first-tier suppliers and continuing collaboration with other organisations in order to influence systemic change.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 63
