IMPROVED SALES Breyers has reversed five years of declining sales by completing the launch of Gelato Indulgences and a new Quality Pledge across the brand, which includes a platform of sustainable sourcing.
DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS THE FOLLOWING PAGES HIGHLIGHT HOW UNILEVER HAS PERFORMED FOR THE BENEFIT OF OUR CONSUMERS, WIDER SOCIETY, OUR PEOPLE AND OUR SHAREHOLDERS IN 2015.
OUR CONSUMERS Working in partnership with the UN, The economic uncertainties consumers governments, NGOs, our suppliers and have faced showed few signs of abating others, we are helping to lead the changes in 2015.
But despite the tough backdrop that society needs and that our company consumers revealed more clearly than ever will benefit from in the long term.
their growing preference for brands they pages 24 to 27 can trust.
Although consumption continues to be linked to some of the worlds gravest OUR PEOPLE problems deforestation, climate change, Our clear Purpose is something that water scarcity, malnutrition or unhealthy Unilever people can engage with and help diets consumer tastes and preferences make a reality every day.
Bringing that are clearly moving towards products that Purpose to life and making our vision a are authentic, sourced sustainably and reality requires us to recruit and retain manufactured in a responsible way.
people of the highest quality.
We want to All our categories are focused on addressing help all our people be the best they can, to these challenges and opportunities with realise their potential and the potential of innovations that provide consumers with the the business.
Training and development products they want, with the benefits they are crucial for all and we strive to create need and the trust they demand.
a working environment that respects the human rights and interests of all our pages 20 to 23 employees and embeds gender equality as a fundamental part of our approach.
SOCIETY 2015 witnessed major steps forward pages 28 to 31 both in Unilevers core Purpose of making sustainable living commonplace and in the OUR SHAREHOLDERS transformational change at a societal level We aim to deliver the best possible needed to tackle the worlds major social, operational performance from the EDUCATION PROGRAMMES environmental and economic problems.
business to deliver maximum returns Through our USLP we are The Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP to our shareholders over the long term.
committed to enhancing continued to have significant impact across The financial performance that results livelihoods.
With our Partner all three of its core goals of improving health is based on growth that is consistent, to Win, Symrise, we are helping and well-being, reducing environmental competitive, responsible and profitable.
3,300 vanilla farmers and their impact and enhancing livelihoods.
communities in Madagascar How we manage our portfolio of assets and with secondary education and All these specific activities came against the our finances is an important contributor agricultural training that will background of two significant developments to shareholder returns and reflects how secure sustainable vanilla on a global scale the launch of the 17 the business is adapting to meet changing supplies for Breyers and many United Nations Sustainable Development consumer preferences and volatility more other Unilever brands.
Goals and the UN Paris COP21 conference broadly in our markets.
on climate change, the largest ever held.
pages 32 to 34 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report 19
