Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability Corporate and social responsibility Ultra believes that a successful and sustainable business is built on more than just financial results.
Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its commitments.
Ultra is committed to maintaining high Ultras ethics code can be found within Ultras INDEPENDENT ETHICS OVERVIEW COMMITTEE standards of business ethics as part of being a Policy Statement on Ethics and Business The Ethics Overview Committee was formed responsible business.
The Group endeavours Conduct along with as its policies on antito provide independent advice and scrutiny of to uphold the rights of its employees as well corruption and bribery, competition compliance Ultras business activity, giving assurance that as creating an honest and transparent and gifts and corporate hospitality.
All of these the Groups current and planned undertakings business both internally and externally.
The policies can be found on the Group website: are conducted in a manner consistent with Groups corporate responsibility initiatives are http: www.
com aboutthe legislative environment and are focused in the following key areas: us .
The Committee comprises six permanent members, three of whom, Human rights including the Chairman, are independent.
The Group recognises and respects the rights of its employees and all stakeholders and the To maintain the highest degree of impartiality, communities that it encounters.
As such, Ultra the independent members of the Committee adheres to all relevant government guidelines, are self-selecting with the appointment of designed to ensure that its products are not the Chairman exclusively within the remit of incorporated into weapons or other equipment the independent members.
The Committee used for the purposes of terrorism, internal meets quarterly and provides assurance that repression or the abuse of human rights.
Ultras Ultras business is being conducted in line Board requires that the Group should, at all with the Groups policies, processes and times, be a responsible corporate citizen and, relevant legislation.
This is ascertained as such, the Group complies with all applicable through discussions with senior managers, legislation in the countries in which it operates.
PROVIDING GUIDANCE AND TRAINING receiving reports and visiting Ultras In 2016, the Company will review its supply TO EMPLOYEES businesses.
During these reviews, the chain management processes in light of the The Group continues to promote and Committee undertakes a formal review of Modern Slavery Act 2015 and publish a slavery strengthen its policies, processes and training business activities and the independent and human trafcking statement on the to ensure employees have the clear guidance members provide advice and guidance on the Companys website.
they need in identifying and managing appropriateness of target markets and ethical matters.
customers and on potential teaming partners.
Ethical business conduct The Committee also considers the reports that Ultra is committed to ethical business conduct.
Ultra uses EthicsPoint in all of its businesses.
EthicsPoint is Group-wide independent, MEETING LEGAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS condential weband telephone-based Ultra requires all employees, businesses and hotline, which enables all employees to third parties, who act on Ultras behalf, to report concerns anonymously about possible comply with the applicable laws and improprieties and other compliance issues.
regulations of the countries in which it does business.
All reports registered through EthicsPoint are reviewed and responded to in a timely and Ultra is committed to operating in appropriate manner.
The responsibility for accordance with all legislative requirements, handling reports rests with Ultras Senior, including those pertaining to anti-bribery and Independent Non-Executive Director with the corruption practices, competition and antiexception of US security related issues that are trust laws and relevant national export routed to the Chairman of the Security control regulations.
Committee of either Ultra's Special Security Ultra has a corporate ethics code, which Agreement company or Ultra's Proxy Board encompasses a gifts and hospitality policy.
No retaliatory All Ultra businesses are required to report on action is taken against employees for making compliance with the corporate ethics code reports in good faith through EthicsPoint.
Any monthly and the Board reviews compliance employee found to be in breach of the Policy with the code twice a year.
Statement on Ethics and Business Conduct is subject to appropriate disciplinary action.
Introduction 50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability Corporate and social responsibility continued Diversity and inclusion Disabled employees The reportable recordable accident rate is These values are embedded into the Applications for employment by disabled shown in Figure 1.
Lost time accident data organisation to ensure each business is truly people are always fully considered, bearing in per 200,000 hours has been recorded for the representative of the environment in which it mind the aptitude of the applicant concerned.
whole Group since 2010 and is shown in operates.
It is essential to the Group that all In the event of a member of staff becoming Figure 2. employees feel fairly treated and are not disabled, every effort is made to ensure that The reportable recordable accident rate per discriminated against in any way.
To enable this, their employment with the Group continues employee for 2015, remained steady at 0.52%.
Ultra complies with all applicable employment and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is rights and legislation in the countries in which it the policy of the Group that the training, Figure 1 operates.
In addition the Group is strongly career development and promotion of Reportable recordable accidents committed to maintaining a work environment disabled people should, as far as possible, be per employee % which provides equal opportunities for all identical to that of other employees.
employees, regardless of nationality, gender, 2015 0.52 Health and safety ethnic background, sexual orientation, religious The health and safety and well-being of the 2014 0.51 beliefs, marital status, disability or age.
Groups employees and visitors is of the 2013 0.77 upmost importance to Ultra.
A healthy, Board of Directors committed and engaged workforce, working Female 14 2012 1.06 in a safe environment, is necessary to achieve Male 86 2011 1.14 superior business results.
The businesses % of gender diversity manage a wide range of safety risks, from ofce and manufacturing employees to Figure 2 employees providing services at customer Lost time accidents sites, including military bases and platforms.
Executive team per 200,000 hours The Group is committed to upholding and Female 34 improving health and safety across the Group 2015 0.38 and engages in continuous safety Male 66 2014 0.27 improvement activities.
% of gender diversity The safety of the products and services provided 2013 0.45 to users and customers is a key priority to Ultra.
2012 0.56 Each business ensures the appropriate legal and ethical levels of safety are met across a products 2011 0.34 Senior management life cycle, with particular emphasis on the Female 12 manufacturing, in-service and disposal phases.
Male 88 Environment All operating businesses are required to have Ultra is committed to putting effective % of gender diversity a written health and safety policy, which is to measures in place to minimise the be upheld at all times.
Within each business, environmental impact of its activities.
This is Managing Directors and Presidents are important both for its employees and the responsible for health and safety and for All of Ultra Electronics communities in which it operates, as it will help providing adequate resource to meet the Female 27 to secure the long-term future of the Group.
requirements of the health and safety policy.
These measures include both the operational Male 73 Independent external audits, which take place business environment and the products and biennially, assess compliance.
Overall health % of gender diversity services that the Group provides.
and safety responsibility at Board level resides with the Chief Executive.
PRODUCTS Environmental considerations are taken into Each business is required to submit an annual account throughout a products life cycle, report on health and safety performance.
from concept through to disposal: each Ultra uses rigorous recruiting practices to Annually the Board receives a report which individual business ensures its practices and ensure the best candidate is selected, based summarises the health and safety performance processes consider this.
Businesses work with on objective requirements and assessments.
their suppliers to reduce the impact of their Ultra monitors gender and age diversity.
products and to maximise the use of  components.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Total tonnes of CO2 emitted by all Ultra businesses Total tCO2 scope 1 16% Total tCO2 scope 2 84% Ultra ensures the full co-operation of all The Group continues to address energy Ultras Greenhouse gas emissions employees to minimise environmental impact conservation and emissions.
Energy tonnes of CO2 tCO2 and maximise the conservation of materials.
consumption is measured annually and the Total tCO2 emitted by all data compared with previous years.
OPERATIONAL Ultra businesses 19,094 The Chief Executive is the main Board As part of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Total tCO2 from Ultras business member with overall environmental CRC programme Ultra, in the UK, is activities scope 1 3,018 responsibility and the Managing Directors registered with the Environment Agency.
The Total tCO2 purchased and Presidents of the operating businesses Groups compliance emissions reported for by Ultra scope 2 16,076 are responsible for the implementation of the 2014 15 were 8,178t CO2.
performance data is shown in Figure 4.
Ultras annual emissions in relation to Ultras business Ultras formal environmental policy addresses Figure 4 activities shown as tCO2 compliance with environmental legislation, Total tonnes of CO2 emitted per m of revenue 26.29 conformity with standards for air, waste t m sales disposal and noise, the economical use of Methodology materials and the establishment of Total CRC emissions per 1,000 CO2 tonnes In 2015, each UK business reported on the appropriate environmental performance 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 standards.
Progress is monitored through appropriate greenhouse gas metrics.
These metrics were aggregated to produce the annual reporting and a biennial external audit 8,178 Year gures reported above to which standard process, the most recent of which took place 14 15 21.9 DEFRA conversion factors were applied.
Where it is appropriate, individual businesses have ISO14001 accreditation.
Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme 8,424 Year The Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme Each site plans and manages compliance with 13 14 21.9 ESOS is a new piece of legislation introduced environmental requirements and the processes for the storage, handling and by the UK Government that applies to Ultra.
8,208 Year The scheme is run by the Environment Agency disposal of hazardous or pollutant materials 12 13 23.6 such as CRC and its focus is to reduce the are reviewed on a continuous basis.
The first qualication caused no contamination of land in 2015, 6,510 Year continuing the excellent track record of the phase ended on 31 December 2014.
Ultra has 11 12 17.2 since successfully demonstrated compliance previous five years.
with the requirements using ESOS-compliant 0 5 10 15 20 25 In addition, there were no environmental energy audits and notied our compliance to incidents reported in the year.
Total CO2 tonnes m sales the Environment Agency in January 2016.
The Ultra measures and reports on its packaging opportunities for energy savings identied waste annually and this is shown in Figure 3. during the ESOS assessment will be addressed Greenhouse gas emissions In the UK, businesses are encouraged and as part of the S3 programme.
Ultra is committed to the systematic reduction incentivised to reduce the net amount of Additional environmental initiatives of greenhouse gas emissions.
In compliance waste they produce.
All businesses are audited biennially.
In the US in with the 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 2015, ProLogic, 3 Phoenix, 3eTI, ATS, Flightline Regulations, Ultra collects and consolidates Figure 3 and NSPI all achieved 100% in the audit.
information on carbon dioxide CO2 emissions Packaging waste t m sales Additionally in the UK, CIS, ID, Sonar Systems, from across its portfolio of 24 businesses: in UK businesses PMES, PALS and Controls all maintained the 2013 was the first year this was undertaken ISO14001 environmental standard.
2015 0.162 and serves as the baseline year.
2014 0.164 2013 0.155 Sharon Harris 2012 0.192 Company Secretary & General Counsel 2011 0.160 To read more about Ultra and the environment, see page 43 6.
