44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability Developing Ultras people Without the innovative and entrepreneurial spirit of its staff, Ultra would not be able to deliver value to customers.
The right people Being on the Ultra is successful in innovating to meet People in action customer needs due to the broad range of apprentice training Carly Nettleford a trainee engineer at skills and capabilities held by the Groups Ultras CIS business recently won the title employees.
As such the Board has recognised scheme gave me the of Apprentice of the Year in the West that the right people are the Groups most London Business Awards.
Here she talks important asset.
Therefore people and their chance to work with about her time at Ultra.
development are key initiatives for the Group Why did you choose Ultra?
many different people as it strives to achieve an efficient organisation I chose Ultra Electronics because I could with engaged and committed people.
and learn a lot from see there would be many opportunities for Domain expertise me to learn and grow as an engineer.
I them, which I have The key factors in delivering innovative have definitely been able to do this while solutions to meet customers needs are Ultras working at Ultra.
deep understanding of its specialist capability What have you done here?
areas, combined with knowledge of the users Carly Nettleford Trainee engineer, CIS The great thing about doing an environment.
Ultra maintains its domain apprenticeship is that youre able to move expertise by ensuring that employees maintain around different departments: therefore expertise in their respective elds.
The Group Ive had the opportunity to work on many ensures it has the right people to work with How Ultra manages its people different projects with elements of both customers to support their needs by Ultra values the autonomy of its businesses electronic and mechanical engineering understanding and creating winning solutions.
and believes a high degree of operational principles.
I have had the chance to learn autonomy enables businesses to focus on electronic CAD, radio frequency theory and many different software and delivering agile and responsive solutions to programming packages.
With all of these its customers.
skills I was able make a difference to the The Managing Directors and Presidents of projects being worked on.
Ultras individual businesses and their How much have you management teams are given as much enjoyed your time at Ultra?
authority and responsibility as possible.
This Being on the apprentice training scheme allows these teams to maintain the agility gave me the chance to work with many and sharp focus that is typical of ownerdifferent people and learn a lot from managed businesses.
them, which I have enjoyed the most.
I have built a rapport with many of my colleagues and it has made my time at Ultra enjoyable.
I have learnt a lot while working at Ultra from my colleagues and my mentor, Andy Cambridge.
I have been able to take the theoretical knowledge that he has taught me and from studying my HNC HND and apply this in the working environment.
How do you feel about winning this award?
I am still in shock about winning the award.
I feel overwhelmed to achieve something of such a high magnitude.
I am very happy that I could win it on behalf of Ultra and make my parents very proud.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ultra is committed to securing the talent pipeline and developing people to ensure the continued growth and success of the Group.
Focus is placed on ensuring that the right people are in the right roles.
Furthermore businesses are responsible for and encouraged to develop their teams and individuals continuously, which will enable people to grow with the business and not become a constraint on the development of the Group.
Culture Leadership: Good leadership is Ultra is committed to keeping its culture extremely important to Ultra and a strong as the Group expands through organic number of models of leadership are growth, natural staff turnover and incorporated in the development and acquisitions.
The Group believes culture is training programmes that are delivered what drives Ultras success and that this around the Group.
includes values, role models, processes and the behaviours of its employees.
The Groups Entrepreneurship: Being entrepreneurial culture, values and behaviours are shaped by is a behaviour which underpins the the guiding principles, in particular the call Groups strategy.
All Ultra businesses seek for an efficient organisation with engaged to provide customers with solutions and committed people.
which are different from, and better Growth through engagement than, those of competitors.
Ultras To achieve this, Ultra has identied four LAUNCH is a set of behaviours which the entrepreneurial culture seeks to maximise cultural behaviours of its people that are Group has developed to facilitate customer the capability to generate excellent ideas highly valued and encouraged.
These are: engagement and relationship building.
and the business skills needed to bring Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Audacity and them successfully to market.
Together, they are known within the Group as LEAP.
A Ask the right questions Audacity: Audacious thinking is the difference between incremental U Understand what their painis improvement and business N identify the customers Needs and get transformation.
It takes the idea of their agreement innovation, one of Ultras core values, and C Create a relationship, opportunity invites employees to think about issues in and solution ways which are unconstrained by existing norms, making use of creative approaches H Holistic.
Examine the bigger picture: in every aspect of the Groups business.
how can Ultra maximise the scope and value of the opportunity?
Paranoia: Paranoia, in the business sense, is a concern and fear about This approach ensures Ultra understands competitors and what they may do.
It the real needs of its customers: in addition, LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to also relates to concerns and fears about things which can go wrong internally.
For generate long-term customer relationships What people mean to Ultra Ultra, paranoia is important in focusing which leads to a better pipeline of The broad range of skills and capabilities of its staff on maximising their knowledge opportunities and to, ultimately, enable Ultras employees support the Groups growth.
LAUNCH is aligned with the of the competitive landscape, by success in innovating to meet customer constantly asking questions of the Groups approach to systems engineering needs.
Ultras aim of delivering an efficient Groups individual businesses, customers, and project management.
organisation, with engaged and committed teaming partners and suppliers.
people to meet the Groups business commitments, is a goal all managers work towards and is a measure of their success.
The quality of Ultras leadership teams is constantly reviewed and improved as this is essential to the continuing growth and success of the Group.
Many companies state that their people are the companys most important asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the right people are the Groups most important asset.
Introduction 46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability Developing Ultras people continued Securing the talent pipeline Ultras focus is mainly engineering but also for, to promote access to all.
The Group also Ultra has been committed to developing includes other STEM subjects, finance and works with SEPnet to provide summer work people ever since it was formed in 1993. commercial disciplines.
Ultra also sponsors placements to students to help advance and There are a number of programmes which students through their last years at school via sustain physics as a strategically important help the Group to attract the best people, as the Arkwright Scholarship.
This provides subject for the UK economy.
well as encouraging students to develop students with support and mentoring during SUCCESS STORIES careers in engineering or business.
their studies and has led to students electing PALS was first introduced to Nick Roberts to undertake STEM degree courses.
Ultra is a SCHOOLS through the Arkwright Scholarship Trust.
recognised major sponsor of the scheme and Ultra engages with local schools near many Following the award of his scholarship PALS currently has eight scholars.
Relationships with schools offered him work experience during every and sixth form colleges take a variety of APPRENTICESHIPS holiday.
On completion of his A Levels PALS forms: from work experience, longer work Many Ultra businesses have well-established sponsored him at Nottingham University.
This placements, visits as part of AS level courses, and successful apprenticeship programmes, came with a small bursary and the guarantee interview practice sessions, careers events which have also historically provided the of paid work during the holidays.
PALS also and Ultra employees supporting both lessons Group with engineering leaders.
The Group set his final year project and supported him and after school clubs.
Examples include: runs apprenticeship schemes at most of its UK through this.
The amount of work Nick did businesses and currently has 48 apprentices in during his degree negated the need for him Ultras Forensic Technology business training in the UK.
to undertake an intern year.
Nick graduated continues to run their CSI for a day in 2015 with a MSc in Mechanical programme in local schools: this has been There have been a number of notable successes: Engineering and started working at Ultra a huge success, with one school stating it Carly Nettleford, based at CIS, won full-time in September 2015. has improved interest in science lessons as Apprentice of the Year at the West London well as encouraging more collaboration Ocean Systems supported a Northeastern Business Awards.
University student involved in the Gordon Lakjit Chand, from Sonar Systems, was Institute of Engineering Leadership presented with an Apprentice Ambassador programme in which corporations sponsor award from the Mayor of Hillingdon in aspiring young talent, engaging them with recognition of his hard work as an business-relevant challenge projects.
The student successfully led a small team Three apprentices from Ultras NCS of Ultra employees to demonstrate initial business were awarded honours for their risk reduction activities for countermeasure first year at the Engineering Trust mobility.
Following his graduation he was Apprentice Awards.
offered and accepted a position as a fulltime employee.
UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES In addition to traditional career fairs, Ultra Ultra PALS won the regional Partnerships actively engages with lecturers and faculties with Education award at the 2015 EEF Businesses at the Head Ofce site in during degree courses as the Group Future Manufacturing Awards.
This award Greenford welcomed teachers from the maintains excellent links with universities goes to the manufacturer that has made local Greenford High School to tour the around the world.
This allows Ultra access to the biggest strides or found new ways to leading research and enables the Group to site as part of an initiative to inform work with education providers to promote teachers about careers in engineering and form relationships with students well before engineering and manufacturing careers.
science, furthering the businesses graduation.
The Group benets from working INSTITUTIONS commitment of helping to encourage with universities as it can collaborate on Ultras businesses are members of innovation and recruit students who can students into STEM studies and jobs.
Engineering UK, Cyber Challenge UK and make a difference.
Ultra currently has 10 3 Phoenix is an advocate of the STEM other bodies which research and develop sponsored university students and also programme in the local North Carolina new ways to attract people into engineering provides a number of work placements as public school system, encouraging careers careers, as well as helping to forecast future part of degree courses 49 in the UK and US in technical elds.
It has undertaken site trends in the sector.
Ultra businesses in the last year.
tours for students at local schools and also worldwide have a variety of links with their mentored an intern doing research with Ultra businesses provide opportunities for local business forums and chambers of students to work on real projects via work engineering staff at the facility.
commerce members, helping to encourage placements, co-operative programmes and STEM activities.
internship schemes: all internships are paid STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Ultra actively invests in and supports the training and development of its employees.
Training and development Ultra actively invests in and supports the Engineering education training and development of its employees.
case study Each business is responsible for identifying This year Ultra employees were invited to the training needs of its employees and attend a meeting to offer an industry managing its own training budget.
Employee perspective to the government on the performance and development reviews are development of nuclear skills in held annually, at a minimum, and are used to preparation for nuclear policy statements identify the development needs of in the run up to the general election.
Ultra has invested in its Learning Following an announcement by David Academy, which is an online portal, and is Cameron on 11 March 2015, the Nuclear available to all of the Groups businesses to Trailblazer employer group, led by support training.
To give students access to real life current Sellaeld Sites Ltd and facilitated by the work challenges, and to enable Ultra Many of these are courses tailored to the National Skills Academy for Nuclear employees to develop their management and specic requirements of Ultra, and the NSAN, was established to develop leadership skills, there are opportunities to trainers have an intimate knowledge of how standards for the nuclear sector and make participate in national schemes, such as the the Group operates across all of its apprenticeships more attractive to Engineering Education Scheme run by the businesses.
These training events include employers.
Lesley Fewell, Head of Human Engineering Development Trust and programmes on leadership and management, Resources at Ultra Electronics Nuclear competitions promoting STEM careers.
Ultras along with workshops on Ultras successful Control Systems, was invited to join the businesses have also developed corporate competitive strategy, strategic selling, Group representing the interests of UK partnerships with engineering institutions, programme management and systems supply chain companies.
including the Institution of Engineering and engineering.
Specic training programmes Following the review, NSAN reported that Technology, in order to support and encourage are provided for individuals as necessary.
two new apprenticeship standards for employees to pursue professional recognition Businesses also look for further opportunities nuclear, as developed by the Nuclear in the form of CEng, IEng or EngTech status to develop training outside their training Trailblazer employer, had been approved.
for both their current and previous work and budget.
For example, Ultras NCS employees academic achievements.
have used their contacts to gain experience for the businesses apprentices that would not UK data usually be available.
A group was taken to the Employees 2,310 MoD site in Davenport and shown the operations and maintenance of the submarine Apprentices 48 as well as seeing how the Ultra equipment is University placement students 10 deployed.
Another group visited the Advanced Manufacturing Resource Centre AMRC at Sponsored university students 10 the University of Shefeld which focuses on Arkwright scholars 8 machining and materials research and provides skills training.
Here they engaged in a tour and US data spent the afternoon doing practical challenges Employees 1,640 using the practice equipment.
Undergraduate interns 33 New graduates 18 Employees working on graduate-level degrees 22 STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths 6.
Introduction 48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Sustainability Developing Ultras people continued Succession planning and retention Ultra has been able to appoint a high Each of Ultras businesses prepares an annual proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional Organisation, Succession & Development and business levels through internal Plan to ensure that Ultra has the right people promotion.
This is because the succession in the right place in the organisation.
The plan planning element of the process aims to assesses individuals performance in their ensure that there are always suitable current role and their potential to perform a successors for all the management team roles larger role in the short or longer term.
across each business and for other senior level roles.
Assessments are recorded in Ultras Talent & Succession system and give a performance Internal appointments at Executive Team, versus potential rating for each employee.
divisional and MD President level % The system is used by businesses to ensure a supply of suitable talent is available when 2015 100% required and recognises that any role within 2014 60% Ultra may become more challenging as the business grows.
The performance categories 2013 71% consist of exceed, meet, partially meet 2012 80% or does not meet the required performance level.
Equal attention is given to enhancing 2011 81% the performance and retention of those who meet and exceed standard performance levels and to addressing the challenges of the As well as the people listed as successors, Each of Ultras people who fall into the partially meet or each business also identies people with high does not meet categories.
The combined list represents Ultras businesses prepares individual is not meeting the standard high-potential talent pool and is used performance level, it often means that they regularly to nd the right people to ll an annual Organisation, need to be placed in a role more suited to internal vacancies via the Groups Talent & their talents in which they can start to Succession system.
Ultra businesses attend Succession & perform to the required standards.
graduate and undergraduate fairs, utilising Development Plan current graduates as the Groups The Group is able to create its next ambassadors.
Attendance has seen generation of business leaders, through to ensure that Ultra applications for graduate schemes increase, developing and retaining those employees and this in turn helps to ensure that there is a identied as having high potential who will has the right people future supply of engineers for the Group.
In be able to take up the challenge of a typical year, Ultra recruits over 600 new in the right place in continuing the growth and expansion of employees and acquisitions bring additional Ultra.
The Group has a high retention rate of new people into the Ultra family.
those individuals in the businesses senior management teams who continually meet or Retention of high-performers exceed expectations in terms of their performance, or who are high-potential and 2015 100% still developing in their new role.
